Good day and welcome to the KBR First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call hosted by KBR.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] For opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rob Kukla Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Jason.
Good morning and welcome to KBR's first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Today's call is also being webcast and a replay will be available on KBR's website for 7 days.
The press release announcing the first quarter results is also available on KBR's website.
Joining me today are Bill Utt Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sue Carter Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In today's call Bill will provide opening remarks and business outlook.
Sue will address KBR's operating performance financial position backlog and other financial items.
We will welcome questions after we complete our prepared remarks.
Before turning the call over to Bill I would like to remind our audience that today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting KBR's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in KBR's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 KBR's quarterly reports on forms 10-Q and KBR's current reports on Form 8-K.
Now I'll turn the call over to Mr.
Bill Utt.
Bill? Thanks Rob and good morning everyone.
Overall I continue to be pleased with KBR's financial performance this quarter.
KBR's first quarter net revenue was in line with our expectations and is up 7% year-over-year when excluding LogCAP revenue.
Operating income for the quarter is up 45% on a year-over-year basis.
KBR's earnings per diluted share were $0.69 which when one excludes the benefit of discrete tax items was up 86% year-over-year and 4% from the prior quarter.
KBR's job income backlog increased 4% compared to the prior quarter while revenue backlog was flat.
Compared to the prior year first quarter DoD income backlog is up 8% despite a revenue backlog decline of 10%.
As KBR continues to work off the lower margin projects in our backlog we continue to be successful in replacing this backlog with higher margin projects.
Now let me move on to a discussion on KBR's discrete markets and business units.
KBR continues to execute on its market-leading position in LNG with 5 major LNG projects at various stages of activity.
The total expected capital spend on these 5 projects is approximately $46 billion.
The impacts Ichthys and Pluto 2 FEEDs are now complete and we expect FIDs for both projects during the fourth quarter of 2011.
We remain actively engaged in pre-FEED activities pre-FID activities on both projects and are currently in open book tender discussions on the impacts project as well as providing a free FID services on the Pluto development.
FEED activities for the Kitimat LNG facility are underway and KBR is also providing free FID site construction management services.
The FEED should be complete by year-end and the owner expects to take a final investment decision in the first quarter of 2012.
Earlier this year KBR announced the FEED award for the Browse LNG project.
The FEED work remains on target for completion in mid-2012 in line with Woodside's original timeframe to correspond with the mid-2012 FID.
Finally KBR is exclusively engaged on some early work on a potential fourth train at the Gorgon project.
We anticipate formalizing pre-FEED work to commence in the very near term.
For KBR's refining and downstream markets we continue to execute a best-in-class project portfolio.
KBR's detailed engineering work on the Yanbu project for utilities interconnecting systems and terminal packages is nearing completion.
And the nucleus of KBR's PMC team will shortly move to the site while other KBR personnel are presently deployed in the EPC contractors offices.
KBR is also providing EPCM services on the BP Husky Toledo refining project.
This project is scheduled for completion in late summer 2012.
On the Ras Tanura integrated refinery and petrochemical project FEED work on 3 of the 5 multi-packaged process envelopes are now complete with the remaining envelopes on schedule for completion later this year.
In anticipation of FID KBR is continuing our coordinating PMC activity starting pre-EPC support activity on the completed FEED envelopes planning for the KBR personnel ramp up in Kingdom and reviewing the project's utilities and all site's requirements.
For the Lobito refinery project in Angola KBR continues to perform early-stage EPCM work in preparation for the project's expected FID in the second half of 2011.
KBR is also working on the design for the physical site as well as for the consolidation of multiple living camps.
For the Jazan refinery project KBR's ongoing FEED and PMC activities for the 400 000-barrel-per-day project include the development of the process design layout integration and optimization of the facility development of equipment and material specifications preparation of EPC bid packages and development of a cost assessment for the construction of the facility.
Finally last week KBR announced the award of an EPC contract to build a first-of-a-kind biomass to renewable crude facility in Columbus Mississippi.
The facility is designed to process 500 tons per day of wood biomass and produce over 11 million gallons of fuel per year.
KBR will provide engineering and procurement services as well as direct hire construction for the commercialization of KiOR's proprietary technology to convert biomass into drop-in biofuels such as gasoline and diesel blend stocks.
KBR also recently announced the award of an engineering and project management services contract under Saudi Aramco's GES+ initiative.
The first allocation of work under the GES+ initiative is expected in the third quarter of this year.
KBR's Technology business unit continues to grow and had another outstanding quarter with a 47% revenue increase and a 50% job income increase compared to the prior year first quarter.
Technology also generated approximately $30 million in new license and basic engineering design awards in the quarter.
In our North American markets we continue to see more signs of recovery as evidenced by several project awards since the beginning of the year including the KiOR project and new awards for work for the topsides detailed engineering and design for the Big Foot project and the semisubmersible hull design for the Jack/St.
Malo project.
Additionally KBR announced last week that a consortium of KBR and BMW was awarded a $668 million contract by the Palm Beach County Solid Waste Authority to provide EPC services for the county's new state-of-the-art waste energy facility.
KBR's scope of work in this project is approximately $450 million.
Finally yesterday KBR announced the award of a $65 million contract by Chevron Products Company to execute a base oil expansion project at Chevron's refinery in Pascagoula Mississippi which upon completion is expected to be the largest premier base oil plant in the world.
The construction project includes building a new loops hydrocracker and a lube dewaxing hydro finishing unit.
We also continue to see a ramp-up in planned North American capital investment particularly for a wide range of projects in the forest products industry for utility emissions control projects and for new combined cycle generation projects in response to recently announced coal plant retirements and delays in nuclear plant developments.
Overall we are seeing a 10% to 15% year-over-year increase in the capital budgets of our core clients.
At our North American Government and Defense business unit we continue to believe that troop levels in Iraq will remain relatively flat into the back half of the year with a ramp down during the second half of 2011.
KBR also executed several modifications to the base life support task order under the LogCAP III contract.
Starting March 1 KBR's LogCAP III activities will be cost plus fixed fee similar to the LogCAP IV contract.
While the LogCAP III base life support task order will no longer contain award fees the fixed fee is at a level typical for traditional U.S.
government contracts.
We expect to receive our final award fee under the LogCAP contract for the period from September 2010 to February 2011 during the third quarter of 2011.
Going forward prospects at our North American Government and Defense business unit also remains strong and include $3 billion of projects announced by the Army Corps of Engineers in Afghanistan extension of our existing base life support activities in Iraq for either the Department of State or U.S.
Army base operations support contracts for the U.S.
Navy in Bahrain and in Africa equipment base maintenance support and construction activities at many U.S.
military installations and work with government agencies such as the National Science Foundation and the Department of Homeland Security.
At our International Government and Defense business unit I am extremely proud that KBR has retaken the hill and has again been named the U.K.
Ministry of Defense's top supplier for 2010.
This is the third time in 4 years the MOD has awarded the top score to KBR's International Government and Defense business unit.
The IGD business unit was also recently awarded an enhanced Foreign and Commonwealth Office contract to support the British embassies in both Iraq and Afghanistan for the next 3 years.
For our Minerals business Roberts &amp; Schaefer continues to win its traditional work in the $15 million to $70 million project range and has over $400 million of proposals outstanding in Indonesia and approximately $160 million in proposals outstanding in India.
Further with the new financial backing from KBR Roberts &amp; Schaefer is now able to qualify for larger projects with a wider customer base than they were able to pursue prior to the acquisition.
On the infrastructure front KBR was awarded a 5-year contract by the Public Works Authority of Qatar to provide project management services and engineering support to deliver a package of 30 major roads that comprised the Doha Expressway program.
KBR has also been awarded numerous other Australian infrastructure projects recently including contracts for planning and management services for a motorsports race new road projects the largest wind farm in the southern hemisphere and a rail extension project.
For the Services business unit we are also seeing a return of larger and more meaningful opportunities in these markets.
The Building Group has 7 major hospital projects with nearly 2 million square feet of hospital space under construction.
And KBR's work for DuPont continues to grow with 21 construction and maintenance projects across 3 separate services product lines.
Our Ventures business unit continues to benefit from high-capacity factors strong ammonia pricing and uninterrupted service at the EBIC ammonia project.
Now I'll turn the call over to Sue.
After Sue's comments I will comment in more detail on the market outlook for our business before turning the call over to questions.
Sue? Thanks Bill.
Consolidated KBR revenue totaled $2.3 billion which was in line with our first quarter expectations.
Revenue declined $310 million or 12% from the prior year first quarter which includes the expected decrease of $422 million related to the LogCAP project compared to prior year first quarter.
Offsetting the decline in LogCAP revenue was a 14% revenue increase for the Hydrocarbons group with all business units within Hydrocarbons reporting increased revenue.
Infrastructure and Minerals revenue was up 64% compared to the prior year first quarter primarily related to the addition of project revenue related to the RNF acquisition and recently awarded projects.
Consolidated operating income was $144 million in the first quarter of 2011 up 45% compared to the first quarter of 2010.
Net income attributable to KBR for the first quarter of 2011 was $0.69 per diluted share compared to $0.29 per diluted share for the prior year first quarter.
The first quarter of 2011 earnings per diluted share included an approximate $0.15 per diluted share benefit from a lower tax rate which I'll discuss in more detail later.
You can find further details of the year-over-year business unit operational comparisons in the earnings press release issued yesterday evening but let me briefly mention a few operational items.
As mentioned in last quarter's call in early January KBR successfully negotiated the closeout of its participation in the Tangguh LNG project and signed agreements with our partner JGC to transfer our interest in the project joint venture.
As a result of this  settlement KBR recorded an approximate $8 million pretax gain in the first quarter.
In the first quarter our Australian business was impacted by flooding in Queensland.
The impacts reflect approximately 4 days of office closures deferred work on existing projects that were closed during the flooding and these same projects had slow ramp up due to wet conditions.
We believe the negative impact during the first quarter was approximately $3 million.
In March KBR received a $16 million award fee related to our LogCAP III work for the 6-month period of performance beginning March 2010 through August 2010 in Iraq.
For this period KBR's performance was recognized as very good and the program received high customer satisfaction ratings.
I will now review other financial items.
General and administrative expenses for the first quarter of 2011 were $44 million down $5 million from the first quarter of 2010.
The G&amp;A expense decline was primarily related to timing issues which lowered facilities IT systems support and incentive compensation costs.
For the full year 2011 our current estimates for corporate G&amp;A expenses are in the $220 million range.
Our first quarter 2011 effective tax rate excluding discrete items was 32%.
In the first quarter of 2011 our effective tax rate was 16% due to discrete tax items related to tax planning strategies and the release of a deferred tax reserve for an Australian rail project.
KBR participated in the joint venture in financing for the rail project which has been in receivership with assets recently sold to a third party.
As the final liquidation of all items related to the project progresses in 2011 we will continue to evaluate existing tax reserves and we'll update as appropriate.
Labor cost absorption income was $3 million in the first quarter compared to labor cost absorption expense of $4 million in the first quarter of 2010.
Labor cost absorption income improved primarily related to higher headcount in the labor resource pool as well as higher chargeability and utilization in several of our engineering offices.
The headcount in the labor resource pools at the end of first quarter 2011 was up 12% compared to the prior year first quarter and up 2% from the December 2010 quarter.
I would like to discuss KBR's backlog in a bit more detail building on Bill's earlier comments.
The revenue backlog as of March 31 2011 was $12 billion down 10% from a year ago and flat compared to this sequential quarter.
Essentially $2.3 billion of new work added this quarter was offset by general project work off.
The corresponding job income backlog was up 8% year-over-year and 4% from the sequential quarter.
With respect to how KBR actually books projects in the backlog KBR books backlog when actual awards are received and/or scope is definitized.
For example when KBR is awarded an IDIQ and MATOC contract we do not make an addition to our backlog based on what we expect to book over the life of the IDIQ or MATOC project rather we've only booked to backlog actual awards or definitized towards under these programs.
This is a conservative approach to our backlog but allows us to accurately monitor our revenue backlog and progress on job income dollar and margin percent growth.
Compared to the sequential quarter the Hydrocarbons backlog was down approximately $220 million primarily related to general project work off in the Gas Monetization Downstream and Technology business units.
Partially offsetting this decrease was improvement in oil and gas with the addition of an onshore and offshore project and additional work releases on several ongoing projects.
IGP's backlog was up $230 million led by the Doha Expressway project in several new Roberts &amp; Schaefer projects in the Infrastructure and Minerals business unit as well as scope editions on the CONLOG project in the IGD business unit.
Services backlog was down $46 million primarily related to the general project work off which was partially offset by approximately $227 million in new awards in the Building Group and Industrial Services businesses.
Overall the backlog portfolio mix at the end of the first quarter was 80% cost reimbursable and 20% fixed price essentially the same mix of 79% 21% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Next I will discuss our liquidity and balance sheet.
Total cash provided by operating activities for the first 3 months of 2011 was $225 million compared to $5 million used by operations for the first 3 months of 2010 driven by overall strong quarterly earnings and active management of working capital to support project execution activities.
Cash provided by operations was also positively impacted by collections of accounts receivable advanced project billings to customers and repayments of advances in distributions of earnings from unconsolidated affiliates.
Also during the first quarter 2011 we contributed approximately $45 million to our pension plans.
At the end of March 2011 our balance sheet remained strong with cash of approximately $788 million which included $207 million associated with our consolidated joint ventures.
The $788 million in cash essentially flat compared to the sequential quarter reflects uses of $164 million for the MWKL acquisition the pension contribution of $45 million I mentioned earlier and $26 million in capital expenditures.
KBR's full year 2011 earnings per diluted share guidance is $2.05 to $2.30.
The LogCAP III award fee received in the first quarter does not have an impact on our guidance range.
However due to the lower first quarter 2011 effective tax rate and the potential for further discrete items in the next several quarters I mentioned earlier we will continue to monitor these items and will discuss guidance during the second quarter 2011 call.
And now I'll turn it back over to Bill for his final remarks.
Bill? Thank you Sue.
I'd like to provide KBR's outlook for our businesses.
Over the past several quarters I  have spoken about the robust project environment in Australia and in the Middle East where KBR continues to see ample opportunities to grow our business in Gas Monetization Downstream and in the Infrastructure markets.
We are also excited about the growing number of opportunities in the Global Offshore Oil and Gas market as well.
We are now becoming bullish about the opportunities before us in KBR's North American market sectors and expect to see our sales continue to grow at our business units which are focused on these North American markets.
Overall we feel we have a great portfolio of project opportunities on the horizon and look forward to their award over the next several months.
Now we'll take your questions.
We ask that you please limit your comments to one question and one follow-up.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
I guess first question is in regards to guidance.
Why wait a quarter if possible in terms given the extent of the tax benefit? And I guess the follow-up question for me is that I would love to learn a little more about the North American markets that you're incrementally more bullish on.
And we listened to the tech lead call earlier on this morning and they were indicating that in the Middle East the competition on refinery and petrochemical projects remains fairly strong still.
And they do expect a number of prospects to go ahead over the next several months but the pricing is still competitive so I would love any commentary you have on that as well.
Let me start out and talk about the guidance piece of your question Tahira.
As we look at the first quarter we believe we had a strong quarter from operations and of course we did have the tax item that occurred but it's still early days as we look at 2011.
And we would like to take another quarter to watch the businesses operate watch the other tax items unfold and make sure that as we do update that guidance that we're sending a signal once instead of perhaps multiple times because there are many moving pieces.
So we're just being cautious and saying wait a quarter let the year develop and we'll update you at that point.
On the questions regarding which markets are we bullish.
We're currently becoming more bullish on the power side.
Certainly the Solid Waste Authority award is a big one for us.
We also see other generation projects out there due to the retirement of the coal plants and what we expect to be continuing delays or cancellations of nuclear developments.
We've also seen some movement now on the pollution control projects for the utilities now that they have some idea of where the EPA MACT rules are going so that's an area where we're much more optimistic on.
We're seeing a great increase in the volume of front-end engineering design projects.
In our industrial markets we talked about forest products for example and so several years of relatively below trend capital investment they appear to have some appetite to catch up over this year and next year on projects.
We're also seeing the construction markets start to come back.
We're very pleased with the award from Chevron and we're seeing a lot more projects at a lot larger size that really play to KBR's competitive strengths.
Yes we do big project execution very well.
We have great safety systems material management systems.
And it's a little tougher for KBR to demonstrate that competitive advantage on a smaller project.
And as projects get larger these become increasingly more leverageable advantages for us.
The Canadian markets do appear to be picking up.
We're seeing some more activity and projects being discussed in Canada.
And also the minerals markets continue to give us some great optimism for Roberts &amp; Schaefer.
We're seeing a lot of for example we're seeing a lot of discussion about reopening some gold mines in Ontario with the price of gold at $1 600 an ounce.
Anecdotally they say anything above $700 should give a positive return on investment.
So we've got a number of positions that we've become more bullish on in the North American markets over the last couple of months.
Now regarding the Middle East it does remain a very competitive market particularly in those projects where they're are not technically differentiable.
And we've seen some of the awards go to Korean contractors that were at levels far below where the Western contractors were bidding.
We still see opportunities certainly on the PMC work that we're doing on Yanbu on Ras Tanura that we're doing on Jazan where differentiated contractors can come in and win some good work at some reasonably good volumes of hours.
And also we think the recent award of the GES+ initiative will also have us in a certainly a less competitive environment than we've seen certainly on the nontechnically differentiated projects that we've seen earlier on Shaybah and Wasit.
And we'll go next to Will Gabrielski with Gleacher.
Inc.</strong> So one of the things that I think people are a little bit interested in knowing would be your execution capability and capacity should a number of these LNG project ultimately be awarded to you? So maybe if you could just walk through the capacity where would it be coming from and how you think you could handle the schedule that you might be looking at? Yes I think Will with respect to some of these projects we've got -- impacts we're doing with JGC and Chiyoda and our scope of work is going to be more on the fabrication oversight and construction management.
So they're really not drawing on the critical engineering skills that we have that we need on an LNG facility.
But it's a big scope of work and it uses different talents within the company.
Pluto is scheduled for our London operations.
And you may recall a couple years ago that we had 3 big projects in our Greenford office it was Tangguh it was Yemen and it was the Pearl GTL project.
We think we've got the leadership teams identified already working on the FEEDS that can do really up to 3 projects in London.
And certainly with our integration of MWKL at its Greenford office with our Leatherhead office and the experience that Leatherhead has gained working on the Gorgon  project we think we've got good capacity in the London to do the Pluto Project the Browse project.
As Gorgon 1 2 and 3 is winding down in London the work on Gorgon 4 can easily be absorbed for us in London.
The Kitimat project we're looking at executing in Houston.
I mean we're probably one of the few if not the only company that can do LNG projects out of multiple offices.
And we've recently completed the engineering of the Skikda project that was done in the Houston office and are looking to roll over that project team for the Kitimat project.
So I don't see with these 5 projects in front of us a constraint that we're worried about from a resource standpoint.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And then just to follow up on MWKL and R&amp;S I guess the explicit accretion estimates you gave any changes to those just based on what you're seeing? Or any opportunities emerged since you folded those companies and then done a more thorough review? We're tracking along plan.
I think we're seeing a little more activity in Greenford than we had envisioned at the time of the acquisition because we've got Jazan there.
But I think we're still on track with the level of accretion from those 2 acquisitions and its impact on our P&amp;L.
And we'll go next to Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
Bill so if you step back and think about the markets again I mean you've given us a good summation of where you see each of the markets.
My question is you see oil as high as it is refining margins are better natural gas feedstocks are cheaper.
What are the chances that we see all of a sudden a bigger ramp up in the Hydrocarbon market.
I mean we know about your FEEDs and all that kind of stuff but utilization is still kind of low across the space as you've alluded to and pricing is still competitive.
But is there a chance that we're are just sort of very close to a pretty big pick up that we don't see? Andy I would think so.
Actually if you had asked me that 3 months ago I'd give you the same answer.
And I was actually surprised by some of the pricing that was bid on the Shaybah and the Wasit projects which tends to work against that belief.
I do believe that we are seeing an acceleration of awards.
We are seeing a building of work.
And when we look at our portfolio the Jazan project we think will be a very large consumer of services at KBR yet today because of the work order release programs that Aramco uses.
We're just not showing much in backlog right now.
But as we lookout at our staffing I do think we're going to see an improving market environment.
It is pretty competitive right now but as we look at things particularly on those projects where we technically differentiated I think we're starting to see a turn.
I'm not necessarily wanting to go out and tell you on what day but I just feel things are getting better and more sustainable in the space.
And we've seen some of that come across in the awards we saw in Eastern Australia on LNG last year.
The one thing we do look out for is what is that going to do when this thing turns up to the materials and equipment and the ability of the market to start looking like it did in 2007.
So we're looking really hard as we look at these projects on what risks can we underwrite and what risks can we pass off to suppliers.
And as you'll note our backlog is still is 80% reimbursable and while the -- as we look at these 5 LNG projects with about $46 billion of value I'm just -- I don't believe we're going to book $46 million of backlog at the end of the day.
I think some of these projects will have risk sharing with the owners in certain areas.
And there'll be other parts that'll be lump sum by KBR but we're going to be very systematic and very diligent in how we identify and review the risks that are attendant to doing these LNG projects for example.
So it's getting better and we're mindful of some of the lessons that the space learned back in '07 and make sure we avoid repeating some of the downsides that came out of a rapidly recovering capital spending market.
That's great and unrelated question on SG&amp;A obviously it was low in the quarter.
You talked about timing but why don't you give yourself more credit for keeping costs down.
I mean you did lower your guidance for the year in SG&amp;A costs.
So it kind of seems to me like it's just generic cost savings yet you're really talking about timing.
We work very hard on it.
Yes I think honestly there always is a tension between those that have to deliver the general and administrative services and what they think they need to get through the rest of the year compared to the pressure that Sue and I put on them to not spend the money and that's always going to exist in any company.
And all I can say is we're going to continue to watch not only our dollars but small change to make sure we spend what we need and no more.
But I wish we could be more bullish but I think we've kind of moderated it down a little bit from the initial guidance.
And with Sue's comment at $220 million for the year hopefully we'll continue to be successful in managing the G&amp;A.
And we'll take our next question from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
First thing Sue how much is left in potential tax benefits from the liquidation of the project in Australia? Well this part of the question too as you're going through a project like this that has a complex structure first of all that has partners and that has a liquidator that is starting to go through the process of doing the final liquidation there's a lot of gates to go through and there's a lot of moving parts.
And so at this point we just really have an item that we don't want to quantify more people because it is still moving and it is still developing and it's an unknown.
But is it a lot larger or smaller than what we've seen so far? Well I think if you look at our first quarter first of all there were 2 different items associated with the tax rate being at 16%.
There where the strategic planning items which we're essentially taking advantage of some tax losses in dormant entities.
Those were a larger percentage of the first quarter piece than what the actual amount related to FreightLink was or to the Australian rail project.
So like I say there is some opportunity for discrete items in the back half of the year but it's just not something that we want to call out at this point.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> And then secondly I guess this is for Bill in terms of the margin or the higher operating income embedded in backlog it's always difficult with the business like yours but is it a mix issue that is getting better? Or is there a change in pricing on the projects that you have included? Well John to quote Deion Sanders it's both.
With respect to a mix issue I think we're seeing a more a bigger impact on the mix issue today with some of the awards that we're getting in the construction side as well as the power and industrial side.
And so that mix is helping to bring that up.
But we're also -- we talked about replacing some of the Escravos backlog and the Skikda backlog and we are getting new Hydrocarbons projects in at margins that are much higher than what those margins are.
And if you recall we're just booking a G&amp;A component on Escravos and Skikda margins are very low.
So we are getting some replacement benefits on like kind hydrocarbon projects.
So it's happening in a broader array and we've talked about the replacement of low-margin backlog for a while.
Certainly the new backlog that comes in on LogCAP should be higher than what we've seen.
But I'm now more optimistic about our ability to grow the job income in the company on nonhydrocarbons projects just based on the turning North American market that we're seeing.
Okay.
And then what's left in backlog or of your total backlog can you tell us what portion is it that breakeven-type level or...
I don't have that John to be honest with you.
I mean it's I think as we look at Escravos we're targeting a completion at the end of next year on Escravos.
Skikda is probably on the same time frame.
It's I really I'd hate to get on a limb.
It could be 20% 30% of the backlog just based on what we've got.
So I still think even at the low end of that range it could be something that you could see some good appreciation of the job income backlog just as we replace it.
And if we are fortunate to get in some of these very large awards that I talked about over the next 9 months then we could see some fairly significant changes to the number amount of dollars of job income that we have in our backlog.
And we'll go next to Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
So it seems like the opportunity particularly for the back half of the year and then into early next year from a booking standpoint is really good given what's happening on the LNG side.
I guess I'm trying to understand your near term for the second quarter and I guess specifically the waste energy project that you booked are you going to be booking the entire project the $450 million into your backlog into 2Q? And then also can you tell me a little bit about some of the contracts like that Yanbu contract the Ras Tanura contract and then Jazan how that's going to be evolving into PMC over the next few quarters? Yes I think on the waste energy project we haven't had the booking committee meeting on that.
Certainly it's announced as a big award and I would expect it to go in at what we've disclosed in the release.
Regarding the Yanbu Ras Tanura and Jazan yes I think we're going to continue to get work releases out of Aramco on that.
So you're going to see steady work a lot of people tied up on the projects.
But because it's essentially just-in-time backlog like LogCAP you're not going to see a lot of backlog impact from those projects but we've seen a good level.
We just look at the history on Yanbu or Ras Tanura we've had a great level of volume coming out of those 2 projects to date yet we've never really had a big impact on backlog.
And we'd love to be able to estimate what we think the overall component is but that just doesn't fit with our views on booking backlog.
Okay fair enough.
And I guess just switching gears a little bit to the quarter itself.
The one I guess one area that I wasn't sure what kind of happened to I guess from a margin standpoint on the services side of your business sub the margins on that business were sub-4 this quarter.
Could you just talk a little bit about what happened this quarter and how that was potentially different than the margins that you've been booking in in that business previously? Joe I think it's generally a falloff in volume.
And when you've got a fixed SG&amp;A that we're carrying it has leveraging impact on the margins.
We're right now we're expecting the business and have expected the business to improve.
And so we didn't take the services overhead down to a level that was consistent with the amount of work we were doing this year.
Instead we elected to turn some operations guys into sales guys and maintain our bench strength if you will to address the work and to be able to execute the work that we're expecting to sign up this year.
Okay so is it possible then if that margin kind of stays to consistent with this past quarter's margin for a couple of quarters until that business starts to ramp up again? Yes I think you're going to see the overhead spending and services stay about the same and then we'll see a gradual increase over the year of -- I expect to see over the year of job income coming out of the Services business as these bookings are achieved.
And we'll go next to Jamie Cook with Crédit Suisse.
2 questions.
One Sue just back to the guidance again it sounds like if we get a raise in the second quarter it's primarily due to tax.
Is there any areas within just sort of your core business or on an operating business where you think there's an opportunity for you guys to -- or are there areas you're doing better than you thought in your core business? And then second question Bill while it sounds like you don't have concerns about capacity if you win a lot of these big awards in the second half and it sounds like competitively some of your peers are still acting somewhat irrational.
On the customer side are you hearing any concerns from them as these large projects go in the back half of the year that there's a potential for them not to get their A team or are there any concerns there whether the A players are going to get will be used up quickly? Or the second question is that they need to ramp up early in these projects just as material costs continue to accelerate so they want to lock in at lower prices now? Okay let me start out Jamie on the guidance side.
And I think that as we look at talking about the guidance after we complete the second quarter I think we do have opportunities within the businesses.
Our businesses did have a good quarter.
Our G&amp;A while there is some timing as Bill noted earlier we're going to continue to push on that.
We're going to continue to push on the business unit overhead.
And so there's all kinds of different areas outside of the tax arena that as we look at our operating performance and how we're executing that we're going to continue to push on.
And that was why it's important to get a full look at the year as it goes along a little bit further before we update the guidance.
So opportunities in all different areas of the business from execution and from continued look at cost.
On the customer base Jamie we've been selling the need for them to get moving fast in anticipation of beating an upturn in materials and equipment for years so that sales tactic continues.
From a consort about A teams I think a lot of that is fleshed out in the FEED stage of these projects when we present the team that's going to do the FEED and it has various discipline leaders for all the major areas engineering areas or project delivery areas on the project.
And these are the leaders that if you don't have an A team at the FEED stage we don't think you'll get the FEED.
And so we think with that FEEDs that we've got and the work that we're doing that our customers are comfortable about our ability to provide these A team players at KBR.
And we've got 35 000 people and very strong concentration in the Hydrocarbon business.
I think with our acquisition of MWKL and the work we're doing to combine that into a single London operating center across 2 different offices allows us -- positions us to be the biggest E&amp;C player in the London market.
We've got a large capability here in Houston.
And also have been able to expand a lot of the project execution and some of the BE&amp;K offices we acquired in Birmingham as well as Wilmington Delaware.
Our HV high-value offices in Jakarta and Monterey are growing.
So we haven't seen any customer concerns for us regarding our capabilities and a lot of it is timing.
We had a very very big ramp up of our teams with the Gorgon  project that was awarded in September of 2009.
And Gorgon  is winding its way out of our front-end offices in London out to the Singapore and Jakarta offices.
So we've got we're actually looking to get work into our London operations center to keep that core group of folks productively employed and we've been successful on some of these FEEDs.
But as more people roll off of the Gorgon  project for example and as Pearl winds its way through its commissioning we have more resources coming available to do these projects.
And we'll take our next question from Steven Fisher with UBS.
In terms of what's embedded in guidance do you expect or even need to grow income dollars in Gas Monetization and Downstream sequentially over the balance of the year to kind of hit the midpoint of your guidance? And if so what has to happen to achieve that growth in income? Because we're not quite seeing it yet in the backlog trends.
Well I think as we look at where the businesses are operating Steve I don't think that we need to have a big uptick in those margins to hit the midpoint of our guidance.
As we looked at the full year of 2011 when we were going through the budgeting process we evaluated all of those different areas and we believe that we're on track to do just that with where we're operating now.
Okay.
And then on cash flow I mean is there anything you see coming down the pipeline in the next couple of quarters that would be big uses of cash? Because your cash flow has obviously been very good just want to see if that is likely to continue.
And then what are your thoughts on further buybacks here? It looks like you creeped up a little bit above your 150 million share count kind of target? Right.
Right well as we look at the cash we'll continue to have sort of small-to-average expenditures on the capital expenditure side.
But again we target that sort of at that depreciation level so nothing big there.
On the share repurchase side we do have the opportunity to sweep shares down to the 150 million share level.
We did not sweep shares in the first quarter but continue to look at that and look at what the opportunity is for that.
But as we go through we believe that our execution on cash is going to continue to be strong.
We are very focused on all of the different elements of it.
And I think the one big item that we didn't talk about today but that's still out there is the collection of EPC-1.
So not a use of cash to your original question but an opportunity to continue to improve cash.
So no big working capital uses as you get into kind of a different phase of a project life cycles here? No we're managing that and trying to be as cash neutral as we can on all of the projects that we're looking at.
And we'll go next to Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.</strong> Can you talk about how important it is to KBR or could be to KBR for some of the petrochemical and chemical projects that are being proposed in the U.S.
utilizing cheaper feedstocks coming out of the shale plays? I think we're seeing just a lot of activity and maybe we're not seeing it in our backlog or prospect list yet but a lot of the activity in the Houston ship channel that the ethylene market which was thought to be dead a couple of years ago because of high gas prices now viewed as one of the low-cost areas in the world because of the low-cost feedstock.
I think it's going to continue to create opportunities for people to build existing chemical and petrochemical projects that are based on gas feedstock.
It's going to drive more combined cycle construction for power.
And we're probably going to see some discussion begin about the use of natural gas as a transportation fuel once some of the projects that KBR is involved in overseas mainly Escravos and the Pearl GTL project demonstrate the commercial viability to produce a liquid clean-burning diesel from natural gas.
And so I think you're going to see the market continue to react to what is today and abundant and relatively low-cost resource.
And we expect to see at least in the next couple of years a strong project market based on those projects that would employ natural gas as a feedstock.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay.
And then looking at the Australian LNG market do you feel like KBR has the potential to book additional FEEDs for LNG projects over the next 12 months? We are looking at that.
I think one project that we're looking at is the Aero project with Shell and PetroChina.
That's certainly much further behind some of the other projects but we're looking creatively at how could we put together a team that could execute the project take advantage of possibly some Chinese procurement on that project and be able to most optimally address the labor situation in Australia.
And we'll take our next questions from Bryce Humphrey with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
This is Bryce Humphrey on for Rob.
When you talk about increasing power market opportunities specifically on emission control equipment can you discuss your core competencies there? I mean I assume primarily construction oversight PMC types of services.
And then also if you have the potential size of that market would be helpful.
Well the capabilities we have we certainly have approached it from the construction side.
We're just finishing up some scrubber work for LCRA in Texas where these scrubbers are in operation and working great.
We are looking to begin acquiring and putting together an engineering capability that will allow us to be a vertically integrated provider of E&amp;C services.
And so that's something that we're developing in-house today.
As far as the size of the market I would refer you to some of the comments that have been made by TVA and AEP regarding some of their future planned capital expenditure for emissions controls.
I think they're in the each over $1 billion going forward.
And I think many of the utilities that you will continue to operate coal-fired power plants will be looking at some spending on emissions controls and that's going to be the best source of where that capital and the analysis of that capital spending will come from.
Right.
Okay that's helpful.
And then to follow-up you mentioned growing combined cycle gas plant opportunities similar question there.
Can you discuss your role in those projects PMC services? Can you play a full EPC role of those projects? We're right in the same discussion with the emissions control projects.
We approach it from construction.
And again we're hoping that over time we can build the engineering capability to do a full scope EPC project.
We've looked at some joint ventures with certain engineering firms on that but it's something that we're looking at playing.
And R&amp;S gets us a little closer on some of the power projects on the solid fire project where there's material handling either on a coal-fired project a scrubber and back house where they are doing turnkey project delivery on that.
But we want to become as KBR vertically integrated on the design the specification of equipment as well as the construction what we presently play on all aspects of the power market.
And we'll go next to Robert Connors with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Just real quick on the GES+ contract can you compare the profitability you're seeing there versus the good margins you're reporting for the Jazan Ras Tanura and Yanbu projects right now? And then also as sort of a tangent does this contract possibly include some of Aramco's overseas downstream JVs that they're going to be taking on? I think from a margin standpoint I think it positions us as one of I believe 5 entities who will be providing services FEED work in Kingdom for Aramco.
It's too early for us to comment on margins.
And I think I don't think it's going to be any lower than what we're seeing on the other work.
And depending upon the type of work we have I think it'll be a very market-based work.
Regarding the overseas work hard to tell.
Really Aramco has so much work in Kingdom right now and they're broader social objective is to create an in-Kingdom capability do engineering that if one were to think through where that might take them that it could take them overseas in some of their joint ventures.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then you gave some good color on the Skikda project but can you also comment on some of the other contracting strategies KBR will be taking in Australian and LNG? Like what portions would you be looking to do on a lump-sum basis and then where you see that 80% to 20% cost plus plus fixed price mix when these projects are booked? I think in terms of the projects I think we're very comfortable with the Skikda model where we did lump sum services.
All of our services were lump-sum and others were treated reimbursably.
A lot of the work now is being done in fabrication yards where productivity is much more consistent and the scope of work for these projects is better identified.
I think we could see some additional lump sum or some conversions from a remeasurable work to lump sum over time on that.
Yes the construction risk of productivity and labor cost Australia is something that we're very conscious of.
And you saw on the Browse FEED that we've partnered with Leighton Holdings which is a large several direct hire contractor in Australia to work with us on the Browse project.
I think as these projects come in I think I do expect our lump-sum margins to increase from where they are today at 20%.
I'm not troubled by it.
I think we're very capable of successfully managing a lump-sum component in our portfolio from these types of projects to a point where we might see up to 50% of the backlog being lump sum.
Again it will depend on what risks we're taking what's going in the backlog et cetera.
But I do not have any issue with an increasing percentage of lump-sum work in our portfolio because I think we're doing a good job of taking lump-sum risks on those areas of risk that we can successfully manage and looking for alternative strategies to deal with meeting our customers' need on price assuredness on other scopes of work.
So it's going to be a very robust discussion with our customers much like we had on the Skikda project and we're looking forward to having those discussions.
We'll now take the follow-up questions from Will Gabrielski with Gleacher.
Inc.</strong> I guess the comments on M&amp;A you've been looking for a power engineering firm.
I think Christmas '09 you and I talked Bill.
What's the challenge in getting that in-house? And is that going to be even tougher now that we have EPA rules on the schedule and I'm sure those services are in greater demand? I think -- we don't see the new EPA rules as being a impediment to moving forward in doing this organically.
I think we looked at the market we didn't see anything that really fit for us.
And so we're going to do it through the direct hire method.
And I think we offer a lot of interest to employees.
We're a big company with a big balance sheet that's willing in the power sector to take lump-sum risk.
We're willing to work not only on the combined cycle projects which are going to be very prevalent but are technically a little bit simpler than some of the more complicated emissions control or solid fuel-fired projects like the SWA projects.
So yes it will be a competitive market but the differentiators for KBR vis-a-vis acquiring Town and Power really are no different than what we've been able to build on our hydrocarbon side just because of the nature of the company the projects we do and just the attractiveness of what KBR can do for people in terms of working on the world's most interesting and significant projects.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And if you'll allow me just the credit agreement I know there's some restrictions in there but how much stock can you buyback at any given period? Any thoughts on what you're doing with that to maybe give yourselves a little more flexibility? No not at this point.
We're not near to bumping up against anything and we've got about a year and half to go November of 2012 on the credit agreement.
So sometime before then we'll start talking about it.
If we did have an opportunity that did that we'd go out at that time and talk to our banks and given what our balance sheet looks like and our cash flow and all of that.
I just don't think that that's an issue.
But for right now we're not in any danger of bumping up against that.
Thank you everybody.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the KBR's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference hosted by KBR.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] For opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rob Kukla Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Tom.
Good morning and welcome to KBR's second quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
Today's call is also being webcast and a replay will be available on KBR's website for 7 days.
The press release announcing the second quarter results is also available on KBR's website.
Joining me today are Bill Utt Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sue Carter Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In today's call Bill will provide opening remarks and business outlook.
Sue will address KBR's operating performance financial position backlog and other financial items.
We will welcome questions after we complete our prepared remarks.
Before turning the call over to Bill I would like to remind our audience that today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting KBR's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in KBR's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 KBR's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and KBR's current reports on Form 8-K.
Now I'll turn the call over to Mr.
Bill Utt.
Bill? Thanks Rob and good morning everyone.
Overall I'm pleased with KBR's continued strong financial performance this quarter.
KBR's second quarter net revenue was in line with our expectations and excluding the LogCAP project is up 5% year-over-year.
KBR's business unit income this quarter was up approximately 20% from the prior quarter and each of our business groups showed increases in business unit income of 15% or more compared to the prior quarter.
As a result of our strong performance and our outlook for the remainder of 2011 we are raising our full year 2011 earnings per diluted share guidance to a range of $2.60 to $2.85 per share from the range provided earlier this year of $2.05 to $2.30 per share.
This represents a 25% increase from the initial 2011 guidance we provided in January.
This new guidance reflects KBR's stronger operating performance and expected lower 2011 effective tax rate as well as continued control of our general and administrative expenses.
During the quarter KBR's job income backlog increased 4% compared to the prior quarter while revenue backlog remained essentially flat.
Compared to the prior year second quarter job income backlog is up 12% despite our revenue backlog decline of 4%.
KBR continues to work off the lower margin projects in our backlog while successfully replacing this backlog with higher-margin projects.
Compared to the sequential quarter Hydrocarbons backlog was down approximately $269 million primarily related to the general project work-off in the Gas Monetization and Oil &amp; Gas business units.
With the addition of the Jazan refinery FEED work scope additions for the Lobito refinery project and the award of the Molycorp EPC project Downstream backlog increased by $160 million.
Technology backlog was up 24% sequentially primarily related to several new ammonia projects.
IGP's backlog was up $266 million led by the booking of the Solid Waste Authority project as well as work additions on the LogCAP III and IV projects.
While services backlog declined $103 million from the first quarter we believe we're announcing a turnaround emerging in this predominantly North American business.
New award bookings this quarter are the highest since the end of 2009.
And as of today services has sold more new work year-to-date than was sold in all of 2010.
We are very pleased with the positive evolutions we are seeing in new awards at services this year.
I would like to now comment on the status of several KBR projects at our business units.
For the Inpex Ichthys LNG project KBR and our partners remain actively engaged in post-FEED and pre-FID activities and the open-book tender discussions continue to proceed towards a fourth quarter 2011 FID.
For the Pluto LNG expansion project KBR continues to receive post-FEED assignments and provide pre-FID services on the project.
We note the continued increased cost and schedule delays on the Pluto 1 foundation project and continue to provide support to Woodside on this project on an as-needed basis.
For the Kitimat LNG project FEED activities and pre-FID site construction management services are progressing as planned with FEED completion expected by year end.
We continue to be advised that the owner expects to take the FID for the project during the first half of 2012.
For the Browse LNG project KBR expects to complete the bulk of the FEED work by the end of this year.
The project currently remains on target for a 2012 FID.
The fourth train at Gorgon has been awarded to KBR for pre-FEED work and this work is currently underway.
Finally I'm pleased to announce that Anadarko has awarded KBR pre-FEED work for their grassroots LNG project in Mozambique.
Work on this project has already started and is scheduled for completion by the end of 2011.
In Oil &amp; Gas we have completed our design of the CLOV project off Angola and engineering work continues for the Jack/St.
Malo and Big Foot  projects for Chevron in the Gulf of Mexico.
Under our global agreement with BP we are executing detailed design for the Chirag Oil project FEED work for the Chadanese 2 onshore and offshore projects and engineering for the HOD and South Arne projects in the North Sea.
Finally at GVA the design for 8 FPSO hulls for Petrobras is progressing and we recently completed FEED work for a semisubmersible drill rig for Statoil in the North Sea.
At Downstream we are also seeing increased opportunities in the Americas as evidenced by our recent KiOR and Molycorp EPC awards.
For the Lobito refinery project KBR continues to perform early-stage EPCM work including the physical site design the consolidation of multiple living camps and other work in preparation for the project's expected FID in late 2011.
On the Ras Tanura Integrated Project now known as the Sadara Chemical Company venture FEED work remains on schedule for completion later this year and in anticipation of the project's FID KBR continues to provide coordinating PMC and pre-EPC support activities on the completed FEED envelopes as well as planning for additional support in KBR's design offices at the project site.
On the Yanbu project our design work is being completed on schedule and KBR's PMC team has begun to move to the site while other KBR personnel remain deployed at EPC contractor offices.
On the Jazan FEED and PMC refinery project KBR continues to increase staffing in both London and Khobar Saudi Arabia.
KBR's Technology business unit continues to rapidly grow and had another solid quarter.
Revenue increased 14% compared to the prior year second quarter and backlog was up 24% from the prior quarter.
During the second quarter technology announced an alliance agreement with Shell Global Solutions to market sell and provide design packages for hydroprocessing technologies as well as the formation of a joint venture company in China with Shaanxi Yanchang Petroleum Company to market sell deliver and support the Veba Combi Cracker technology under BP's collaboration agreement with BP.
At our North American Government and Defense business unit while our volume of work remains stable in Iraq we continue to prepare for the possible ramp down of U.S.
forces in late 2011.
During the second quarter KBR received approximately $566 million of funding to existing LogCAP task orders.
LogCAP III remains a cost plus fixed fee contract and KBR expects to receive our final award fee under the LogCAP contract for the period September 10 2010 through February 2011 during the third quarter.
In late June KBR was awarded a participation in the $3.8 billion CENTCOM multiple award task order contract to support design build and construction projects throughout CENTCOM's 20-country area of responsibility.
KBR has already been awarded its first task order under this MATOC for construction of military facilities at Bagram Air Base in Afghanistan.
We anticipate a steady number of task orders being released within the next 60 days for projects ranging from $20 million to $100 million each.
KBR was also awarded a contract for the construction of a dining facility at Lackland Air Force Base in San Antonio.
For our Minerals business Roberts &amp; Schaefer was recently awarded EPC contracts by Seminole Electric Cooperative for a bottom ash and economizer ash handling system replacement project in Florida and by Motiva for the construction of a petroleum coker material handling system.
We continue to see significant activity for Roberts &amp; Schaefer in both Indonesia and India that I mentioned last quarter.
On the infrastructure front KBR received several awards for engineering and Project Management for Water projects in Australia and the U.S.
Also in Australia KBR was selected to provide engineering and design services for 3 coal seam gas pipelines to carry coal seam gas from the gas fields in Central Queensland to export facilities on Curtis Island.
For the Services business unit KBR has been awarded a large air-quality control project from a major Southeast U.S.
utility company which we expect to press release relatively soon.
KBR will perform the installation of all equipment and associated piping steel ductwork electrical instrumentation and related construction work.
This project presents an excellent opportunity for our U.S.
construction group to continue to grow KBR's presence in the U.S.
domestic power industry.
As I mentioned earlier services new awards this quarter are the highest since the end of 2009.
And as of today services has sold more new work year-to-date than was sold in all of 2010.
Our Ventures business unit continues to provide solid results benefiting from high-capacity factors and strong product pricing at the EBIC ammonia project as well as positive income contributions from the Aspire and Fasttrax investments.
Finally as KBR continues to manage the growth in our business resource center headcount at the end of the second quarter was up 6% compared to the prior year second quarter and up 2% from the March 2011 quarter.
Now I'll turn the call over to Sue.
And after Sue's comments I will comment in more detail on the market outlook for our business before turning the call over to questions.
Sue? Thanks Bill.
Consolidated KBR revenue totaled $2.5 billion a decline of $214 million or 8% from the prior year second quarter.
As expected LogCAP revenue decreased $300 million compared to the prior year second quarter.
Positive revenue contributions included a 10% revenue increase from the Hydrocarbons group led by Oil &amp; Gas revenue up 29% followed by Technology up 14% and Gas Monetization up 10%.
Infrastructure and Minerals revenue was up 105% compared to the prior year second quarter primarily related to the addition of project revenue related to the R&amp;S acquisition and recently awarded projects.
Consolidated operating income was $169 million in the second quarter of 2011 down $30 million or 15% compared to the second quarter of 2010 which included $60 million in LogCAP III award fees and a $36 million benefit from Yemen change orders.
KBR operating income had a favorable comparison to the first quarter of 2011 of $144 million.
Net income attributable to KBR for the second quarter of 2011 was $0.65 per diluted share compared to $0.66 per diluted share for the prior year second quarter.
Let me share a few highlights from our business units.
Gas Monetization had job income of $76 million for the second quarter $12 million or 19% over the first quarter of 2011 and $7 million or 8% shorter the second quarter of 2010 which again included Yemen change orders of $36 million.
Good progress on the Gorgon EPC project a fee on new Escravos work and continuing work on the Browse FEED Kitimat FEED and Statoil KEP contributed to the strong performance in Q2.
Oil &amp; Gas income of $30 million is up $6 million or 25% from Q1 2011 and up $17 million or 131% from the second quarter of 2010.
Six new projects CLOV South Arne Chadanese 2 HOD pre-FEED Statoil and Engevix contributed to the strong performance along with Big Foot scope of work additions.
There were also $4 million of charges related to the Barracuda project that were recorded in Q2 of 2010.
North America Government Defense had job income of $51 million in the second quarter compared to $55 million in the first quarter of 2011 and $92 million in the second quarter of 2010.
The first quarter had award fees of $16 million and the  second quarter of 2010 had award fees of $60 million.
Other changes are volume related with LogCAP revenues down $300 million as I mentioned earlier.
We continue to expect LogCAP revenues to be between $1.6 million and $1.8 billion in 2011 and we anticipate receipt of our final award fee under LogCAP III in the third quarter.
International Government and Defense had $33 million of job income in the second quarter compared to $17 million in the first quarter of 2011 and $22 million in the second quarter of 2010.
Increases came from margin improvement on the Allenby and Connaught project NAMSA Kandahar commenced service delivery as well as construction and construction management work at Camp Bastion in Afghanistan.
Power and Industrial job income of $8 million is up $2 million or 33% from Q1 2011 and down $7 million or 47% from Q2 2010.
Declines came from completion of the FWA refurbishment project and increases resulted from the mobilization of the new FWA expansion project in the planned Red Cliffs IGCC engineering project.
The performance of our businesses continues to be strong as reflected in our operating results.
General and administrative expenses for the second quarter of 2011 were $58 million or 2.4% of revenue.
KBR continues to focus on and improve performance in G&amp;A expenses.
Our full year 2011 estimates for corporate G&amp;A expenses are $215 million to $220 million.
In the second quarter of 2011 our overall effective tax rate was 24% which consisted of an operating effective tax rate of 28% and discrete tax items related to tax planning strategies and tax statutes.
The lower operating rate provided $0.04 of EPS in the second quarter and discrete items provided $0.05 for a total of $0.09 in the second quarter.
We did not release any reserves during the second quarter related to the Australian rail project.
It is under receivership and we're evaluating those reserves.
For the full year of 2011 we anticipate that our overall effective tax rate will be in the 22% to 24% range due to discrete items related to tax planning strategies and resolution of certain foreign tax matters including issues concerning the Australian rail project.
Our operating effective tax rate for the full year 2011 is now projected to be approximately 30%.
Discrete tax items included in the 22% to 24% ETR estimates provide approximately $0.37 of earnings per diluted share benefit for 2011.
Labor cost absorption income was $6 million in the second quarter compared to labor cost absorption income of $4 million in the second quarter of 2010.
Labor cost absorption income improved primarily related to higher headcount in the labor resource pool as well as higher chargeability and utilization in several of our engineering offices.
As Bill stated previously our headcount in the labor resource pools at the end of the second quarter 2011 was up 6% compared to the prior year second quarter and up 2% from the March 2011 quarter.
I'd like to discuss KBR's backlog in a bit more detail building on Bill's earlier comments.
The revenue backlog as of June 30 2011 was approximately $12 billion down 4% from a year ago and flat compared to the sequential quarter.
$2.4 billion of new work added this quarter was offset by general project work-off or a book-to-bill ratio of 100%.
Overall the backlog portfolio mix at the end of the first quarter was 76% reimbursable and 24% fixed price a slight mix change from the 80-20 we reported in the first quarter of 2011.
The mix change reflects the award of the Solid Waste Authority project and lower reimbursable LogCAP backlog.
Next I'll discuss our liquidity and balance sheet.
Total cash provided by operating activities for the first 6 months of 2011 was $223 million compared to $432 million provided by operations for the first 6 months of 2010.
Total cash used by operating activities in the second quarter of 2011 was approximately $2 million primarily related to the timing of a $71 million collection related to the LogCAP contract which was received on July 1 2011 and also during the second quarter we paid cash taxes of $18 million which will be reimbursed in the future by our former parent and contributed approximately $8 million to our pension plans.
The second quarter of 2010 benefited from strong collections in our Gas Monetization projects.
At the end of June 2011 our balance sheet remains strong with cash of approximately $712 million which included $212 million associated with our consolidated joint ventures.
The $712 million in cash down $76 million compared to the sequential quarter also reflects a return to shareholders of $35 million for the repurchase of just under 1 million KBR shares and $8 million in dividends paid.
We used $21 million for capital expenditures in the second quarter.
Before turning the call over to Bill I would like to reiterate that KBR's full year 2011 earnings per diluted share guidance is now in the $2.60 to $2.85 range which reflects stronger operating performance and a lower 2011 effective tax rate for the potential further discrete items in the next 2 quarters.
I mentioned this earlier.
Also we anticipate the full year 2011 corporate G&amp;A expense to be in the $215 million to $220 million range.
And now I'll turn the call back over to Bill for his final remarks.
Thanks Sue and I'd now like to provide KBR's outlook for our businesses.
Following my comments at the end of last quarter KBR still believes that business activity will continue to remain stable in the Middle East.
While not as active as we saw 3 to 4 years ago we believe that continued capital spending remains stable in the hydrocarbons markets as well as infrastructure markets particularly in Qatar.
Further we remain optimistic that spending will continue to increase in Iraq as that country continues to make progress in the rebuilding of its hydrocarbon and infrastructure markets.
KBR also remains very bullish on Australia particularly in the LNG and mining markets.
We believe many of the attributes we saw in the Middle East 3 to 4 years ago are now beginning to emerge in Australia related to technical and construction labor constraints the need to provide out-of-country resources and a general tightening of the regional capital projects supply chains.
We believe announced projects will ultimately go forward but there may be some delays with respect to the timing of their sanction.
In the North American markets we are seeing a continued strengthening in the industrial markets across the board.
We believe owners are increasingly more confident and moving forward on projects and this should bode well for the continued strengthening of KBR's North American-based businesses.
For our Government Support and Logistics businesses we continue to await the final outcome of discussions between the U.S.
and Iraqi governments concerning the status of U.S.
forces in Iraq.
The situation in Afghanistan looks a bit more stable and we continue to be pleased with the new work we are winning with our government customers.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
I guess my first question on the comments that you made on your Services business so just some clarification there.
So it sounds like so far in July you've booked over $500 million worth of work.
And can you tell us a little bit about where you're seeing that work? I think you mentioned that you're going to be performing the installation of some scrubber work at a Southeast utilities company.
Can you just talk a little bit about what you're seeing in the trends in the Services business right now? In services Joe we are -- we were just a bit -- at June 30 we were just shy in the new awards year-to-date compared to all of 2010.
And with the recent award we've gotten this month with the contract signed that puts us over the new award amount.
We are seeing some recovery.
We've talked about the size of projects previously I think in some earlier calls.
We talked last year that the size of projects was in the $25 million to $50 million range which are -- maybe we can't differentiate ourselves as well from more local competitors but now we're seeing larger projects going forward.
We saw that on the Chevron Base Oil project.
We're seeing this on the utility pollution control project and so we are seeing projects start moving forward.
Even people are talking about some new-generation resources that for the last 2 or 3 years people haven't been talking about.
We're seeing in the consolidation of the shale plays there's some opportunities for companies like KBR as bigger entities come in or are looking at doing larger type in-field developments.
Although we've not been successful yet in any of those awards.
We are seeing an increase in activity there.
We see Canada starting to come back on a systematic basis with some new awards.
Again it's not where it was a couple years ago.
But the discussions that we're having with folks they're talking about growing their businesses and investing capital now certainly to a much larger degree than we saw in 2010.
So really across the board we're seeing a number of areas that give us continued optimism of the rebound in the North American markets which led to the comments I made in the prepared comments earlier today.
Okay Bill.
That's very helpful.
I guess just switching gears 1 other question I had was on your margins in Gas Monetization specifically.
They were very strong this quarter as you start to ramp up work on Gorgon.
Is this the run rate that we should be thinking about on the Gas Mon side over the next several quarters? Or how should we be thinking about that? I think it was a really good quarter for Gas Mon.
We had -- we talked a little bit about an Escravos change order that we got which was unusual.
But the way the change orders work there is earnings on the change orders while the rest of the project is being worked on a breakeven basis.
We did have some benefits on Gorgon that were a little bit of some FX catch-up for us that benefited us a little bit on the top line but then quickly unwound themselves in the minority interest.
But overall it was a really strong quarter in Gas Mon.
And yes I wouldn't -- I wouldn't say we can count on that going forward.
But certainly as we add some of these prospects in the backlog I think we can see this level of performance within our Gas Monetization business continue on.
But right now absent those new awards I think we had a really good quarter and maybe we can repeat it next quarter.
But we'll just have to see how the performance on that project is.
And we'll take our next question from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Bill you've talked about likely maintaining backlog in the first half with growth in the second half and you've done exactly that in the first half.
So how do you see the second half playing out now? Well we are -- we still continue to generate underlying backlog growth on scope expansions.
And I think in the past we've commented in prior years maybe 2/3 of our growth came from scope expansions.
We do believe that in time and then we do have a lot of lumpy issues we're chasing as evidenced by my comments on the LNG projects on the Lobito refinery and also on the continuation of Ras Tanura as that project moves into execution where we're doing some of the FEEDs on specific technologies as well as the PMC work.
Yes I feel that if you took a rolling average of our backlog we will be there.
Now I can't comment specifically on what we'll see next quarter.
And we do look at our backlog on a reasonably conservative basis and we talked about that in the past.
Certainly the $3.8 billion CENTCOM contract we didn't add any backlog except for the task order that we were definitively awarded.
Another example is certainly in Oil &amp; Gas.
We showed a flat backlog last quarter or actually a declining backlog.
But again with the discipline that we put on our backlog we made in addition in the first quarter on the West of Shetlands project the customer came back during the second quarter and asked us to consider changing the schedule.
And we had some discussions with the customer on the schedule of that delivery.
But because of our practice we reduced the backlog about $60 million in Oil &amp; Gas during the second quarter.
Those questions have been resolved and regrettably we're putting it right back in the third quarter.
So that explains a little bit some of the timing issues in Oil &amp; Gas.
But overall I think we'll -- we may see backlog go down in the third quarter.
A lot of it depends on what the underlying scope expansions are on the existing work until such time as we get some of the big awards into our backlog.
And another wildcard we have Steve is certainly what's going to happen in Iraq with the status of forces agreement.
We had a good $500 million of backlog added in the quarter.
If that business were to remain consistent we could see some more backlog than we're currently anticipating in the second half of the year.
But it's -- on a rolling basis I think we'll be okay.
We may have a little bit of dip in the third quarter compared to what we would expect to see in the fourth quarter when some of the larger projects begin hitting our backlog.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just wondering what does the progression of the Dow/Aramco project mean for you in terms of your resource utilization? I think you've said you had about 500 people working on the FEED.
And I think on this call you said that's going to wrap up later this year.
When do those people free up and do you know what they're going to work on next? And what would that mean for your labor cost absorption? Well our sense Steve with respect to the new Ras Tanura project is that we will continue the PMC work and I'm not expecting we'll see material changes to the staffing of the folks doing the PMC work.
Now parallel to that we are doing some FEED work on some technology packages.
And those projects could roll into EPC over the coming months and maybe it might be first quarter or later next year when that project does move forward in the EPC packages.
But from a broader labor-cost absorption standpoint we're talking about 12 000 people across all of KBR in that kind of magnitude.
And if we have some folks come off we're still looking at being able to put them to work in other projects we're working at.
We do a lot of resource sharing across different offices.
Certainly we've got with the Molycorp and KiOR sales we've loaded up some of the legacy BE&amp;K offices well above what their present capacities are and we can move some of that work into Houston if we find we have some people.
So I'm expecting that we'll be able to successfully manage the labor-cost absorption numbers to 0 or better going forward.
And that's certainly the charge we give to our operations group to maintain chargeability.
Now when we look at our resources we have KBR employees and we also have some contract employees that we use as the swing group.
And we'll certainly be managing the contract side to reflect the work.
But as we look out at the horizon for us I certainly believe we'll see opportunities to continue to grow our overall resource pool over the next 12 months.
And we'll take our next question from Rob Norfleet with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Just a couple of quick questions.
I guess first of all the loss in minority interest in the quarter of $27 million certainly was higher than what we've seen in previous quarters.
Any thought on that and how we should look at that through the remainder of the year? Yes Rob it's Sue.
As we think about that there's a lot of changes going on in the non-controlling interest.
We bought out the piece of MWKL so we had some changes there.
But we also had a couple of items that are in the Q and that we talked about with foreign exchange and with some tax-related trends from pricing that increased the amount of non-controlling interest.
So what I would say is is that the Q1 number probably looks like a better run rate than the Q2 number.
Again these things are nonrecurring and not material to the company but it does skew the number if you're trying to trend it and model it.
Okay great.
And Bill just a quick question.
Last quarter you obviously talked a lot about seeing the pickup in terms of utility spending for climate control equipment.
Obviously now we have some EPA regulations that are a little more firm.
We've got the Boiler MACT Rules coming up in the number.
But what's going to be your thought process in terms of when we'll really start to see a ramp-up in order rates for scrubbers and other anti-pollution control equipment? Well I think we're seeing the first wave of it.
I think every quarter it will become a little bit better within the industry.
And certainly as we look at it we look at things maybe a little more geographic concentration and we're trying to broaden that within our services group.
But I think you're going to see a continued increase in the spending in the utility side going forward.
It's been a couple of years since they've really been spending any money on either new generation or the pollution controls.
And I think as we look at the regulations and we anticipate what they're going to say that there will be a continuing tightening.
Now maybe there will be a --  to think what the MACT regulations say there may be a floodgate of spending that opens up once there is some definition that's established on what those final rules are.
But it's certainly -- the momentum is building and I think as you get towards the first part of 2012 that you'll see a much higher level of spending on these types of facilities on the solid power plants.
We'll go next to Jamie Cook with Crédit Suisse.
This is Andrew Buscaglia in for Jamie Cook.
On Jacobs earnings call they alluded to unit pricing going up modestly in the quarter.
Can you comment if you are seeing the same thing? And if so by how much? You mean in terms of -- you're referring to margins on work we're selling? Yes.
Well I would say it's again our footprint's very different than Jacobs.
So we are certainly much more internationally focused in our markets and -- but I'll try to give you -- I'll try to answer your question maybe on a market basis.
As we look at the International markets we do see reasonably good margins but we're also seeing a lot of competition.
And we think we're for example in the Middle East where you still have a lot of very heavy Korean competition margins have remained very narrow because of their appetite to build some backlogs.
In Australia and the complexities of the LNG areas we think we'll see reasonable margins there.
I think we'll see large volumes which -- of man hours which helps create better dollars for us.
But the margins will be reasonable in LNG projects because that still is a competitive market.
Domestically in the U.S.
we're seeing more volume right now.
Again our margins if you look at our margins and compare them to Jacobs as a whole we're probably a little -- I think we might have been a couple points above.
So we're seeing margins that are okay for us maybe not increasing yet but we are optimistic about the volumes.
So in our segments I think we're able to maintain our selling margins where they've been over the last couple of quarters and we continue to look for opportunities to push them up.
And we probably see those maybe on some selective projects.
But overall it still remains a very competitive market out there given that the volume of projects out there is only now starting to recover both from our perspective internationally as well as our perspective domestically.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And just on another question.
Can you speak about customer concerns on potential capacity constraints over the next 6 months or so? Well we have a very active dialogue with all of our customers because they ask that questions too.
And certainly as we look out at our business we built our platform of operating centers to be able to work share.
Gorgon is a great example for us because we've had 5 different offices working on the Gorgon project because of the investments we've made in technology and our IT infrastructure.
But as we look at the different projects we have different roles.
And just the LNG project is a good example on the impacts project we're going to be 30% with 2 other partners.
We're going to be spending more of our time on the fabrication oversight and the construction management on that project.
So there's not going to be a big load from the Inpex Ichthys project on our engineering resource centers.
We look at the Pluto expansion project.
That's looking to go into our London offices been working the FEED out of the London offices for a while now.
The Kitimat project will be done in Houston.
So we're seeing some diversity of resources across the company.
Ras Tanura is in Houston.
Lobito  is in Houston.
Jazan is in London.
And so we have really 2 very large resource centers and we're probably the -- to our knowledge we might be the only company out there able to do LNG projects in 2 separate offices geographically.
So we think our diversity helps us in the way we've structured our participations in these various projects.
It does allow us to demonstrate to our customers and hopefully my comments are somewhat convincing to you that we aren't facing any real resource constraints in this backlog of projects that we would hope to be able to sign up in the next 12 to 18 months.
And we'll take our next question from Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
Bill if I can tackle the backlog question in a different way.
Your job income backlog as you said was up 12% I think year-over-year but you got a lot of moving pieces as we go into the next year.
Tax rate I assume is going to come up a little bit and LogCAP is going to go down a little bit and you've got all these big projects out there.
So without giving me guidance how do we think about '12? Are you confident that you can grow earnings in '12 versus '11? I have to say that we haven't begun our budgeting process yet.
So I'll stay away from the guidance issue.
The backlog job income is really a theme we've talked about for a while.
And we burned probably $700 million-ish of revenue on Escravos last quarter.
And you know that's got a very low profitability associated with it.
And in its place we're replacing it with the Solid Waste Authority project which has market-based margins.
And so we're really looking hard at the job income component in our backlog particularly as Skikda and Escravos wind their way through.
We do hope that we'll be able to continue to have a dialogue with the Street regarding new Skikda-type projects that while they may be low margin will be high dollar contributors for resource allocation that we'd see.
But really the LogCAP has been coming down.
We've been talking about that since the IPO in 2006.
Now I think in 2007 we are doing about $5 billion of LogCAP.
And this year we've said between 16 and 18 as I recall and next year it ought to be lower.
So we continue to perform like one-armed paper hangers wallpaper hangers here of trying to grow the business at the same time letting the LogCAP volumes digest themselves back to a continuing lower level going forward.
So we'll comment in January about our guidance for 2012 and a lot of it's going to be driven by the mix.
And we think overall the mix of job income is increasing and I think that bodes well for us.
And certainly as these other projects are coming into backlog the volumes will be there to reinforce some of the margin improvements we're seeing overall in the job income backlog.
Okay.
That's fair Bill.
Just a quick follow-up on at is 30% sort of the new target tax rate as we go forward? Is that kind of what you can achieve given your mix? Well I mean as we look at 2011 the answer is yes because that's what we told you.
And we'll look at 2012 and going forward.
But as we go through the budget process as Bill described it.
It may vary a few points up or down from that.
But I think that's a pretty good go-forward modeling right? Okay.
And so if I can just shift to LogCAP for one second.
You had very high gross margins in the quarter 8.5%.
Now that it's fixed fee I know you said you're going to have an award fee in 3Q or there's a chance of it.
But is that -- that's a much higher margin run rate than LogCAP III used to be.
Can we count on those kind of margins going forward? Well LogCAP III Andy was -- if you remember was 1% base fee and 2% award fee which at one time we were accruing 8 percentage of the award fees based on historicals and we were adding the overhead rates of our NAGD business.
And we were able to drive the overhead rates really low because of the scale of that business.
Today we are seeing more of a market-based fixed fee on that but also because of this economy of scale or the shrinking size of that business the overhead of NAGD is now being allocated over fewer work units.
And so this gross margin that you're seeing is reflected in part by the increased margin of the work that we're receiving.
But also the overhead rate has gone up at NAGD.
So when you look at the NAGD results you're seeing bigger margins because the overhead recovery rate is up quite a bit because of the shrinkage in volume and also the market base fee.
So you got 2 elements working there at NAGD.
We'll take our next question from Will Gabrielski with Gleacher.
Inc.</strong> So did you say you're helping out a little bit on Pluto 1 on an as-needed basis? Yes we did.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And in terms of the language right now on LNG and timing I mean it seems like you added a little bit of somewhat cautious language around predicting timing.
Is that specifically related to Pluto 2? Or are you seeing that on the other projects as well? Well I think as you look at the overall Australian market it is -- there have been some interesting articles that when I was down there visiting customers last month they've talked about all the mining projects and the LNG projects going forward.
And it was eerily reminiscent to what we saw in Qatar in 2007.
And it causes us to think that you're going to see some stretching out of the projects as they get the sanction through there.
Now we had commented earlier about where our expectations were a couple quarters ago on Pluto 2 and 3 as far as going forward.
We haven't heard any definitive comments out of Woodside on that.
But certainly as they have looked at the delays and increases in cost on Pluto 1 and the fact that if they were going to do anything on Pluto 2 or 3 they'd have to start with the EPC contractors 6 months or so before an FID.
And since we're not doing anything related to an EPC and we're doing more of the studies on elements around Pluto 2 for Woodside that that does appear to be delayed.
Although nothing has been formally stated.
But I think as we look at it it's logical to expect that it's not going forward this year and it's going to be in the next year some time.
So we're seeing a lot of things happen.
The reasons that are happening are not all the same across the board.
And as we just -- in the Australian market are being very wary about what might be going forward just given the resources they have in Australia to get projects approved from the government side or the resources that are needed to put the teams together.
And that's why I made some comments about the increasing amount of ex-pats that could be brought in on some of these projects to deal with the Russia projects.
But overall I think we're being cautious.
I think the market's being cautious.
But I also firmly believe that these projects will all ultimately go forward.
It's just a question of what time will the owners feel comfortable taking those FIDs and some may get delayed.
But as we look at our diversity of projects between the Middle East or Africa or North America or Australia we think that it's a pretty good balance that we've achieved and work will go forward for us.
And we'll just -- we'll be ready when our customers are ready.
Inc.</strong> Do you see a potential in Canada for additional FEED work on some of the newly announced projects next to Kitimat? There could be.
I'm not aware of the maturity or certainly where they are scheduled relative to Kitimat.
But you could see a continued discussion given our gas supply situation here in the U.S.
about -- or so in the North American market overall about exporting more gas to Asia.
There have been discussions on converting some of the rig gas facilities on the Gulf Coast to export facilities as well as there's some early talk about other facilities in British Columbia.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
R&amp;S and MWKL can you just maybe quantify a little bit how they're performing versus your initial guidance this year? I think overall they're doing okay.
We're doing better than we expected at MWKL.
We're doing probably a little bit less than what we expected at Roberts &amp; Schaefer.
Part of the Roberts &amp; Schaefer  business plan we had this year was built more on historically on what they saw in the U.S.
market and a lot of that was driven by the pollution control facility investments and their material handling around scrubbers and coal plants.
But I am much more encouraged about the broader prospects of Roberts &amp; Schaefer as they've gotten into the KBR family.
And they're certainly more leveraging themselves internationally than they ever have in the past in part because of our bonding capability but also in part because of our International project delivery.
So from an expectation standpoint I think my expectations going forward for Roberts &amp; Schaefer are much more bullish.
And I think the opportunities that we're seeing in India or Indonesia are particularly strong given the new way of selling that Roberts &amp; Schaefer can position themselves as being part of the global KBR entity as opposed to being part of a private equity firm.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly FX.
What impact did that have on the reported backlog number in the quarter if any? I mean it didn't have a significant impact on the new awards for the second quarter.
And we'll take our next question from Sameer Rathod with Macquarie.
Just a quick question.
It sounds like you guys are working on several LNG projects.
At what point do we start seeing capacity constraints? I think that the major ones we're talking about I don't think we're going to have constraints because the way we've set the business up and I've talked about the relative differences in our role on each of these projects.
But certainly as we look at the London office for example we're going to spend 12 to 15 months in the front-end design of the plant and then we're very quickly going to move after that to low -- to other resource center such as Monterrey Mexico or Jakarta or Singapore for us.
And that creates new capacity for these other projects that are slightly delayed relative to the ones that we think we'll be able to look at in the next 6 to 9 months.
So we're not seeing the capacity constraints given how the company works.
In the past I've used the example of 3 buckets.
We have the front-end engineering and the high-level design as 1 bucket.
The second bucket is the detailed design at our high-value centers and the third bucket is construction.
And we've already seen Gorgon move out of the first bucket into the detailed design centers creating capacity for the next wave of projects that we have.
And then as they move into the field we continue to free up more capacity.
Candidly we'd like to see some of these awards come forward because as we look out 6 to 9 months ahead of us in London and in Houston we've got some pretty good voids we've got to fill with some of these new awards.
So capacity constraints are not my issue.
It's getting these awards into the boats so that we can continue to maintain our present capacity.
And so we're going to work share.
But overall I think we've got a lot of flexibility at this scale of prospects and that the timing we're seeing for the prospects we'll be able to easily manage this level of work.
Great.
My next question is given the labor constraints and supply-chain issues in Australia plus the carbon tax how much do you think that is a driver of LNG projects here in the U.S.
in terms of people shifting their focus in building LNG in North America? I haven't heard any direct correlations.
The folks that we talk to in British Columbia they have gas.
They look at the gas.
They could sell into the Asian market on a cocktail of oil prices versus what they can get on NYMEX-plus basis and they say "This is a good decision to do an export facility." I don't think anybody has shared with us any analyses that they've made of Australian capital cost and certainly a lot of it -- if you were to have some capital cost differentials you're going to make that up in shipping between Australia and the Asian markets compared to North America.
But it's fundamentally in the regions where you have gas.
What's the cost of the resource and what are my markets and what's the highest value market for this resource that I have? And those are I think the fundamental drivers we're seeing when we talk to our customers on their prospectives of what to do with gas.
We'll take our next question from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Bill I appreciate the comments on your various projects and prospects there and you talked a little bit about the gaps in between it.
Could you size the waves for us a little bit? What I mean is the opportunity for KBR what you're looking at in project opportunities maybe in the second half of 2011 versus first half of '12 second half of '12? Well you're asking me to -- get me to get a crystal ball off of that John? Yes that's okay.
That's a really forward-looking statement.
John I just think you have to look at these projects and you can guesstimate the size and maybe guesstimate a little bit the roles KBR has but it's going to vary.
And a lot of the variance that you're going to see in backlog is going to be how the project's structured.
For example Inpex Ichthys that's going to -- we're a 30% player.
JGC is 40%.
Chiyoda is 30%.
We're likely going to treat that as an equity accounting.
Now we'll make the determination when the final contracts are signed and we know who is the lead partner and that person will consolidate.
But as of today our thinking is we would not consolidate that.
So the backlog will go in as what do we think our engineering hours will be plus our share of the profit from the venture.
So you might see something that's much lower than the overall cost of the project coming into backlog.
It won't even be proportional accounting.
It'll be the equity accounting.
And when we get there we'll try to be as clear as we can with you on that.
You contrast that to Pluto 2 or Kitimat.
Those will be traditional EPC projects where we'll be rolling the backlog into -- of the full cost into our backlog.
At least that's our present expectation today.
We look at Lobito refinery.
That's an EPCM project.
Again that's going to roll completely into our backlog.
Ras Tanura the PMC stuff will be a lot like Yanbu.
It's going to be just-in-time work order releases.
There's going to be a lot of money at the end of the day but you're never going to get it all in one fell swoop.
Now the packages for the EPC -- the FEEDs that we're doing on the technologies those will go in as EPCs.
And you'll see some lumpiness there.
So it's -- that's about as much credible information as I can give you without really getting out on a limb and at the risk of having a chainsaw working with me.
Okay.
But is it fair to characterize it as -- I mean and I realize schedules can move around and who knows what the competition does.
But the bulk of the opportunities for you that you've described here are potential bookings in the first half of '12? Well I would say just based on the comment we believe that Inpex will go forward this year and the Chairman of Inpex was adamant that he wanted to get it done and didn't want the contractor to delay it which was music to our ears.
We also believe today that Sonangol is working towards getting that project completed and under an EPCM contract this year as well.
You look at Kitimat.
I think we commented first half.
Pluto I think our expectation has moved out from this year into we hope the first half of '12.
A lot of it depends on what Peter Coleman how he wants to proceed on those other projects and given the status of the continuing work on Pluto 1.
So I feel pretty good it will be a 2012 project and I'm hopeful it can be a first half of 2012.
Ras Tanura we complete the FEED this year.
They take some time to figure out what they're doing.
So you could see some of the larger packages awarded to us second third quarter on that.
Kitimat they have continued to maintain that they're moving forward in the first half of next year.
So that's the horizon we're looking at right now.
It may be a little more helpful it may have confused you so...
We'll take our next question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
My first question is in regards to floating LNG.
We've seen a couple projects come up and Technip was talking about that on their call as well this morning.
I would love to get a sense from you on if that could potentially be an opportunity for KBR at some point as well? And my follow-up question I'll just wrap it in this one is really to do with the Downstream side.
Again a comment by Technip earlier on this morning that some of those projects outside of the Middle East that are going forward as a joint ventures and need project financing are getting a little pushed out because of some struggles on the financing side.
So would love to get a comment on whether there are some projects that you might mention that still need some project financing.
Well on the floating LNG when that was first raised a couple years ago there was a view that the designer of the floating LNG facility would be joined several with the fabricator.
And yes that was an interesting risk allocation because the fabricator had probably 85% of the scope and to be joined in several was a little bit of a challenge.
And so we missed the boat on that one a couple of years ago on the Prelude project.
We've continued to have discussions and get more in-depth with the fabricators principally in Korea about what we might be able to do in that regard.
We certainly have the capabilities as KBR.
We do LNG.
We do FPSOs.
We do all sorts of marine and onshore facilities using these technologies.
So it's something that we're interested in getting into and think as this market develops there'll continue to be opportunities that we'll pursue to be in the floating LNG market as Technip has done to date.
And I congratulate Technip on being an early entrant in the floating LNG market.
Regarding the downstream projects the ones we're seeing in the U.S.
don't appear to be driven by project financing.
I know the ones we're seeing in the Middle East that are sponsored by Aramco haven't historically or to my knowledge had any project financing involved.
They're just balance sheet execution.
And how Ras Tanura evolves I think there were some discussion maybe a flotation on the market in Saudi of shares on that.
But I don't see that as being a condition present to moving forward.
I see that as being just something that will go maybe more on a parallel path.
In Sonangol they've looked at some packages.
They might bring third parties in on a build-own-operate transfer.
And so there's some discussions going on there.
But we're aware of that and supporting them on what options are available to them as they're contemplating this refinery.
So it's a little bit out there as far as some folks looking at the downstream.
But I'm more focused on the competitive aspects in the downstream market than I am necessarily on the financing.
I think there are a lot of good projects they'll all go forward over time.
And what we focus on is how do we pick the winners and win those projects that will go forward where KBR can add value to our customers.
And our final question comes from Robert Connors with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> If I think of KBR scope for the 6 LNG projects cited how will your scope differ versus past LNG projects KBR has done as it compares to say the level of content for engineering procurement management and construction management? I would say that the Inpex project that I described earlier is probably one where we're going to be doing the fabrication oversight and the construction management on that site.
The trains are going to get designed in Japan.
Yes as we think about that we look at the Tangguh project where we were supporting JGC in a similar fashion while they did the trains on Tangguh we were doing the fabrication and construction management.
So that role is -- will have a lot of similarities to what we did on Tangguh.
Now you look at the Kitimat or the Pluto Project they'll look and be more like Skikda and not necessarily in the commercial framework.
But they'll be like Skikda in terms of the consolidation of all the engineering procurement materials and construction and construction management.
Browse which we haven't talked about much about on the Q&amp;A is out there.
That's a big project and we have some partners that we've brought in that are pretty good civil contractors for ports and the jetties and matter.
So we'll probably see a -- you could see a consolidation of that project.
But our scope could be more of the engineering the fabrication management and part of the construction management on that project.
Gorgon as it's evolving now may not include partners.
That partner group may be more subcontractors for us because of the some of the complexities that have evolved in dealing with Chevron on that.
They were managing them.
But I think Chevron is looking for a single point of contact and they like the team.
They just think it may be more efficient for them to have a single point of contract as opposed to a consortia approach.
So it's going to vary across the board on what our roles are.
But none of the roles are roles that we haven't done before.
They're in pieces of work either the entirety of the project or in the certain sections that I commented on Inpex that are consistent with what we're comfortable doing and have done in the past.
So it's really dependent on the partner arrangements and how we have positioned ourselves on each of the projects.
And that was our final question today.
At this time I'd like to turn the call back over to our speakers for any closing comments.
I just would like to thank everybody for tuning in.
We appreciate the questions and interest in KBR.
And we look forward to our call at the end of the third quarter.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
You may disconnect at this time.
Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Welcome to the KBR's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference hosted by KBR.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] Now for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Rob Kukla Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks Erin and good morning and welcome to KBR's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is also being webcast and a replay will be available on KBR's website for 7 days.
The press release announcing the third quarter results is also available on KBR's website.
Joining me today are Bill Utt Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sue Carter Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In today's call Bill will provide opening remarks and business outlook.
Sue will address KBR's operating performance financial position backlog and other financial items.
We will welcome questions after we complete our prepared remarks.
Before turning the call over to Bill I would like to remind our audience that today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting KBR's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in KBR's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 KBR's quarterly reports on Forms 10-Q and KBR's current reports on Forms 8-K.
Now I'll turn the call over to Mr.
Bill Utt.
Bill? Thanks Rob and good morning everyone.
Overall I am pleased with KBR's execution and progress across our businesses.
KBR's third quarter net revenue was in line with our expectations and excluding the LogCAP project is up 5% year-over-year.
Now I would like to talk about some of the unusual accounting and tax impacts arising in the third quarter.
During the third quarter as a result of a scheduled reforecast of the remaining work on the Gorgon project we increased our forecast man-hour backlog for the work we expect to perform over the remainder of the project.
This backlog increase reduced the project's percentage of completions and as a result reduced our job income on the project.
This reduction in job income was offset in part in net income attributable to noncontrolling interest.
These amounts will be recovered over the remaining life of the project.
Also during the third quarter KBR received notice of an arbitration award of approximately $193 million in the Barracuda Caratinga arbitration.
This award for which KBR is indemnified by our prior parent create a book tax benefit for KBR in the amount of $68 million.
The award will be tax deductible by KBR when the award is paid.
The indemnity payments to KBR are treated as a nontaxable contribution to capital for tax purposes.
Finally during the third quarter KBR received information from the Australian receiver controlling our former investment in an Australian railroad venture which allowed us to release a $24 million deferred tax liability related to our share of the Australian railroad investment.
As a result of these impacts as well as the continuing strength of our business our 2011 guidance is $3.15 to $3.30 per share.
Now let's talk about KBR businesses.
KBR's backlog at September 30 was $11.7 billion.
Compared to the prior year third quarter KBR's job income backlog has increased 11% while revenue backlog is down 5%.
Compared to the last quarter job income backlog increased 1% despite a 2% revenue backlog decline.
Approximately 75% of the revenue backlog decline this quarter was related to a reforecast of the Escravos' estimate to complete and FX impacts.
Quarter-over-quarter Hydrocarbons'  backlog declined $674 million primarily due to project work off.
IGP's backlog was up $313 million led by work additions on the LogCAP III and IV projects including $300 million of definitized work for our Base Life Support task order for the Department of State's mission in Iraq as well as the award of a construction services contract for the Plant Radcliffe coal gasification project in Mississippi.
Services backlog increased $21 million from the second quarter as a result of the Plant Scherer and other U.S.
construction project awards.
We also continue to see increased activity at our North American-focused businesses.
Now I would like to comment on a few of our projects.
In Australia KBR and our partners remain actively engaged in post-FEED and pre-FID activities on the impacts of this LNG project and the open book tender discussions continue to proceed towards a fourth quarter 2011 FID.
At the Pluto LNG project KBR continues to provide support to Woodside on the Pluto foundation project on an as-needed basis and is currently performing various additional studies on the proposed expansion project.
At the Browse LNG project the FEED is wrapping up and we expect to move to a big quality FEED extension during the fourth quarter.
Permitting and industrial relations activities are ongoing and the project continues to anticipate a 2012 FID.
For the fourth train on the Gorgon project pre-FEED activities continue with an expected move into FEED in the summer of 2012.
KBR's Perth operating center has been instrumental in supporting the multiple opportunities we see in the Australian LNG market.
In North America for the Kitimat LNG project pre-FID site construction activities commenced during the third quarter and FEED activities are expected to be completed during the first quarter of 2012.
We continue to be advised that the project's FID is expected during the first half of 2012.
In Africa for the Anadarko LNG project to Mozambique pre-FEED is underway and we expect the FEED tender to take place in the coming months.
In Oil and Gas KBR is seeing a higher level of activity than at any point in 2011.
In August KBR announced an award from Hyundai Heavy Industries Co.
to perform engineering design and procurement services for the BP Quad 204 Floating Production Storage and Offloading project to be located west of the Shetland Isles.
KBR is also providing pre-FEED services for the Hod Re-Development Project operating on behalf of BP and HESS NORGE AS.
In the Caspian KBR's performing pre-FEED work on the Shah Deniz 2 development with an expectation to moving into FEED in 2012.
We're excited at the opportunity to potentially provide from our London and Kazakh offices both onshore and offshore services including construction management services on this project.
KBR is also proposing to provide offshore services on the Inpex LNG project as a subcontractor to a Korean fabricator.
Finally KBR is only now beginning to see a return of new activity in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
At Downstream we expect our level of activity on the Lobito refinery project to ramp down in November and continue at a lower level through February as Sonangol continues to study a range of financing structures and alternatives.
KBR is also continuing to perform early-stage EPCM work and physical site development.
We anticipate FID for the Lobito refinery to occur shortly after the conclusion of Sonangol's analysis of financing alternatives.
KBR intends to execute this project from our offices in Houston and Luanda Angola.
On the Sadara project our FEED work should be completed this year and we continue to provide coordinating PMC and pre-EPC support activities.
In North America we are seeing an increase in EPC opportunities driven by competitively priced natural gas for new ethylene and ammonia facilities and recently renewed a 3-year master services agreement with DuPont for engineering procurement and construction services.
KBR's technology business unit continues to grow rapidly and had another solid quarter.
Revenue increased 27% and job income was up 21% compared to the prior year third quarter.
At our North American Government Logistics business unit KBR received $22 million in LogCAP III award fees with performance ratings of very good to excellent for the completion of major projects and base closures on schedule and under budgets.
KBR was also cited for exceeding operational readiness requirements with the customer satisfaction ratings of very high.
We expect our final LogCAP III award fee in the fourth quarter from a pool of $5 million.
During the third quarter KBR received $423 million of additional funding for LogCAP III task orders for work through the end of the year as well as task orders under the LogCAP IV contract for Base Life Support services for the U.S.
Department of State in Iraq.
The LogCAP IV task order is valued at over $500 million for a one-year base plus one option year.
For the International Government Defense and Support Services business unit KBR was selected by the U.K.'s Foreign &amp; Commonwealth Office to provide life support vehicle maintenance and healthcare services across Iraq and Afghanistan.
The 3-year contract also provides the Foreign Commonwealth Office with options for vehicle maintenance in Sudan and Pakistan.
In Afghanistan our NATO work ramped up to full activity this quarter and our work supporting the U.K.
Ministry of Defense also increased.
At KBR's Infrastructure and Minerals business unit Rio Tinto awarded KBR a $46 million EPCM contract for power and fuel supply projects to enable Rio Tinto to increase iron ore production capacity in Western Australia.
We are also seeing an increase in infrastructure spending in the Middle East.
At Power I am pleased with our 2011 new awards totaling almost $800 million including the Solid Waste Authority of Palm Beach County Plant Scherer and Plant Radcliffe coal gasification project.
KBR has been performing detailed design for major portions of Plant Radcliffe and this quarter was awarded the project's construction contract.
Plant Radcliffe represents the first large-scale installation of our TRIG technology for power generation in the U.S.
Over the past year we have systematically reinforced our power engineering capabilities leading to a series of successful project awards.
KBR is now recognized in the utility community as an EPC  player compared to being perceived as a construction-only provider at the time KBR acquired BE&amp;K.
Currently KBR is tracking approximately $3 billion in power-related project opportunities in the United States which we expect to move forward over the next 2 years.
Approximately $1 billion of these projects should be awarded by mid-2012.
KBR is also seeing several opportunities to participate in the engineering and construction of new power generating facilities in Iraq as well as in the United Kingdom through our PMC contract with Scottish and Southern Energy.
Building on my earlier comments related to a recovering North American market Services' new award and adjustments bookings this quarter are the highest since the first half of 2010.
At the end of the third quarter new awards at Services represent 170% of the total new awards in all of 2010.
These new awards will enable KBR to increase our direct-hire U.S.
construction staff by over 1 700 or an excess of 300% during 2011.
I am particularly pleased with how KBR has successfully combined our engineering and construction capabilities to an expanded and integrated EPC offering in the North American marketplace.
This success is most evidenced in our Power and Downstream markets in North America and features combined engineering and construction awards for DuPont Southern Company CARBO Ceramics Molycorp KiOr Praxair and the Solid Waste Authority of Palm Beach County.
Finally and in addition to the growth in KBR's field construction teams KBR also continues to grow our resource center headcount which at the end of the third quarter was up 9% compared to the prior year third quarter and up 3% from the June 2011 quarter.
Now I'll turn the call over to Sue.
After Sue's comments I will comment on KBR's market outlook before turning the call over to questions.
Sue? Thanks Bill.
Consolidated KBR revenue totaled $2.4 billion a decline of $68 million or 3% from the prior year third quarter.
As expected LogCAP revenue decreased $150 million compared to prior year third quarter.
Positive revenue contributions included a 15% revenue increase from the Hydrocarbons group led by Technology up 27%; followed by Gas Monetization up 19%; Oil &amp; Gas revenue up 9%.
Infrastructure and Minerals' revenue was up 122% compared to the prior year third quarter primarily related to the addition of project revenue related to the R&amp;S acquisition and recently awarded projects.
International Government Defence and Support Services revenue was up 7% over the same period.
Consolidated operating income was $138 million in the third quarter of 2011 compared to $163 million in the third quarter of 2010.
The major drivers are: Gas Monetization job income is down $7 million from the third quarter of 2010 with Skikda Escravos and Gorgon progressing nicely; favorable resolution of a contract dispute for taxes and higher subcontractor activity improves Skikda results by $8 million; and the addition of man-hours on Gorgon caused a percent-complete dilution on the project which was part of an overall $13 million reduction in job income.
The dilution is a function of the accounting not operating performance as our progress on the project remains solid.
Downstream job income is down $5 million compared to the prior year third quarter primarily related to the completion of the Sonangol FEED at the end of 2010 and the subsequent transition to a lower value bridging contract the Shaybah project completion in the third quarter of 2011 and Saudi Kayan completion in late 2010.
North American Government and Logistics had award fees of $34 million in the third quarter of 2010 and $22 million in the third quarter of 2011.
The $12 million difference is related to the volume of the award fee pools.
Performance was consistent with good scores in both periods.
On the LogCAP project job income related to improved margins for the March 2011 fixed fee conversion was offset by lower work volumes.
Roberts &amp; Schaefer booked $4 million of cost increases on a legacy Indonesian project in the third quarter of 2011.
The year-to-date cost increase on this project is approximately $10 million.
Services job income was down $14 million driven by volume reductions primarily in U.S.
construction and lower activity in our MMM joint venture.
Net income attributable to KBR for the third quarter of 2011 was $1.22 per diluted share compared to $0.62 per diluted share for the prior-year third quarter.
Favorable discrete tax items added to solid operating performance for the third quarter of 2011.
Let me share a few other financial highlights.
General and administrative expenses for the third quarter of 2011 were $61 million or 2.6% of revenue.
KBR continues to focus on and improve performance in G&amp;A expenses.
Our full year 2011 corporate G&amp;A expenses are expected to be approximately $220 million.
Labor cost absorption income was $6 million in the third quarter flat compared to the second quarter of 2011 and up $2 million for the third quarter of 2010.
Labor cost absorption income improved from the prior year third quarter primarily related to higher headcount in the labor resource pool as well as higher chargeability and utilization in several of our engineering offices.
As Bill stated previously our headcount in the labor resource pools at the end of the third quarter of 2011 was up 9% compared to the prior year third quarter and up 3% from the June 2011 quarter.
In the third quarter of 2011 our overall effective tax rate was a negative 40% and our effective tax rate excluding discrete items was approximately 27%.
We previously guided this effective tax rate without discrete in the 30% plus or minus 2% range so we were near the lower end of the range for the third quarter.
We've previously discussed the positive discrete tax item for our FreightLink joint venture in Australia.
We guided a 22% to 24% tax rate for 2011 based on the results of the first quarter of 2011 plus the resolution on this item in the last half of 2011.
We released $24 million in deferred tax liabilities which was in line with our expectations.
An additional favorable discrete tax item related to the arbitration award in favor of Barracuda Caratinga received in September 2011 was $193 million.
For book purposes the Halliburton indemnification nets out the cash and P&amp;L items.
The arbitration award payable to Petrobras will be deductible for tax purposes when paid.
The indemnification from Halliburton will be treated for tax as a contribution to capital and accordingly is not taxable.
The net positive tax benefit from the Barracuda Caratinga transaction is included in the third quarter tax provision.
For the full year of 2011 we anticipate that our overall effective tax rate will be in the 6% to 9% range including discrete items.
Our effective tax rate excluding discrete items for the full year 2011 is expected to be 28% to 30%.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest in the third quarter of 2011 was $6 million compared to $20 million in the prior year third quarter.
We discussed the labor hour adjustments for Gorgon which impacts job income as a consolidated joint venture.
The portion of labor hours attributable to our partner reduces NCI by $17 million for the quarter and is the primary driver in the quarter-over-quarter variance.
We expect the fourth quarter of 2011 to return to normalized rates.
I would like to discuss KBR's backlog in a bit more detail building on Bill's earlier comments.
The revenue backlog as of September 30 2011 was approximately $11.7 billion down 5% from a year ago and down 2% compared to the sequential quarter.
Overall the backlog portfolio mix at the end of the first quarter was 77% cost reimbursable and 23% fixed price -- that was the third quarter was 77% cost reimbursable and 23% fixed price comparable to the 76/24 split in the second quarter of 2011.
Next I will discuss liquidity in our balance sheet.
Total cash provided by operating activities for the first 9 months of 2011 was $312 million compared to $541 million provided by operations for the first 9 months of 2010.
Total cash provided by operating activities in the third quarter of 2011 was approximately $89 million.
Our focus on cash flow is producing results.
At the end of September 2011 our balance sheet remains strong with cash of approximately $690 million which included $205 million associated with our consolidated joint ventures.
The $690 million in cash down $22 million compared to the sequential quarter also reflects a return to shareholders and capital investment of $86 million through share repurchases of approximately $59 million capital expenditures of approximately $19 million and approximately $8 million in dividends paid.
We repurchased 903 000 shares under the sweeping program and 1.2 million shares under our August authorization.
The average price per share paid was $27.62 for the third quarter.
For the first 9 months of 2011 we repurchased 3 million shares at an average price of $30.12 per share for $90 million in cash.
Finally I would like to reiterate that KBR's full year 2011 earnings per diluted share guidance is now in the $3.15 to $3.30 range which reflects a full year 2011 effective tax rate of 6% to 9%.
Also we anticipate the full year 2011 corporate G&amp;A expense to be approximately $220 million.
And for 2011 KBR expects LogCAP revenues to be at the high end of our revenue guidance of $1.6 billion to $1.8 billion.
And now I'll turn the call back to Bill for his final remarks.
Thanks Sue.
I'd like to provide KBR's outlook for our markets and businesses.
From a market perspective we see continued stable work in the hydrocarbon space with ample opportunities in LNG offshore oil and gas and in the Downstream markets.
We are seeing opportunities evolve to allow KBR to take a bigger share of the project spend through both increased local presence on our projects as well as increased EPC opportunities either alone or with other contractors and fabricators.
We see more of a mixed bag in our nongovernmental market with increased spending in Power Middle East Infrastructure and in Minerals.
We are a bit less certain about the evolutions at our Government Services businesses where our U.K.
operations in Afghanistan appear stable over the near term while we anticipate a decline in our Iraq business as the mission in Iraq shifts from a military focus to a diplomatic focus.
In our predominantly North American-focused Services businesses we are in the midst of a solid ramp-up in U.S.
construction and EPC opportunities.
We see good opportunities in Canada and in the turnaround maintenance markets but see a slow recovery in our building group markets as a result of a falloff at healthcare and education facility construction opportunities.
From a regional perspective we see strong opportunity in Australia solid opportunities in the Middle East and a continuing recovery in the North American markets.
We also believe we are seeing the early stages of new investment in infrastructure in Africa.
For KBR we have booked and are continuing to look at additional opportunities to book additional work for our front-end engineering offices principally in Houston and London as we complete over the next several months the work related to Gorgon the early work on the Lobito project and Sadara FEED.
We see our high-value centers continuing to execute work coming out of these front-end engineering offices.
We are also pleased with both current as well as expected future growth of our field teams in Australia the Middle East and in North America and we expect to see this growth amplified by the additional fieldwork we expect to realize on the Inpex project.
We will be providing our 2012 earnings guidance in January when we complete our outlook for the next calendar year.
Now we'll take your questions.
We ask that you please limit your comments to one question and one follow-up.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go first to Steven Fisher of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just on the Gorgon man-hours.
I want to clarify was the increase essentially a customer-driven scope increase? In other words this is a good thing on the long term or is this just something different that's not a positive? No I think Steve it was driven by -- we're now 2 years into the project.
We've started getting out into the field.
I think we've been able to really understand what the logistics issues and capabilities are surrounding the projects what it takes to construct a project on a fairly environmentally sensitive area of Barrow Island and just get our arms around better the enormity of this Gorgon project which when you look at just the onshore scope is probably -- it was initially in the $24 billion range from what the owners had announced at the commissioning of the project in late 2009.
So I think it's more evolutionary for us just based on a better definition of the project and the work to be completed to bring this project to fruition.
Research Division</strong> It'll ultimately generate more profit dollars as a result of the more -- the higher man-hour incurred? Oh that's correct yes.
Yes it's really good news despite the very difficult accounting.
And I've made comments in our past calls that there is a FEED pool out there that we recognize was a percentage of complete basis.
And because of the expanded amount of man-hours our percent complete went down during the quarter.
And that gave rise to the adverse result at the job income line which was made up at the minority interest line.
So it's really good news with a very perhaps counterintuitive accounting outcome.
But that's why we spend so much time in both the release and in our comments today trying to -- you get the proper characteristic of what this is and while it was a little bit confusing this quarter it overall is good news for KBR because we will be doing more work on this project and overall we should be making more income because of the increased man-hours.
Research Division</strong> And I heard the $17 million impact I think it was on the minority interest.
Did I miss what the number was and the impact on the margin in Gas Mon [Gas Monetization] job income? It was $13 million.
Research Division</strong> $13 million? Okay.
Yes.
There are other impacts that going on at Gorgon that were not a percentage of complete that dealt with IGP and so there's just a lot of moving pieces we looked at this quarter including some of the FX issues that I talked about in my comments on the backlog when we talked about some of the drivers for the declining backlog during the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess the second question would be in terms of the Iraq transition I wonder if you can walk through how that's going to work for you how much staff do you have that needs to come out how much equipment.
And basically are you going to have to incur material cost related to this that will have a notable impact on the margins as we get into early 2012? Well I think we're still working through that.
Our headcount in Iraq was down to 10 000 give or take towards the end of the third quarter.
Whatever costs we incur in closing down the bases that will be closed down remediating the sites it will all be cost reimbursable with the U.S.
Government pursuant to the LogCAP contract.
We do have some of the awards.
I believe we indicated we booked $300 million on the LogCAP IV award related to the State Department mission.
But we're still going through trying to dimensionalize what that means and as we get to January we'll be able to comment as to again what our revenue guidance is related to LogCAP because it is a -- while it is shrinking there's still a lot of moving pieces for KBR.
We'll take our next question from John Rogers at D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Bill in the last couple of months when you guys have been out you've been kind of giving us an update on the timing of the project awards some of the big major projects.
Any changes there that we should be thinking about in the fourth quarter in terms of the pace as we go into 2012? I think there are some John.
I think the Inpex appears to be on schedule as we've talked about.
That's good news for KBR and its partners.
Kitimat continues to show good progress.
We started some of the site development activities in the third quarter which was a good sign.
The Pluto expansion projects we were continuing to support Woodside and then in the third quarter increase some of our resources to support them on the foundation project and I think we're really looking today at moving forward on Pluto 2 and 3 at the conclusion of Pluto 1.
And so they're still working through some issues that they talked about but we're ready able and willing to support them any way we can.
Gorgon IV is progressing on an expected basis.
Browse based on what we hear is still on track although when you look at the owner group there with 5 or 6 owners of a project of that size I'm sure there'll be a lot of owners issues that have to be talked about before they commit to an FID.
But based on what we're told today it's middle of '12.
We talked a little bit about the -- it's  still a very early stage in Mozambique with Anadarko but that's a pretty big find and I think we're very excited to have the opportunity to get back in Africa and look at some more LNG projects.
Sonangol that's probably one that we're watching the -- they're doing a pretty thorough job exploring what their opportunities are to bring in partners on this refinery or to tie some investment in those refineries to some of the offshore leases that they're in the midst of issuing.
And so we're watching and kind of waiting to see where they go on that.
At one point they had looked at some build-on on operating transfer options which are coming to a close.
We've got visibility in doing work for them through the end of February by our estimation.
I'm sure we'll learn more over the coming weeks and months from them but I think for us it's a wait-and-see to see where Sonangol lands on that.
All the fundamental drivers and benefits that we thought existed with respect to the refinery still exist for Angola and that's the one that's probably we have the least visibility given what's going on today.
And I'm sure we'll have more visibility over the coming months but today that's a little bit of a question mark for us compared to our prior updates.
We'll take our next question from Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
Just curious.
Kind of looking out in your pipeline today and seeing the potential orders it sounds like there are certainly a lot of opportunities.
Do you anticipate that Q3 will mark the trough in regards to kind of backlog for this kind of cycle here? It's hard to say.
I know we expect Inpex to go forward in the fourth quarter which will obviously have a very positive impact for us.
I think some of the other projects in the pipeline will go forward.
A lot of what we're seeing evolve we're talking kind of mid-12 and so you could be in the third quarter depending on where some of those go.
But I think we're seeing the opportunities continuing to march towards us with Inpex being the first and these other opportunities on the horizon.
We are optimistic about our ability to grow backlog in a number of our businesses the Infrastructure and Minerals business Power the Hydrocarbon sector.
The work off in LogCAP we'll have to see how that plays out.
And that's probably a little bit of uncertainty about calling this a low point in the backlog because we did have a pretty good bump this year but those several hundred million dollars of backlog add could work their way down to a little bit lower number.
So I wouldn't call it a trough but I feel pretty optimistic about where we're headed.
And secondly just on the Power markets you said you expected about $1 billion of awards coming over the next say I guess 9 months or so.
Is that more environmental-retrofit related as it depended on the rules in IT and cash was [ph] going forward as it's written? Well I think it's a combination of things.
I don't have a precise breakdown but it does involve new combined cycle construction to replace either environmentally economically or physically obsolete coal plants.
A lot of the utilities have announced some retirements there.
But there's also some environmental spending we're anticipating so it's a mixed bag.
And we'll take a question from Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> So just one quick clarification.
First on the Gorgon POC in the quarter it actually had a positive effect on your overall earnings in the quarter when you net out the noninterest expense and the above-the-line stuff? Well I'm trying to read into your question.
Would I call the short falloff at consensus on Gorgon no I probably wouldn't.
We had some FX issues on there.
We had some changing IGPs.
And I think the result -- we had a net positive result in Gorgon.
It probably wasn't as much as we would have liked for the work we were doing but given the changes it just created a lot of confusion on the P&amp;L.
Research Division</strong> Got you so a good reading to my question.
So the issues in the quarter were not really Gorgon POC.
I mean that makes it complicated but it was more around FX.
You had that Roberts &amp; Schaefer charge in there that was small but it was in there and maybe a couple of other things is that fair? Yes I think that's a very appropriate way of looking at our quarter.
I think -- we think we'll return to our normal pace next quarter but it was one that we had a lot of things going on but net-net we would have liked to have done better for those items that we talked about.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
Bill just -- I'm going to try this question and you will see what kind of answer you can give me.
So as I look at 2011 versus 2012 you've got a lot of big projects out there but we've got Lobito ramping down Sadara ramping down so is it possible that we'll see some sort of earnings pause with a re-acceleration sort of later next year and in '13 at KBR? Well I think we've got to look our mix of work.
One of the questions we've talked about Andy has been how we're going to do all these LNG projects.
And I think in the past I've talked about how the different projects were pursuing do not create labor shortages for us.
The Inpex project is going to be a big project for us.
That's going to be primarily the fabrication oversight and the construction management which we're going to spend a lot of hours on.
And I think that doesn't cannibalize some of our front end.
I did make some comments about wanting to refill London and Houston and we've done a good job with the Gorgon project moving through and during 2012 to move largely out of those offices.
And we have some work to do.
We've got some proposals on the table and we'll see where that takes us.
But I'd like to stay away from addressing your question specifically because we haven't been through our budgets and I really can't comment how all this stuff knits together particularly with the amount of work we're expecting to see in LogCAP in the first part of the year as we take apart the operations for the military in Iraq and build up the diplomatic missions.
Research Division</strong> I figured you'd shy away from that.
But okay.
Good try.
Research Division</strong> Just on Lobito itself it's obviously slipped quite far.
What's the conviction level that they do figure out financing and go forward? So if I didn't answer your question you get a bonus question? I think Andy the project in my mind is going to go forward.
And this is Sonangol's first project without an IOC and we've commented about when you get in and start to look at things maybe differently then the discipline or the rigor that gets brought in at an IOC-ventured project.
And so this is -- while it's a little bit disappointing to see them make their left turns and right turns along the path to get this project implemented they really are asking the right questions of what's the best way for us to look at investing our capital as the Angolan Government in this refinery compared to the other needs that they have with their population and other investments that they're making outside of Angola.
So it has slipped up.
We wish it hadn't slipped but we still in our dialogue with the executives from Sonangol most recently at the end of the third quarter a little bit after and they continue to demonstrate their commitment and they want to get it done.
But they have to address some questions that their finance ministry has asked to make sure they are making the right decision.
And so we're going to support them as best we can and I believe we'll get some additional views from them during the fourth quarter.
And moving on we'll go to Jamie Cook of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions Bill.
And sorry to ask the Gorgon question again but we got surprised by McDermott this morning.
Did you quantify the scope increase or man-hours increase and the actual currency headwind that you had in the quarter? And then my -- I guess I'll start off with that.
And then I guess my second question is Sue is there any way you can help us with how much the legacy problem projects on a revenue basis were in 2011 and then what we think that will be in 2012? Because I'm assuming less revenues that's going to boost your -- help your margins to some degree.
So I'm Just trying to think through that as well.
Well on the Gorgon currency Jamie we did have a strengthening of the U.S.
dollar relative to the Australian dollar during the period.
It was a substantial contributor to the falloff in backlog that I talked about.
And I think we said that about 3 quarters of the backlog decline was related to FX and a reduced estimated fleet on the Escravos which for us is not bad news because there's no margin on that.
Research Division</strong> No but was there an FX impact on the P&amp;L? And then the man-hour increase or scope increase on Gorgon could you quantify that? There were FX impacts on Gorgon both in the earnings and in the backlog.
Research Division</strong> And will you quantify that or no? I don't have that off the top of my head.
And I'm not -- we will have to think about that and if we do we may make comments the next time we're together.
We have not in the past.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And did you quantify how much the scope increased to the man-hours? No we did not.
Research Division</strong> Can you or you won't? We probably won't because we don't want to get in and talk about discrete scope additions on individual projects.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last question can help us -- Sue can you help with how much like Escravos is forecasted to be in 2011 and I'm just trying to think how that runs off in 2012 and sort of I guess would be a positive contributor to your profit next year? I think Skikda we're expecting that to be completed midyear next year.
And Escravos we're probably going to see that wind through the fourth quarter of next year.
Jamie to your question as we look at the third quarter the big projects in Gas Monetization in terms of the work for the quarter was Skikda Escravos and Gorgon.
And the Skikda and Escravos content at this point in time and as Bill said we're going to start winding some of these down was heavier in the third quarter than what it was a year ago.
And we'll take our next question.
We'll go to Chase Jacobson of William Blair.
Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure I understand the tax issues in the guidance.
The previous guidance I guess including the discrete items had the tax rate at 22% to 24% which assumed kind of a mid-20s tax rate in the second half of the year.
If I back out the Barracuda and Caratinga benefit this quarter it looks like the tax rate in the back half of the year is kind of in the high mid-teens.
So is that $0.37 of discrete tax items that you had mentioned last quarter I mean is that closer to $0.50 now for the year? Well I think the way to look at it is to take -- what we had built into the 22% to 24% was everything that we knew from the first quarter from the second quarter and our outlook and sort of expectations pending resolution of all of our research on the FreightLink issue.
So all of those discrete items were in there.
Then if you look at the Barracuda-Caratinga and the impact on that the way to look at it and look at it with our filings is it's 35% of the award which is under $93 million.
So it's $68 million which translates into $0.45 as you look at that being an add to the discrete items.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'm just trying to get a sense of -- I understand the $0.45 there but the additional $0.05 raise at the midpoint how much of that is tax and how much of that is just better operations in general.
It sounds like a little bit of a combination of both? It's a combination of both.
And what we did and I think this makes sense is we took a look at everything that had changed from when we did the guidance in July operationally and with all of these tax issues gave you the guidance for the new tax rate as well as an overall look.
So we narrowed the range and took it to $3.15 to $3.30.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the -- I apologize if you already spoke about this but on the Inpex project can you give us a reminder of how that partnership may be structured and how that may play out in terms of backlog in revenue assuming that project does go forward in the fourth quarter like it seems to be doing.
Yes the venture is comprised of 40% JGC 30% Chiyoda and 30% KBR.
And our accounting for that project will be equity accounting where we will be booking our share of the expected profits of the joint venture in the backlog as well as the expected man-hours that we'll be charging the project as a service provider.
We'll go now to Joe Ritchie of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just had a -- I'm going to follow-up on Andy's question from earlier and try and tackle this a little differently.
I know that you're going to provide guidance for us in early January but you had some significant I guess non-recurring items that impacted your year this year obviously the tax items and also the LogCAP fees.
If I try to back those out I think I get if my numbers are right I get to a number of close to $2 billion [ph] to $2.15 billion [ph] in earnings in 2011.
So right now we're looking at fairly significant consensus expectations for next year.
I'm just wondering if there's any potential one-time items that could benefit your company in 2012 from an EPS standpoint? Well I think that we do have some one-timers that could be there.
And obviously we have several litigations and arbitrations that are pending that if they get resolved could be positive contributors.
We have these resolution of legacy items out there that we think have taken some very prudent and in some respects conservative provisions on and they are possible.
But I can't today tell you that they're going to show up but we feel that at some point these items could show up and as we've seen in even some of these matters on LogCAP can show up favorably for us in future years.
Research Division</strong> Okay all right.
And then I guess my second question is really relating to the high level of oil and gas activity that you mentioned earlier.
When you're thinking about your business today do you feel like you are appropriately positioned to gain the type of share wallet you want to gain on the offshore markets and if not I mean are you looking at opportunities to potentially grow inorganically? Well I think we've -- my comments were very specific to the success we've seen on doing more EPC work as KBR.
And so we're very pleased with the progress we've made in North America.
We have looked and are continuing to look at other opportunities to do more EPC work overseas.
I think we've got some steps we've taken.
We probably will talk more about that at our upcoming Investor Day in November.
But yes we are looking to find out how we take a bigger share of wallet particularly given the opportunities we see out there for KBR.
And oil and gas is one very good area where we have recently been doing a lot of just topsides engineering work which is very good work.
It's got a good margin but it is somewhat finite in terms of the volumes you can get.
And really we've had several opportunities that we've been working on and continue to work on where we can do a broader scope.
The Shah Deniz project -- Shah Deniz 2 project that I commented on.
We're looking at doing a CM work and do others as a good example of some of these initiatives that we believe will give us a greater earnings potential perhaps at a lower job income margin for Oil &amp; Gas but a greater earnings potential overall at KBR.
And we'll go now to Matt Tucker of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to clarify excluding the POC accounting issue and I'm sorry this relates to the Gas Monetization margins in the quarter.
And excluding the POC accounting issue and assume that currency is kind of neutral impact in the fourth quarter would you expect those margins to rebound to the recent run rate call it kind of the 8% to 9% level? Yes I think we would.
I think this is a quarter where you saw the messiness and nothing that we see looking forward changes our progress or our performance on the project.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you guys sounded thoroughly upbeat in terms of your outlook for the Downstream end market but it's been kind of lumpy in terms of awards over the past few quarters.
I mean it's relatively weak at this quarter.
If you exclude Lobito which obviously could make things extremely lumpy when do you really expect to start to see a sustainable pickup in the Downstream award activity? Well I think we're starting to see a little bit more activity in the North American markets.
I think people are spending money.
We've had some good awards in the CARBO Ceramics award the construction of the base lube oil plant in Pascagoula for Chevron and others.
So we're seeing that activity creep up.
We think we've got our positioning and pricing of our services at market so we ought to be good there.
Challenge for us I think the challenge is where do we find those opportunities internationally to really sustain the size of the business and ultimately grow this business going forward.
And it has been a little bit lumpier on the international side.
We still think the Middle East in particular is a good example where we maybe haven't seen as many awards coming out since the first part.
But we do see a backlog of work out there.
We see opportunities evolving and coming forward in Iraq in Kuwait Saudi.
We think there'll be additional Downstream projects in Qatar with the completion of the GTL and the liquids facility that we're involved in.
So we're pretty optimistic about what we see in the Middle East and I think it gives us a sense that there'll be more activity for us in the coming 6 to 12 months than we've seen in the last 6 to 12 months.
And we have one more caller queued up at this time.
We'll go to Robert Connors of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It seems that a lot of resources particularly in London and Houston are starting to get full on a lot of this LNG FEED work.
So are you starting to see that pull up some of the FEED pricing in the industry for some of your other end markets particularly in some of the Downstream in petchem [petrochemicals] end markets? Not really.
The FEED market is a market where you're using very capable people to do very high-level conceptual P&amp;ID kind of work.
And we haven't seen the degree of margin pressure on the FEEDs that we have seen on the broader assignments where you're putting less differentiated personnel.
And so we see the FEED -- there are FEEDs as I see them are staying fairly consistent to what we've historically done.
The real competition in pricing has been when you have hundreds of people on projects that are maybe a little bit less differentiable as a group compared to your FEED people.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then also on the market a lot of couple of new projects.
Talking about GTL can -- is that of interest for you going forward or are you just more focused on the LNG aspect of it? No we're very interested in GTL.
We're involved in 2 of the 3 projects.
I think there's Oryx Escravos and Pearl and we're involved in 2 of them.
We think it's a -- it plays to a strength of KBR which is process engineering and taking apart molecules and atoms and reassembling them.
And yes we like GTL as much as we like LNG.
Our technical guys like it even more because there's more fun stuff to do technically than LNG.
And we have a follow-up question from Matt Tucker KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a bit curious on the Roberts &amp; Schaefer project where you took the charge.
Is that project complete or when is it expected to be complete? And could it continue to be a similar drag on earnings going forward? Well the Roberts &amp; Schaefer project I believe should be completed first quarter of 2012.
The issues we found were soils issues where the soils issues weren't as we had expected.
And unfortunately a motor was dropped that was being delivered to the site by the freight company which caused us to have to incur additional costs related to either repairs or replacement of that equipment.
But we think we're drilling to an end and certainly as we look at matters like soils issues and some of the delivery logistics I think KBR can add a lot of strength to how Roberts &amp; Schaefer is doing that.
And I think they'll move up to the higher level of performance we've seen to match the rest of KBR.
At this time there are no further questions.
Mr.
Kukla I'll turn it back to you for any closing comments.
Great.
Thank you for joining us today and as always I'll be available for the rest of the day for follow-up calls.
Thanks very much.
Thanks.
Once again ladies and gentlemen that concludes our conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the KBR's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call hosted by KBR.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Zach Nagle Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Cynthia.
Good morning and welcome to KBR's Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is also being webcast and a replay will be available on KBR's website for 7 days.
The press release announcing fourth quarter results is available on KBR's website.
Joining me today are Bill Utt Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sue Carter Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call Bill will provide an overview of KBR's fourth quarter and 2011 operating results highlighting a number of key areas.
He will also cover KBR's outlook and provide color around how we see 2012 coming together.
Sue will address KBR's operating performance financial position backlog and other financial items in greater detail.
After our prepared remarks we will open the floor for questions.
Before turning the call over to Bill I would like to remind our audience that today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting KBR's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in KBR's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 KBR's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and KBR's current reports on Form 8-K.
You can find all these documents at kbr.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Bill? Thanks Zach and good morning everyone.
First off I'd like to start by saying how pleased I am with KBR's results for the fourth quarter and for the full year 2011 with earnings per fully diluted share of $0.60 and $3.16 respectively.
KBR's full year 2011 net revenue of $9.3 billion was in line with our expectations and when excluding the LogCAP project was up 4% compared to 2010.
We ended 2011 with a strong cash flow from operations of $650 million a cash balance of $966 million and we returned approximately $148 million back to our shareholders.
KBR's execution across our legacy businesses remained strong.
Business unit income margins continue to strengthen and are 8.5% for 2011.
Good overhead management and cost control within our business units contributed to the margin expansion.
KBR's backlog at December 31 was $10.9 billion.
While fourth quarter backlog was down sequentially KBR's backlog at the conclusion of the 2012 first quarter will increase significantly driven primarily by the booking of the Ichthys LNG project.
As we closed the fourth quarter I was disappointed by the $25 million in additional cost and schedule charges for 3 legacy international projects at Roberts &amp; Schaefer.
The projects were impacted by supplier delivery issues damage to on-site equipment and related schedule delays.
We are dedicating extra management time and focus to get these projects back on track with 2 of the projects now scheduled for completion at the end of the 2012 first quarter and the third for completion by the end of 2012.
With Roberts &amp; Schaefer now fully integrated into KBR we expect to see significant improvements in project execution going forward.
Now I would like to talk about KBR's businesses.
At Gas Monetization the FEED for the Kitimat LNG project is essentially complete while pre-FID site construction activities continue.
We are currently in an open book EPC tendering phase which should be completed during the second quarter of 2012.
At the Browse LNG project during the fourth quarter we moved into a bid quality FEED extension which is now essentially complete.
We are currently [indiscernible] for EPC bidding with bids due in mid-2012.
For the Gorgon LNG fourth train pre-FEED activities continue with an expected transition into FEED in mid-2012.
In Africa for the Anadarko LNG project in Mozambique pre-FEED is complete and the FEED tendering process is underway.
We anticipate FEED awards to be announced during the first half of 2012.
At the Pluto LNG Project KBR continues to provide support to Woodside on the Pluto foundation project and is currently performing various additional studies on the proposed expansion project.
At KBR's Downstream business unit for the Lobito refinery project Sonangol continues to discuss equity participation with at least one potential partner.
We will continue to execute early-stage engineering for the project through the first quarter of 2012.
On the Sadara project only 1 FEED envelope remains to be completed.
KBR continues to provide resources and key personnel at the site as well as coordinating PMC and pre-EPC support activities.
Regarding Aramco's GES+ initiative I am pleased that the KBR AMCDE entity has been formally accepted by Aramco as a preferred provider.
The GES+ contract will increase in-kingdom technical engineering and construction capabilities through utilization of KBR's world-class engineering tools and work processes.
The KBR AMCDE's office has approximately 400 people and will provide front-end engineering and design detailed design procurement and project management services.
KBR also expects over time to use this entity to perform engineering work outside of the hydrocarbon sector in Saudi Arabia.
KBR anticipates approximately $70 million to $100 million in revenue per year from the KBR AMCDE entity.
In North America we continue to see increased EPC opportunities driven by low-priced natural gas and natural gas liquids for new ethylene and ammonia facilities which should benefit our Technology Downstream and U.S.
Construction business units.
We expect to see several new large projects go forward in these markets over the next 2 years.
In 2011 KBR's Technology business unit had another outstanding year and continues to grow rapidly.
2011 revenue increased by 30% and job income was up 36% compared to 2010.
Technology also had a strong sales year with backlog up 28%.
During 2011 KBR sold 2 more VCC Technology licenses in China and Russia through our collaboration with BP.
We are ahead of our original sales plans for this technology and have already identified several more prospects for 2012.
In 2012 we plan to report a standalone global minerals business unit headquartered in Australia as part of KBR's strategy to better participate in the strong growth potential in the mining minerals and material handling markets.
KBR Minerals is currently supporting mining operations all over the world and providing integrated solutions to meet the needs of complex mining developments including power water roads camps bulk materials handling and port and marine infrastructure.
The Power and Industrial business unit had an outstanding year for backlog bookings up over 300% from the beginning of 2011.
Recent clarification of the MACTS rules as well as the judicial stay of the cease-fire rules should give rise to an increase in air quality control projects in 2012 and 2013.
Additionally the announced retirements of some coal-fired power plants are expected to give rise to the construction of new gas-fired combined-cycle power plants over the coming years.
The International Government Defence and Support Services business unit had a very successful year in 2011 with revenue up 2% and job income up 45%.
The increased job income was driven by improved construction margins on the Allenby &amp; Connaught project and several other projects in Afghanistan.
At the end of the fourth quarter IGD and SS was successful in winning the rebid of the Afghan ISP contract for the U.K.
Ministry of Defence.
For the North American Government and Logistics business unit in December KBR successfully completed 10 years of LogCAP III work in Iraq providing support to the U.S.
forces for Operations Iraqi Freedom and New Dawn.
During 2011 KBR successfully closed or transitioned 24 locations where we provided full or partial services disposed of or transitioned approximately $1.5 billion of property and demobilized or transferred over 25 000 employees subcontract workers and local hires.
I am extremely proud of KBR's support and commitment to the U.S.
military over the last decade and of our efforts to successfully complete the drawdown.
The completion of the drawdown marks the end of the LogCAP III contract for KBR.
The U.S.
mission in Iraq is now transitioning to LogCAP IV for Base Life Support services for the U.S.
Department of State and we are beginning our next phase of work in Iraq.
The LogCAP IV State Department task order is valued at over $500 million for one year plus one option year.
Additionally during the fourth quarter KBR was successful in securing new work for the U.S.
Army Europe support command to provide base operations and support services throughout their 51-country area of responsibility as well as a contract for the U.S.
Army Corps of Engineers to provide electrical power generation in support of U.S.
military operations at forward operating bases in Afghanistan.
Over the past several months KBR has received favorable outcomes on several high-profile cases related to the LogCAP III project.
We continue to see favorable results generally at the appellate court level including affirming laws clarifying protections afforded by employers under the Defense Base Act.
We are pleased with the progress arising from our judicial system and we will continue to rigorously defend KBR in our remaining LogCAP III-related cases.
The Services business group continues to build on the strong momentum we are seeing in the North American markets driven in part by the attractive natural gas price environment.
New awards and adjustments during the fourth quarter are the highest since the end of 2009.
For 2011 new awards and services are over 2.5x the total new awards in 2010 driven by the Industrial Services and U.S.
Construction business units.
We expect continued growth during 2012 as well as evidenced by our recent awards for construction of gas plants in Oklahoma and British Columbia.
Ventures had a strong year with 36% growth in job income compared to 2010.
The improved operating performance at the EBIC ammonia plant as well as higher ammonia prices were the significant drivers of Ventures' results.
Finally in addition to the growth in KBR's field service construction teams KBR also continues to grow our resource center headcount as well which at the end of the fourth quarter was up 6% compared to the prior year fourth quarter.
Sequentially headcount was down slightly due to reduced staffing at a procurement service center in Dubai supporting the LogCAP III project.
Before I turn the call over to Sue I would like to comment on a few 2012 items.
First on February 9 KBR announced that its JKC joint venture had signed the EPC contract for the Ichthys LNG project valued at approximately $15 billion.
KBR expects to book approximately $5.7 billion into backlog representing KBR's professional services to be provided to the project plus our 30% share of the anticipated project cost net of JKC-supplied professional services.
KBR will be actively involved in the project's modular design management oversight for module fabrication and on-site construction.
The modular construction will utilize several Asian fabrication yards to construct the planned 180 000 tons of LNG modules.
I would also like to report that in February KBR successfully concluded our 3-year independent corporate monitorship related to KBR's 2009 plea under the U.S.
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act case.
Overall the engagement with our corporate monitor was a positive experience for KBR.
We remain committed to consistently doing the right thing every time and our commitment to compliance is a fundamental part of KBR's culture.
In fact our compliance programs are paying off in terms of new work as we were recently awarded an international project where our compliance program was a differentiating factor in KBR securing the work.
As we continue to look at 2012 we feel our guidance range of $2.45 to $2.80 per diluted share remains appropriate.
We see KBR's financial performance becoming progressively stronger during 2012.
What drives this back end-loaded performance is achieving FID on several large hydrocarbon EPC projects in the second half of 2012 the continued ramp-up of LogCAP IV work for the U.S.
Department of State in Iraq and the movement of new awards from backlog into earnings over the course of 2012 in both Power and U.S.
Construction.
For 2012 KBR expects high-teens business unit income growth at hydrocarbons while IGP is expecting to see a decline in business unit income also in the high teens.
We are also expecting strong business unit income growth at Services consistent with the continuing recovery in the North American construction and maintenance markets we saw throughout 2011.
Now I'll turn the call over to Sue.
After Sue's comments I will comment on KBR's market outlook before turning the call over for questions.
Sue? Thanks Bill.
Consolidated KBR revenue totaled $2.1 billion a decline of $246 million or 11% from the prior year fourth quarter.
As expected LogCAP revenue decreased $222 million compared to prior year fourth quarter.
Positive revenue contributions included a 39% revenue increase for International Government Defence and Support Services Technology up 34% and Infrastructure and Minerals revenue up 67% primarily related to the addition of project revenue from the R&amp;S acquisition and recently awarded projects.
Consolidated operating income was $136 million in the fourth quarter of 2011 compared to $148 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Business highlights comparing the fourth quarter 2011 to the fourth quarter of 2010 include: Gas Monetization margins increased 2 percentage points due to reduced work on the lower-margin Escravos and Skikda projects in the fourth quarter 2011.
The Gorgon Escravos and Skikda projects continue to be the majority of the revenue and income in the fourth quarter for the business unit and are progressing nicely.
Technology margins increased 12.5 percentage points primarily related to the sale of proprietary equipment for an ammonia plant in Brazil.
The fourth quarter of 2010 included an unfavorable jury verdict on a project dispute.
North American Government and Logistics margins improved 6.4 percentage points on reduced volumes but higher margins on LogCAP projects and the higher margin impact of other projects.
The fourth quarter of 2011 also included a final $3 million award fee on LogCAP.
International Government Defence and Support Services margins improved 11.8 percentage points related to improvements on the Allenby &amp; Connaught Afghanistan ISP Namsa and CONLOG projects.
The Allenby &amp; Connaught project also included an inception-to-date adjustment for the overall margin improvement.
Power and Industrial margins improved by 6.7 percentage points related to execution of the waste-to-energy expansion and coal gasification projects plus the resolution on the activated carbon environmental project.
As we've mentioned previously Power and Industrial grew backlog 339% in 2011.
Infrastructure and Minerals had a loss of $7 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 primarily related to the charges booked on 3 legacy projects from Roberts &amp; Schaefer.
These projects had material supply issues a piece of equipment that needed to be replaced and project delay-related costs.
2 of the projects are now scheduled for completion at the end of the first quarter of 2012 and the third is expected by the end of this year.
Net income attributable to KBR for the fourth quarter of 2011 was $0.60 per diluted share compared to $0.51 per diluted share for the prior year fourth quarter.
Favorable tax items added to solid operating performance for the fourth quarter of 2011.
Let me share a few other financial highlights.
General and administrative expenses for the fourth quarter of 2011 were $51 million or 2.4% of revenue.
KBR continues to focus on an improved performance in G&amp;A expenses.
Our full year 2011 corporate G&amp;A expenses are $214 million which is below our previous guidance of approximately $220 million.
Included in the full year 2011 G&amp;A expense was $12 million related to our new ERP system.
Labor cost absorption income was $3 million in the fourth quarter down $3 million compared to the third quarter of 2011 and down $5 million for the fourth quarter of 2010.
The decrease from the third quarter primarily related to lower utilization for fourth quarter holidays.
As Bill stated previously our headcount in the labor resource pools at the end of the fourth quarter were up 6% compared to the prior year fourth quarter.
However the resource center headcount was down about 2% compared to the third quarter related to reduced staffing at a service center due to the LogCAP III drawdown.
Our overall effective tax rate was 19% in the fourth quarter of 2011 and 6% for the full year of 2011 which is in line with our previous guidance in the 6% to 9% range.
I'd like to discuss KBR's backlog in a bit more detail building on Bill's earlier comments.
The revenue backlog as of December 31 2011 was approximately $10.9 billion.
Compared to the prior year fourth quarter KBR's revenue backlog is down 9% while job income backlog increased 4%.
Compared to the third quarter revenue backlog declined 6% and job income backlog decreased 5%.
Overall the backlog portfolio mix at the end of the first quarter was 75% cost-reimbursable and 25% fixed price comparable to the 77-23 split in the third quarter of 2011.
Quarter-over-quarter hydrocarbons backlog declined $424 million primarily due to general project work-off in Gas Monetization and partially offset by increases in the Technology business unit.
IGP's backlog was down $435 million primarily driven by the completion of the LogCAP project.
Services backlog increased $124 million from the third quarter as a result of several awards for maintenance services small capital construction commercial building and a turnaround.
Next I'll discuss our liquidity and balance sheet.
Total cash provided by operating activities for the full year 2011 was $650 million compared to $549 million provided by operations for the full year 2010.
Total cash provided by operating activities in the fourth quarter of 2011 was approximately $338 million due to strong collections and working capital management.
Our focus on cost control and budgetary discipline is producing results.
At the end of December 2011 our balance sheet remains strong with cash of approximately $966 million which included $244 million associated with our consolidated joint ventures.
The $966 million up $276 million compared to the sequential quarter also reflects a return to shareholders through share repurchases of approximately $22 million $7 million in dividends and capital investments of approximately $17 million for a total of $46 million.
For the full year 2011 KBR deployed $494 million in cash through $189 million in acquisitions $118 million in share repurchases $83 million in capital expenditures $74 million in pension contributions and $30 million in dividends to shareholders.
This balanced deployment is 38% acquisitions 30% return to shareholders and 32% for pension and capital expenditures.
We repurchased 818 000 shares under our August authorization at an average price per share paid of $25.99 in the fourth quarter.
For the full year 2011 we repurchased approximately 3.9 million shares at an average price of $29.23 per share for $118 million in cash under our August authorization and sweeping programs.
The shares repurchased under the new authorization were approximately 2 million shares and 1.9 million shares were repurchased under the sweeping program in 2011.
Also in the fourth quarter of 2011 KBR entered into a new $1 billion 5-year unsecured revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of international banks replacing the 3-year unsecured revolving credit agreement dated November 3 2009.
The credit agreement can be used for cash advances and the issuance of up to $1 billion in letters of credit for general corporate purposes.
Over the past several months many of our analysts and investors have asked about our euro-denominated exposure.
KBR currently has little exposure to the euro on our balance sheet.
I would like to provide additional details on KBR's 2012 guidance we provided in December 2011.
The guidance range of $2.45 to $2.80 per diluted share is based on the following: an increase in consolidated revenue over 2011.
KBR expects revenue increases in all business units except the previously guided decline at North American Government and Logistics; full-year general and administrative expense guidance between $240 million and $250 million of which an estimated $20 million to $25 million is related to the new ERP system; full-year capital expenditure guidance is approximately $100 million of which an estimated $60 million to $65 million is related to the new ERP system; anticipated full year 2012 LogCAP revenue -- project revenues between $300 million and $500 million; estimated 28% overall effective tax rate; and as outlined on the front page of Form 10-K the shares outstanding at January 31 2012 were approximately 148 million shares which would be a good figure to use in models.
As Bill commented earlier we see KBR's financial performance becoming progressively stronger throughout 2012: FID and several large hydrocarbon EPC projects in the second half of 2012; the continued ramp-up of the LogCAP IV work for the State Department in Iraq.
And the movement of new awards from backlog into earnings over the course of 2012 in both Power and U.S.
Construction are driving the 2012 quarterly earnings progression.
Lastly let me take a moment to help you walk through the backlog and P&amp;L components related to the Ichthys LNG project.
Our Form 10-K backlog disclosures for unconsolidated JVs describe our current and historical practice of booking our percentage ownership of the joint ventures' estimated revenue net of partner services plus KBR-related services.
Backlog revenue will be worked off by the percent of job completion through movement to P&amp;L revenue for KBR services and adjustments.
The Ichthys LNG project is a hybrid contract which will be comprised of services construction and procurement elements.
P&amp;L revenue will consist of KBR's share of the project's earnings on a percentage of completion basis representing our portion of equity and earnings from the JV plus the revenue from KBR services to the project.
Job income will reflect the percentage of completion based on equity earnings equal to the revenue component as well as profits from KBR services.
And now I'll turn the call back over to Bill for his final remarks.
Bill? Thank you Sue.
I'd like to provide a general outlook for KBR's markets and businesses.
From a market activity standpoint as of December 31 KBR's outstanding bids and proposals are up 36% from the prior year.
It is easy to see the high degree of activity in the LNG Minerals and Infrastructure markets in Australia where KBR is well positioned on several major awards across these industries.
We do however see labor shortages continuing to develop in-country and foreign expat laborers now becoming more prevalent across many of these projects.
Project sponsors are aware of these constraints and along with their contractors are taking proactive steps to minimize these impacts on their projects.
We are also seeing continued strength in the export markets for LNG and other commodities coming out of Australia.
After a seemingly quiet year in the Middle East KBR is expecting an increased level of activity in the Downstream Infrastructure and other industrial markets.
There still appears to be some residual apprehension from the recent political turmoil in the region but we are expecting projects to go forward in 2012 at an increased rate.
We are also pleased to see the increased level of activity emerging in the African continent.
While the timing of several projects remains unclear we do see an emerging commitment to undertake more projects perhaps at a higher lever than in the past 4 to 5 years.
KBR continues to see an acceleration of activity in the North American markets.
During 2011 the U.S.
became a net energy exporter for the first time since 1949.
Given the expected near-term natural gas forward price curve we believe that domestic natural gas-based industries once considered as globally noncompetitive will see significantly higher levels of capital investment over the coming years.
We also expect to see continued growth in capital spending in both the power and industrial sectors of the U.S.
economy.
In Canada we expect the increase in capital spending in the oil sands and minerals markets to continue during 2012.
In closing KBR believes there is a significant quantity of project opportunities both in North America as well as internationally.
It is likely that some projects will be delayed but that other unannounced projects could go forward in their place.
Ultimately these projects will get built.
Only their schedule remains uncertain.
KBR's near-term challenge is to continue to devote our resources to those projects that are moving forward in the near term.
Now we'll take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We will take our first question from Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So Bill and Sue thank you for the clarity on 2012 guidance.
I was hoping that Bill maybe you could comment on your confidence in the range.
And in the range specifically it's still a fairly wide range of $2.45 to $2.80.
What swings the low and high end of the range for you in 2012? Joe I think what swings the low and high range is the timing of the large EPC projects in the hydrocarbons business achieving FID.
We think we've got a lot of projects that we're chasing and we believe we factored in a very practical view on what will go forward and what may get delayed into the later years.
And so that's really the biggest driver.
I think the guidance we try to give you a little bit more clarity particularly in terms of shaping the year in 2012.
Obviously we've come off of a big effort on LogCAP to get the troops out of theater.
But we're now just beginning to ramp up the work on the State Department which is going to get stronger throughout the year.
But obviously with the transition we expect to see some businesses have growing earnings profiles during the year that we wanted to communicate during this call to The Street.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And Bill I guess your confidence in achieving that range? Joe at this stage I think that the range is good.
Obviously we've got a lot of moving pieces still in the portfolio a lot of work to get done.
I'm comfortable that the work will get done.
And as we get into the year we'll continue to do our best efforts to narrow the range that exists there.
But as of today we're pretty comfortable that the guidance we have is appropriate and that we're going to do everything we can to do our best with respect to the guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay it's helpful.
And then one follow-up question on Ichthys.
Can you provide some commentary on the earnings impact of that project in 2012 and how that accelerates into 2013? I would imagine that you would really start to accelerate your income from that project in '13.
So any color there would be helpful.
Okay.
I would say from a Professional Services standpoint the margins on our services are market-based margins.
We are probably going to see the work on the project from KBR Services standpoint be more later as opposed to earlier.
We're not doing the design of the LNG trains.
That's being done in Japan.
We are supporting that design effort.
But the bulk of the KBR services that will be provided will be in fabrication oversight as well as the construction management which will occur -- which will increase obviously from '11 -- from '12 to '13.
We should hit our peak probably late '13 through 2015 on the Professional Services side.
In terms of the underlying project profitability we'll see a traditional percentage of completion recognition of project profitability based on the normal S-Curve that we have on all projects.
So it will be ramping up during 2012 it will be stronger in '13 and '14 and probably plateau in '15 and start coming down as we get into '16.
We will take our next question from Matt Tucker with Keybanc Capital Markets.
Okay.
Matt we bought Roberts &amp; Schaefer at the end of last year and we had a very specific integration plan that we put in place for the business.
The first elements of the business were to get them up on our SAP system to get the people transitioned to our human resources plans and programs and then to also bring them into our universe on the business development oversight.
And I think those have been done.
And as we've looked at projects coming in to the Roberts &amp; Schaefer portfolio since the acquisition -- and we put the business development oversight process in pretty quickly I think we're pretty good on the backlog that we've acquired since the acquisition.
Now again it's an organization of a couple hundred people and we can very easily as KBR overwhelm them in terms of this transition.
And we did begin to bring in the project management reporting very quickly.
What we were only able to do late in the year was to bring our trending in which is a nuance in the project management systems where we drive a little more forward-look into what are the trends on the projects and how we expect to complete them.
We found that as we develop this trending that issues arose on the 3 projects that we spoke about.
The good news is 2 of them are supposed to be done in the first quarter which intellectually limits your exposure and I think speaking [ph] we reduced through our investigations both the probability and magnitude of any subsequent charges although I can't say with a guarantee that they're going to be clean.
But we certainly have brought the full KBR rigor on those.
And we also believe that as we look at the remaining project in -- that gets completed in 2012 that our rigor has brought in the additional trending that we expect to see for the projects to be completed according to provisions we established in the fourth quarter.
Well Matt this is Sue.
I think as you look at it and you think about the comment that I made in my portion of the script if you look at the hydrocarbon space Gas Monetization was up because they had a little less work on a year-over-year basis from Skikda and Escravos.
And those are lower margin projects.
So that was a natural lift.
Technology margins were good and they are just executing well.
And as you think about the other businesses in terms of one-timers I talked about the International Government Defence and Support Services with the Allenby &amp; Connaught project.
And that one the margins did improve and I will continue to say that that's good operating performance.
But what does occur on a project like that one when you get a margin overlift [ph] is you do have an inception-to-date catchup on that margin which did appear in the fourth quarter.
But other than that pretty clean and good operating performance.
And the LogCAP III award fee $3 million.
Yes.
$3 million yes.
We will take our next question from Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> It's Alan Fleming standing in for Andy this morning.
Actually I wanted to start off with a question about what you're seeing kind of on the Upstream side of the business in North America.
A couple of competitors have booked some large projects in the oil sands.
Wondering what you're seeing kind of specifically in that region.
And maybe if you could actually comment also on one of the competitors' large acquisitions in the last couple of days in that -- for a business that operates in that region and what that could do to the competitive landscape.
Alan on the Upstream North America we do see increased opportunities in the oil sands region.
We've seen some pretty good bidding on some modules particularly by some of the larger players in that market which is a good indicator of additional construction work to install those modules that will follow.
So the oil sands does appear to be moving up.
I know in some of the notes I have read that several of our competitors feel strongly about it as well and so our view of the oil sands is no different.
We're seeing -- we're coming through the -- perhaps the Macondo drought in the Gulf of Mexico regarding the offshore oil and gas.
Projects are starting to go forward.
We're seeing some drilling activity resume and we would expect our North American oil and gas business to pick up as these developments continue to mature and the cessation of activity related to Macondo clears.
From a Downstream standpoint we see lots of activity in the -- as I mentioned in the ammonia in the ethylene markets.
We're seeing good industrial and power activity.
We are seeing a lot of bidding activity for LNG projects while maybe not upstream in the oil and gas world they are upstream for us.
And we're involved obviously in Kitimat.
We're seeing other developments begin to develop in British Columbia.
We're seeing the development of export facilities or the concepts of permits being filed for potential export facilities out of the U.S.
Gulf Coast.
So we see just a pretty robust market going forward and we think it's a good time to have an integrated EPC position as KBR in the North American market.
Regarding the large acquisition by a competitor in recent days honestly we don't think that changes the competitive dynamics all that much.
We haven't increased the supply of engineers or constructors we've simply changed the shareholders of that entity.
And so we don't see any material changes arising out of that acquisition.
Research Division</strong> Bill is there any -- do you have any update on the timing of a FID for Kitimat? I think the -- we have to go back and rely on what Apache is saying and we're working for them.
We think we'll have our activity completed during the second quarter and then it's really up to them to comment on how the other elements of the project come together.
They obviously have to look at EPC but they've got their permitting to do in British Columbia.
I don't know where they stand specifically on gas sales for example.
So they're the ones who are trying to integrate a lot of different pieces of which KBR is simply but one piece of that puzzle for them.
We will take our next question from Rob Norfleet with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick questions.
I guess first when you look at IGP I mean clearly the bookings in the quarter as you discussed on the call you and Sue were down mostly because of the line down at LogCAP III.
But if you look at Infrastructure and Minerals as well as Power and Industrial they were a little weak.
I'm just curious is that more of a seasonal issue or was there some timing in terms of slipping from Q4 to Q1? Well on Power and Industrial we did have a good Industrial booking during the fourth quarter for an EPC project.
But for Power we try to look at it over a longer horizon.
I mean the increase in backlog that we had during the year -- I think Sue was quoting 339% increase was great.
Those guys did a heck of a job this year and we're counting on them to continue that good work during 2012.
So a fourth quarter event for the long duration projects the P&amp;I books is not a material concern for us.
On the I&amp;M side we've brought in a new business unit leader Mark Read for the Minerals business.
I've seen first-hand from a recent trip I took in Australia the very good high-level connections he has in the Australian mineral space.
I think he brings a lot of energy a lot of contacts a great resumé for being a minerals participant.
So I think we'll see our Minerals business grow and become a key part of KBR going forward under his leadership.
On the Infrastructure side you have the timing of issues.
We've got some work that we're pursuing in the Middle East.
That one project was awarded back in April.
But we're still with the Middle East way of negotiating contracts and some of the political overhang we see in the region we still haven't got that award in the books just yet.
But it is something that we're optimistic that our Infrastructure business will grow.
And as we've simplified I&amp;M to 2 separate business units one Infrastructure-focused one Minerals-focused I think we'll see better performance out of the 2 because of the dissimilarity that existed between the 2 markets.
Research Division</strong> That was helpful.
And my follow-up just on the climate control equipment market obviously with the EPA standards out we've got the CASP [ph] ruling stayed.
The national is out there but it's under a little pressure from a litigation standpoint.
What are you seeing from your customers? Is there any pushback in terms of ordering equipment? Or are they actually going ahead and following the mandates as it relates to what the SOx and NOx mercury requirements emissions requirements will be? Well I think from a prospects standpoint we've seen more prospects on the list.
So it appears that our customers are more comfortable with the status of the climate control regulation of MACTS and CSPAR.
And -- yes so it does appear to have some clarity.
I think that the absolute that I can say is there's more activity on that front than we've seen in the last 1.5 years.
So it's -- whether those projects get awarded or there are subsequent events that we can't envision that affect our customers' abilities to move forward we are -- but we are seeing a more buoyant bidding environment or prospect environment than -- in those markets than we've seen for some time.
We will take our next question from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Cash flow was very strong in Q4.
Just wondering why you didn't buy back more stock.
And then how are you thinking about cash usage in 2012? Well Steve thank you for the comments on cash.
We did do a really nice job on cash in the fourth quarter.
And as we went through the quarter we had a defined process for buying back shares.
We had a grid at which we were going to buy with numbers of shares and we followed that all the way through the quarter.
So we bought 818 000 shares and we think that's good.
In terms of cash as we looked at the year as I said in my comments very balanced with the acquisitions with return to shareholders et cetera.
And as we go into 2012 and look at the cash that's on the balance sheet the $966 million same stories: We're going to return cash to shareholders when it's appropriate.
We're going to do acquisitions if they have the right fit in the margins.
We're going to continue to invest in our capital and our ERP system and just make the best decisions as the opportunities come up.
Steve I would add that as we looked at what was transpiring in August the time we announced our authorization we were surprised by how quickly the KBR shares came off.
Obviously the events unfolding in Europe had some contribution to the broader market decline.
But we weren't sure how long and how far the share price would be at those levels.
So as Sue pointed out we created a fairly thoughtful and disciplined grid that we are buying back expecting that if the shares remained lower for longer periods of time we would have a very very attractive buying opportunity for KBR shares.
Today we're revisiting that.
Now that the -- we've gotten through the quarter and the various blackout periods we'll be looking at what do we want to update if anything regarding these share buybacks.
And again as I've commented on prior calls we take a fundamental view of where we think KBR share value ought to be and a fundamental view of where we ought to transact to buy back shares.
So we're keeping with the discipline.
We think we're doing the right things.
And so we'll see how things evolve in both our thinking in the market and we'll continue to give updates on where our perspectives are regarding the -- and progress regarding share buybacks.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And then Bill how do you see competition playing out in the U.S.
chemicals market? Do you foresee that there's going to be an ethylene cracker for everyone or will it be more tough competition? And then how do you see specialty chemicals factoring into the outlook? I think in the U.S.
market with the property rights you have here the free market all sorts of stuff you're going to see more developer proposals and a wider array of proposals than you might see in a different area internationally.
I think you will see projects go forward.
Our challenge is picking the winners.
I think there are some projects that we're not sure are going to go forward with as high a probability of others.
I like kind of where we're positioned because we've done a good job of integrating the BE&amp;K acquisition to allow us to do U.S.-based EPC work.
We're doing it on the BP Toledo refinery.
We're doing it on Ratcliffe coal gasification facility Molycorp KiOR CARBO Ceramics.
So we've got a good model and I think it's a very compelling offering here in the U.S because of our ability to bring all the services together for these projects in a way that is a little more challenging for us internationally.
And you heard some of our comments of how we're going to try to address that on our Investor and Analyst Day.
But I think it's going to be a very good market.
I think there will be a lot more capital spending in the U.S.
market on the chemical side.
I can't -- I don't have any unusual or different insights regarding specialty chemicals.
But certainly the forward curve of natural gas as it exists today and the expectation that we'll continue to see natural gas availability in the U.S.
at very attractive prices for some time now will be a driver for that new capital investment.
We will take our next question from Jamie Cook with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One Bill I think in your prepared remarks you mentioned something about direct labor already starting to become an issue in the use of more expats.
So I was just wondering if you could just give a little more color about that and how that also impacts.
You talked about I think at the Analyst Day increasing your direct construction content.
And you talked about also increasing fab and some pretty sizable revenue opportunities longer term -- or actually I even think you said by 2013.
So I'm just trying to think longer-term out where we are in that process as well as the comments on labor.
Okay.
The comments on labor were specifically addressed to the Australian market.
In our meetings with the labor ministers of -- within the various states of Australia as well as discussions with our customers who have even more meetings with these folks there's a recognition that with all the projects going on in Australia that they're really approaching full employment of their available labor force including training of the indigenous population of Australia.
There has been a recognition that it is necessary to bring in expats from the U.S.
the U.K.
Asia to do project work because that work is really in the minds of the Australians the bubble or the pig in the snake -- that we bring them in for projects  and when the projects are finished those people will go away.
And where you have businesses that are going concerns that are doing electric transmission lines et cetera that aren't project-specific they're not able to get the 4 5 7 visas that those of us in the LNG side have been able to get approved by the government.
So there is an equilibrium being established.
In many respects we're seeing our ability to land U.S.
expats at a cost that are not terribly different from what we're paying the Australia laborer because of the scarcity of that resource across the country.
In terms of the efforts on direct hire and fabrication we're pleased with the progress we've made over the last 3.5 months on those 2 initiatives.
We're continuing to address in greater detail how we participate in a direct-hire market for certain elements of mechanical electrical and instrumentation construction in the Australia markets and hope to be able to take a lot of the skill sets we have in terms of our processes and systems and marry that with an advanced or enhanced capability on the human resource management and labor relations.
And so we're still making our progress and hopefully we'll be able to report later this year on perhaps more tangible milestones than my conversational update here.
And the same goes with the fabrication looking for those projects that hit our sweet spots in certain locations for FPSO EPC work where we've got countries that we're familiar with technologies that -- for FPSOs that we're familiar with the design and looking to find that sweet spot for us to move downstream into an EPC opportunity compared to the -- just the services.
Research Division</strong> Okay because I guess in -- I don't know if you'll comment on this but I'll try anyway.
I guess as I just looked longer-term out and I look at the estimates for 2013 I look at some of the revenue targets you pointed out for direct construction and fabrication and the projects that impact what you've already got and then what's to come I just look at the revenue numbers out there for 2013 and the EPS and I scratch my head.
Do you? I'm still working on '12.
I mean I'm still working on Ritchie's question of how do I deliver the guidance.
Research Division</strong> I passed Ritchie.
I know.
You've always been a forward-looking individual Jamie.
And I think it's probably a little early for us to look at '13.
I mean if we get the projects signed up that we believe are out there for us -- now we'll get them over time.
I mean I think you're going to see just a tremendous backlog growth even beyond what we've commented on the impact of Ichthys in the portfolio.
And I think you'll see revenues and profitability go with it.
So we've got I think some great opportunities to really organically grow the business.
But I also think our shareholders would -- are best served by us looking to do those other things that give us a greater degree of vertical integration across our product offering.
And we think we can do both.
We will take our next question from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Bill I appreciate your comments on sort of the status of all the LNG projects but as I sort of look at these comments quickly I mean it seems as if I mean you're going to have a big surge in backlog with Ichthys.
And then depending on these it could trail off through the year but the earnings are going to be ramping up through the year? I mean I'm just trying to get a little more color there.
Okay.
Well the Ichthys earnings are going to be ramping up during the year.
We're expecting that the backlog we signed up in Power and in the Construction business is going to continue to ramp up across 2011.
I think we'll see our backlog -- we're expecting to continue to sell good work beyond the Ichthys project during 2012 on LNG.
We're expecting Downstream to be very active.
We're expecting Power to have another good year.
We think the North American business overall is going to accelerate for KBR.
So I mean when you talk about Ichthys and how we work off the backlog you got to remember the nuances in terms of our recognizing revenue as a -- excuse me revenue and profits on a percent-complete basis on an S-Curve during 2012 plus our services which will grow over the next 12 to 36 months.
And then as we work off the percent complete on the cost side of the project I think that -- I think the story holds together despite maybe at a front-end level saying "Impacts backlog going down.
KBR profits going up." But that's just the nature of how our accounting is working with respect to that microcosm called impacts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess I was just trying to relate it to some of your comments about timing of these projects and maybe back to Jamie's question about maybe is there a lull coming in terms of bookings.
Well as I said we're not sure when what project is going to close.
We have a lot of irons in the fire both inside of -- at the [ph] LNG business as well as outside of it at KBR.
And we still think that where we are in terms of our revenue guidance is good.
And we don't have a backlog guidance we give.
We give you the number on impacts.
But I think there's -- over time it's going to be a continuing growing backlog story here at KBR based on what we've got out there in front of us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one follow-up I guess maybe for you or Sue.
The distribution of cash flow that you talked about for 2011 should we think about that same sort of ratios in 2012 between buybacks investment et cetera? Well I think as you look at it I mean obviously the components are the same.
But as you look at it going forward the pension contribution that we made in 2011 included a $40 million catch-up contribution that we made.
I don't expect to make that again in 2012.
The acquisitions and return to shareholders we'll see what that split looks like given what the best opportunities are for us.
But I think the items are the same and just what varies is going to be the difference between the share buyback and/or acquisitions.
We will take our next question from Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
A question.
Just coming back to the Roberts &amp; Schaefer projects that impacted your quarterly results.
Out of the 3 projects can you just give us a little granularity of the 2 that are ending at the end of Q1? How much did those 2 contribute versus the third that will be closed out by year end '12? I think the largest series of the charges were on the projects that will get closed out in the first quarter.
It's north of 75% of the charges maybe 80%.
It was $22 million or so of the $25 million was those near-term projects.
Got you.
And separately so PEMEX it seems they are still making some legal noise in regards to the cash they owe you from a project way back when.
Just what's your outlook on actually collecting that? Is that a potential 2012 or is it just kind of TBD? Well we kind of watch this with great interest as do you and it's really interesting.
And for us I'm trying to temper my comments a bit in that when you enter into a contract with a branch of a sovereign government that's part of NAFTA and as part of the contract it has a dispute resolution that gets to both parties accepting international arbitration.
And having completed the project with our disputes we followed the contract to go to international arbitration.
We get a ruling that is obviously very favorable for KBR.
And then the customer starts forum-shopping in Mexico to find a court any court that might allow them to overturn the contract and in their mind void the entirety of the contract including the international arbitration after the international arbitration has taken place.
So we kind of watch this and we understand what they're doing and why but it really borders on just trivializing the whole status of the country as a place where it's good to do business.
Now we've had our district court finding that was -- that affirmed the arbitration award.
It went to the appellate court.
The appellate court said they want the first court now to consider PEMEX's actions after the arbitration after the first court made its ruling to see if it has any impact on the initial ruling by the first court.
We think that the court will take a look at the award which they in the first case deemed it to be enforceable.
We don't believe there is a strong basis for the first court to reverse its initial ruling and I think they will affirm the initial ruling that the order was enforceable or is enforceable.
It will be appealed again back to the appellate court.
The appellate court will say "Thank you for your ruling." And we expect the appellate court to dismiss this and get it back to -- and allow us to get the monies that we were awarded through the international arbitration which are supported by a bond posted by our customer in the New York courts.
That being said we think the issues that are in front of us today are relatively rifle-shot issues.
We are optimistic that we will get this resolved during 2012 and put this -- the saga behind us.
But it's been something to watch to see an entity of a sovereign government try to void a contract that it entered into willingly which included provisions for international arbitration and try to void the contract after the arbitration award has been made.
So a little bit on a soapbox but yes we think we'll get it done later this year.
It's our expectation.
We will take our next question from Randy Bhatia with Capital One Southcoast.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If you could can you tell me when you guys kind of see the inflection point in revenue when this kind of flat-to-down revenue scenario turns around when the LogCAP fade impact is less than the increase in revenue that we're going to see on these projects? Well I think we're already at the inflection point for LogCAP.
One of the things we've been looking at for years was LogCAP.
And the work in Afghanistan and Iraq used to be 65% of KBR's revenues and we knew eventually that that was going to stop this year at a level between 3% to 5% of our earnings.
For us it's just another contract.
And I think the acceleration we're seeing in our Services business in our hydrocarbons business in our non-government businesses in IGP I think we're -- we should expect to see increasing revenues going forward.
And even in a relatively quiet year 2011 without any of the LNG awards we were able to move revenues up 4% x LogCAP.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
Also if you could just in terms of what you guys are seeing in the near term where I guess on the same North America and the low natural gas price-driven theme that's been discussed here at length where do you kind of see the biggest near-term opportunity? Is it in refining or is it in new gas-fire gen? I mean what are your -- and I mean that in terms of what your customers are saying as well as what you guys are seeing in terms of bid activity.
I think we're seeing good opportunities in Power.
I think on a prior call we talked about the amount of prospects we saw out there for KBR on the order of $3 billion and we thought $1 billion of that would be bid during 2012.
So that remains steady for us.
But we are seeing -- and this is not a relative statement this is an independent statement we're seeing an acceleration of activities in the North American market for our Downstream business.
We are seeing discussions on multiple ammonia plants which we haven't had discussions in the U.S.
on ammonia plants in 35 years.
We're seeing a lot of chemical facilities being talked about less petrochem but more chemical where you've got natural gas as a feedstock the ethylene facilities.
So Power remains we think a pretty robust bidding environment.
And the near-term opportunities in our Downstream principally in the chemicals business are growing very very attractively for us.
Operator we'll take just one more question please.
We will take our last question from Robert Connors with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The strategy for Upstream oil and gas has always been to if I understand it correctly to build up a pretty good prospect list with FEED work and then eventually to turn that into procurement and construction management services.
So it looks like you're making some pretty good headwinds along that.
So I'm just wondering if going forward does that segment start to see a little bit of lower margins as you start to transition into procurement and construction management but offset obviously by higher backlog levels? Well I think the margins that we see on these projects Rob are for -- the component of percentage of completion based on project profits that's going to follow an S-Curve in terms of what we recognize and how we get profits.
In terms of the services you probably see a little bit better margin when we're doing the engineering and the home office services than in the field just given the amount of people that are involved and the margin that we have on those folks.
I'd say today that we probably have slack capacity in a lot of our front-end engineering capability both in Houston and in London on -- as these FEEDs are getting ready to transition.
So we're not facing any resource constraints.
We think revenues will grow.
We think overall just the volume of work will continue to deliver an increasing profitability at KBR.
And we still think our business unit incomes are going to increase by virtue of the higher dollar value of job income we're going to get over a relatively stable and constant amount of business unit overhead.
So I think we're going to see new opportunities particularly in our Gas Monetization business for margins to move up over time because we're -- of the volume at recently consistent margins being amortized across a fixed overhead base.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then what are you seeing as a typical turnaround time for when LNG projects transition from say the bid-and-tender submission phase to full EPC awards especially considering the fact that there's numerous project operators involved and all of their boards need to approve these massive undertakings? Yes I don't think the board approvals are the constraint.
Because once people get as committed as they do at the time a board approval is made there's some cost or several hundred million dollars not just our FEED contracts but to all levels of their value chain and supply chain.
These projects take a long time to go forward.
I mean we looked at the Ichthys LNG project and we started talking about that in 2006.
Gorgon was 2005.
And so Gorgon if we start in '05 and it gets the FID in '09 that's probably moving at a -- on the faster side of the average clip.
I think you look at the Ichthys project and that took 5 years to get to fruition.
So that's a typical timeline.
And we always worry about whether some of our messaging gets old at KBR when we get a pre-FEED or get a FEED.
But we look at that as inventory we look at that as an indication of future growth of the company and our backlog and our profitability over time.
But it is something that just takes time to get there given the very complex structures that you're putting together ranging from resource development to the production facilities all the way through your end-market sales to customers.
So they move like battleships.
Once they get moving it's hard for them to stop.
It's just a matter of being able to have the staying power to reel these things in as they ultimately mature at their respective gestation periods.
Thank you all for your questions.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude today's question-and-answer session and this will conclude today's conference call.
We do thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to KBR's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call hosted by KBR.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Zack Nagle Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for KBR's First Quarter 2012 Conference Call.
Today's call is also being webcast and a replay will be available on KBR's website for 7 days at kbr.com.
For any of you who missed our press release you can also find it at kbr.com.
Joining me today are: Bill Utt Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sue Carter Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call Bill will provide an overview of KBR's first quarter operating results highlighting a number of key areas.
He will then take you through an update on our major prospects and provide his insight on KBR's market outlook.
Sue will then provide an overview of the key financial takeaways for the quarter.
Lastly before turning the call to Q&amp;A Bill will provide closing comments.
After our prepared remarks we'll open the floor for questions.
This call will include forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties that may cause KBR's results to differ materially from management's current expectations.
We encourage you to review our Safe Harbor statement containing the earnings release published last night as well as KBR's most recent SEC filings for more complete description.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Bill? Thanks Zach and good morning everyone.
During today's call I'd like to cover 3 main areas.
First I'll walk through the key takeaways relative to our first quarter performance.
Second I'll provide you with an update of our key prospect list so you can track some of the major opportunities we're pursuing.
And third I'll discuss in detail some of the significant market trends and dynamics we're seeing at the present time.
KBR delivered $0.61 in the quarter.
This overall operating performance was consistent with our expectations and our guidance and we continue to believe we'll deliver progressively stronger performance in Q2 through Q4.
There were a number of areas of strength in the quarter.
Excluding all GAAP revenues was up 5% year-over-year reflecting the underlying growth in our other businesses.
At the consolidated level job income margins and business group margins were both improved with particular strength in Gas Monetization and International Government Defense and Support Services.
Our Technology business continued to deliver strong performance with double-digit job income growth in the quarter.
We are very pleased with the ramp up of our Saudi JV KBR-AMCDE.
KBR-AMCDE provides in-kingdom technical engineering and production capabilities through local utilization of KBR's world-class engineering tools and work processes.
While not a large contributor to the first quarter KBR-AMCDE booked 400 000 man-hours in Q1 and is on a flight path ahead of our initial expectations.
KBR's backlog also increased significantly with revenue backlog and job income backlog up 44% and 40% respectively as the JKC joint venture Ichthys LNG project contract was booked in the backlog.
For the quarter KBR booked $5.6 billion for the Ichthys LNG project about $100 million less than we indicated on our fourth quarter call largely due to currency fluctuations.
The first quarter of 2012 saw 2 significant points of inflection in KBR's revenue backlog.
First Q1 was the first increase in KBR's revenue backlog since the fourth quarter of 2009.
Second this was KBR's first increase in revenue backlog to be worked off over the next 12 months since last year's first quarter.
And we ended the quarter with a strong balance sheet with $837 million in cash and equivalents.
As you've noted from our press release our Minerals business unit took first quarter charges that were primarily the result of further increases in cost estimates on one of the legacy Roberts &amp; Schaefer projects.
While we're clearly disappointed with the additional charges we did enter performance testing for this project in Q1 and are therefore confident we have put this particular issue behind us.
With respect to the other 2 minerals projects we discussed on the fourth quarter call they are largely progressing as expected with no additional charges that were taken on either project in the first quarter.
One of these projects is to be completed during the third quarter.
We continue to believe we have strong risk management processes in place for this business and as a result the ongoing and future projects will continue to receive the double regard in discipline necessary to drive strong operating performance.
One other notable area I wanted to touch on for the quarter is our effective tax rate which came in highly favorable at about 9% versus our operating tax rate of 27%.
Sue will address the tax rate further in her prepared remarks.
Now I'd like to provide an update on the major prospects we're pursuing.
For the Kitimat LNG project the open book EPC tendering process is continuing along with pre-FID site construction activities.
We anticipate the open book tendering to be completed during the second quarter of 2012 with an FID following sometime in the second half of 2012.
For the Browse LNG project we are continuing with the EPC bidding process and plan to have our bids turned over to the customer in mid-2012.
For the Gorgon LNG fourth train project pre-FEED activities continue and we expect a transition into FEED by the end of 2012.
For the Anadarko LNG project in Mozambique the FEED tendering process is underway.
We anticipate FEED awards to be announced by mid-2012.
For the Pluto LNG project the first train has safely reached startup and is progressing towards its first LNG cargo.
KBR continues to perform various additional studies on the proposed expansion project.
Lastly for the Lobito Refinery project we are winding down our early-stage engineering work but continue to be active with on-site preparation work.
KBR stands ready to support the customer once they have completed partner selection and are ready to move into FID.
We continue to believe we are well-positioned on each of these major prospects.
I'd like to spend the balance of my prepared remarks discussing some of the key market dynamics we see unfolding over the next several quarters.
Highlighting what we believe this is a great time to be invested in KBR.
We may see some short-term fluctuations in the strength of one market versus another but in the long term this is noise relative to the bigger picture.
We firmly believe the long-term fundamentals of our end markets are strong and in place providing tremendous opportunities for KBR.
In the short term there are a lot of moving parts that are driving the markets.
Today's economic climate is challenged by all accounts and governments and companies alike are taking a hard look at their budgets and the economics of their investments.
On the downside we continue to see some projects moving to the right including some of the big elephants we thought were going to achieve FID during the second half of 2012.
Ultimately we strongly believe these projects will move forward as the economics are compelling.
But they may not happen as soon as we originally anticipated which is not uncommon with some of these large very complex projects.
However whether the projects begin 6 months sooner or later it doesn't demonstrably change their economics nor does it change KBR's value proposition as an investment.
At our Domestic and International Government Services businesses we are on track profitability-wise and our proposal activity remains high.
However awards have been slower than anticipated.
We believe this may be due to the ongoing debate over future activities in Afghanistan combined with tighter government budgets.
We do however believe that work should start being awarded in the coming months.
Albeit early in the year growth at our U.S.
Construction and our Industrial Services businesses has been slower than expected.
While we still expect both businesses to be up year-over-year the present near-term timing of awards for these businesses remains a bit cloudy.
In the Building Group multifamily residential and manufacturing construction have come out of the gates strongly.
But healthcare and higher education spending remains slow.
On the upside KBR continues to see an acceleration of activity in many North American markets particularly in our Downstream Technology and Power businesses.
These opportunities are driven by the market fundamentals of a favorable natural gas forward price curve that provides compelling economics for new ethylene power and ammonia facilities.
Accordingly we believe that domestic natural gas-based industries will see significantly higher levels of capital investment over the coming years.
Low-price natural gas coupled with air quality regulations is also driving a compelling value proposition for the construction of new gas-fired combined cycle power plants as older coal-fired power plants are retired.
Additionally where the economics favor the construction of pollution control facilities operators will spend significant capital to meet new emissions standards which opens up additional opportunities for KBR.
Also in North America we are seeing an increase in liquefaction in GTL opportunities.
On the LNG front in addition to the Kitimat LNG project we're currently looking at 2 additional LNG prospects in Western Canada.
One pre-FEED/FEED opportunity on which we're already executing early study work and another opportunity where we're in early but active dialogue with the customer.
In the U.S.
Gulf Coast area we're looking at bidding a FEED for an LNG project where KBR is currently prequalified.
On the GTL side we anticipate pursuing one or more FEEDs for projects in the United States this year.
In the Gulf of Mexico we are seeing a research and some deepwater drilling activity and we expect that this will provide offshore oil and gas opportunities for us starting in 2013 and beyond.
The Canadian marketplace is also showing far stronger levels of investment than originally anticipated.
We're seeing more projects moving quickly from the engineering phase to the construction phase and we expect this trend to continue in the coming years.
We have approximately $2 billion in tenders outstanding for projects that we expect to be awarded in 2012 including turnarounds module fabrication construction projects in the Alberta oil sands gas processing projects in Western Canada and client camp support.
Several of these tenders have already been awarded to KBR and we anticipate making announcements in the coming weeks.
We're also positioning ourselves for a stronger mining market in Canada including mines producing gold copper and potash.
We see this market steadily ramping up and gaining momentum as 2012 progresses.
And we expect to see KBR booking new awards starting in the second quarter.
Australia also remains a strong market for KBR.
LNG and mining resources are abundant and significant infrastructure build out continues to drive tremendous opportunities for KBR where we are well-positioned on several major awards.
We continue to work through the industry-wide labor challenges that we discussed previously but the Australian labor environment will remain a challenge that we need to execute against for the foreseeable future.
In the Middle East we're seeing significantly stronger activity than expected in downstream infrastructure and other industrial markets.
In contrast to the last 2 years we see projects continuing to move forward and we believe KBR's experience working in the region over the past several years positions us well there.
On the Sadara project most of the EPC packages have been awarded with a couple of these packages actually moving into construction.
This week KBR entered into a new contract amendment with our client to provide PMC services through the end of 2014.
This contract amendment is approximately $300 million which will be released via work orders through the end of 2014.
Additionally as I discussed earlier our Saudi JV KBR-AMCDE is exceeding our initial expectations bringing local content to the region and building up a solid backlog of work.
In other markets such as China and India KBR continues to make strong inroads leading with our technology business which has had significant success.
Now I'll turn the call over to Sue.
After Sue's comments I will provide a brief summary before turning the call over for questions.
Sue? Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
You've all seen our press release on Q1 earnings that we put out last night so I won't go on into a lot of detail already covered in the press release.
I do however want to spend a few minutes walking you through some of the more significant financial items in the quarter that we want you to take away from the call.
The first is on general and administrative expenses.
First quarter G&amp;A was $55 million up $11 million from the first quarter of 2011.
You'll recall that last year's first quarter had timing issues on several cost items for facilities IT and incentive compensation programs that push those costs into the second quarter.
The G&amp;A expense for this quarter is a more normal amount and is within our expectations for our full-year 2012 corporate G&amp;A expenses between $240 million and $250 million.
The full-year 2012 corporate G&amp;A expense guidance also includes an estimated $20 million to $25 million of costs related to the new ERP system.
The second item is related to our overall effective tax rate which was 9% in the quarter.
Within that 9% range we had 2 large discrete tax items that drove the bulk of the delta versus the 27% operating tax rate.
The first item resulted from our equity ownership at the FreightLink JV where final tax returns identified operating losses for the final year of operations which provided a tax benefit in Q1.
The second item is related to ongoing transfer pricing agreements.
Reserves were adjusted for transfer pricing activity that occurred in Q1.
We now expect KBR's full-year 2012 effective tax rate to be in the mid-20s.
The third item is related to KBR's backlog.
Building on Bill's earlier comments revenue and backlog as of March 31 2012 was approximately $15.8 billion up 44% from December 31 2011.
Overall the backlog portfolio mix at the end of the first quarter was 62% cost reimbursable and 38% fixed price.
A significant shift from the 75-25 split in the fourth quarter of 2011.
This shift was primarily related to the Ichthys LNG project a hybrid contract which I discussed in detail on last quarter's call.
We feel comfortable with the mix shift as the types of risks associated with the fixed price components of the increased backlog are once we have evaluated closely and have traditionally executed well against.
The fourth item is our cash use for operating activity which totaled out at $107 million for the first 3 months of 2012 compared to cash provided by operating activities of $225 million in the first quarter of 2011.
Q1 cash was negatively impacted by increases in unbilled receivables and decreases in advances in our Gas Monetization business.
These are timing issues related to subcontractor claims and other nonoperating invoicing delays.
The first quarter of 2011 benefited from collections expected in Q4 2010 totaling $140 million.
These payments were received in the first 2 weeks of January 2011.
We continue to expect to have strong cash flows from operations for the full year of 2012.
The fifth item is KBR's balance sheet which at the end of March 2012 remains strong with cash and cash equivalents of $837 million.
KBR's total cash was down $129 million from the previous quarter.
Of this decline approximately $50 million represents a reduction in cash from our consolidated JVs and another $38 million represents cash funding of share repurchases dividends pension contributions and CapEx as outlined in our press release.
Lastly I'd like to briefly touch on our guidance range of $2.45 to $2.80 which we've left unchanged from the original range we gave at the end of last year.
Bill outlined the way we're thinking about the key markets with respect to KBR and some of the puts and takes to consider so I'll take just a moment to provide some specifics you'll need for modeling purposes going forward.
The only change to guidance is our effective tax rate which as I said is expected to be in the mid-20s.
Aside from that all other guidance items remain unchanged and are as follows: full year G&amp;A expenses between $240 million and $250 million of which an estimated $20 million to $25 million is related to ERP; full year CapEx of approximately $100 million of which we estimate $60 million to $65 million of CapEx related to the ERP project; full-year 2012 LogCAP project revenues between $300 million and $500 million; and a share count of approximately 148 million shares.
And now I'll turn the call back over to Bill for his final remarks.
Thanks Sue.
In closing I'll reiterate what I said last quarter as the conversation remains much the same.
KBR believes there's a significant quantity of project opportunities both in North America as well as internationally principally in the Middle East and Australia.
It is likely that some projects will be delayed but we should keep in mind that other unannounced projects are likely to go forward in their place.
Ultimately these projects will get built only their schedule remains uncertain.
KBR's near-term challenge is to continue to devote our resources to those projects that are moving forward and to build a solid pipeline of new awards to further fuel our future growth.
With respect to our guidance for 2012 given all the factors we've discussed we believe the range of $2.45 to $2.80 per share remains appropriate.
As I said earlier there are a lot of moving parts.
Some markets have started off a bit slower than we anticipated while others are showing increased signs of strength.
Net of all these factors we expect Q2 net income before tax to be a bit stronger than Q1 and for Q3 and Q4 to be progressively stronger from there as these new awards move from backlog into the P&amp;L.
We have a strong backlog of projects that we'll ramp up as the year progresses and we are working hard to capture the current and future prospects in the market both of which will help drive progressively stronger performance over the balance of the year.
Now we'll take your questions.[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Scott Levine with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So a question regarding the markets obviously a lot of puts and takes in terms of which are getting better which are getting worse.
I mean if you could summarize maybe Bill as a whole are you feeling like the markets are recovering in line with your expectations maybe if you could highlight 1 or 2 markets which versus the last call or maybe 2 calls which are getting progressively more visible and maybe which are becoming a little bit cloudier? I think the markets that are getting more visible for us are clearly Canada and the Middle East.
I just see that the amount of bids we have outstanding in Canada is as high as I can remember.
The -- our positioning on those I think is very good.
I also still believe that the last 2 years the Middle East have been slow.
Last year there were a lot of political issues in the area but as we look at -- look out at our prospects list of projects that we're chasing in Middle East it's as strong and as diverse as we've seen in some time.
So I'm very much encouraged by the Middle East and Canada in terms of their relative improvements.
I also think Australia remains a very good market for KBR.
I wouldn't put that in the improvement category because it's always for the last 18 months has been a very strong market for us and I think continues to remain so for the near-term given some of the LNG minerals work and infrastructure work we're doing in Australia.
North America is coming back.
I think I talked a little bit about some of the delays we're seeing in awards coming out of our North American government business.
We think in part because of the discussions on future activities in Afghanistan and the budget constraints which also impact a little bit the International Government Defense business.
But we do believe those awards are going to start trickling out or start coming out in the second quarter.
So we think of that as more of a delay as opposed to a dramatic change from our expectations.
Building Group is seeing some good markets in the residential multifamily housing as well as manufacturing.
But some of the bigger projects that we've relied on over the last couple of years in healthcare and higher education they still remain pretty slow.
And I also made some comments regarding the U.S.
Construction Industrial Services businesses are slow but the Power business and downstream and technology in North America that are all driven by the shale gas I think those prospects look great.
And I think I mentioned on one of the earlier calls that just as an example we see 11 different ammonia plants being discussed for development in the United States and for those of you who keep score on matters like that we haven't built an ammonia plant in the U.S.
in 35 years.
So we're seeing a lot of announcements on the ethylene the olefins the ammonia projects even the -- in some of the derivative place like the combined-cycle power plants that are going forward.
All seeing great stimulus from what is now thought to be a much lower forward price curve for natural gas in the U.S.
for the foreseeable future.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
One follow-up if I may.
On cash deployment plans in a bit negative you referenced some of the working capital items in the quarter but you guys have had traditionally a pretty balanced approach.
I wonder if you could provide an update with regard to thought process on investment M&amp;A buyback what have you? Sure.
As we look at it we haven't really changed our stand Scott in terms of the items that are available to us which is obviously the return to shareholders with share repurchases and dividends as well as investments either organic or through M&amp;A.
As we've gone through the first quarter obviously as you can see the share repurchases were about 205 000 shares.
So not a great deal of purchasing.
Again we look at cash and what some of the opportunities were and we made our decisions along with that.
M&amp;A obviously is something that we still look at but it needs to be something that fits into the portfolio and that is at the right pricing.
And so we'll just maintain our stance on what we're going to do with that and look at the individual opportunities and go after the ones that have the greatest return for us.
Moving next to John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I guess as a first thing is Bill you gave us some numbers on backlog and the job income in the backlog and then you referenced the 12-month backlog any comment on the job income in the 12-month backlog is that also growing? We don't calculate that specifically.
The comments related to the 12-month backlog come out of our Q where we talk about how much work will be executed over the next 12 months.
I would postulate I think postulate is the right word that the job income backlog is following the increase both on a 12-month basis as well as an absolute basis.
We're seeing the -- on some of the lower-margin projects Skikda is going to start up this year.
We're going to be finished construction in Scravas [ph] by the end of the year.
And so I think that would logically follow that the job income backlog should be increasing from the 12-month period as well as in addition to the overall backlog.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's fine I just want to confirm because you talked about some of these projects slipping out I just wanted to understand how that flows because I mean it seems as if with your backlog is scheduled at -- and I know it's very early but it still seems that you should be growing into 2013 with what you have now at least on the top line.
Is that fair? Well yes a lot of it -- well I think that's our expectation John.
I think -- we've got to make sure that some of these -- we're starting to see that with the Sadara award and some of these awards in Canada.
We're expecting to announce in the near future that this is continuing to be manifested by accomplishments not rhetoric.
We still got to get through what's happening in the -- in our government businesses because I think they did come in a little bit lower than we had hoped in terms of the award base.
But if things go according to plan in allowing the shifting mix of projects into and out of our near-term horizon I think we should see a building of the earnings of the company as -- particularly later in the year as these projects move from new awards into the P&amp;L and into 2013 as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And if I could any update on collections from Mexico? The collections from Mexico are sitting with the initial judge who has been asked to consider what if any impact does an action of a Mexican court have on his initial ruling.
And so we remain confident that based on our analysis that it shouldn't have any impact and that when the judge gets around to issuing his opinion that we think it will be another step forward to getting that issue resolved.
Moving on to Steve Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Not sure if I missed it but any way you can quantify what the mining charge was in the quarter and what happened between February and March and April on that project? Sure Steve.
As we put in in some of the materials the charges in the Minerals business unit were about $8 million in the quarter with the majority of it being on one of the projects that we talked about in Q4.
And so now that project is entering the commissioning phase.
We think we've got it under control but what you saw in the first quarter was just revised cost estimates to get where they needed to be and the charges associated with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess just shifting gears on to the Downstream side of things.
It was kind of light in the quarter but Bill you mentioned certainly some acceleration in that market so I guess I'm wondering what kind of projects and activities I do have plans specifically for the second half of the year whether we could see a ramp up there sooner than later? Well I think we have some good prospects that are in the Middle East area not necessarily in the classic Middle East on the Arabian Peninsula but in and around that area that we think will go forward second or third quarter some joint ventures we have with other players as well as projects we're pursuing on our own.
Back on the U.S.
side there are a number of olefins facilities that have been proposed and we're having dialogue with those sponsors.
They are mentioning phrases like we want to be first to market to capture the advantages et cetera.
And so we're working towards them on those projects but we keep -- we're mindful of what it takes to put these projects together and I think we've got good proposals outstanding or good mature dialogue with the customers that will lead to proposals to see that business grow.
I think what you've seen in Downstream is the -- we're probably about 17% through the engineering on the Lobito refinery project which was ramping down in the first quarter.
We've seen a ramp up in terms of the staffing we have at Yanbu but that's lower-margin work than -- because it's field work than what we do in the home office.
Clearly we're going to be ramping back up on Sadara particularly in Kingdom with our PMC activities on that project.
So there's a lot of things going on.
And so I think the business will grow.
The margins may be a little bit challenged compared to historical standards because the mix is moving more towards field-type activities as opposed to what were predominantly home office service PMC type of activities that we saw throughout a lot of 2011 and tailing off into the first quarter of '12.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it's more of a mix issue and so -- I mean do you think that the margin there would deteriorate from here as the year goes on or kind of flat or could it even improve? I think the revenue will grow.
It's unclear right now about the mix and I say this simply because we're adding a lot of folks in the field and as we bring in the engineering margins that will be accretive to what we're doing but it's also something that may be diluted by the growth we're seeing of field revenues.
I feel more comfortable talking about the advancement of revenues in Downstream and I really can't point you one way or the other on the margin side just because of the increase in the field component of that revenue increase.
Moving on to Jamie Cook with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Two questions I understand you said your first quarter was in line with your expectations and the street was probably off a little.
But one question is there any area within the first quarter that was better or worse than your expectations even though you sort of netted to where you thought you would be? And then I guess as you think about -- as we now have one quarter under our belt are you more or less confident with the higher end of the range given where the first quarter ended and just given as we talk about some of these pushouts and projects I'm assuming that's probably more of a 2013 impact but I just want to be sure? And I'll get back in queue after that.
First quarter expectations I think we were pleased with the volumes we saw in hydrocarbons and that continues to be a business that's growing.
I think it's a strong business for us.
It's clearly the most demonstrable advantage business we have in the portfolio.
The other businesses were okay IGDSS continues to complete their fixed-price work in Afghanistan nicely and that's helped their margins in the first quarter.
We're disappointed with NAGL in the North American government business from an award standpoint and it's obviously difficult transition the conclusion of LogCAP III but we've been talking about that for 6 years now.
That was going to wind down.
But I think it was -- we're expecting it to be a little bit challenging from an earnings standpoint given the fall off in LogCAP.
Kind of where services would've done a little bit better.
We did okay on G&amp;A.
We did okay on labor cost absorption hydrocarbons was pretty strong.
As you look at the -- your question on the year guidance we took a hard look at that and we think there are scenarios where we can get to the high end of the range and can even get beyond that but you have to look at the distribution of we could be higher we could be lower and Sue and I concluded that as we looked at our guidance that we felt that the $2.45 to $2.80 was felt the best and we didn't feel compelled to change the guidance at this point.
I think what's going to be critical for us as we look at the second quarter is how much of these projects that we expect to be released in the North American government business in Canada and some of the other markets what kind of impact do they have into the backlog and how quickly do we believe they're going to get into the P&amp;L during the second half of the year because I think we've been consistent in talking about '12 as an upward sloping year for us.
And I think we'll be able to give a pretty clear indication of where we think 2012 will be at our next quarter call because once you get through second quarter anything beyond that's only going to have a very small impact.
And certainly from our original budget planning we had expected Kitimat to be third quarter and some of the other projects to be fourth quarter.
So they weren't -- those larger projects weren't big contributors to the P&amp;L and certainly from our perspective could be made up by some other projects that could come onto the horizon but we'll know by second quarter and certainly should be able to give a more precise and more narrow guidance regarding our performance.
But as of today we think the numbers we have out there are the best numbers that we could come up with and saw no reason to make a change at this point.
Research Division</strong> And just to be clear though other projects that could come onto the horizon is that -- I mean you sound more bullish on Canada is it that type of stuff in Middle East I just want to be clear where the upside would come from? Well we think the upside could come from Canada.
It could come from some awards in NAGL because we've got a big backlog there and some of the awards we're talking about would have a very quick book to burn.
Some of the Canadian stuff that we're looking at signing wouldn't immediately go into earnings and one project would have a book to burn in 11 months.
So we see those as being the real leverage points for us in 2012.
They are the most obvious ones from our perspective.
And Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays has our next question.
Research Division</strong> Bill in Services I guess I just don't understand what's going on.
I mean the U.S.
economy is doing a little bit better.
Your backlog has been up over the last several quarters and your revenue has been going down.
So I'm just kind of wondering what's going on in that segment? Well within Services we've got 3 large projects in Building Group: The Boeing construction in Charleston South Carolina; Children's Hospital in Birmingham; and the Duke Cancer Center which all went forward in 2009 that are coming to a close.
And they've been just great anchor projects for our Building Group business.
As they wind down we're seeing a lot of projects in the $20 million to $50 million range.
We've got a lot of verbal awards on those that will trickle into backlog during the year.
But we don't see replacements for those big 3 which were all in the $200 million variety for us.
Within the other parts of Services Canada was particularly slow last year we're seeing that.
We're much more encouraged and very bullish of what we see in Canada for this year that should help pick it up.
The Industrial Services business we continue to see our customers do what they can do to defer maintenance.
It's a very competitive market out there for them and they are looking at ways of not cutting our staff but cutting the maintenance spend around these and I think that's maybe a consequence of us doing a really good job of maintaining the facilities and that the construction to replace stuff is a lot less with our involvement.
And we're still trying to get better traction on U.S.
Construction.
We've got a lot of work that our construction teams are doing at Kemper County and other projects.
But those construction activities are showing up in the business units because we book the construction component on EPCs within the business unit and the only thing we're booking in U.S.
Construction is the construction-only projects that we're pursuing.
But we've announced Devon [ph] we've got a couple others that we're looking at that we think we'll see that build.
But I would say over the last 12 months most of our construction work has been as part of EPC projects and quite honestly the field staff that we have we made some comments where we have previously and this is what I recall having said maybe 6x as many people in the field at the end of 2012 -- 2011 than we had at the beginning of 2011 but all those have been driven into EPC projects showing up on other business units.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful Bill.
Just shifting gears.
On LNG I mean you guys are a leader in LNG obviously.
The U.S.
LNG opportunity has really come up I think it's been out there for a while but people are believing in more I think over the last few months and of course there's lots of big Australian projects out there.
How do you sort of weigh the 2 in terms of prospects now as you look at them.
I mean obviously there's some monster Australian prospects out there.
We often get questions now about can both regions go forward do you now see the U.S.
or as you said Western Canada being better prospects than some of these big ones in Australia I mean how do you kind of look at that and maybe throw in gas to liquids as well? Okay well that's -- some may take the next 1.5 hours talking about that answer but I'll try to be -- succinct on that.
First of all in the LNG markets we think that there still will be demand growth in China and maybe a little bit lower growth rate than we see in the past.
But the structural changes we see going into Japan movement from the nuclear fleet to the gas fleet we think will continue to maintain a robust demand for new natural gas supplies going forward.
Now in terms of where the supplies are coming from we do worry about the labor market in Australia and we can land ex-pats in Australia for about the cost of what we're hiring directly for construction workers.
And you've got a very high cost situation in Australia.
You get some wonderful resources and so there is some viability there in Australia but we also want to hedge our bets.
You did not mention Africa and we think some of the East Africa LNG reserves that are very prolific will have structural cost advantages for construction in East Africa compared to what we're doing in Australia today.
So you've got to factor that in and that's why we're very active in East Africa on Mozambique and some of the projects being proposed there.
Within North America we also are looking at how do we place our bets there.
We obviously see and believe that British Columbia is a good place to be.
It's going to be a good export market.
Much closer to Asia than a U.S.
Gulf Coast facility.
But we are looking at how do we participate in certain U.S.
Gulf Coast facilities that we believe the sponsors have the wherewithal the market presence the vertical integration in the U.S.
markets to be an effective developer of an export facility in the U.S.
Not necessarily relying on purchasing gas at NYMEX but having their own equity gas in the U.S.
in the shale formations that can be used to fuel the LNG liquefaction.
So net-net Andy we're spreading our bets we're aware that Australia has perhaps some geographic advantages but some cost disadvantage regarding the construction of these facilities.
East Africa I think is a new entrant in this market that could be -- could give some much lower cost options compared to Australia.
And then we're trying to spread our bets here in North America to see how that market evolves both in terms of shipping gas to Asia and in possibly shipping some further gas down to Latin America.
And our next question will come from Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just following up on Andy's question there on LNG.
Just specifically it sounds like the opportunities in the U.S.
North America could be large opportunities over the next few years.
I guess my biggest question is really on Australia we're not expecting any major financial investment decisions for any greenfields projects this year but next year you've got Browse and Arrow.
Have your conversations with your customers changed at all regarding the viability of those projects moving forward? Joe I think it's mixed.
In Australia we're tracking 4 projects.
You've got an addition to Browse and Pluto and Arrow you've also got the 4 Train at Gorgon.
And a lot of it gets back to just how prolific are the gas reserves and what is the marginal cost of building facilities.
And when we've seen some discussion in the press and this is not any inside information to KBR as gathered but there are questions being raised of should the gas at Browse go to the Northwest shale where the assets are already constructed which some people feel is running out of gas in the next couple of years or should that gas go to a newly constructed LNG facility.
So a lot of things moving around there in terms of what's the optimum way of monetizing gas resources and so that's one question around Browse.
If you look at Pluto very compelling economics given the foundation project and the investments that Woodside has made.
Pluto 2 and 3 should be very attractive opportunities for them when they do find the gas and elect to move forward on that.
Gorgon 4 the same way a lot of installed infrastructure on the first 3 trains.
On Arrow obviously Shell and their Chinese partner do have access to a market.
And Shell's got a leading LNG position in the global LNG market.
So there are a lot of dynamics going on that you can't really say this one will go forward this won't but you can see with the discussion going on that there is a concern of how you best rationalize the resources of gas in Australia particularly where the broader competitive environment against North America and East Africa gas to develop good projects.
Research Division</strong> And do you see -- that's great color Bill.
Do you have any sense on timing on when this all shakes out and we have a better idea as to how those decisions will move forward? Well the -- what we said is we're going to submit the EPC bids on Browse midyear.
We're still doing work on Pluto.
And I think Pluto they've got to a very positive milestone of having first gas and are getting ready to ship their first cargo.
The Gorgon FEED it's pre-FEED activities are progressing on and we think they'll move into FEED at the -- by the end of this year.
Arrow the project -- that's a little bit disconnected from the others and that will have its own independent life cycle but we're going to continue to try to play as much of them and make sure that we have all the bases covered as KBR.
So that as those projects move forward we can prepare to move forward with the ones that have the best chance of moving forward and the highest probabilities of achieving FID.
Research Division</strong> And I guess one follow-up question.
As we think more near-term into the second quarter you mentioned that some of the tenders in Canada have already been awarded.
Is there any color that you can give us on the magnitude of what you've already booked in the backlog in the 2Q and how we should be thinking about whether backlog is going to grow in 2Q or not? I will tell you that Canadian backlog will definitely grow in Q2.
The awards to date have not been booked in the backlog.
We're thinking we could as early as next week see the contracts be signed.
And that would be significant in terms of the overall book to bill.
We're going to watch that closely.
And the reason I say we're going to watch it closely is if you remember Sue's comments on the accounting for Ichthys we booked our 30% share of that project of $5.6 billion into backlog this quarter.
But as it goes into earnings you're going to see the equity accounting take place on that.
And so Ichthys will start winding down over time but we're optimistic that with the prospects we see in front of us for second quarter that we really do believe we can get a book-to-bill greater than 1.0.
Moving on to Chase Jacobson with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question on the Ichthys project I think in the press release you mentioned that the gas monetization job income was up partially because of the activity on that project.
And from the way I thought you described it in the past it didn't seem like that project was going to be a major contributor in 2012 or at least until later in the year.
Is that moving faster for any specific reason than you thought? No.
From our perspective I don't see that as having been a big contributor to gas mons results.
It was nice to have in the first quarter but not anything that really moved the needle in gas monetization at all.
It's a big project and I think it's going to continue to ramp up according to the expectations we all discussed on our last call.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So won't be more meaningful until later 2012 2013 is how should we look at it? I'm sorry? Research Division</strong> It should be later 2012 2013 we should see that pick up? We had a pick up -- we start out with a certain amount of earnings first quarter it should increase second quarter and continue to increase over -- through the end of '13.
And maybe beyond that depending on the S curve.
Right.
And Chase I think one of the comments in terms of the contribution of Ichthys is as you look at it Q1 of 2012 was the first quarter that it appeared.
So on a year-over-year quarter-over-quarter basis obviously that contribution is good because it was its first quarter that we had it.
We'll also offset some of the ramp down on Pearl and some of the other projects in the portfolio.
So between Gorgon and the other projects that they're pursuing it was a really good quarter gas month.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a modeling question with the new breakout of Infrastructure and Minerals from what we can see there's obviously been a pretty wide range in the margin in the job income margin in both those segments.
Can you just -- can you give any color on how we should be thinking of it or looking at Infrastructure and Minerals -- I'm sorry at Infrastructure it looks about 35% to 20% is that -- I mean is 35% kind of a peak that we should be looking at or is it mid-20s? Any color there I would be grateful? What are your units? What units are you referring to when you say 35 and 20? Research Division</strong> The job margin? Well the job margin Infrastructure was benefited by a gain share on a project in the first quarter of '11.
And I believe it was we said $10 million.
And that drove in an inordinately high margin.
If you peel back the Infrastructure business we're running primarily a consultancy in Australia and that delivers 20%-plus job income margins.
Now what you're going to -- what I expect to see going forward is that the job margins related to the consultancy business should stay about at that level and the volume of work should stay reasonably consistent.
Where that business is growing is we're growing doing projects in the Middle East and doing some EPC work in the -- through joint ventures in Australia.
And I expect that because of the way we account for those we'll see the margins on that segment of work be less than the plus 20%.
They may be in the low teens because you're dealing with a lot of pass or so.
If you think about Infrastructures having a baseload of consultancy work that ought to be in the 20% range and then a lot of the growth we ought to be seeing out of Infrastructure would be in the -- I'd say the 11% to 14% job income range where that marginal work would be the driver of the increased revenue backlog.
Moving on to George O'Leary with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Maybe just looking for a little bit of incremental color on your U.S./North American market opportunities if you could kind of rank those by segments LNG and maybe even talk about Canadian versus U.S.
versus the pet chem and ammonia build out and then Power kind of where you think the most strength is and from a timing perspective what hits more quickly? Well obviously the biggest opportunity we have is the Kitimat project of this year which will be multibillion-dollar award that we'll be doing EPC.
That is going to dominate any other individual project we see this year in North America.
I am excited about what we're seeing in Canada.
We've talked about the $2 billion in awards and we feel with the verbals we have in some of the other prospects we could have a very good year in Canada from a backlog growth standpoint.
I do like our position in Power.
We did win one pollution control project in the first quarter we've got 3 fairly large bids we're pursuing right now in Power and we think our expectation and hope is that we'd get one of these 3.
And so Power does have some opportunities.
We're seeing some steady industrial work we are also seeing some pollution control work start being talked about by our customers.
So Power is pretty interesting for us.
Downstream and Technology I think you just packaged those up between the ammonia ethylene and olefins facilities.
We see a lot of stuff and we think those will be strong and I talked about the story around the ammonia market so I think the Gas Mon the Canadian operations Power Downstream and Technology should all have very good years in North America.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then maybe just one quick follow-up.
For a new ammonia plant given that they haven't been built in the last 35 years can you kind of quantify to what potential maybe just on your average size ammonia plant that would be built out? Not off the top of my head but if you want to go back and figure out the -- if you go back and look at our earlier reports on the EBIC ammonia plant I think that was the 2008 annual report.
I think we're pretty clear on how big that was.
I just don't remember what the cost was on that George.
So forgive me for having a senior moment on that but the 2 000 ton a day ammonia plant is about where the state of the art is on ammonia plants.
And so you can find that in some of our historical data pretty easily.
And our next question will come from Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Could you maybe give us an update in terms of your initiative for providing more direct construction services to your customers and when that might impact margins? We're continuing to evolve discussions with some folks in Australia on that.
We expect that we ought to be able to conclude a business plan and arrangement later this year.
We wouldn't expect to see any tangible margins or work coming out of that venture and so probably the second half of '13 is my best guess right now.
We're going to be -- and again that's the greenfield path we're moving on now.
If we were to elect with this venture get to market earlier through an acquisition well that would change that statement but just in the way we're looking at it at present building this thing brick by brick it's probably second half of '13.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Kemper County plant in Mississippi it looked like it got an important approval from the PSC in recent days.
Could that be a meaningful impact to your backlog this year? I'm not aware of the approval.
I knew there was a remanding back from a court in Mississippi to the Public Service Commission to document the details surrounding the permit for convenience and necessity.
I believe that might be what you're referring to.
We're expecting to see that.
Kemper County was fully -- was pretty well-booked into our backlog last year.
The engineering has been booked in the backlog.
We did book a couple hundred million on the construction.
We may see some scope growth on that.
I'm not sure yet but any meaningful changes to our backlog related to Kemper County we're not seeing.
We'll probably seize the normal type of scope growth around that but nothing in terms of big lump sum changes in our awards.
Moving to Robert Norfleet with BB&amp;T Capital.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but just one on the backlog as it exists today.
I know you to talked that after booking your thickest backlog.
Terms of fixed price work is up to 38% versus 25% largely due to that contract.
But I guess I wanted to get your sense as we start looking some of the Sahara works and Canadian works some of the North American work how do you see the fixed price/cost reimbursable dependent to backlog looking over the next 2 to 3 quarters? And indefinitely do you see because of the higher fixed-price works should that have a positive benefit on the gas monetization margins? Generally as we look out at the future work that we're looking to book the bids in NAGL North American government defense -- and we expect the awards will be predominantly cost plus.
We look at the Canadian work that's also going to have either cost plus or unit rates.
It gives a lot of deviations on scope.
So I'm not expecting to see these near-term awards impacting the amount of fixed-price work in the backlog.
What I do expect is that when we look at a project like Kitimat we would have a significant portion of that being lump sum.
And certainly the areas that we're very comfortable doing lump sum the home office services the construction management the procurement which is we believe is largely back-to-back with bona fide suppliers to us can be good opportunities on the margin side without a lot of risk.
And I'm not saying there is no risk but it's certainly manageable risk and risk that we've successfully managed many times over on prior projects.
So I think we're kind of where we are now.
I know on the IMPEX project we have some of the scope is remeasured and what that means is today it's cost plus and the fabrication yards but once we get the designs complete for the fabricated modules and we can give those to the fabricators the fabricators now will be able to estimate their quantities they already know their productivity so some of that work that's currently reimbursable will convert to a lump sum but in a very we think prudent and manageable risk format.
So we still could see some movement in the next couple of years on the amount of fixed-price work on INPEX but I think it's thoughtfully put together in terms of at what point do we undertake the fixed-price risk and with respect to the fabrication we're doing so on what I believe are an appropriate level of known knowns such as quantities weights and productivities that we think we're very capable of handling as KBR.
Moving on to Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> My first question is a follow-up on how the first quarter results compare to your guidance.
In the prepared comments you indicated the results were consistent with the guidance although you also mentioned that you now expect the tax rate to be lower.
So can you just clarify were you expecting the discrete benefits that you saw in the quarter when you gave your initial guidance? And just more importantly excluding those benefits how did the kind of operational results compared to your expectations? Let me try to take on some of that.
So as you think about the full-year guidance and the tax rate we gave an overall 2012 tax rate of 28%.
That did not include any of the discrete items and by their very nature a discrete item is not going to come through until an event happens which is what happened in the Q1 items that brought down the effective tax rate.
So as you look forward again you're not going to plan for those in how we're trying to give you guidance in terms of modeling the overall tax rate.
So I think that helps you with that piece.
In terms of how it plays in the guidance I mean guidance of $2.45 to $2.80 is going to take into a lot of different moving parts the tax rate is one of them obviously performance in all of the businesses is going to be another our forward looks.
And when you meld all of those things together you can kind of get back to where we're at.
So while I would say that we didn't model those discretes into our guidance and we haven't changed our guidance that there's lots of moving parts and there's -- and it's very early in the year.
So sort of stay tuned from an overall perspective the operating tax rate is -- was right around 27% for the quarter in Q1.
Research Division</strong> Then moving on to a couple of your large LNG projects Kitimat and Browse.
It sounds like on both of those EPC tendering is going on and could potentially be completed well ahead of the FID on those projects.
I was wondering if there's any potential that we could hear any announcements on the results of the EPC tendering ahead of the FID decisions or if we should kind of assume that we won't hear anything until the products reach FID? You probably won't hear anything from us until the ink is dry on the contract.
Research Division</strong> That makes sense.
And then final question.
You mentioned some GTL opportunities in the U.S.
hoping you could just provide a little more color on kind of your expectations when you see maybe final investment decisions on those projects occurring how confident are you that we could see some GTL get built in the U.S.? I'm pretty confident we will see GTL getting built in the U.S.
The cost of oil is $18 per million BTU.
The cost of gas is $2 or $3 a million BTU that's a pretty wide spread that should be able to support the construction of GTL.
I think we'll see several projects move forward.
I think you'll see FIDs -- I'm not anticipating the day FIDs in 2012 I think it'd be more like the second half of '13 but I do believe they will go forward and that there's a very compelling economic opportunity for those sponsors given the -- where I think the oil prices are going to continue to stay in the low gas price environment that we expect to have in the U.S.
for the foreseeable future.
And our last question today will come from Robert Connors with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> We're hearing sort of the same bullishness on Gulf of Mexico offshore CapEx from some of the service and equipment guys out there.
Being that KBR and some of the other E&amp;C agencies are much later cycled do you believe that Gulf of Mexico work can have a meaningful impact on bookings probably mostly in 2013 or do you see it mostly as a FEED work starting to kick up? Well I see it as having impacts in '13.
I think when we first had the Macondo instant we said we're continuing to be strong with Jack/St.
Malo and Big Foot and the work we're doing in the Gulf but we also said that our impact to be 18 to 30 months later and lo and behold here we are 18 months later and we don't have a lot of volume in the Gulf.
So we think as it resumes there's a natural cycle of beneficiation from that we think the oil service guys and the drillers will have it first.
And then eventually the food chain will get down to the E&amp;C firms like KBR and we're expecting that we'll start seeing these awards come in 2013.
We may see some earlier FEED work but yes you're going to see the big impacts -- you're not going to see any big impacts on this Gulf of Mexico work at KBR in 2012.
It will be 2013 it may be towards the second half.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then Sue since you took over the CFO role your corporate G&amp;As and divisional overhead expense have remained at a pretty darn good control.
And in addition you're CapEx has pretty much been in line with D&amp;A.
So I guess my question is as you look at the growth that's coming down the pipeline for this company where will KBR need to invest because this will really be sort of the first growth cycle for KBR where investors will see it as a stand-alone company? Absolutely.
Well thanks by the way for the commentary on G&amp;A and overhead.
So here's how we look at it.
There's obviously some areas with growth that you have to win invest in and to make sure that you've got the right people on the ground to do all of the things that you need to do from a customer standpoint from a control standpoint and all of that.
So obviously we're going to do those things.
However we're also going to sit pretty hard on G&amp;A and business unit overhead outside of those areas and outside of proposals because it's great operating leverage for the company and it's also a good opportunity to make sure that as we invest in this ERP system that we're talking about that we take full advantage of what it's going to provide for us in terms of automation and being able to do some of the same things with less people.
Therefore you don't have to go out and add.
So I think it provides an opportunity for us to do even more work on that part of the business.
Yes.
I think as we wrap up the call I think that was a good call because we are focused on the scalability of the business.
We saw that 2 years ago when we started having discussions on ERP our Board approved the program last year we're off to implementation and I think as this rolls out I think Sue is very correct that we will be able to grow the business significantly with very small changes in what the G&amp;A line would be at KBR.
And we remain committed to spend what we need to spend not necessarily what we want to spend.
So thank you all for joining us I know we've gone a little bit over your time we appreciate your questions and we look forward to talking to you at the end of next quarter.
Thank you.
And this does conclude our conference call for today.
We like to thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the KBR Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call hosted by KBR.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] For opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Zac Nagle Vice President Investor Relations and Communications.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to KBR's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is also being webcast and a replay will be available on KBR's website for 7 days at kbr.com.
The press release announcing second quarter results is also available on KBR's website.
Joining me today are: Bill Utt Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sue Carter Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer.
Before turning the call over to Bill I would like to remind our audience that today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting KBR's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in KBR's second quarter press release issued last night KBR's Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30 2012 and KBR's current report on Form 8-K.
You can find all of these documents at kbr.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Bill? Thanks Zac and good morning everyone.
During today's call I'd like to cover a few key areas.
First I'll walk through a few key takeaways relative to our second quarter performance and make some brief comments on our updated 2012 earnings guidance.
Second I'll provide an update on several of our key prospects.
And third I'll highlight the dynamics we're seeing in our markets.
For the second quarter KBR delivered $0.70 per fully diluted share.
Our performance was better than we had initially expected for Q2 but still generally consistent with our overall expectations for the full year 2012.
We initially expected that second quarter earnings before taxes would be a bit better than the first quarter.
Our actual results were a fair amount better than those expectations for a number of reasons a few of which I'll touch on here.
First as we noted in our Q2 earnings release issued last night we've seen stronger execution during the quarter on several projects in construction or commissioning which has allowed us to reduce our forecast cost estimates to complete these projects.
Additionally as we close out these projects we hope to be able to resolve several outstanding issues on these projects which may present further opportunities for KBR.
Second we've made good progress and have seen scope growth on our other projects beyond our initial expectations as well as realized achievements on several projects we had expected to recognize later in 2012.
These projects are progressing well and KBR's execution has been consistently strong.
Third we've maintained our focus on disciplined cost controls across KBR and recognized notable benefit versus forecast in the quarter.
In conjunction with this we've lowered our guidance on corporate G&amp;A to approximately $230 million from our previous guidance of between $240 million and $250 million.
As we think about our updated 2012 earnings guidance there a number of puts and takes.
We presently expect our businesses in Canada and the Middle East to do better than we originally expected while other businesses such as North American Government and Minerals will likely come in lighter than expected.
In our Hydrocarbons businesses we expect 2012 to be better than expected.
The improved execution across our portfolio of projects has largely offset the expected earnings contributions from those large projects that have slipped to the right since the beginning of the year.
Taking all this into account and coupled with the fact that the balance of 2012 largely sits in front of us today we have updated our guidance to $2.60 to $2.80 per share.
There are a number of areas of strength in the quarter.
Revenue was up 2% and job income was up 4% year-over-year excluding LogCAP reflecting the continued underlying growth of our businesses and general strength in execution.
Consolidated margins also continued to expand.
Job income margins and business group margins were both improved with particular strength in Gas Monetization where we're delivering strong execution on our projects that I previously discussed.
Our Oil and Gas business also had exceptional job income performance in the quarter where we delivered higher work volumes on a number of projects and also recorded approximately $8 million in license fees for several semi-submersible hulls that were booked in the quarter.
Turning to bookings and backlog.
In a challenging awards environment I'm pleased with our sales results in the second quarter where we're continuing to win substantial new work particularly in the non-Hydrocarbons-related business units.
In the second quarter we booked approximately $1.2 billion in new work and added approximately $400 million more in net work scope adjustments.
In the second quarter backlog was negatively impacted by approximately $300 million in foreign exchange adjustments so the total scope adjustments excluding these foreign exchange impacts were about $700 million.
For new awards our Services businesses had an exceptionally strong sales quarter.
Backlog was up 27% from the first quarter anchored by approximately $750 million in bookings across module fabrication gas processing and turnaround projects in our Canadian operations.
Some of these new bookings will be burned in 2012.
Additionally we continue to see additional opportunities on the horizon in Canada in an increasingly diverse suite of markets including fabrication oil sands mining construction turnarounds and field camp services.
Also in Services the Building Group continued to see renewed strength in their commercial institutional construction markets particularly in the residential market and added $150 million in new work in the quarter.
The Building Group expects to maintain this increased order level through the remainder of 2012.
In addition to Services we also saw a good backlog growth at Downstream up 53% sequentially driven by the addition of the newly awarded Services work on an Uzbekistan ethylene project and additional PMC work releases on the Sadara project.
As a result of these bookings we expect Downstream's performance to improve in the second half of 2012 as well.
While not a big contributor to backlog growth during the quarter we expect Power and Industrial to see an increase in second half revenues as projects sold in 2011 continue to ramp up.
Finally in our Minerals business we did not have any additional material charges in the second quarter and we remain confident that these legacy project issues are behind us.
Before I turn to our prospect update I want to highlight the significant improvements in the litigation risk profile taking place at our North American Government and Logistics business unit.
Over the past year KBR has won a series of legal victories in the convoy case the Jones assault litigation and most recently the Maseth electrocution case.
We believe existing case law is being upheld and expanded largely at the appellate level that maintains well-established protections for contractors providing support to the military in wartime environments.
We expect this growing body of case law to be applied in the remaining sodium dichromate and burn pit cases involving KBR.
Additionally in July we successfully resolved the last of our assault cases pending against KBR.
We have also successfully concluded about 70% of the outstanding False Claim Act for Qui Tam suits against KBR.
We presently have about 6 cases remaining to be resolved.
We are pleased with these continuing positive evolutions in our litigation and risk profile over the past months.
And you can find  disclosure of all material legal matters in our second quarter 10-Q filing.
Now I'd like to provide an update on the major prospects we're pursuing.
For the Kitimat LNG project we continue to be engaged with the customer on additional FEED analysis and on the EPC open book tendering as the project progresses to FID.
For the Browse LNG project we have submitted our EPC bid.
The customer has publicly stated that they will make an ultimate decision on the project by the second quarter of 2013.
For the Gorgon LNG fourth train project pre-FEED activities continue and we expect a transition into FEED by the end of 2012.
For the Anadarko LNG project in Mozambique the FEED bids are in and we anticipate awards to be announced soon.
For the Pluto LNG project KBR continues to remain engaged in discussions with the customer on the expansion project and we believe we are well positioned for the EPC work once the customer decides to move forward with this project.
Lastly for the Lobito refinery project early-stage engineering work is now complete but we continue to be active with on-site preparation.
KBR stands ready to support the customer once they have completed partner discussions and moved to FID.
We continue to believe we are well positioned on each of these major prospects.
Now I'd like to discuss some of the dynamics we are seeing in each of our major markets over the next several quarters.
In Australia we see continued strength in LNG stable activity in minerals particularly coal and iron ore and solid opportunities in infrastructure.
As we've highlighted since the beginning of the year cost challenges remain for the major projects and their timing is a little more complicated than we thought a year ago.
But we think the underlying economics of these projects remain attractive and that these projects will ultimately go forward.
In Asia we've doubled the size of our offices in Beijing which is primarily a technology sales office and in India where we do a lot of our technology process engineering execution.
These offices have been instrumental in driving a greater KBR presence in these countries.
In China we received our first Advanced Catalytic Olefins technology award as well as a couple of VCC licenses.
In Japan the shift from nuclear power generation is expected to create globally $30 billion of new LNG liquefaction investment.
In the Middle East we continue to see a significant backlog of prospects as well as projects going forward.
I commented in prior calls that KBR's backlog of prospects in the Middle East is as strong as it's been in at least 3 years.
In the first quarter we completed the acquisition of AMCDE Engineering as part of the broader Aramco GES+ initiative to create more Saudi design capability in Kingdom.
This acquisition continues to do well and presents strong opportunities for KBR going forward.
On the Sadara project all EPC contracts have been let and we're continuing to perform in Kingdom PMC and construction management oversight for the project.
We expect to see additional Sadara PMC and CM awards over the coming years and we expect to maintain a presence on the project for several more years to come.
Lastly we recently opened a KBR office in Baghdad to build on the presence we've had in Iraq from our government activities.
As one of the largest private employers in Iraq for several years now we think we can be a key player as Iraq rebuilds its energy infrastructure and ultimately its private infrastructure in the coming years following the increase in oil production.
In Africa our work is picking up with the pre-FEED work we're doing for the Anadarko Mozambique LNG project commissioning activities for the Skikda LNG project continuing discussions with the owner group on the Lobito refinery project coupled with additional offshore activity in Angola and increased activity at our South African operations.
Moving more to Europe and the former Soviet Union.
We're continuing to perform lots of work in the Caspian region with the Kashagan Chirag and Shah Deniz projects where KBR has been involved since 1996.
On the Shah Deniz project where we've been working with BP since 2001 we're hopeful for the opportunity to move from FEED to executing the detailed design and construction management for both the offshore and onshore facilities.
Work in the North Sea also remains very active for us with the West of Shetlands project.
During the second quarter we received awards totaling about $120 million for a new ethylene cracker in Uzbekistan where we will provide technology engineering and procurement services.
In South America we've completed the delivery of our design for 8 semi-submersible hulls for Petrobras and are positioning KBR for other similar work in the region.
Canada continues to do very well.
As I outlined earlier we booked approximately $750 million in new business in the quarter related to module fabrication gas processing and turnarounds.
We continue to see strong diverse opportunities and have a number of large proposals outstanding in Canada.
We are also working on 3 LNG projects in British Columbia today including Kitimat as well as the Shell and Petronas projects.
As we look at the U.S.
market we still see shale gas as a game changer in the U.S.
We continue to see a strong ammonia market where we're now tracking 12 different projects.
We are also positioning KBR for awards in the ethylene and the chemical value chains as all those facilities use natural gas as a feedstock.
We are seeing good opportunities emerging in power with environmental and combined cycle projects that are now beginning to move forward.
We are also participating in early-stage work at some of the U.S.
Gulf Coast LNG developments studying the conversion of LNG regas terminals into liquefaction facilities.
Finally over the next 3 or 4 years we see significant potential in the conversion of natural gas to diesel fuel through gas-to-liquids projects.
On the flip side we're seeing that the shale gas boom is adversely impacting the North American coal industry and that the North American businesses of Roberts &amp; Schaefer have slowed considerably as a result.
So these are some of the dynamics in our major markets and how we think they may impact KBR over the next several years.
I'm very optimistic about what all these markets hold particularly Australia the Middle East Canada and the U.S.
And I'm optimistic for KBR's continued success with the positions that we've established across those diverse markets on these different projects.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Sue to discuss KBR's financial performance and outlook in more detail.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
Our press release discussed revenue and job income of 2% and 4% year-over-year without LogCAP.
Corporate G&amp;A is also down 10% year-over-year and operating cash flow is up $50 million for the same period.
On a sequential basis revenue and job income are up 5% and 9% without LogCAP.
Corporate G&amp;A is down 5% and operating cash improved $55 million.
Let's spend a few minutes walking through some of the more significant financial items in the quarter and I will provide some color on how to think about a number of the key areas that are important takeaways from our call.
The first is corporate general and administrative expenses.
As we've highlighted previously disciplined management of our overhead cost is a major focus for KBR.
Corporate overhead in the second quarter was $52 million down $6 million or 10% driven by improvements in a number of areas with the most significant improvement in IT and real estate.
As we look forward to the second half of 2012 we expect our continued focus on prudent cost control will enable us to drive incremental improvement versus our original guidance range of $240 million to $250 million.
We now expect 2012 corporate G&amp;A to come in at approximately to $230 million a reduction of $10 million to $20 million versus our original guidance.
The increase in corporate G&amp;A versus the first half run rate will be driven by a ramp-up in ERP costs as expected as well as costs associated with the expansion of our leadership team in Australia related to our newly created Group President Australia and Asia position.
The second is our overall effective tax rate which was 14% in the quarter primarily due to favorable tax rate differentials on foreign earnings statute expirations on domestic tax matters and a true-up of other tax positions.
Looking out towards the back half of the year we see a few potential puts and takes at the tax line item which we believe will land our full year 2012 tax rate at approximately 21%.
The third is KBR's balance sheet which at the end of 2012 remains strong with -- which at the end of June 2012 remained strong with cash and equivalents of $824 million down $13 million from the previous quarter.
During the second quarter cash provided from operations was $52 million.
Also in Q2 we saw an increase of $57 million in cash from our consolidated JVs.
KBR deployed approximately $50 million in 2Q on share repurchases dividends pension contributions and CapEx.
Since March 31 2012 we have repurchased approximately 1.1 million shares for approximately $27 million under our sweeping program and a 10 million share repurchase authorization.
This includes 696 000 shares at an average price of $24.29 per share purchased in Q2 as reported in the public filings as well as an additional 436 000 shares at an average price of $24.12 per share in the month of July.
Our 10 million share authorization has approximately 7.3 million shares remaining as of today.
Let me spend a bit more time on cash.
We have $824 million on the balance sheet of which $251 million is in joint ventures.
The remaining KBR cash is split approximately 1/3 domestic cash and 2/3 offshore cash.
Our domestic cash is utilized for U.S.
acquisitions dividends share repurchases and capital spending as well as domestic operating needs.
We will continue to be diligent in monitoring and optimizing domestic cash in our deployment activities.
We have a few areas for improvement in domestic cash.
Our 10-Q discusses $99 million in claims with the U.S.
government for unfunded work performed at the request of our customer.
These claims are in our unbilled receivables.
We also have $105 million in deobligated funds for Form 1s issued over time.
We will work diligently to resolve the incremental funding in the near-term and longer-term resolve the Form 1 issues.
The Form 1s are included in accounts receivable.
KBR also has opportunity in unbilled receivable in our other business groups.
We have reviewed this area for improvement with our management team and expect to see added focus in improvement in the back half of 2012.
Some unimproved change orders will take longer to resolve.
However $43 million of the June 30 balance has been approved subsequent to June 30.
The final item I wanted to touch on is to provide more visibility into how you might want to think about labor cost absorption for the balance of the year.
In Q2 labor cost absorption expense was $6 million.
This is a pretty good assumption to use for the next 2 quarters.
Lastly I'd like to briefly review the key elements of our guidance range of $2.60 to $2.80.
Bill outlined the way we're thinking about the key markets with respect to KBR and some of the puts and takes to consider so I'll take just a moment to recap some specifics you'll need for modeling purposes going forward.
G&amp;A expenses of approximately $230 million for the full year 2012; LogCAP project revenues between $375 million and $450 million for 2012; effective tax rate of approximately 21% for full year 2012; capital expenditures of approximately $80 million; and a share count of approximately 148 million shares for full year 2012.
And now I'll turn it back over to Bill for his final remarks.
Bill? Thank you Sue.
As we look at the KBR business we think there is strength in diversity.
We have 14 market-facing business units that give KBR a chance to play in a lot of different spaces.
And while it's very difficult to have each of these businesses performing at peak market trends it's also good to have several of them performing well at the same time which is where I think we are today.
While we do not believe we are firing on all cylinders today we believe we've spread our bets reasonably well on a geographic basis on an industry basis and on a customer basis.
And I'm very pleased with the opportunity set I see in front of us as a result of this diversification.
While we see some challenges ahead and we continue to have many moving parts in our portfolio we also see several new and expanded opportunities emerging coupled with the strong execution by the KBR team driving tangible financial results.
As a result we feel confident in updating our guidance range to $2.60 to $2.80 per share.
We'll now open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Bill maybe you could characterize the momentum of the Hydrocarbon markets versus last quarter because you talked about sort of a challenging booking environment but also Hydrocarbon is better than expected.
And we kind of know what the large projects are doing.
So how does it look versus last quarter in the context of the global uncertainty that we're seeing out there? Well when we look at the projects I think we've been focusing on the beginning of the year those larger ones have definitely moved to the right.
I think we've been pretty nimble in moving tension to other parts of the value chain.
Some of the success we've had in Downstream has been good.
And we continue to see good bidding environments in Oil and Gas.
Downstream we're reloading some of the proposals.
But I'm optimistic with the continued evolutions of our markets particularly in North America where we could see some growth there.
Technology continues to be strong and our proposal volume there is up significantly since the end of last year.
So we're really driving a lot of sales activity there.
We've seen obviously on the gas mon business we've talked about a lot of the large prospects and I think they'll eventually go forward and I think we're well positioned for them.
It's just a matter of when they get there.
The other thing we've looked at too is we spent a lot of money on proposal budgets in the first half that we think is going to trend off a little bit in the second half not that we're shying away from submitting proposals but we had a couple of fairly significant proposals in Oil and Gas and Downstream that we've been working on also some of the continuing work in the gas mon business.
So I think the bidding environment is -- for the next 6 months I'm certainly more optimistic about what I see in the Oil and Gas side and Downstream and Technology and in gas mon.
But overall given the portfolio of opportunities we're looking at both with the geographic diversification as well as the business universification I feel that it's pretty positive and time will tell.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful Bill.
Shifting gears just focusing on gas mon.
Obviously you had a strong quarter in margins.
Maybe you could break out how much was the change in the cost-to-complete of the LNG project.
And even if you can't I guess the question is are double-digit margins sustainable as you run off Skikda and Escravos and then they are ending relatively soon correct? I think the bulk of the work will be finished on those projects by year end.
We'll have some tail into 2013.
But if you think about the revenues that were bringing from Skikda and Escravos those were a pretty good portion of the revenues on gas mon.
And as those expire the lower margins that those projects have -- we've had historically will help lift the margins.
The other thing we've got to think about Andy is we really haven't really achieved any cost-to-cost progress to date on INPEX Ichthys yet.
And with that being an equity project I really think the margins are going to easily be double-digit and will continue to expand.
And really the challenge will be how do we deal with Gorgon where we've commented on the volumes that the margins that we're seeing on Gorgon.
We are hitting the numbers that we expect.
And then the equity contributions from Ichthys that will drive that up.
Now on the other side if we get some of these other projects where we're doing the full EPC you may bring it down.
But I think overall that's good news because the overall margin dollars will be stronger if we're able to do that.
We'll take our next question from Joe Ritchie at Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So maybe just talking specifically you gave us a lot of details on the projects and the opportunities.
But maybe Bill you can kind of force-rank the opportunities over the next 6 months.
Or do you really think your backlog is going to see opportunities for growth I guess across Canada? Some of the opportunities here on the shale side I guess the near-term opportunities will probably be on the ammonia plants.
And maybe you can talk about the Middle East more specifically.
Boy that's a tall order.
I think I'm going to give up rank-ordering stuff because obviously if I had 20/20 foresight we might have taken a different approach on some of the big elephants.
What I will say Joe as we look at our proposal volumes in Canada that's continuing to grow.
I mean the fact that we booked a lot of work does not mean we've exhausted all the projects we're chasing.
In fact we've seen quarter-over-quarter growth in the proposals outstanding in Canada.
In the Middle East work we've been looking at some of the -- some projects in Oil and Gas that we're very excited about.
We're teaming with some contractors to bid EPC on scopes of work that allow us to take a little bit bigger share of a project than we previously have taken on some of the engineering only projects.
I made some comments also about Shah Deniz where we're hopeful that we have the opportunity to move into both the design and construction management of the onshore and offshore facilities which is a little bit broader scope.
We've talked in some of the prior announcements about our relationship with Höegh and the fact that we've looked at some projects with them engineering-wise offshore Israel as well as offshore Australia.
In Downstream it is a pursuit that we're looking at.
The ammonia plants would be first to go.
I think as we look at some of the ethylene plants we'll see some opportunities for Services where some of the players who have technologies that are differentiated from our technologies we're looking at being a construction partner for them.
So we're optimistic about some of the awards and certainly these are large awards because the plants are significant there.
So from a U.S.
standpoint I'm thinking Downstream more towards ammonia the U.S.
Construction business should be very active.
When you get into the Middle East Oil and Gas and Downstream should continue to play there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's really helpful.
And I guess one follow-up question and maybe touching on Andy's question earlier on margins.
You talked earlier about further opportunities on project closeouts.
I was wondering if maybe you could help quantify.
Or at least are the opportunities as large in the second half of 2012 versus what you were able to book in the second quarter of this year? Well I think there are areas that we believe are still out there.
We've commented about some of the difficulties we had in administering the Skikda contract when Sonatrach went through all of its personnel changes and for a period of time there really wasn't anybody for us to address on the other side of the table about issues that invariably arise on projects.
And it's going to take us some time to work through those.
And we still see those opportunities in front of us.
I think that there will be some tough discussions but I think we've got good positions as we've looked at the risk allocations from the initial contract.
And I think that now that the situation is much more stable in terms of staffing as well as the stability of the people at Sonatrach we'll be able to get some objective discussions and work back maybe some of the uncertainties that have arisen over the past couple of years.
We'll take our next question from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So your guidance suggests an earnings pickup in the second half.
And I guess you've got some SG&amp;A and tax headwinds but you mentioned some proposal cost tailwinds.
Can you just tell us which of those fundamental areas within the business do you expect to ramp up in the second half versus the first half? Well I think the comments that we made in the script Canada we're expecting to be better because of the burn rate on the sales that we've achieved this year.
We're expecting Downstream to pick up in the second half.
I made some comments about Power as the bookings they made last year are ramping up and I'm referring principally to the SWA EPC project down in Florida.
We also had a couple of one-time events the first half that adversely impacted the North American Government business that we're not expecting to repeat.
We have the Tamimi case where we had to take a $28 million charge which we did in the second quarter.
We 8-K-ed it in early May.
We don't expect that to repeat.
In fact we think the logic was flawed and are appealing the judgment there.
We did have a little bit of an offset on that not a full offset but partial on -- it's not a LogCAP award but a recognition that we can recover overhead related to corporate facilities expenses according to Federal Acquisition Regulations on the LogCAP project.
And so we will see a pickup in NAGL.
I think we'll continue to see strong execution across the gas mon business and Technology.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then on the ammonia plants how should we think about the opportunity set for KBR in terms of technology licensing versus EPC? And I guess with corn nearly $8 I mean have you seen increased customer motivation for some of these plants in the last couple of months? Well I think the first part of your question I think the Technology guys generally command about a 50% share of market on ammonia licenses which we see no reason that that should change.
There's nothing that's happened in the market there.
Our Downstream guys are obviously competing with international players on EP so we're hopeful that we'll get our share.
I don't suggest it's going to be 50% share of that market.
I'd be very happy with 1 or 2 of the 12 that we're pursuing.
In terms of the changes in the corn dynamics I think in the past we've talked about tracking 8 ammonia plants now we're tracking 12.
So the market does appear to be responding a bit.
But we're trying to be very careful and thoughtful about how we pursue these projects and try to maximize our positions across those projects that we believe are going to go forward based on the merits of the project and spend less time on those that might be a little bit more speculative.
We'll take our next question from Jamie Cook from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Two follow-up questions.
One Sue with regards to the guidance range and what's implied in the back half of the year can you just speak to what your assumptions are in terms of -- or do we expect -- do new projects have to hit for you to make your numbers? Or is it based on what you already have in backlog? And what the expectations are for the projects that have been pushed to the right? And then just one clarification and I think I know the answer.
But the $28 million charge that wasn't in your previous guidance I want to confirm that.
And then was it $10 million gain in your previous guidance? Because that speaks to what the earnings trajectory will be going forward.
Okay.
Well let me start out with the guidance and the new range.
I think Jamie the way to think about it is when we look at the first half and particularly the second quarter performance we saw good performance coming out of a number of the projects in gas mon.
And we obviously went through and overachieved on those.
In the full year as we had looked at some of the major projects and in fact the comment we've made during the prepared remarks was that essentially our performance on projects today offset the projects that have moved to the right so thereby balancing where we are from a guidance standpoint.
I think that's all great news.
And again when you think about it and think back to what Bill had just said earlier we've got businesses that are going to have a better second half from a revenue and margin standpoint with Downstream with Technology with Power and with our Canadian operations.
And all of that helps solidify that piece of the puzzle.
In terms of the Tamimi case...
Research Division</strong> But wait Sue before we head to that I understand the offset there.
But there aren't any additional projects that you expect to hit that at this point aren't delayed that are embedded in your second half guidance.
I just want to make sure -- you know what I mean that we don't have additional earnings risk on project that you think is going to move forward that hasn't been pushed to the right yet.
You know what I mean? No no.
Research Division</strong> So there's nothing -- so basically you should be able to hit your numbers assuming the projects that you have in backlog continue at the rate that you've projected? Our new work expectations are normal in the second half.
They're very low because we only have 6 months left to book them and then burn them.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
I just wanted to be clear.
Sorry.
And then go ahead Sue.
Okay.
And then on Tamimi Tamimi would not have been in our guidance.
It was a court ruling that came out in early May as we announced.
It certainly wouldn't have been what we expected.
As we said we're appealing the ruling on that.
So that was not in any of our guidance numbers.
And in terms of the $10 million that was part of our incurred cost submissions.
And that just like anything else that's in the business there are some things that are positive and some things that are negative.
This one -- and we just happened to call that out for purposes of what we were looking for in the second quarter.
But that $10 million relates to incurred cost statements for 2006 to 2009.
And we're revising those incurred cost statements.
We'll take our next question from Scott Levine of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So you're focusing on Bill some of the markets it sounds like that are not performing up to your hopes in the North American Government side and perhaps Minerals as well.
And is the issue just your traditional government gridlock with regard to order flow or are your expectations that trends will improve there? And maybe some color with regard to what you're seeing on the Minerals side in terms of any slowdown from customers in response to recent commodity volatility? Well I think on the North American Government business I wouldn't call it gridlock-as-usual.
I think there's a lot of uncertainty in the Pentagon right now regarding sequestration.
Our proposal volumes at North American Government are 50% higher than they were at year end outstanding proposals which tells me people aren't acting on stuff.
And there's a lot of -- and we see that in our unbilled.
They're slow to react.
I think there's a whole lot of creeping paralysis in terms of what does this mean to the broader defense community given sequestration that's on the table.
So that's why -- that covers a lot of my comments about the slowness in the North American business.
Within the Minerals we're still very optimistic about our work overseas and the opportunities we see in Australia and Indonesia and India.
But I did make my comments around the impact that the shale gas has had on the North American coal industry and that knock-on effect of the slowness in the coal industry as it affects the North American material handling business for Roberts &amp; Schaefer.
So that's what coloring down the Minerals outlook is our performance in the North American market where we just see a much lower order flow.
In fact we've had awards that have been canceled that were disappointing to us that we can't do anything about but that's just the state of the coal business and from our perspective in the North American market.
Research Division</strong> So outside that North American coal issue broadly speaking you're not seeing much of a slowdown throughout the world? Where we are which is we see activity in India we see Indonesia and Australia we think it's as stable as it's been previously for us.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then as my follow-on you highlighted your last Investor Day new office openings in Australia Angola Kazakhstan.
I mean how are the new offices working? And are there other markets maybe that you're targeting that you aren't really active today that you may look to get more active in the future? We did conclude the -- successfully the Saudi office.
We've had several awards several hundred thousand hours of awards from Aramco under the GES+ so that's done as what we have expected.
The Luanda office was instrumental in some of the offshore work we've won in Angola.
We're opening the Baghdad office as I mentioned.
And if you'd like an invite to the office opening I could arrange that for you.
We talked about a Rio office and we're continuing to assess our best entry point there.
We've had a gentleman down there for 4 months now that's been looking at office space and looking at prospects.
So I think the objectives we set out in our Analyst and Investor Day regarding those the 3 offices in Saudi Iraq and Rio I think we're on course for getting that execution done in 2012 as expected.
We'll take our next question from Will Gabrielski with Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Sue I wanted to follow up on your cash comments.
And maybe you could talk a little bit more about how much cash you actually view in the U.S.
right now as available for repurchases and dividends every quarter? And then maybe some options you might have should you pursue M&amp;A or a bigger buyback program or something to that effect? How willing you might be to use the balance sheet and maybe add some depth.
Well I think as you think about the cash and you think about the piece that is onshore all of that cash is going to be in various states.
So for instance some of it in our pooled category and is available to go through on the repurchases.
I don't think we want to be specific about that because that's an opportunity for us to utilize and deploy our cash efficiently.
I think what's important as you think about that 1/3 of the cash outside of the JV is being in the U.S.
is I talked about what is in unbilled receivables.
That is primarily U.S.
cash.
And that is cash that we want to collect.
That's an important element of how we run the business and that has to be first and foremost on our mind.
Secondly as we think about what's different about cash in the future we do have cash that we can take out of some of our foreign operations.
And in fact in the 10-Q we are going to routinely pay tax and bring back some of our Australia earnings as we move forward just because that's going to get to be a big part of our earnings.
And then in terms of what else do you do in terms of acquisitions if it's a U.S.
acquisition you obviously need U.S.
cash.
And certainly we'd look at all of the different elements for that including debt.
And if it's foreign we'll use some of the foreign cash.
So I think all the answers are pretty logical as you look at -- as how you would manage that cash in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Then my follow-up Bill maybe you could walk through Gorgon a little bit.
There's been some news about cost increases.
And I know you're pretty well-inflated in your contracts.
But I'm just wondering if there's been any major change in strategy around that project and timing on Gorgon 4 or not and what you're doing maybe to help the project move along at this point? Yes.
Will on Gorgon obviously it's a very complicated project particularly from a logistics standpoint.
First of all as we look at the project we're working towards getting Train 1 up and producing gas in 2014 as the original schedule has.
And we've got our plans in place to drive some better productivity in the field to help us achieve that.
We have seen some increased scope at KBR.
I think some of the logistics that we had initially planned and the assumptions related to it were probably a little bit understated so we've seen some additional work hours come to the project.
We also are seeing a higher percentage of KBR people on the project which has also given us a pickup in the IGP earnings that -- or our profit overhead recoveries that were better than we started the year with.
Certainly some of the aspects when you look at a percent complete some things are moving out in time.
We still think that the volume that we have at Gorgon is going to continue for at present levels for a while.
But I think it's still working forward.
We've got a great working relationship with our integrated project management team with Chevron.
We're addressing all the various fronts of work.
We've got some of the first modules that have been set on the island.
We're largely out of the ground from a civil structural standpoint.
And as we continue to knock those things off we'll address other aspects such as mechanical and the other elements related to the ultimate start-up of that project.
We'll take our next question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> My first question is really in regards to the underlying business outside of this very large projects.
It seems Bill that you're pretty confident on really how those markets are shaping up and you alluded to the 14 end markets in essence.
So can you sort of reflect a bit qualitatively on as we look outside of 2012? And if some of the larger opportunities that you see out there sort of push more out on the right how would the growth outlook look for KBR outside of those large projects? Okay.
Well we've talked about some of the additional opportunities we're looking at in Oil and Gas both around my comments on Shah Deniz and some of the work in the Middle East on projects with fabricators as well as the Höegh work.
So there's a lot of opportunities we're seeing there for us.
Downstream we've talked about the opportunities in the U.S around shale gas but also the Middle East and the recurrent work we're seeing there.
Technology has been a good business it has been growing 20%-plus a year for us for the last couple of years and we're comfortable that we're going to hit that mark again in 2012.
As we look at our government businesses we think they're in a decline for obvious reasons as the war efforts slow down.
And as a result we're probably not going to report our guidance for LogCAp next year because I think it's gotten to a point where it's immaterial.
We are optimistic from where we sit today about our P&amp;I business Power and Industrial.
We had a lot of good bookings last year that are working their way into the P&amp;L over the next couple of years.
We've got a series of bids that we're working on and we feel good about the bids.
And I do think that P&amp;I can be a much different organization size-wise than it is today and continues to grow just based on the success they've enjoyed over the last 18 months.
Minerals we're starting from a small platform.
And so any growth we'll have in Minerals will be large in percentage terms.
And I do think the skill sets that KBR brings in terms of complex logistics remote location harsh environment execution do play well in the Minerals market.
And I think we'll see those projects begin coming to KBR as we continue to work with our customers principally today in Australia and Indonesia.
Infrastructure is a pretty stable market for us in Australia.
We do see opportunities to expand that in the Middle East.
We've had some successes already in the Middle East with the Doha Expressway project with all the work we're doing.
And we expect as they continue to move towards the World Cup in 2022 that you may see some expansions in that work.
U.S.
Construction is I think poised to really pick up with the increased spending we're going to see in the U.S..
Canada I've said a lot about Canada and I'm pleased with where we are.
And we talked about the Building Group being one where we think we've seen the bottom and that we're starting to book work.
And that business will start growing again.
Industrial Services is performing stably and we hope that they'll be able to grow their business but probably not to the same degree of growth that we would expect to see in Canada Construction P&amp;I and Minerals for example.
So that's qualitatively kind of a walk around the world for KBR.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
Just a brief follow-up.
Some of your peers and even yourselves at your Analyst Day talked a bit about Africa.
And I know right now the big opportunities you're looking at there are more LNG-oriented in a sense.
But if you really look outside of China and India how excited are you as of right now in Africa being a longer-term opportunity maybe a couple of years or 3 years-plus out for you? Well I think just if you look back over the last couple of years in Africa we don't think there's been a lot of work going forward.
I think we will see work go forward -- obviously the offshore Mozambique work is the most visible but we'll see continued work releases in Angola for the offshore.
We're still optimistic on the refinery.
We think that Sonatrach now that they've gotten a lot of their internal issues behind them is going to probably resume doing projects in the upstream side.
So we do see things working.
I commented on some increased activity we're seeing in what is a relatively smaller office for KBR in South Africa.
So it does appear there is some stuff going on and we're happy to see Africa start showing signs of growth again.
It's hard to call kind of where Nigeria will end up or where that will clear up.
But I think it's still a lot of economic opportunity in Nigeria and eventually it will be seized upon by the government to create the wealth for their population that they're seeking to do.
We'll take our next question from Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
My first question is on Oil and Gas.
You talked about a lot of prospects there coming up.
You had talked about becoming a bigger player in that business.
I was just curious you talked about partnering.
Do you see that strategy as being one that's going to really kind of satisfy your ambitions? Or do you anticipate you're going to have to do something more maybe increase M&amp;A purchase some assets? Maybe just give a little bit of color on that.
Well I think we're looking at one step at a time of trying to grow the business.
I've commented previously it had been primarily a topside engineering design business with some semi-submersible designs out of GVA.
We do see good opportunities for us to collect additional economic rent doing EPC work through higher margins because of the risk we undertake but also broader scopes of supply in terms of some procurement management as well as construction management.
I think the efforts with Höegh do get us a play in some of the offshore LNG floating LNG concepts.
So we are really looking at taking the strengths of KBR and leveraging them into a broader array of opportunities that are typically larger and provide better opportunities for us.
If we can get all that accomplished I think I'll be very pleased in the next 3 or 4 years.
In terms of buying stuff we always are on the look to see what we can do to create value for our shareholders.
But really I think a lot of the opportunities we see today for us are on the organic side and we are applying our resources as we described in the Investor and Analyst Day last year towards maximizing our platform on projects largely through our organic growth strategy.
Got you.
And secondly on Power you talked about both building grassroot gas plants and also environmental retrofits as being a big opportunity.
And you're seeing a lot of bidding and quoting activity.
One of the large utilities yesterday talked about scaling back their CapEx largely due to I guess lower requirements that they see in regards to retrofit for environmental reasons.
I'm just curious have you seen a change in the opportunity on that market specifically? Maybe just a little color on what you're seeing there.
To answer your question no we haven't seen any real changes in our prospect versus the opportunity set.
I know that when utilities announced a lot of their environmental needs under the MACT and some of the other rules that were talked about by EPA you had TVA talking about $20 billion of expenditure.
I think AEP Duke Southern all had very large amounts of dollars.
And even if some of the utilities are starting to scale back a little bit it's still starting from a very very large number when you look at the North American fleet.
And we also see combined cycle plants as being a pretty good opportunity for us.
When we look at just on the -- we're kind of working on 3 proposals right now in Power and 2 of them are environmental and 1 is a combined cycle.
So I think that market is still strong.
I think there's a lot of work to be done.
And I think people still are going to be looking for ways not just the utilities but I think in terms of a broader group to continue to find ways to keep coal relevant in the U.S.
in an environmentally acceptable fashion.
We'll take our next question from George O'Leary of Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick LNG question.
Kind of given KBR's global footprint within the LNG subsector could you talk about which LNG markets from a geographic standpoint you guys feel are more attractive than others over the next say 12 to 18 months? And maybe you bucket those between the U.S.
versus Canada and Australia and then some of the African projects that may move forward.
The next 12 to 18 months let's say Australia and the U.S.
would be my top picks just given the maturity of the developments.
We've talked for sometime about Browse and Pluto.
There's also Arrow Gorgon 4.
In Canada we talked about the 3 projects we're involved in in British Columbia.
I think the U.S.
is a little bit further behind.
First I believe that all the gas in Canada is considered as being stranded and is not going to find its historical market in the U.S.
because of what we're turning over in the U.S.
markets for shale.
And then I still think you'll still have some discussion between the government and the tension between the American manufacturing association that will want to keep all the gas for the manufacturers here versus the constituencies that will want to export it.
I think that debate is a little different here than what you see in Canada which has always been an exporter of energy.
So those are the top -- so U.S.
Canada are the top 2.
I'd say much longer-term U.S.
-- excuse me Australia and Canada are the top tier and then the second tier would be U.S.
and East Africa.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then you mentioned shale just kind of following on with that and talking about kind of a robust Downstream market.
Is there any incremental opportunity within the refining space given what we're seeing from light shale oil production in places like the Bakken and maybe the Eagle Ford? You're seeing more of that light oil that condensate come online.
Is there any opportunity there within maybe potentially doing some refinery work? I think there might be but that's more of a theoretical comment based on the opportunity.
And anything we're looking at today George is not of a magnitude that is on our screen as being unique and high-potential.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no proposal out there yet? I mean we may have some but certainly not that I'm aware of and that it would be of a magnitude worth talking about in this form.
And due to time constraints that was our last question for today.
I'd like to turn the conference back over to Bill for any concluding remarks.
I'd like to thank all of you for the attention to our call today.
We appreciate the questions and interest in KBR.
And if you have further questions I think Zac and Rob will have time today to help address any questions we couldn't get to on the hour that we were allotted.
But thank you very much for joining us and we look forward to our call next quarter.
Thank you.
And that does conclude today's conference.
Again thank you for your participation today.
Good day and welcome to the KBR's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call hosted by KBR.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] For opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Zac Nagle Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning and welcome to KBR's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is also being webcast and a replay will be available on KBR's website for 7 days at kbr.com.
The press release announcing third quarter results is also available on KBR's website.
Joining me today are: Bill Utt Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sue Carter Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call Bill will provide an overview of KBR's third quarter operating results highlighting the number of key areas.
He will then take you through several of our strategic initiatives as well as several major prospects KBR is pursuing.
Sue will then provide an overview of key financial takeaways for today's call.
Lastly before moving the call for Q&amp;A Bill is going to provide brief closing comments.
After our prepared remarks we will open the floor for questions.
Before turning the call over to Bill I would like to remind our audience that today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting views of our future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in KBR's third quarter press release issued last night KBR's Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30 2012 and KBR's current reports on Form 8-K.
You can find all these documents at kbr.com.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bill.
Bill? Thanks Zac and good morning everyone.
First I want to talk about the $178 million noncash goodwill impairment that KBR took in the third quarter.
As we stated over the past few quarters KBR is well-positioned for many opportunities arising from the development of North American shale gas resources.
We've talked about both engineering and construction opportunities for ammonia ethylene power LNG and gas to liquids projects in North America.
We've also discussed the adverse impact to the North American coal industry and by extension the solid fuel material handling markets of Roberts &amp; Schaefer related to the present and expected long-term low natural gas prices arising from shale gas resource development.
Over the past few quarters the Roberts &amp; Schaefer business line has seen the cancellation of awarded projects as well as the cancellation of potential new projects in North America.
These changed market conditions have caused KBR to revise our North American revenue forecast at Roberts &amp; Schaefer.
This reassessment has led KBR to take a noncash goodwill impairment charge at our Minerals business unit during the third quarter in the amount of $178 million.
KBR remains enthusiastic and committed to the global minerals market and firmly believes that the people in legacy's track record of performance will contain to drive KBR's continued expansion in the global minerals market.
Next I would also like to discuss a few of the headwinds we encountered during the quarter both Roberts &amp; Schaefer and in our U.S.
Construction business.
During the third quarter KBR took an $8 million charge related to a legacy Roberts &amp; Schaefer project the same project we took charges against in the first quarter.
We are clearly disappointed we did not make the progress we had expected coming out of the Q1 charges to eliminate additional charges.
Charges in the quarter included an additional $5.1 million for schedule of liquidated damages and $2.7 million for additional cost to complete the project.
Presently KBR has fully funded all LDs for the project which is now forecasted to be completed in March 2013.
At U.S.
Construction provisions on 2 projects were also taken during the quarter.
The first charge taken was for a paper project in Louisiana where KBR took a $10 million provision during the third quarter.
The project which is scheduled for completion by year-end was adversely impacted by both Hurricane Isaac as well as the discovery of lead contamination at the site which adversely impacted our labor costs and productivity on the project.
We are in discussions with the customer regarding settlement of these increased costs to complete the project.
The second charge taken was for a power project in Georgia at a site where KBR has worked for some time.
During the quarter an $11 million provision was taken related to increased wage and per diem costs and lower productivities related to higher than historic levels of turnover on the project.
We believe these provisions now reflect the labor reality facing this project over its remaining life.
The project is presently 60% complete and scheduled for completion during the fourth quarter of 2013.
Now with this discussion behind us I would like to talk about several positive events which transpired during the quarter.
Overall KBR was able to deliver a strong third quarter performance despite the headwinds I discussed.
Excluding goodwill charges KBR delivered fully diluted earnings of $0.65 per share.
KBR continues to see a great performance on number of our LNG projects.
During the quarter we saw continued strong project execution achievement of several project incentives success in closing out a few legacy issues on an LNG project and our first solid contributions from the Ichthys LNG project.
This resulted in a very strong income growth and margin expansion in our Gas Monetization business unit and as Sue will discuss later in her prepared remarks some of this increase in margin is ultimately backed out in the noncontrolling interest line on the income statement.
Revenue excluding LogCAP was up 2% year-over-year reflecting the continued growth in our other businesses.
Consolidated job income was up 13% year-over-year and job income margins reached 16% with particular strength in Gas Monetization and Oil and Gas.
Backlog remains strong and we booked approximately $1.6 billion in new work and net work scope adjustments.
Our book-to-bill ratio for the quarter was approximately 80%.
Downstream had a particularly strong bookings quarter with backlog up 18% primarily related to new work on a number of projects in Saudi Arabia.
Coming off of strong second-quarter bookings Canada continues to have an excess of $1 billion in proposals outstanding.
Building Group continue to see renewed strength in their light manufacturing and residential markets driving an incremental $151 million in new work in the quarter on top of $150 million of new work added in Q2.
Now we'd like to comment on several of our strategic initiatives as well as several major prospects KBR is pursuing.
We are continuing to build a strong pipeline of pre-FEEDs and FEEDs where KBR presently has 19 ongoing across the Hydrocarbons business group.
Approximately half of which are in our Gas Monetization business unit.
An example of one of the newer pre-FEEDs is the award for the Statoil Tanzania LNG project we announced earlier this month.
We believe these pre-FEEDs and FEEDS position KBR well for a diversified set of future growth opportunities.
For the Kitimat LNG project we continue to be engaged with the customer on additional FEED analysis and on the open book EPC tendering of the project.
We were advised by the customer that FID is now expected in the second half of 2013.
For the Browse LNG project our EPC bid was submitted last quarter.
The customer's publicly stated they will make their ultimate decision on the project by the second quarter of 2013.
For the Gorgon LNG fourth train project extended pre-FEED activities continue and we expect a transition into FEED by mid-2013.
For the Mozambique LNG project the FEED bids are in and we anticipate awards to be announced soon.
For the Pluto LNG project KBR remains engaged in discussions with the customer on the expansion project.
KBR is ready once the customer decides to move forward with the project.
Regarding our other projects in Gas Monetization at Escravos construction should be wrapping up this year and we expect to start up and commission the project early next year.
At Skikda we're ready to put first gas in the LNG plant and expect to commission the plant during the early part of 2013.
At Gorgon we continue to progress well with our subcontractors and we expect to bring the first train online in 2014.
Turning to the Ichthys project.
We're announcing the project beginning to impact the P&amp;L as the project gradually ramps up.
We expect 2013 to be stronger and 2014 and 2015 to reach peak earnings for the project.
In her comments Sue will discuss our further thoughts on how the street should think about P&amp;L modeling for the project as well as discuss the net open fixed-price positions in our Ichthys LNG-related backlog.
At our Oil and Gas business unit our strategy has been to expand KBR's share of wallet in our projects.
To drive this greater share of wallet we are performing a FEED for the Shah Deniz project in the Caspian where we expect to do EPCM for both the onshore and the offshore portions of this project when the project achieves FID in early 2013.
We are also pursuing with a partner a few integrated project delivery opportunities in the Persian Gulf namely the ZADCO and SAP projects.
Bids have been submitted on the ZADCO project and we expect to submit the SAP bid shortly.
Oil &amp; Gas is also involved in 3 floating LNG developments 2 with Hod and 1 with Suez on the Bonaparte project.
At Downstream we continue to be very active with PMC and CM work on the Yanbu Refinery Project extensive PMC work on the Sadara Project and PMC work on the Jazan refinery project FEED.
The Saudi-based KBR-AMCDE joint venture allows KBR to further expand our footprint in Saudi Arabia and to possibly see project execution opportunities in the $300 million to $1 billion range.
Downstream also continues to track several ammonia EPC projects in North America.
KBR is involved in 1 FEED for a U.S.
ammonia plant which we hope will move forward with EPC in the first half of 2013 as well as pursuing 3 other FEEDS in the U.S.
which are expected to be awarded by the end of this year.
Additionally we are bidding an EBIC ammonia project with -- also with an anticipated award in the first half of 2013.
At technology we have doubled the size of our technology design offices in both India and China.
Technology is also seeing a lot of license activity for ammonia projects in North America and we announced this quarter an award for the Iowa fertilizer project the first ammonia plant to be built in the U.S.
in 25 years.
At Services as I mentioned earlier we continue to see a great rebound in Canada both in terms of our awards to date as well as with our prospect of over $1 billion in proposals outstanding.
At the building group we continue to see strengthening in our light manufacturing and residential markets.
In the IGP business we think NAGL revenues have bottomed out.
We expect our other non-CAP [ph] government business growth to offset any potential for further declines in the LogCAP-related work.
Further my comments from last quarter I am extremely pleased by the continued success KBR has achieved in resolving several of the high-profile losses surrounding our military support businesses.
In the 2013 to 2014 time frame we expect IGDSS to shrink a bit related to troop wind downs in Afghanistan and the completion of construction activities for the Allenby &amp; Connaught project.
However we are also excited with a number of new opportunities being uncovered at IGDSS in Libya in public/private partnerships in the U.K.
and Australia for camp support in the Minerals market and in outsourcing opportunities at both the Ministry of Defense and with the local police forces in the U.K.
At our Infrastructure business unit we continue to see stable but solid growing markets in Australia and in the U.S.
We are most excited with a suite of opportunities we see in the Middle East for roads railroads bridges man camps and airports.
At our Power business unit we currently have several multi-hundred million dollars bids outstanding which we hope will build on a very successful sales year we had in 2011.
We are continuing to position this business as an EPC contract for pollution   control facilities and new combined-cycle projects and believe KBR has a favorable value proposition in this space.
Minerals has been a bit of a challenge at a few of our legacy projects and the challenges to the Roberts &amp; Schaefer business related to North America shale gas developments.
We do however believe our Minerals business unit represents -- presents KBR with an opportunity to deliver high revenue growth over the coming years.
We continue to see many solid long-term opportunities and we remain confident in our ability to compete and win in this marketplace.
We are presently executing a number of early studies that position KBR well to the pre-feasibility and feasibility studies and ultimately EPCM projects that will enable us to develop a solid pipeline for this business over the coming years.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Sue to discuss KBR's financial performance and outlook in more detail.
Sue? Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
We covered the highlights of our businesses in the press release and then won't repeat those items.
I would however like to summarize my view of the P&amp;L and balance sheet.
First on the segments.
Our Hydrocarbon segment had strong performance in all units.
Gas Monetization had good performance on Gorgon Skikda Ichthys Escravos and starting the new Tanzania LNG FEED.
Margins were a strong 18.2%.
Downstream had bookings and adjustments of $265 million for the quarter with awards on Yanbu Jazan Sasol and new work releases on Sadara.
The IGP segment performed well and as expected with the exception of the goodwill and project charges in minerals.
The goodwill impairment charges primarily driven by deterioration in economic conditions in the mineral markets globally but primarily North America and less than expected actual and projected performance for the minerals reporting unit.
The combination of these trigger factors caused the evaluation of goodwill for Minerals in Q3.
The charge has no effect on KBR's business operations cash balances or operating cash flows.
We are evaluating overhead reductions and an office closure in Europe for our Minerals business unit.
Q4 charges associated with these activities are expected to be less than $5 million.
Service's performance is somewhat overshadowed by the U.S.
Construction charges.
Canada and industrial services had good sequential revenue growth and margin expansion.
Canada grew 22% in revenue and 54% in job income and industrial services grew 7% in revenue and 30% in job income from Q2 of 2012.
KBR under absorbed its labor costs in our centralized engineering pool by $8 million as we balanced the talent needs for projects we see coming in the current work on hand.
G&amp;A was $56 million and on track with expectations for each of the overhead departments including the ERP project.
Noncontrolling interest of $21 million is higher than normal for Q3 due to progress in Gorgon and our earning of 2 incentive milestones also on Gorgon.
The incentive milestones added $10 million to noncontrolling interest in Q3.
Taxes on the P&amp;L were at our normalized operating effective tax rate of 28%.
KBR had a good operating quarter with $0.65 of earnings despite $29 million of headwind on project charges and we have kept our guidance unchanged at $2.60 to $2.80 per diluted share excluding the goodwill charge.
Turning to KBR's balance sheet which at the end of September 2012 remains strong with cash and equivalents of $846 million up $22 million from the previous quarter.
During the quarter cash provided from operations was $44 million and KBR deployed approximately $46 million on share repurchases dividends pension contributions and capital expenditures.
Let me spend a bit more time on cash.
We have $846 million on the balance sheet of which $201 million is in joint ventures.
The remaining KBR cash is split approximately 40% domestic cash and 60% offshore cash.
Our domestic cash is utilized for U.S.
acquisitions dividends share repurchases and capital spending.
Last quarter I talked about a few areas for improvement in working capital.
Working capital defined as total accounts receivable and accounts payable has increased $271 million year-to-date as of September 30 2012 with the largest increases in claims and on approved change orders.
In regards to our U.S.
government work our accounts receivable includes $124 million in Form 1 withholds from the U.S.
government and $82 million of claims in unbilled receivables related to cost for work KBR perform at customers request in either absence or in excess of funding on past quarters.
Also our unbilled receivables include claims of $106 million for the reimbursable portion of an EPC contract which we are pursuing and anticipate collecting.
We are working diligently to resolve those issues.
In addition we're working with all of our business units to collect past due receivables and bill our customers for work incurred and not billed due to timing.
We are making progress and expect to see results in our fourth quarter operating cash flow.
KBR finished Q3 2012 with $14.8 billion of revenue backlog an increase of 27% over Q3 of 2011.
Job income and backlog also increased 27%.
As Bill indicated earlier another important item I wanted to discuss this quarter is how you may want to think about modeling revenue and job income for the Ichthys project award KBR received in Q1 of this year.
This is a fairly complicated contractor model so we're going to try to simplify things a bit and also protect confidentiality for our partners and customers.
In early 2012 KBR booked approximately $5.6 billion in revenue backlog for Ichthys.
In terms of modeling approximately 30% of the $5.6 billion is expected to flow through KBR's P&amp;L as revenue earned over the 5-year life of the contract which includes KBR services revenue as incurred and our portion of JV profit which is forecasted as fairly normal project bell-shaped curve distribution.
The remaining portion of revenue backlog will be adjusted out of backlog without hitting KBR's P&amp;L.
Relative to income from Ichthys recall that the project was bid on an open book tendering process so it's reasonable to assume the overall profitability associated with the blended average of all the various types of services provided will be at typical competitive LNG project margins.
These services include everything from procurement to construction management to module fabrication and delivery and so on.
Simplistically speaking if you take the $5.6 billion KBR booked into backlog and multiply that times competitive LNG margins of mid- to high-single digits you should be able to get in the ballpark of total income KBR should see over the life of the project.
Similar to revenue the income profile should roughly approximate a normal project bell curve.
Again the Ichthys contract structure is very complex and as with any project as we progress in time we may see changes related to project scope project execution and other things that make the project revenue and profitability different from this discussion.
Regarding the Ichthys LNG backlog and the increase in the fixed-priced component of our overall backlog in Q1 we added approximately $3.3 billion of fixed-price work to our backlog related to the Ichthys LNG backlog.
Of this amount approximately $2.9 million or 89% of the fixed-price backlog addition was back-to-back work or represented KBR's work scope where we have funded contingencies and provisions to limit our ultimate fixed-price exposure.
So the net open fixed position exposure in KBR's Q1 bookings related to the Ichthys LNG project is approximately $350 million.
And now I'll turn it back to Bill for his final remarks.
Bill? Thank you Sue.
KBR continues to benefit from the diversity offered by our 14 market-facing business units.
We believe we've spread our bids thoughtfully on a geographic market and customer basis.
I remain very pleased with the opportunities set of projects I see in front of KBR as a result of these diversification.
Further I feel that new project awards in 2013 will be much improved over 2012.
As a result we are leaving our guidance range unchanged at $2.60 to $2.80 per share excluding the third quarter goodwill impairment charges.
In closing absent our headwinds this was really a strong quarter for KBR.
Now we'll open the call for questions.
We ask that you please limit your comments to one question and one follow-up.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Scott Levine with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So Bill you indicated that you do expect orders to be up in 2013 versus what you've seen in 2012.
Obviously there's a lot of large projects and generally they've moved to the right.
I was wondering if your comments are really kind of excluding the timing on those and whether you're seeing just general momentum in the business accepting for these larger projects whether your expectations on some of the smaller jobs -- in general that customers across the business are developing more confidence or additional color on your degree of confidence that bookings should accelerate as we move into next year? Okay.
I think you can look at some of the segments that we've talked about the Oil and Gas business is obviously some projects that have a great deal of momentum and as we look at Shah Deniz we think that we're in the FEED and that's got a pretty identified FID for us early next year.
The bids at ZADCO and SCR are marching according to a schedule that we don't see much slippage going in those opportunities.
We are seeing enough opportunity surrounding the EPC and the ammonia business next year and then comments people are making about making commitments in the first part of 2013 that lead as to believe that some of those projects will go forward.
Technology remains strong.
The LNG business obviously a lot of big things going on there and we do think that some of the delays that we have seen we will see action in 2013.
And certainly we have been delayed on Kitimat and some of the Australian developments that we do think will move forward.
But again time will be the ultimate arbiter of when they go forward.
As we look at some of the other areas we do see a lot of stuff going on in Canada.
Both from the LNG standpoint as well as up in the oil sands.That seems to be moving with a fairly solid pace.
And again we're not sure necessarily on the LNG side which one may get there first but we're certainly trying to play our bets as widely as possible and be there for whichever project does emerge.
And similarly we're trying to take some positions in the U.S.
Gulf coast.
You were also seeing discussions continue with some of our customers on gas to liquids projects.
We do see -- there are very good indications that we could see FEED activity in 2013 which is positive.
We do think that with respect to our North American government business there's been a real hesitancy to do much of anything in the face of sequestration and we think that's held back a lot of the projects that would go forward.
We do think that once you get through the election and the unknowns become knowns whichever direction they go I think you'll see some resumption that will result in projects going forward in a more traditional sense and we really haven't seen that award cycle this year because of the uncertainty in the Pentagon facing sequestration.
We see a pretty robust project list in the Middle East in infrastructure.
We talked about airports rails roads bridges and other man camps.
That looks pretty good and we do think those projects will move forward.
The Minerals business continues to show some activity for us now.
But granted the -- globally I think we all recognize things have slowed down a little bit but from where we sit with our relatively de minimis share of the minerals market the projects we're performing have some early studies on if a part of them go forward that should be some pretty good revenue growth for our Minerals business and I do believe we'll see the inventory of power projects begin to go forward with some announcements coming this year still.
So overall I do see a slightly more optimistic view.
I'm a little bit more cautious because I was probably -- we probably had a more bullish feel of some of the larger projects a year ago which didn't go forward.
But we're still tracking them.
They're continuing to do site preparation activities in Angola for the Lobito refinery but till they get a lot of their partnership issues resolved we're not going to put too much emphasis on how that fits into our Downstream business but overall I do think as we get through the U.S.
election and just the backlog of projects that's out there I do think it will be a better order cycle in '13 than we did see in '12.
Research Division</strong> And my follow-up I guess on the Minerals business.
It sounds like most of the issues you're highlighting here are in the U.S.
I was wondering if you could comment just on the pace of activity and customer appetite outside the U.S.
and maybe discuss some of the factors that give you the confidence to say you can compete and win in that market.
Well I think we're establishing ourselves as a player.
We have one customer remark to us directly at the recent Minerals Convention out in Las Vegas.
We're viewed as one of their Tier 1 contractors which is good.
The North American market of Roberts &amp; Schaefer was largely solid pipe material handling projects were around [indiscernible] projects which haven't gone forward and we all know what's happened in the U.S.
and certainly our forecast of revenues in North America have gone down.
We do have a number of studies that we're working on in Australia in Indonesia in India but we think position us with opportunities to follow through on pre-FEEDs and FEEDs and ultimately the EPMC projects that from the present platform of our minerals business can represent some pretty significant growth for us.
And we'll take our next question from Andy Kaplowitz from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask a question to Sue and maybe Bill you can answer too but just -- in Gas Monetization can you guys disclose the amount of the Skikda reversal of the contingencies that you have there just to help us sort of with modeling.
Well I think what I would do Andy is as you think about that is the project has gone along over the last several years and we've obviously talked about difficulties that we've had communicating with our customer because of their political situation and so on and so as you look at 2012 and in particular change orders that we're pursuing some of those are current year and a good portion of what we booked in the third quarter is related to 2012.
And the way I kind of think about the amounts overall is where the upside sort of offset the downside on the other project charges and other businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Bill so obviously there's a lot going on with the company a lot of positive things.
And that sort of offsets the large project you know as you answered sort of Scot's question but maybe if I could ask it differently as you look into the next year how confident are you in the earnings growth of the company given that now it seems like the average large project is sort of mid next year or so for it to go forward.
Is there enough in all of the other businesses that you still -- you feel pretty confident in earnings growth? How do you look at that? I think we will give guidance on the -- formal guidance for next year after we go through our budget discussions next week and then review this with our board.
I think we've got a great run rate.
I mean I just will comment on existing projects.
Obviously Escravos has got to wind down but that hasn't been much of a contributor for us since we converted it several years ago.
Skikda we're still working through items with the customers that remain to be addressed.
We're confident that we've got -- we're performing well.
That we're viewed as performing well and that I do believe that we still have some provisions for example the liquidated damages we took that we've got a good shot at calling back with good and valid reasons.
And we'll address that with the customer in due time.
We still see Gorgon being strong.
That project for '13 will be big in construction on that and even in just 2014 at the end of '14 we'll bring the first train up and we'll still have 2 more after that.
Ichthys is just now making in our world kind of some impacts on the P&amp;L but are worth talking about we're hitting the lift off point on project percent completed engineering.
We're getting our teams mobilized now into the fabrication yards.
We're setting up our initial construction management organization the latter 2 of which will start getting us services income.
So I feel pretty good about our momentum on existing projects and I'd like to limit my comments to we don't see a big falloff in terms of our activity on the big projects in the portfolio.
So as things continue to move forward next year we sign up additional work and we think we can get still some work signed up this fourth quarter that it will be an interesting discussion we'll have with our teams next week as we review their budgets.
And we'll take our next question from Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
This is actually Andy Buscaglia on behalf of Jamie Cook.
So yes I just wanted to actually follow up in terms of your capital allocation strategy if you could comment in particular on M&amp;A and just any update on your thoughts there? Andrew I think as we look at cash and deployment of that cash we continue to look at the same buckets that we've looked at which is return to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends investment in organic growth and our ERP project.
And M&amp;A certainly still has a place in all of that.
So I don't think that has changed any.
And to be honest as we look at all of the different markets and places for that I think we'll continue to be very balanced.
Okay.
And then actually just a follow-up.
You guys talked about unbilled receivables in one of your segments.
Is there anything to read into there? Is that just kind of typical of what you're seeing? And can you just talk a little bit more about that? I think that as we think about receivables and unbilled receivables as I said I think that a good deal of the increases are coming from claims and unapproved change orders.
All of those are fully vetted by our own internal teams as we go through this process and we believe that they're going to be collected.
And what we're signaling there is that over time we're going to get those done and I just wanted to provide a little bit of color on why there was growth there.
And as we see other projects go forward I personally believe that it's very important as a business to have a lot of discipline around getting your invoices up getting them correct and collecting those receivables.
And so that's really the nature of the commentary.
Yes.
If I could add to that we do have a very rigorous process involves both internal assessment as well as supported by third-party outsiders.
So we feel pretty good about where -- what we've booked.
And then the one element that Sue talked about in her comments we do have $82 million in unbilled receivables with the government where we have performed work at their request that they haven't yet funded a task order or that they've asked us to continue working as we've exceeded the cost of the amount that has been funded on the task order.
So I think those are some of the uncertainties we've seen arising from sequestration and we're working very hard to help them see some of the shortcomings in their funding of the task orders.
We'll take our next question from George O'Leary with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just kind of looking at gas monetization margins and the big uptick quarter-over-quarter.
I'm just wondering if you guys could provide a little bit of incremental color between the breakdown from the roll-on of Ichthys and maybe some of the recoup cost or project closeouts that boosted the margin a little bit and how can we think about that trajectory of those margins going forward? I know you touched on that a little bit but maybe just a little bit more color on the breakdown there? Yes.
I think the 2 things that I would ask you to think about are the impact of Ichthys which we have previously said comes in as an equity project.
So again we're not ramping up big on our services so the income is percent complete x the profit pool.
And that comes in at a $1 of revenue and a $1 of earnings so that's 100% margin that does help lift up the margins.
The other one is the -- as Sue talked about was Gorgon.
And you've got to look at the gas mon margins and the vast majority of our noncontrolling interest at the bottom of the P&amp;L is backing out 70% of those positive P&amp;L impact.
So yes those went up way high and we always try to be very clear referencing big gas mon margins by saying also look at the NCI line.
And that will help bring it down a little bit but it does present perhaps a more optimistic view when one only looks at the gas mon line without considering the minority interest backout on the Gorgon project.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful and then a follow-up.
Looking at kind of Canadian LNG versus U.S.
LNG projects given kind of the remoteness and the large infrastructure costs which potentially translate into incremental build-out time on those projects is there any -- what would you say your thoughts are around timing of the U.S.
LNG versus Canadian LNG both from an FID perspective? And then assuming there's a longer build-out time for Canadian LNG do you actually expect first gas to come from some of these U.S LNG projects? Well I would say if I could really simplify it's a horse race between Canada and the U.S.
One horse is can you get your pipeline infrastructure permitted on the native lands up in British Columbia? And on the other horse being can you get your export permits from the FERC and the Department of Energy given some of the statements made by the American Manufacturers Association regarding "Don't export the gas let us export value-added products with gas as a feedstock?" So I think those are the 2 items that we're watching and I think are going to be the critical path drivers for the generic Canadian project and the generic U.S.
project moving forward.
We'll take our next question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> First question is in regards to some of the big cracker prospects in the U.S.
From a technology standpoint it seems that they might not be a good fit for you but would love to get a sense on really the Ichthys side where your positioning is and if you can provide any color on the timing if you are positioned on those? Well the ethylene projects that we've talked about I think the ethylene technology that KBR has in markets historically has performed better on naphtha as a feedstock as compared to methane.
And so our technology doesn't line up as well in the U.S.
and the methane-based market.
And also it's a very high-efficiency high-complex technology that does get great yields but the benefit of yields is not as relevant compared to the other technologies when you're looking at low natural gas price environment.
So we're not seeing much there for us.
As we look at our portfolio of opportunities we're clearly much more bullish on ammonia power LNG and also gas to liquids where we can find opportunities to participate in the ethylene market perhaps as a constructor or in other areas we'll look at it.
But from the KBR suite of opportunities that's probably the -- our least competitive or least advantaged position.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And really a follow-up some of the problem projects you've seen.
Clearly your construction opportunities could be fairly notable over the next few years based on the shale in North American energy independent story.
How are you looking at your construction [indiscernible] and execution given the issues you have? And really what is -- how important role is that construction group going to play as you ramp up on your execution in the U.S.? Well the construction business if we look at where the man hours are being spent most of our construction man hours are spent on EPC projects in power in downstream primarily.
And they're doing well.
I mean those have done fine.
We did have the 2 headwinds and on one where -- the one project we ran into a lead contamination and a hurricane.
Well if you're doing fixed-price work and you have increased cost because of items like that you've got to book the cost until you get the customer to give you permission to book to build them for the change order in an entitlement sense.
And so we're working through that.
That's a little bit of an oddball.
But the one area we were surprised about has been the changing labor situation at the power project in Georgia.
We had been there for a number of years.
And all of a sudden it just changed pretty dramatically for us.
We can't tell you yet if that's a systematic or market-wide trend or just something in an isolated geographic area.
I do say -- I do see that most of our work that we're looking at going forward with our construction resources is very much focused on supporting the EPC business of KBR.
We look at the power projects the ammonia projects and other ones that we're involved in that we feel very good about the resource availability and our ability to perform.
And so as we get into resource trade-offs where we might find more project opportunities to participate as a constructor either directly or as part of an EPC player we're going to be moving more towards the EPC side.
And that's -- we think that's the highest and best use of that resource at KBR.
And we'll take our next question from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Couple of things.
Sue did you say that the embedded profits in backlog how much that was up? What I said was that the backlog -- the revenue backlog year-over-year quarter-over-quarter was up 27%.
And I said the job income was also up 27% for the same period.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So -- and any comment then on the profitability in the backlog? Well we continue to manage our business around the profitability in the backlog.
We're pleased that we're continuing to maintain our backlog margin.
Sue's comment implies that backlog margin is the same which means that despite taking on a big EPC project in Ichthys we're still selling some pretty good work at the remaining parts of the business.
Research Division</strong> And I guess what I'm getting at is that there's a big chunk of that backlog the 70% of Ichthys that you don't -- that won't go through your P&amp;L that accounts for part of the 27% increase.
So as your -- has the income gone up even more? Well the job income if we're talking about backlog -- so within the backlog accounts the job income margin has not changed.
As our backlog rolls into the P&amp;L our margins will go up because the job income will go into the P&amp;L dollar for dollar.
The revenue backlog will go in at $0.30 on the dollar.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then Bill just...
With respect to the Ichthys project.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's what I just want to make sure I'm clear on.
Okay.
And then your comment on the labor change on the power plant could you -- what was the labor change? Well this is the anecdotal discussion from the guys who were on the site and trying to explain to us how this happened and they said that there have been a lot of people working on that site for several years and many of them working for us for several years.
And the sense is they just want to work somewhere else.
It's as specific as that.
It wasn't a changing labor management regime.
It wasn't a changing project complexity or safety issue.
It just surprised us.
We thought it would be more predictable and so we saw per diems go up.
The wage rates creeped up a little bit.
The turnover was higher and maybe there's more competition in the Georgia market from other projects which drove cost up and with that turnover came change productivity.
And this sort of cascaded down to where we had to reset or mark to market essentially the current labors that we see for the rest of the project into the P&amp;L which gave rise to the loss.
Research Division</strong> I mean this is -- and you said that it was confined to this project.
But I mean given the growth in -- I guess in some of the industrial projects potentially in the U.S.
that you're looking at I mean how big a concern is this? It was clearly a surprise for us and I think it has heightened our sensitivity to this issue on all projects we're looking at.
It's something that maybe we had gotten complacent that it would be the same labor situation.
But obviously something changed in that market that caught us by surprise.
So as we go out and do our labor studies availability traveling per diems wage rates we're now having to look harder and factor that in.
So yes it has caused us to really look harder at what might repeat itself if we're not careful.
And we'll take our next question from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you could just comment on the utilization of your engineering resources and how you're managing staffing levels in the face of uncertainty on the timing of large projects.
And I guess related to this that unallocated labor was a bit bigger this quarter.
So I guess what's your visibility to that over the next couple of quarters? Will that flatten out or could that still go up if these bigger projects don't start to come through? Well at every one of our resource centers and we tracked probably on the order of 20 we look at what is the existing contract backlog burn off over the next 12 months.
And then we factor in kind of our weighted views risk-adjusted views of new work that has been bid or expected to be assigned into that office.
And so we're obviously looking at where we are today but with an eye towards where do we think we'll be in 3 to 6 months in terms of staffing.
And so we've elected to make decisions to key people and lower our chargeability targets at some of the resource centers because we think the work will be ramping up in the next 3 to 6 months in the way that says we're better off holding and eating the cost now than having to go out and recruit people and try to deal with a less certain labor force as this new work comes in over the next 3 to 6 months.
So we have made that decision.
It's something that we think is prudent.
It's been made over an affirmative basis.
It's not an omission or "Oops we missed it." We follow this thing really rigorously and we're making a management decision to carry more non-chargeable labor now in light of what we see coming down the road for KBR which has given rise to the turnaround we've seen on the labor cost absorption line in the P&amp;L.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like maybe a little bit more headwind to go there on that line item? I think we gave -- we've made some comments on that last quarter about how you think about the year but that's probably -- we won't make any further comment because it's a -- if we though it was going to be a longer-term issue we probably would take some different decisions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess this is sort of a related question.
But the divisional overhead in IGP is coming down a little bit but I'm not quite in line with sales.
And so I guess can you take out costs more aggressively in that division? And I guess more broadly are there any other places in the organization that you would consider taking any other types of cost out non -- you just said you're going to keep staffing around.
But are there any other types of cost you could be more vigilant with? Well we're pretty aggressive on cost.
I think the -- I think what you see is a couple of different things going on.
One for each business unit -- and again we've made an affirmative decision to have 14 business units.
You got to have a business unit head.
You got to have sales guys.
You got to have project managers and support staff to run a business staff unit.
And certainly these are very leverageable overheads that we're not going to -- if we double the volume we're not going to double the amount of overhead in the business.
So as we bring it down we're bringing it down.
And we challenge all of our business units every month about that to bring it down to where you think the business will be over the -- not next month or not next quarter but over the near -- the next 12 months.
There are also some areas where we've got just some structural overhead in the North American government business where we're trying to manage the very large volume of work that -- the tail work that remains on the big LogCAP project from '03 to 2011.
And so we've got a big chunk of folks there who are working on those issues and they're all disclosed in our Q and our K about the magnitude of stuff.
But we are trying to bring it down very aggressively and I think you'll see that we will continue to be good stewards of overhead spending throughout the company not only at the corporate level but also in the business units.
But they are I think appropriately sized given the work we're expecting to see in those units over the next 12 months.
We'll take our next question from Will Gabrielski with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk about a little bit more in Georgia I guess maybe looking at that as a parallel for might be -- what might happen eventually on the Gulf Coast? I would suspect that the big nuclear construction job down there is creating some competition for labor.
So as you talk about construction opportunities on the Gulf Coast and your willingness to maybe take some fixed-priced construction exposure which we heard from one of your competitors earlier this week how would you go about managing that risk? And how comfortable are you taking that risk going forward? And is there any other way you can look to gain entry into those projects without assuming maybe the fixed-price exposure at this point? Did you say that one of our competitors said we were taking fixed-price risk? Research Division</strong> No.
I said that they were willing to.
I think we'd look at it on a case-by-case basis.
Obviously when you look at the risk from our view you can either pass it on to somebody else or you can underwrite it yourself.
Clearly what we're seeing in the Georgia market may or may not manifest itself in other parts of the Gulf Coast depending upon labor availability and where projects are.
We're very mindful of the expected ramp-up in projects in the U.S.
Gulf Coast area over the coming years and have done our modeling on the construction labor peak that we would see in 2014 '15 and '16.
I think that's going to put a lot of strain on the resources and we're going to look real hard about what we take as lump sum and how we can make sure that we've got enough contingencies risks and profit in it.
So that if we take that decision it will be a good decision.
I think you just have -- we have to look at how this market evolves.
But if form -- if everybody's expectations are manifested in the projects that come forward we're going to have some labor challenges in the Gulf Coast area and we'll just have to play that one one at a time depending upon do we really think we can manage that risk.
And certainly today if we sign up a project on November 1 we're not going to be in the field for -- in any material way for another year.
So we've got to forward project where that inventory of projects are and what it means to the labor resource.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as my follow-up on your comments.
Has something changed structurally? Because you hear everyone in the industry talking about the risk of labor shortages in the U.S.
specialized labor skilled craft labor et cetera and everybody wants to self-perform direct hire on this construction work.
But it seems like no one is talking about maybe a shift towards cost-plus and the leverage swinging back towards the contractors.
And I'm just wondering why that would be the case unlike 5 years ago when we're talking about this type of shortage globally that the mix seem to shift more towards cost-plus work.
Does that leverage not exist for some reason right now? Or do we just need it to get into the cycle before it develops? Well I think most of what we've seen in the U.S.
because of the very high degree of hands-on involvement by the customers in the projects is you'll probably see more cost reimbursable construction than you do in other parts of the world so -- and I think that's going to continue.
I think you're going to see others wanting to understand what the real risks are and be able to apportion out who's got resources to be able to do that work on an effective basis.
I think you'll see a lot more interaction with customers.
If it does get as challenging as we believe it will be for construction resources then the pricing for fixed-price is going to have a significant premium.
And so the owners are going to have to make decisions on "Am I willing to pay a very high premium for the risk of getting a fixed-price construction? Or should I take it on a much lower cost basis on a cost reimbursable?" And that's an owner's decision.
All we can do at KBR is price the risk as we see it.
I think we do have a good view in the market and I do think we do a good job of assessing and pricing those kinds of risks.
And the owners will have to make their decision on how they want to contract for that work over the next couple years.
And we'll take our next question from Chase Jacobson with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Sue just a quick question.
You mentioned that Gorgon contributed about $10 million to noncontrolling interest.
Was there anything included in job income related to that? I think you said there was an incentive payment? Sure.
Yes.
So that's how it works.
So the comment that I was making was trying to give you guys a bridge from what our typical noncontrolling interest runs to where it was.
And so the $10 million is our partners share of the incentive payments which means that the -- 100% of that was in the job income.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it was $10 million and $10 million? [indiscernible] Well now we -- I think we -- our share of Gorgon we talked about previously is 30%.
So for every dollar of Gorgon profit that shows up in gas monetization $0.70 is backed out at noncontrolling interest.
That's how you do the math.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then in the context of the Roberts &amp; Schaefer acquisition and how that's performed over the last 2 years.
When you look at growing your share of the wallet on some of these projects and at other acquisitions you're either looking at or they have looked at can you talk about how maybe you're changing the way as you do the due diligence on what the history of the target company is? Well I'm having a trouble knitting together the question because I think as we look at the projects and the share of wallet we are trying to do projects certainly in oil and gas beyond and other business units beyond just doing the engineering.
And so we've talked about project delivery at Shah Deniz [indiscernible] Pluto LNG.
When you think about the Roberts &amp; Schaefer project the acquisition that's somewhat a different question.
I think we've got to look -- the last one or some of the takeaways we have there.
We've got to look at better the capabilities of the people doing fixed-price work and their ability to deal with the complexities and so that was the lesson learned.
We've got to clearly understand what the customer is buying how they buy.
And while I'm very pleased with shale gas developments in general for KBR it certainly has been an area where -- and this part of the portfolio was adversely impacted.
But from a broader standpoint we're pleased with the acquisition it has given us.
We are now perceived in the mineral sector as being a minerals player not a hydrocarbon guy trying to sell in the minerals markets.
So it's been successful there.
It's gotten us recognition for the projects and capabilities of the people at Roberts &amp; Schaefer which are still very good and we just need to make sure that as we continue to integrate that business into KBR that the processes systems and culture regarding project execution can continue to be transferred into that organization.
We'll take our next question from Robert Connors with Stifel Nicolaus.
Research Division</strong> Sue can you just clarify more for me.
You gave some details of the $2.9 billion in KBR work scope with 4 commitments of contingencies.
Can you discuss what the $2.9 billion entails whether it'd be procurement or labor and when you are expected to forecast to use such for commitments? And also what does the $350 million entail? The $2.9 billion we've made comments previously we've got a lot of back-to-back procurement with GE on compressors with Siemens on motors things like that that technically are not an open fixed-price exposure.
If you wanted to get precise as more of a credit risk on those.
And the other de-risk aspect is some of our labor where we have a certain amount of pain that we take before resuming to a cost reimbursable base.
So we feel really good about the 89% of the backlog that's technically listed as fixed price in terms of how we've covered that exposure.
The remaining $350 million is materials steel aluminum wire cable the normal stuff you see on a normal kind of project that gets bought out in time and we've done our forward pricing.
And we've done estimates of where that will be at the time we're expected to purchase those elements.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess you're probably not able to discuss but any sort of discussion as far as what sort of labor rate increases you would need to see before it does switch over to cost plus? Probably you're right.
We're probably not willing to comment on it.
It's -- the risk is on aggregate dollars.
So whether it's labor rate increase or productivity leading to more hours it's just the dollar exposure we're referring to.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And any status on the update of Jazan.
Just some recent trade press that some of the subcontractor costs have been a little bit higher than originally forecasted due to the remote nature? I don't really have anything to add to that.
It hasn't bubbled up to our screen and our reviews of the project.
I'd now like to turn it back over to Mr.
Bill Utt.
Okay.
Well thank you all very much for tuning in with us on the KBR Third Quarter Earnings Call.
We appreciate your following KBR the questions you had and Zac and Sue and Rob will be available over the coming days to answer any subsequent questions you all may have regarding our presentation and discussion.
So have a great day and thank you very much.
This does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good day and welcome to KBR's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Zac Nagle Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to KBR's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is also being webcast and a replay will be available on KBR's website for 7 days at kbr.com.
The press release announcing fourth quarter results is also available on KBR's website.
Joining me today are: Bill Utt Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sue Carter Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call Bill will provide an overview of KBR's fourth quarter operating results highlighting a number of key areas from each of our business units.
Sue will then provide an overview of the key financial takeaways for today's call.
Lastly before turning the call over to Q&amp;A Bill is going to provide brief closing comments.
After our prepared remarks we'll open the floor for questions.
Before turning the call over to Bill I would like to remind our audience that today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting KBR's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in KBR's fourth quarter press release issued last night KBR's Form 10-K for the period ended December 31 2012 and KBR's current reports on Form 8-K.
You can find all these documents at kbr.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Bill? Thanks Zac and good morning everyone.
First I'd like to talk about our fourth quarter results.
You've all probably had an opportunity to listen to our 2012 earnings guidance update call we held in mid-January or have had the opportunity to download the transcript.
So I won't spend a lot of time going over all of the detail we discussed on the call.
I do however want to spend a little time closing out on the final numbers covering some of the highlights and discussing why we came in a bit better than our revised guidance range for the year.
For the fourth quarter of 2012 we delivered $0.20 of earnings per fully diluted share.
This resulted in full year 2012 earnings of $2.16 per share excluding the Q3 goodwill impairment charge.
This was about $0.06 higher than the top end of our guidance range for the year we discussed in January.
As we discussed on our call on January 11 KBR's guidance range revision was primarily the result of charges the company expected to take in the fourth quarter in its U.S.
construction and minerals business units as well as higher-than-expected labor cost absorption expenses across our resource centers.
In the fourth quarter we took charges of $62 million in U.S.
construction $58 million in minerals and incurred $22 million in expense for labor cost absorption with no change in the estimated time of completion of any other related projects.
The $0.06 of earnings per share we delivered above our current guidance range was primarily the result of milestone payments achieved and lower-than-expected cost estimates to complete certain projects in our gas monetization business that provided additional job income in the fourth quarter.
Now I'd like to discuss some of the highlights from Q4 and 2012 as well as discuss some of the trends we see heading into 2013.
Q4 was a strong bookings quarter for KBR both in aggregate with a book-to-bill ratio of 1.1 and across our business units with a mine of 14 business units with book-to-bill ratios greater than 1.
At gas monetization 2012 was a robust year with significant backlog growth strong project execution the successful attainment of several incentive milestones lower estimates of cost to complete certain projects than we originally expected as we entered 2012 and the successful resolution of a number of outstanding project issues including both current projects and projects nearing completion.
As we look forward into 2013 and beyond we continue to see positive developments and higher margins for this business as Gorgon continues to move forward at a relatively consistent pace Ichthys continues to ramp up and provide a more meaningful portion of our earnings in 2013 through 2015 and as the Skikda and Escravos projects which have historically contributed high revenues for the gas monetization business unit achieve completion.
Additionally we have entered 2013 with a very healthy pipeline of future prospects.
For the Kitimat LNG project we continue to be engaged with the customer on additional FEED analyses and on the open book EPC tendering for the project.
We think Chevron's involvement increases the likelihood of that project moving forward.
While the project's timing is unclear it is possible the project may reach FID in the fourth quarter of 2013.
For the Browse LNG project the customer continues to evaluate the outstanding EPC bids and potential alternatives and we believe that the customer may determine in which direction it wants to proceed by the end of the second quarter of 2013.
For the Gorgon LNG fourth train project extended pre-FEED activities continue and we expect to transition into FEED in the third quarter.
For the Tanzania LNG project KBR continues to execute pre-FEED activities.
For the 2 additional LNG projects in Canada we've discussed previously they continue to move forward in various stages.
We're executing pre-FEED work on one of these projects and maintaining an active dialogue with the customer on the other.
In the U.S.
we are tracking 1 large LNG project.
It is still in very early stages but is progressing forward.
We're also gaining confidence in the U.S.
GTL project we've discussed in the past as that project moves forward.
Regarding our other projects in gas monetization at Escravos we're wrapping up construction and we expect to start up and commission the project early this year.
At Skikda we are ready to put in first gas into the LNG plant and expect to commission the plant during the early part of 2013.
At Gorgon we continue to progress well with our subcontractors and we expect to bring the first train online in late 2014.
And on Ichthys during 2013 we will see an increasing impact to the P&amp;L as the project ramps up.
We expect 2013 to be stronger than 2012 and think we'll reach peak earnings for the project in 2014 and 2015.
At technology 2012 was another year with greater than 20% growth in job income.
This job income growth was combined with extraordinary backlog growth up 55% for the year.
Technology's book-to-bill was 4.2 in the fourth quarter alone driven by over $200 million in new awards including several ammonia projects spread out globally between the U.S.
Indonesia Nigeria Bolivia and Hungary as well as several VCC projects in Russia and China.
We see 2013 and 2014 shaping up to be potentially even stronger as the U.S.
further progresses with ammonia projects China continues to be strong and new opportunities open up in India.
In India there are plans or discussions for several new ammonia projects and we think that bodes well for our technology business unit.
At Downstream activity continues with PMC and CM work on the Yanbu Export Refinery Project extensive PMC work on the Sadara project and PMC work on the Jazan Refinery project FEED.
In the U.S.
Downstream has bid and continues in discussion for the EPC of a large new ammonia project.
KBR is also doing several FEEDs for an ammonia revamp a urea plant as well as the recently announced Ohio Valley Resources ammonia plant.
Additionally we are tracking several ethylene projects that we anticipate moving forward in 2013.
At oil and gas our book-to-bill was 1.2 highlighted by an award for FEED and PMC work on the Mansuriya gasfield for Turkish Petroleum in Iraq.
We're also excited about expansion opportunities at Shah Deniz 2 in the Caspian where we're performing the FEED and expect to do EPCM on both the onshore and offshore portions of the project when it reaches FID in the third quarter.
Oil and gas is also involved in 2 floating LNG developments one with Hoegh and one with SUEZ on the Bonaparte project.
At Services 2012 was clearly a challenged year with significant project charges in our U.S.
construction business.
We've talked extensively about these charges and the actions we've taken to mitigate the risk going forward including exclusively bidding construction-only type work on a reimbursable basis.
We do see good potential opportunities on the horizon for reimbursable work as North American project opportunities continue to mature.
Our Canadian operations business maintained its momentum with a book-to-bill of 1.1 in the fourth quarter primarily related to a significant oil sands award for Syncrude Canada Ltd.
where KBR is executing module fabrication and field construction for a project in Fort McMurray Alberta.
We also continue to see strong opportunities in our Canadian business both for the execution of current backlog built in 2012 that can be worked off in 2013 as well as new award opportunities in 2013 and beyond.
The Canadian oil sands continue to be a robust area of growth where KBR has been able to capitalize on our strengths to successfully win and execute work.
In fact approximately 80% of the $1 billion in total awards in Canada in 2012 were oil sands related.
We see a continued flow of new work in the oil sands ahead of us.
For the industrial services business we had a book-to-bill of 1.2 and were successful in expanding internationally with SATORP awarding a KBR joint venture the refinery maintenance services at its Jubail facility over the next 7 years.
At power we finished 2012 strongly with a book-to-bill of 4.1 in the fourth quarter.
We were awarded the EPC work on the Ghent backhouse project worth $460 million.
We also have several multi-hundred million dollar projects we've either bid or are preparing bids for in the coming months which we hope will build on the successful sales years we've had in 2011 and 2012.
We are continuing to position this business as an EPC contractor for pollution control facilities and new combined cycle projects and believe KBR has a favorable value proposition in this space.
At NAGL while we did see some work delayed or canceled during the year we finished 2012 off solidly with a book-to-bill of 2.0 in the fourth quarter.
The Department of State exercised the option year for the LogCAP IV support program in Iraq and KBR was selected as a prime contract for the U.S.
Army's Eagle program.
The uncertainty surrounding sequestration continues to be a challenge at NAGL but we think 2012 was a bottom for revenues and earnings and that 2012 should be relatively stable off that base.
At IGD and SS we also ended 2012 strongly with a book-to-bill of 1.7 across a wide net of new work and scope additions.
We're excited about a number of new opportunities being uncovered by IGD and SS in Libya public-private partnerships in the U.K.
and Australia camp support in the minerals market and outsourcing opportunities of both the Ministry of Defense and with the local police forces in the U.K.
These new opportunities will help mitigate some of the downturn expected in our revenues and profits from this business as we transition our model from war time to peace time activities.
At our infrastructure business unit we continue to see stable but solid growing markets in Australia and in the U.S.
We are most excited with the suite of opportunities we see in the Middle East for roads railroads bridges man camps and airports.
At minerals we continue to see a challenged environment relative to new opportunities but were able to achieve a book-to-bill of 2.6 in the quarter as we expanded our scope of work on the Hope Downs 4 EPCM project.
While we're still a small player in the space a couple of mid- to large-size wins there could be meaningful upside to KBR.
We're also optimistic that the execution issues we faced during 2012 are largely behind us and we look forward to stable and improved performance in 2013 and beyond.
Now I'd like to turn things over to Sue to discuss KBR's financial performance and outlook in more detail.
Good morning everyone.
We covered the highlights of our businesses in the press release and in Bill's prepared remarks so I won't spend much time on those items.
However I would like to provide a few details on the fourth quarter including backlog.
I will follow that up with cash and other key financial items and I'll end with additional color on our 2013 guidance.
Fourth quarter revenue was essentially flat with the prior year fourth quarter when you exclude LogCAP revenue.
We saw some nice revenue growth across many of our businesses including downstream technology power and services.
In the fourth quarter hydrocarbon had strong job income margins due to solid project execution lower estimated costs to complete certain projects and achievement of performance milestones in our gas monetization business.
As expected the Escravos and Skikda projects contributed more revenue as these projects near completion and we expect this trend to continue as these projects are successfully completed in 2013.
Oil and gas and technology performed well from a margin perspective and in line with our expectations.
Downstream margins were a bit higher this quarter with the FAO settlement as outlined in our press release last night.
G&amp;A was $59 million in the fourth quarter consistent with our expectations.
We came in better than our original guidance for 2012 due to ongoing prudent cost controls.
G&amp;A continues to be a key focus area for the company as we move through 2013.
KBR under-absorbed its labor costs in our centralized engineering pool by $22 million slightly higher than the $20 million we estimated in mid-January.
As we discussed at that time some potential work we anticipated was delayed or failed to materialize.
We have continued taking steps to rightsize our organization and reduce costs for the levels of work we now anticipate for 2013.
Going forward we should see an improvement in our labor cost absorption in 2013 as we progress throughout the year.
We will flex our labor force back up as appropriate to better optimize our labor absorption.
KBR's effective tax rate in the fourth quarter was 20% primarily due to favorable tax rate differentials on foreign earnings as well as a number of favorable discrete tax items.
Lastly KBR's backlog at the end of the fourth quarter was $14.9 billion up 37% from December of 2011.
It was up $109 million from September 2012 or a book to bill of 1.1.
We had several good awards and work scope additions during the quarter which Bill detailed earlier in his comments.
As of December 2012 43% of our backlog was fixed-price and 57% was reimbursable.
This is a slight mix shift from the 40% fixed 60% reimbursable we reported at September of 2012.
The increase in the fixed-price work was primarily related to the addition of the EPC Ghent project the power business was awarded and booked into backlog in Q4.
Of the overall fixed-price backlog Ichthys LNG and the new Ghent project are the 2 largest fixed-price projects in our portfolio.
As I discussed last quarter for the Ichthys LNG approximately 89% of the $3.28 billion of fixed-price work added to our backlog in Q1 was back-to-back work or represented KBR work scope where we have funded contingencies and provisions to limit our ultimate fixed-price exposure.
So the net open fixed exposure in KBR's Q1 bookings related to the Ichthys LNG project is approximately $350 million.
For the Ghent project approximately 50% of the $460 million added to backlog represents either back-to-back work fixed unit rate or home office services.
The remaining 50% is net open fixed exposure to KBR.
Turning to KBR's balance sheet.
We finished out 2012 in a strong cash position with cash and equivalents of $1.1 billion up $207 million from the previous quarter.
Contributing to the fourth quarter increase was cash provided from operations of $153 million as well as $127 million received from proceeds related to the sale of certain nonstrategic assets including the Clinton Drive and KBR Tower properties.
Offsetting a portion of this cash increase was cash deployed on share repurchase dividends pension contributions and CapEx totaling approximately $50 million.
I've mentioned previously that I expected to see better operating cash flow results in the fourth quarter and we did make some progress on that front from planned.
However we have greater cash generation potential than what we're realizing today so this will remain a key focus area for the company going forward.
Let me spend a bit more time on the subject of cash.
We have almost $1.1 billion on the balance sheet of which $201 million is in joint ventures.
The remaining KBR cash is split approximately 29% domestic cash and 71% offshore cash.
Our domestic cash is utilized for operating requirements dividends share repurchases capital spending and U.S.
acquisitions.
Our international cash is primarily used for operating requirements capital expenses foreign acquisitions and pension contributions.
KBR's working capital increased $251 million in 2012 as revenue declined $1.3 billion.
One driver of this issue is our U.S.
government receivables related to LogCAP.
We have $140 million of Form 1 withholds in accounts receivable which is flat to 2011.
We are working diligently with our customer to resolve these outstanding withholds but progress is slow.
In addition we have unbilled receivables in the amount of $115 million related to cost for work performed at the customers' request in either the absence of funding or an excess of funding on task orders.
This balance increased $26 million in 2012.
The second driver of working capital increase is cost incurred on an LNG plant in 2012 that represent claims to be resolved in 2013.
These amounts appear in Note 4 of the Form 10-K filed last night.
In general we are seeing a fairly static amount of past due receivables.
KBR is focused on collection of these items and making sure our contracts are cash neutral or better whenever possible.
Before turning the call over to Bill I would like to provide some additional details on our 2013 guidance.
KBR's full year 2013 earnings per diluted share guidance is between $2.45 and $2.90.
We expect to see continued strength in job income at our hydrocarbons business unit with Gorgon delivering continued strong execution Ichthys ramping throughout the year and Escravos and Skikda continuing to wind down as both projects are substantially complete.
As you saw in the fourth quarter we experienced a fairly significant reduction in revenue versus the third quarter in gas monetization as the dynamics I just discussed between the Escravos and Skikda projects plays out on the revenue side.
Going forward we expect revenues to be more similar to Q4 than in Q3 as Skikda and Escravos roll off Ichthys ramps and a chunk of the revenue backlog from Ichthys does not flow through the P&amp;L.
We also expect to see good financial performance of both the power and Canadian operations business units building off our strong 2012 performance.
Additionally we should see improved margins in minerals and U.S.
construction as these businesses stabilize execution around the key problem projects and we have strong execution against other projects in the portfolio.
We're not expecting substantial improvements year-over-year excluding the charges taken in 2012 and we think that's the correct way to plan for these businesses over the next year or so.
Lastly in our other non-minerals and non-U.S.
construction businesses in IGP and services respectively we expect to see solid results generally speaking as we build off relatively modest awards in 2012 and work to build out a stronger base for 2013 and beyond.
It's still early in the year so it's difficult to call with any certainty but these are some of the dynamics we see at play relative to our performance in 2013 into 2014.
We also highlighted on our January 11 call that we expect the first half of 2013 earnings per share to be in the range of $0.90 to $1.10 with the second half progressively stronger.
Building on my comments around guidance for 2013 our current expectation for stronger second half earnings is based on a number of factors.
First we're expecting labor cost absorption expense to continue to be a drag on earnings through the first half.
We expect labor cost absorption to gradually improve as the year progresses however.
Second we expect a number of projects won in 2011 and 2012 to gradually ramp and contribute progressively more income throughout 2013.
A few examples include the Ichthys LNG project ramping and a number of significant projects in Canada operations and power projects such as FWA and Ghent making greater contributions to the P&amp;L.
And finally as we've highlighted previously and in my comments earlier we are actively bidding work and anticipate winning some awards in the first half of 2013 that will have some burn later in 2013.
These are some of the dynamics to consider as you look at KBR's first half versus second half of 2013.
The 2013 earnings guidance also includes the following: capital expenditures guidance between $80 million and $100 million including approximately $50 million to $60 million associated with the company's ERP implementation; general and administrative expenses between $230 million and $250 million including approximately $30 million to $40 million associated with the company's ERP implementation.
Excluding ERP spend we expect to keep our base G&amp;A about flat with 2012 levels.
And overall effective tax range of approximately 26% to 28% and an expected share count of approximately 148 million shares outstanding.
And now I'll turn the call back over to Bill for his final remarks.
Bill? Thank you Sue.
When I look at the business broadly.
2012 was a disappointing year for KBR where issues at our minerals and U.S.
construction businesses offset strong performance across our hydrocarbons business group.
As we begin 2013 we continue to see a robust series of new opportunities across each of our 14 market-facing business units.
The potential opportunity set for KBR is tremendous and I am confident in KBR's ability to successfully win and execute this work.
Now we'll open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the labor cost absorption the $22 million.
I know Sue I think you said that could start to improve.
I'm wondering how quickly you could bring that number down and are we talking about being able to achieve sort of the $5 million to $10 million range that we saw in the second and third quarters of 2012? I think Steve -- let me take a shot at that.
I mean we can go back and look at the progression of the LCA by quarter on our financial statements and 2011 was a positive contribution 2012 was negative.
And a lot of it is going to turn on how quickly we get engineering work in that we can burn and take some of that overhead drag into an over-absorption phase.
And certainly as we're looking at some of the awards that are expected in the first part of 2013 that would have a contribution.
So we do expect this thing to start improving from fourth quarter into 2013 and we hope by the end of the year as we look at the opportunity set for awards we can get this back to a breakeven number or even slightly positive.
But it will depend on the engineering content of the awards we receive not only in the fourth quarter but also some of it that's to come in the first part of '13.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it probably sounds like a more material ramp down in the second half of the year relative to the first half of the year.
Well ramp down or ramp up we should see LCA better from a P&amp;L standpoint in the second half than the first half.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
And then I guess a broader question for you Bill.
You have mining hopefully under control the LogCAP ups and downs hopefully behind us U.S.
construction focused more on cost plus.
I guess my question is how confident are you that we could start to see a series of cleaner type quarters over the next 3 4 quarters to kind of reinspire the confidence in KBR's good execution? Well I think we're going to execute well going forward.
I feel very confident about that.
But as far as the -- trying to hit numbers we do have a lot of things that we're continuing to chase on some projects that are nearing completion.
We've talked extensively in the past about some of our provisions we've taken on the Skikda project given some delays we encountered without having the clear path for the customer release.
So I think that the -- as I look at the balance of things I still think that we're appropriately provisioned on the conservative side on a number of these projects.
And as things continue to bounce around there'll be more positives than negatives.
But I can't tell you Steve that I'm going to be able to dial a straight line in there.
And regrettably this is still KBR and the accounting nuances we deal with and how we look at the projects we try to be conservative and only recognize things when they become certain for us.
We'll take our next question from Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's Alan Fleming standing in for Andy this morning.
I wanted to ask you about the gas mon backlog this quarter.
It did take a step down a good bit and I wanted to see if there was anything unusual in there and then ask you about the momentum you are seeing in the small- to medium-size award activity.
Can you just comment on that? Yes the gas mon backlog yes it went down.
It would have been certainly the work off we have on the existing backlog on Gorgon.
The work-off you have on Ichthys that doesn't quite flow through the P&amp;L because of the accounting we have there.
And then we're getting on both the Skikda project and on the Escravos project to the asymptote where we finished construction we're into getting ready to start those plants up and there's not a lot of revenue generation.
So there was some decline in the backlogs of those projects.
We also may have some FX issues bouncing through there but nothing we saw that was terribly material.
To the question of the small and midsized opportunities I think we're fairly bullish of what we're seeing in downstream in terms of that opportunity set and we've talked about that in terms of its relationship with the shale gas evolutions in North America.
We're still pretty bullish on continuing to sell work in Canada.
The prospects we see in our power and industrial business unit on the power projects is anecdotally about double what we saw this time last year in terms of what we're chasing and -- or the opportunity sets that are out there to bid.
So we're seeing a much more robust power market than we did a year ago.
The other businesses as I think about them infrastructure and minerals I think we'll continue to hit our singles and doubles there.
But the big drivers we'll see are what can we do in terms of these sales in downstream power Canada and maybe even a little bit on technology that will complement some of the bigger stuff we're going to see in the gas mon business we hope later this year.
Also oil and gas we think is going to see some good changes for us in the second half once Shah Deniz and some of the other projects we're looking at go to FID.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And if I could just ask a follow-up on cash deployment.
It looks like you did accelerate your repurchases -- share repurchases in December.
And to Sue's comment about better cash generation expected in '13 I wanted to see if you could comment on your appetite for doing more buyback in '13.
Well I think Alan as you look at our cash and our history and what we've said on the share repurchase we've said that in past repurchase authorizations we've gone very quickly and executed the authorization.
And in the September '11 authorization what we've said is we were going to opportunistically buy back shares.
And so as we went into late in the year we saw an opportunity and we bought some shares.
And as we look at 2013 and beyond when I talked through the opportunities in the script for basically operating requirements dividends share repurchase capital those are generally in the order that we would consider them for priorities with the cash.
So I think the bottom line of 2013 is improve our cash generation and we have -- certainly have the ability to do that and then deploy that as appropriate.
You'll also see some sweeping of shares vesting in our equity programs that will take place in March and April so that will be something that we'll see in the future statements in terms of retiring shares that are vesting on the employee programs.
We'll take our next question from Jamie Cook with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Bill a quick question.
One I mean you were one of the first of your peers to talk about some of the labor constraints that you're seeing in the Gulf Coast.
Since then your peers have come out and sort of confirmed what you said first.
Can you talk about -- your peers have said margins in backlog are higher.
As a result there's a little more pricing power.
Are you seeing that in your current backlog? Or as you bid stuff for 2013 do you expect the margins to be better? And then my follow-up question is we did have an issue in the quarter related to rising labor costs.
I mean could we see another -- I mean could that hurt you again you know what I mean I guess before things get better? Just given what you know out there with your fixed-price exposure.
Yes I guess this was a case of the earliest Christian getting the hungriest lion being first out of the box with that discussion.
We do see labor constraints.
We've talked about those being certainly regional.
We have other fixed-price work that's out there that is working fine and we're not seeing the volatility on labor.
And as far as margin changes I think we're seeing maybe more impact in terms of what the customers are willing to transact.
And what I mean by that is we're seeing customers who previously would have wanted to be doing fixed-price construction now moving to reimbursable.
And we think that's the more important movement there.
Now are margins expanding? Well that's probably a second order effect at our view.
We're certainly seeing more impact on our business with respect to the changing mix from fixed-price to reimbursable construction.
In terms of labor costs we were very sensitive to that.
We think we have been prudent in our provisions.
It's clear that it's a different market than we've seen in prior years.
We are seeing higher wages.
We are seeing increased per diems being offered in the craft labor.
It's something that we're tracking and trying to make sure we stay on top of those movements.
So I think as we look at the projects we have in place today that they do reflect the current market and what our expectations of the future evolution of that market will be and that's the call we've made on that work.
We'll take our next question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> First question is on Shah Deniz.
You provided a little more color on the types of portions of work you'll be going for and you indicated offshore and onshore which is pretty exciting.
Now when I look at the project it's very notable in size.
So could you help us to some extent find the potential scope that KBR could see from that? Well I think the scope that we have prior commented on the past which I'll elaborate further here is that we would do the engineering.
We would provide procurement services and we're looking to do construction management on that project.
And so what we're also saying is it's -- we're not expecting at this stage to run procurement through our books on that which would be a high revenue lower margin type of impact for us.
Nor are we looking to run the construction labor materials and other costs related to construction through our books.
So Shah Deniz in the scope that we are anticipating would be a very large dollar award with a more traditional oil and gas margin associated with it as opposed to a bigger revenue base but a smaller margin that you'd see on an EPC.
So it is an EPCM for us and it'll be very large for our oil and gas business probably one of the largest ones we've done in quite some time and we believe it would have more traditional margins that we've seen in the oil and gas business.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And second question is in regards to one of your peers yesterday commented on the upcoming cycle potentially being or exceeding the peak levels of activities seen in '07 '08.
As you look at the upcoming cycle for KBR could you comment and put it in perspective what is your historical activity level? Well I think we'll try to break it down regionally.
Clearly we're heading in the U.S.
to a cycle that is far larger than what we've seen in the last several years.
I will tell you that I think in the Middle East that's pretty steady but it's not approaching the peak cycle that we saw in the '06 '07 time frame in the Middle East.
In Australia I think that market has really slowed down and that we expect that the future volumes out of Australia are not going to reflect what we saw in 2009 and 2010.
So North America clearly doing better than it has in recent years.
Middle East not as good.
Australia not as good as '09 and '10.
Overall I do think it's probably a net positive when you look at all 3 regions and the business that we see in front of KBR.
And so I think we're clearly optimistic about where we are for '13 and beyond in terms of new awards and the amount of new awards across the globe.
But it is very much a regional cycle we're going through in the U.S.
and it's not replicated at least in our views in what we see in the Middle East or Australia for example.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And just last question we've had sort of a month last -- go by since you gave us your revised fourth quarter outlook.
It seems like when I went through your 10-K even that the cost issues on the problem projects haven't escalated and for me that's typically a good thing.
So any kind of color you can provide on those.
It seems everything is going as planned.
Is there any unforeseen risk that you would like to point out over there? If there are any unforeseen risks that we thought were going to manifest themselves they would've been in the K and certainly covered in our comments.
As we took our provisions we took operating contingencies and management contingencies that we felt were prudent to allow us to deal with some unknowns that would -- that could evolve on those projects through their completion.
Right now we're still on the construction projects feeling good about where we are overall.
And so right now what we told you on January 11 hasn't changed as we look at the impact on services or at the minerals business.
We'll take our next question from Chase Jacobson with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> So a couple of questions on projects here.
With regards to Kitimat obviously there's a lot of news about that project and from your comments feel that that project keeps moving slowly to the right.
From your view how much of that is because of the change in the ownership structure of that project versus uncertainty related to U.S.
gas exports and how confident are you that they can reach a final investment decision in the fourth quarter standing here today? Well in Kitimat I think it's centrally related to the ownership change.
We've gone a long way down the road with Apache and its partners on the project.
Chevron has just come in at year end.
And Chevron is a very systematic company.
We do a lot of work for Chevron.
We got a great relationship with them in terms of our performances on Gorgon and Escravos.
And just knowing the thoroughness with which Chevron looks at things they're going to make sure they understand fully what they are getting ready to begin in terms of commissioning the construction of that project.
And so we think it's -- the delay work that we've commented on or the comments on when we think FID could take place today relative to what we thought previously are simply the time required for Chevron to get in and get this project shipshape according to Chevron standards.
We aren't anticipating any changes in the project but it is a due diligence and thoroughness that Chevron brings on all these projects that reflect the changing schedule in our comments.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then on the -- you mentioned that you're doing some very early stage work on a U.S.
LNG project.
Can you give any more color on what project that is? I mean is that a project that was proposed before the nearest study was done and is it at a site that has an existing import terminal? Any other color on that? I can't give you any more than what we've said already.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last thing that I'll ask as a follow-up here to some of the other comments you're pretty positive on a lot of the markets and you talked pretty positively about the small- and medium-sized awards that you're anticipating in 2013.
Last month on the update call you had I think mentioned that you expected pretty strong awards in the first half of the year and backlog growth in the first half of '13 is that still the case? I don't think we made any outlook on backlog growth.
We were optimistic about awards moving forward in the first half of '13.
Certainly much stronger in the second half just with the delays we're seeing on the big projects.
But we don't comment on backlog guidance and what we think will -- where we think we'll be relative to our backlog today at June 30.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But maybe just I guess then awards though still look pretty optimistic for the first half is that accurate? Well we're optimistic about the prospects that we're chasing.
And in some of the markets that I've talked about in my comments will have awards coming in the first half.
And I can't give you a sense of -- I think you're trying to get to a number and I really can't give you a number on that.
We'll take our next question from George O'Leary with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
You've talked a lot about LNG projects and listed a good swath [ph] of opportunities that you're involved in and are chasing currently.
When you look kind of at the global picture and you think back over the last 6 months how has that landscape kind of changed in terms of which projects are moving ahead of others whether that be some of the Aussie projects slipping right versus U.S.
projects and then kind of lumping Canada and Tanzania into that bucket as well? In terms of what we see changed in the last 6 months I think we've seen a recognition across the space in Australia that the cost to build an LNG project has gotten very expensive.
And we've seen that in terms of the announcements related to Gorgon the announcements on Curtis Island.
We've seen that in terms of the completion of the Pluto project.
And I think Australia is at a point of reset.
And some of the drivers for that George as we look at the U.S.
market we can get craft labor all in at about $50 an hour nominally and that includes the burdens and benefits.
And if you look at Australia that cost is about $108 an hour.
So it's more than double what we're seeing for labor.
And then when you factor an 85% productivity inefficiency in Australia the cost of building things gets very very expensive very quickly relative to the U.S.
and relative to other areas.
So Australia I think they're going to be really thoughtful about new projects going forward and you really have to find existing sites expansions where you've got a very good and productive reservoir to go forward.
But just the excitement and rush that we saw in Australia maybe that being rethought in some of the comments we made on Browse in terms of the options they're looking at clearly reflect this.
As we look at Africa that's much more slowly developing we're at pre-FEED in Tanzania.
The Canadian projects do look to be the -- to have the absence of the export constraints that some of the U.S.
projects may be facing.
So we're much more optimistic about those projects going forward.
The challenges like Australia is Canada and British Columbia in particular is not a terribly highly populated area.
So you'll probably see a lot of modular construction in the B.C.
projects in an effort to reduce the reliance on the number of people you need to build the projects.
And certainly in the U.S.
you have some on the Gulf Coast not only some of the issues about exporting the LNG but also the -- what impact would that have to the overall labor situation in the U.S.
Gulf Coast.
So a lot of things we're watching and a lot of things we expect to follow very closely over the next 18 to 24 months.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
And then just a follow-up.
On the ammonia projects you're chasing both in the U.S.
and in India any color around timing for that opportunity? And then as kind of a follow-on along with that are some of these you guys chasing on a standalone technology basis or are you chasing EPCM on the bulk of these projects as well? Well we're chasing technology on all of them.
And that's we think -- the packages that we're selling now have not only the basic engineering design and the license it also has a lot of proprietary equipment and catalysts which has allowed us to grow our scope of supply to a much larger level than we've seen previously.
The EPCM work is predominantly U.S.-centric where we think we have the integrated engineering procurement and construction capability.
And we could see some awards in the first half related to U.S.
ammonia.
In terms of internationally we look at that on a case-by-case basis and then try to decide to compete where we think we've got a chance of winning.
But certainly as you go into other markets it's a much more -- outside the U.S.
we have a much more what we see aggressive international construction groups participating that make it a little more challenging for KBR to create a competitive advantage to participate on the international ammonia side.
But we'll continue to monitor that.
But EPCM primarily -- EPC EPCM primarily U.S.-centric technology international and U.S.
We'll go to Randy Bhatia with Capital One Southcoast next.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> George just asked my question on ammonia so I just have one left.
I looked through the K and I saw the update on the sodium dichromate case.
So I was just wondering if you could just broadly give us a recent look at KBR's litigation risk profile and how you kind of see that profile changing over the course of the year.
Well I think it moves in broader circles than simply a year.
As we look at sodium dichromate it's clearly an emotional issue and there's a lot of opinions that are being offered in our mind as science which we don't believe will stand the test of time.
The things that we rely on with respect to sodium dichromate are that the army was required to give us a clean site to do our work and the presence of sodium dichromate on the site in our mind was not a clean site.
And additionally as we look at these cases and then we go through litigations we do have the ability when we have instances like this to bill those charges back to the government in terms of recovering our cost.
The other thing we look at is the body of law that's been established at the appellate level and we've seen that in the convoy case and other cases that we've taken to completion which really get into what kind of court liability should exist to contractors on the battlefield conducting work for the U.S.
Army.
And those protections are increasing have been and are increasingly being extended to other circuit courts where the court liabilities related to our performance of work really don't stand.
And we feel there's good law that's at the appellate court level that would take cases like sodium dichromate and turn them back should they not go in our favor at the trial court level.
So we've got a couple of different on sodium dichromate a couple of different things we're looking at which allow us to feel very comfortable about our ultimate liability there.
First is the provision in the contract related to the clean site.
The second is the opportunity to rely on the Circuit Court for the political question doctrine and other bodies of law then the third is ultimately our ability to bill the government for litigation costs incurred and the performance of our contract.
So broadly we don't see the risk profile changing terribly this year.
And really the trend has been in improving risk profile on our government work with respect to those litigations.
We'll go next to Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Just a quick question.
So you mentioned Gorgon.
You think that the expansion project pre-FEED -- or I'm sorry the FEED can actually start getting traction in midyear or so.
I guess the project sponsor was being I guess a bit more cautious about the outlook there.
I'm just more curious on your view of that project just given the scope of the comments about Australia in general and your confidence that actually comes to market in the time frame you suggested.
Well I think the comments we make are based on information that is shared with us by our customer.
That's the source of it and so as we look at that project and we're talking about moving into FEED in the third quarter not into execution and there is -- if you're talking about what the customer would be saying about execution we're not making any comments about that.
Clearly as we've read and we've talked with our customer the Gorgon resource is a very good resource space and has a lot of gas.
They've had a lot of success in their E&amp;P there and we believe that in contrast with maybe some of the other projects that the resource could easily support a fourth or possibly fifth train on Gorgon.
Now the other thing that we're going to look at as we get into FEED is the timing of execution and how the fourth train could be knitted into the process of constructing and commissioning the first 3 trains on Gorgon.
So there is an exercise that needs to be done during the FEED process to see when's the best time to commission train 4 so that you can seamlessly and at the lowest cost bring a train forward into production taking into consideration where you stand on trains 1 2 and 3.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And maybe if you can just talk a little bit more about gas to liquids in the U.S.
Maybe your perception of timing as far as when FEED is going to actually start to be awarded and maybe your positioning and how those projects will be broken down.
Is it going to be multiple scopes awarded and maybe just give a little color on how that plays out? Yes obviously we have a great deal of experience from our Pearl project in doing the EPCM on the Pearl GTL project.
And that's given us a chance to talk to several folks about U.S.
GTL.
The projects are very large.
You're going to see those done by project sponsors we believe with very strong balance sheets.
From our role and you look at the complexity of the projects involved is likely going to be split into packages just like the Pearl GTL project was.
In terms of timing the customers are very thoughtful that we're dealing with and it is possible you could see some FEED work take place in the second half of 2013 as the discussions continue to mature.
We'll take our next question from Robert Connors with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just on the housekeeping what was the $33 million gain in the other segment and its EPS impact as well as did you guys disclose what the equity -- or excuse me the Ichthys equity income line was that flowed through gas monetization? So on the first question that you had on the other that was the sale of the real estate asset the nonstrategic assets that we had.
And in specific it was primarily our Clinton Drive property that we had vacated some time ago.
So that was the gain that was in there.
And then on the Ichthys LNG we did not specifically disclose project margins on any of the projects.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess should I just apply sort of like a 35% tax rate on the gain or was there anything different? No there wouldn't have been anything different.
I mean yes it's a U.S.
property so U.S.
tax rate yes.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just regards to U.S.
LNG I mean if you look at a lot of these owners their balance sheets and even CapEx numbers tend to be a lot smaller than say the traditional LNG project owners which for the most part tend to involve NOCs and majors.
So I'm just wondering what does this mean for contractors such as yourself.
And essentially are you able to capture more billable hours when it comes to some of these smaller clients versus like when you're doing projects for a much larger client on the international front? Well I think the biggest distinction is that on these international projects those are completely greenfield.
And you're building tanks you're doing a lot of marine works and jetties and incurring a lot of costs on civil works.
Now when you look at the existing LNG receiving terminals that are located in the Gulf Coast or other parts of the country you see where tanks have already been built you see were jetties and other -- several infrastructure are already in place because you bring a ship in to unload you can bring a ship in to load.
So the reason those costs appear to be a lot smaller than the international assets is that the marginal costs on a conversion are less because of the prior investment and infrastructure for the re-gas terminals.
Now from a business standpoint you still have the capital investment and the need to recover those sunk costs on the re-gas terminal added to the marginal cost of building the liquefaction terminal to -- that you have to service when you look at the business.
So it's -- your marginal cost going forward is one thing but the total cost to plan is different given the sunk cost.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could squeeze in one more.
Just looking at Kitimat Gorgon Tanzania and even some of the U.S.
GTL projects it seems like those in '13 are going to start to transition towards FEED work.
But when you look at your FEED prospects and your FEED portfolio as a whole I'm just wondering if you're closer to the detailed design sort of phase of it or are we just still beginning to ramp up on initial prelim FEED work in the earlier stages? That's mix.
In Kitimat we've been involved in extended FEED for some time so the next logical step is FID there.
Clearly Browse and Pluto we've completed FEEDs on those projects and we talked about some of the challenges facing Australia at the moment.
The other projects are pre-FEEDs and we'll be looking to move those into FEED.
So hopefully we'll get some FEED awards done in 2013.
But our portfolio has got a little bit of mix.
There's some projects we're chasing for pre-FEED some that we have to pre-FEED chasing for FEED and some where we've done the FEED and are looking to get to FID.
We'll take our last question from Sameer Rathod with Macquarie.
A couple of quick questions.
First I think there's been a lot of talk about the upcoming U.S.
cracker build-out.
Is it fair to say that KBR's score in SUPERFLEX technology is more on naphtha versus ethylene? Or how do we think about KBR's positioning in the upcoming build-out? I think on the ethylene side we're naphtha-centric on -- is where we compete best.
The other element too is the nature of the ethylene technology.
You've got a series of low-cost gas in the region and our high efficiency process probably is not as competitively advantaged in the low gas-price environment compared to the more international scene where gas is $10 $12 a million BTU.
We do see opportunities though for furnace rebuilds where we have existing technology in place and as furnaces wear out and need to be rebuilt we think there is a bit of an installed base out there for us that should be -- we should be competitively advantaged or as we look at executing that work.
And certainly as the gas prices have come down these crackers have worked literally overtime and we think we'll see some opportunity coming out of the rebuilds.
Okay great.
I guess my last question is given the lack of coal products with ethane cracking how big do you think the market in the U.S.
is for on-purpose olefins excluding ethylene as well as the aromatics and the respective derivative in the U.S.
and KBR's positioning there? If I had a good information on that probably I'd have another calling for trading on that.
We really don't have a view on where they're going.
We are aware that if you're ethane-only and you have limited coal products that does give you a different financial perspective than another FEED that gives you more petrol products.
But we're an E&amp;C firm and we design and build stuff and the others who are our customers are better placed to answer that question.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our question-and-answer portion of the call and does conclude our presentation for today.
We appreciate your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the KBR's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Zac Nagle Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to KBR's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is also being webcast and the replay will be available on KBR's website for 7 days at kbr.com.
The press release announcing first quarter result is also available on KBR's website.
Joining me today are Bill Utt Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sue Carter Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call Bill will provide an overview of KBR's first quarter operating results highlighting a number of key areas from each of our business units.
Sue will then provide an overview of the key financial takeaways for today's call.
Lastly before opening the call for Q&amp;A Bill is going to provide brief closing comments.
After our prepared remarks we will open the floor for questions.
Before turning the call over to Bill I would look to remind our audience that today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting KBR's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in KBR's first quarter press release issued last night KBR's Form 10-K for the period ended December 31 2012 and KBR's current reports on Form 8-K.
You can find all these documents at kbr.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Bill? Thanks Zac and good morning everyone.
KBR delivered a solid first quarter with earnings per share of $0.59 in line with our expectations.
Overall we had strong execution across our businesses which drove operating income up 19% year-over-year with operating margins up more than 150 basis points.
We also maintained our focus on prudent cost controls in the quarter keeping SG&amp;A flat year-over-year as a percentage of sales.
Additionally KBR achieved a number of key project milestones in the quarter delivering first gas at Skikda and first iron ore at Hope Downs 4.
Relative to the 5 problem projects we discussed in our fourth quarter call our execution was consistent with the project provisions we took in the fourth quarter.
We had no incremental charges in the first quarter of 2013 and our estimates to complete these projects remain unchanged.
Turning to some of the business unit highlights from Q1 and the trends we see heading into the balance of the year.
Bookings were generally consistent with our expectations at this stage in the year.
We had some key wins in the first quarter and a few wins that trickled into the April time frame that will be booked in Q2.
At gas monetization Q1 job income advanced 32% year-over-year due to strong project execution increased volumes at several LNG projects the successful attainment of incentive milestones and a favorable resolution of a number of project close-out items.
Looking forward we continue to expect strong margins in this business through continued strong project execution continued mix shift away from lower-margin projects nearing completion and the potential for favorable resolution of additional project close-out items.
Additionally we continue to have a very healthy pipeline of future prospects.
For the Kitimat LNG project we are engaged with a customer completing the update of -- to the FEED analysis and continue to pursue the EPC for the project.
We continue to believe Chevron's involvement increases the likelihood of that project moving forward.
For the Gorgon LNG 4 Train project extended pre-FEED activities continue and we anticipate a transition into FEED in the third quarter.
For the Tanzania LNG project KBR continues to execute pre-FEED activities.
For the 2 additional LNG projects in Canada we've discussed previously they continue to move forward in various stages.
We're executing pre-FEED work and pursuing FEED on one of these projects and maintaining an active dialogue with the customer on the other.
In the U.S.
we continue to see substantial opportunities for both LNG and GTL developments.
We continue to track opportunities in both arenas and remain enthusiastic that the projects will move forward.
Regarding our other projects in gas monetization at Escravos we're ramping up commissioning and expect to complete our activities on the project late this summer.
At Skikda we finished strong from an execution standpoint and are pleased with achieving the milestone of delivering first liquids on the project in the first quarter.
At Gorgon we are successfully executing construction management on the project driving towards bringing the first train online in late 2014.
And on Ichthys we are seeing strong execution and as expected an increasing impact to the P&amp;L as the project ramps up.
We expect 2013 to be stronger than 2012 and think we'll reach peak staffing and progress on the project in 2014 and 2015.
Technology delivered another strong quarter with over 20% job income growth year-over-year driven by execution on the business unit's backlog built over the past several quarters.
In the quarter we also booked a number of new ammonia licensing engineering and proprietary equipment projects in Indonesia and Bolivia.
We continue to see very robust global opportunities for growth across our world-class portfolio of leading technologies with particular strength in ammonia and fertilizer space driven by powerful project economics.
At downstream we continue to see a solid slate of new work in a number of areas.
Last week we announced that KBR was awarded a contract valued at approximately $600 million for Dyno Nobel's world-scale 800 000 metric ton per year ammonia plant to be built in Waggaman Louisiana.
This project will be booked in the second quarter of 2013.
KBR will provide EPC services as well as technology license and equipment for KBR's purifier technology.
KBR was also awarded an EPC contract last week for 2 new ethylene furnaces using KBR's SCORE technology for an undisclosed client.
The contract is valued at approximately $100 million and will also be booked in the second quarter of 2013.
We continue to see growing prospects in the U.S.
for additional ammonia urea and chemical projects several of which we have bid or are preparing bids for that we believe will reach FID in 2013.
From an execution standpoint the ethylene project in Uzbekistan is progressing well as is our Middle East PMC and CM portfolio projects including the Yanbu Sadara and Jazan projects.
Additionally we are seeing increasing engineering work volumes associated with our KBR-AMCDE joint venture.
At oil and gas we continue to be enthusiastic about expansion opportunities at Shah Deniz 2 in the Caspian where we're performing the FEED and expect to do EPCM for both the onshore and offshore portions of the project as it continues to advance towards FID in the third quarter.
Also during the first quarter KBR was selected by Subsea 7 to perform topsides design for the Chevron Lianzi development offshore Africa adjacent to the Congo/Angola border.
KBR is also involved in 2 floating LNG developments one with Höegh and the other with GDF SUEZ on the Bonaparte project.
At Services Q1 was solid particularly across bookings revenue and income at our Canada operations where we had a book-to-bill of 1.5 in the quarter and good execution on the strong bookings delivered in 2012.
We expect continued robust performance from our Canadian operations in 2013 with a continued flow of new work from the oil sands as well as good potential gas and potash opportunities ahead of us.
To support this growth we've nearly tripled the size of our labor force in Canada over the past year.
At Power we continue to position KBR as an EPC contractor for pollution control facilities and new combined cycle projects where we currently have 2 multi-hundred million dollar projects out for bid.
We continue to believe we have a favorable value proposition for our customers in this space and have plans to bid on a couple of additional multi-hundred million dollar projects later in 2013.
At North American Government Logistics after a strong finish to 2012 we also secured a few key wins in the first quarter.
Among these awards were the Djibouti Base Operation Support Services contract and the task order under the LogCAP IV contract to provide support to the U.S.
Forces in the Kingdom of Bahrain.
The $127 million Djibouti contract is for 1 base year and 3 option years while the $54 million LogCAP IV task order is for 1 base year and 4 option years.
KBR booked only the base year for both contracts in the first quarter.
Sequestration government budget uncertainty and a slower award environment remain challenges for North American Government Logistics but we continue to believe that this business has generally stabilized around current levels.
At IGD and SS we continue to see good performance on the Allenby &amp; Connaught project and our portfolio of Afghanistan-related projects.
As we transition our model from wartime to peacetime activities we continue to build and develop relationships where our core expertise can be best leveraged.
We're excited about a number of new opportunities developing for outsourcing opportunities at both the Ministry of Defence and with the local police forces in the U.K.
through public-private partnerships in the U.K.
and Australia camp support in the minerals market and potential emerging opportunities in Libya.
At Ventures we're seeing some natural gas supply issues at the EBIC ammonia plant in Egypt which impacted productivity.
The owners are working on stabilizing supply but overall we are anticipating lower ammonia volumes in 2013 relative to 2012.
Now I'd like to turn things over to Sue to discuss KBR's financial performance and outlook in more detail.
Sue? Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
Let me summarize our financial performance and then go deeper on some of the key areas.
KBR had a solid quarter of execution with job income margins improving 280 basis points over the first quarter of 2012.
All of our hydrocarbons business units plus North American Government Logistics Minerals and Canada improved job income margins versus Q1 2012.
Our cost in the business unit overhead and G&amp;A improved $7 million compared to the prior year first quarter and our labor cost absorption improved from the fourth quarter of 2012 as expected.
First quarter revenue was down compared to the prior year first quarter consistent with our expectations primarily driven by lower revenues from the Escravos GTL and Skikda LNG projects as they near completion.
We did however see solid revenue growth in Downstream and Services where the Services group was up nearly 40% led by a near threefold increase in Canada operations.
G&amp;A was $52 million in the first quarter as a result of lower incentive compensation expenses versus a year ago and ongoing prudent cost controls in all departments offset by higher ERP spending.
We expect G&amp;A to ramp up as we continue our ERP implementation in 2013.
KBR under-absorbed its labor cost in our centralized engineering pool by $15 million.
This is consistent with our expectations for labor cost absorption expense to continue to be a drag on earnings through  the first half of the year and to gradually improve as the year progresses.
We continue taking steps to rightsize our organization and optimize costs for the levels of work we anticipate for 2013.
We made progress in the first quarter but we still have significant room for improvement and this remains an ongoing focus for the company during the balance of 2013.
KBR's effective tax rate in the fourth quarter was 23% lower than our guidance range of 26% to 28% primarily due to favorable tax rate differentials on foreign earnings as well as a number of favorable discrete tax items in the quarter.
As you may recall the effective tax rate was 9% in the first quarter of 2012 primarily driven by discrete tax items.
KBR's backlog at the end of the first quarter was $14.2 billion down $716 million from our strong December 2012 backlog primarily related to normal project work-off.
This reduction also included a negative FX impact of approximately $160 million.
Additionally as you know backlog can be lumpy quarter-to-quarter for EMCs.
If we look at our backlog for Q1 and recently announced bookings in April on balance the start of the year has been in line with our expectations.
As of March 2013 43% of our backlog was fixed price and 57% was reimbursable the same mix we reported at December 2012.
The types of risks in our backlog are consistent with our discussions on prior calls with a large majority representing back-to-back contracts funded contingencies and KBR home office services.
Turning to KBR's balance sheet.
We ended the first quarter in a strong cash position with cash and equivalents of $904 million down $149 million from the previous quarter.
We used $93 million in cash from operations primarily related to the timing of the ramp-up of projects in Canada and the timing of invoices in downstream.
Cash deployment was $33 million for share repurchases dividends pension contributions and CapEx.
Also we had a negative $21 million impact to cash balances related to foreign exchange.
KBR's networking capital increased $230 million in the fourth quarter -- in the first quarter of 2013 also primarily related to the timing issues described previously.
Improving our working capital position going forward remains a key area of focus for the company.
Let me spend a bit more time on the subject of cash.
We have $904 million on the balance sheet of which $197 million is in joint ventures.
The remaining KBR cash is split approximately 23% domestic cash and 77% offshore cash.
Our domestic cash is utilized for dividends share repurchases capital spending and U.S.
acquisitions.
Our international cash is primarily used for operating requirements capital expenses foreign acquisitions and pension contributions.
Before turning the call over to Bill I would like to make a brief statement on our 2013 guidance.
KBR's full year 2013 earnings per diluted share guidance remains between $2.45 and $2.90.
We will provide an update to our 2013 guidance in July.
And now I'll turn the call back over to Bill for his final remarks.
Bill? Thank you Sue.
At this stage in the year KBR's business is progressing largely as expected.
We've had solid execution so far in 2013 and our win rate on new awards has been on par with where we thought we'd be.
We continue to see a robust series of new opportunities across each of our 14 market-facing business units.
The potential opportunity set for KBR is tremendous and I'm confident in KBR's ability to successfully win and execute this work both in 2013 and beyond.
Now we'll open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] And we'll go to our first question from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Bill of the 15 U.S.
ammonia greenfield projects that are in various stages of planning I'm wondering if you could provide your assessment of how many of those you think actually will move forward? And when do you expect the bulk of those projects to move to EPC? I think we're still looking at the dozen or 13 we've talked about previously.
We've seen a couple move into EPC or go into FID already and we still think that 6 or 8 of those might go forward in the 2013 2014 time frame.
And we're looking as KBR not only doing EPC but where it's possible provide other services.
The licenses we believe we'll be able to maintain our general 50% share of the licensing market and we'd like to be able to get a couple more EPCs out of this bulge that we're seeing in the North American market.
Research Division</strong> And Bill it's been a couple of decades since we've seen a U.S.
ammonia new build cycle.
Can you just talk about in this market the prospects for the EPC work to be linked to the Technology portion? In other words what can KBR's market share be on an EPC side? And how can that vary compared to ammonia projects we've seen in other markets? Well we are trying to -- and I think we were successful in the discussions with Dyno Nobel in linking the benefit of KBR's Technology with its EPC execution.
And in contrast to other parts of the world we are able to vertically integrate our position in the North American market to do both engineering and construction to support the Technology offering.
And so we are trying to create as much competitive differentiation as we can in packaging the ammonia project with the EPC and I think we were successful with Dyno.
I can't say that we'll be successful each time out.
But certainly where we can sell the technology it's a very good scope of work for us.
It certainly has the license the basic engineering design proprietary equipment associated with the technology.
And where we can show the customer the benefits of the integrated KBR Technology provision as well as the EPC we're trying to do that as aggressively as we can.
So we're clearly better positioned in North America to do this; we've been -- we are successful through the announcement on Dyno Nobel of delivering the integrated Technology and EPC; and we're hopeful that we'll have other opportunities to continue to package these 2 together.
And we'll take our next question from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Bill just on the ethylene furnaces that you mentioned in the second quarter I'm sorry I'm not familiar enough with it but how big is the total project that these furnaces are being used for? And is there a chance to expand your scope there? Well our scope on those John we commented we're right at $100 million for the new furnaces.
There is some back end the recovery section which is a whole different EPC offering.
And it depends on really where the client is.
We think on this opportunity that our scope will be the furnaces and I believe they've addressed the recovery section differently.
But in other opportunities we'd like to be able to get into the recovery side as well as the furnaces.
But clearly with our technology and the ability to do the linked EPC it's a much better opportunity for us to differentiate our offering than the recovery section which is more generic or vanilla in terms of its ability to be technically differentiated.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But in terms of the larger ethylene projects that we're reading about I'm just trying to understand the linkage there and the opportunity for KBR.
Well the new ones it's -- we've commented previously that if it's a greenfield project we're not -- we believe our technology does have a little bit of limitation in this low gas price environment.
The technology is a very sophisticated technology.
It gets a very high yield but the cost of the facility and the cost of the license when one has a much lower natural gas price environment is probably less advantage than in a higher gas price environment because the premium for yield the increased yield is not generated.
Also our technology has been a little stronger on naphtha than on methane.
So as we look at these some of the greenfield ones where they're starting without any other furnaces or beyond replacements of our existing furnaces I think we're probably less differentiated than we are where you've got an owner that's very familiar with the SCORE technology wants to see the consistency of the technology across multiple furnaces and that's where we see our niche in the ethylene side.
And we'll take our next question from Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Bill I know you said you would update us in July but you know we're going to ask you anyway.
The EPS range is still really wide and 1Q would put you close to the bottom of the range on a run rate basis.
I know you've said before you're expecting improvement throughout the year.
We know you want to be conservative because of the problem projects that are not finished yet.
But if they behave could you actually trend to the higher end of the range? Well I think Andy as we've looked at our guidance -- and you are correct we're not going to update the guidance on this call.
What we said at the beginning of the year is our position.
We had -- back in the call in February we had said we believe we had provisioned those projects appropriately.
Certainly if we do a better job mathematically that could be a positive for us but that remains to be seen.
And our comments today suggest that we're right on schedule with where we thought we'd be with these projects.
We also talked about the ramping up of the business and we said we had to sell work in the first quarter and we're marching along our steps as we have thought.
And so how you ought to interpret our comments is we are where we thought we'd be today given our guidance in the first quarter and without trying to get precise or get outside of our normal practice of updating in July our guidance remains where it is.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful Bill.
Maybe I could ask you your sort of confidence level around backlog over the next few quarters.
You did -- you are going to book the $600 million ammonia job.
I mean it sounds like from your prepared comments that everything is sort of in line with what you expected.
But as we look over the last 3 months have you had -- have you seen more activity around sort of medium- to large-sized projects or less or is it just kind of right in line with what we thought in terms of backlog growth expectations? I think Andy as we look at the backlog we are not envisioning big awards big EPC awards this year.
We think this year will be a FEED-driven year for us.
Given the fact that we're working off backlog on Ichthys that's EPC and we're adding backlog that would largely be FEED we probably would expect to see a backlog decline on revenues.
But as we look at job income because we generally make a higher margin on job income on FEEDs and the engineering services than we do on the overall average EPC that -- we don't see that type of erosion in our job income backlog because of a mixed variance as we progress throughout the year.
So while we would expect to see the revenue fall off I'm not sure from a job income standpoint we would see that fall off at all given the type of work we're expecting to book on the FEED side over the next couple of months.
We'll take our next question from Jamie Cook with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Sorry I have to follow up on the guidance question as well.
Bill or Sue I mean when you guys guided last quarter in terms of how we thought about the earnings first half versus second half Sue I think you said $0.90 to $1.10 for the first half of the year and we're already sitting at about $0.60 for Q1.
So I just want to understand is there any -- I don't know.
Is there anything that's going down meaningfully in the second quarter that would imply an I don't know $0.30 $0.40 -- or $0.40 $0.50 number in Q2? And then my next question relates to Technology where the job income and the margins have been very good if we think about 2012 versus 2011 and with some of the ammonia projects stuff you're talking about.
I'm just wondering if you can help us whether -- what type of growth we should see in those markets in I guess 2013 versus 2012? Wow that's 2 really big questions.
Sue you want to take a stab at the first one? I tried on the last one.
Sure.
Well first Jamie you...
Research Division</strong> Well you did say $1 in the first half come on.
I said $0.90 to $1.10 that is correct.
And...
Research Division</strong> And we're at $0.60 so the math doesn't work.
Well -- so what we really did is we've looked at the entire year and gave our best estimate of the first half.
We're really not going to update any of that but we don't expect to have -- see anything in the second quarter different than the good execution and the good project work that we've seen in the first quarter.
So while we're not updating it we don't expect anything to drop off in the second quarter in terms of our execution and our cost control.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just on the Technology side? Well the Technology side Jamie we had a really outstanding fourth quarter in terms of our bookings on several ammonia plants.
We would expect to see those volumes continue to be worked off throughout 2013 and maybe a little bit into '14.
We are hopeful that the great sales efforts we're seeing all over the world in ammonia will continue.
There does seem to be -- the continued activity in North America we believe that there are some market rules changes in India that will allow us to see a couple of ammonia plants to move forward in India.
We see pretty much steady the rest of the world so we're optimistic that the Technology can continue on the growth platform.
Now as we look at margins we are -- as we expand the scope of our Technology offerings from just the basic engineering and design and license to a package that includes a higher level of proprietary equipment the job income on each of those sales is increasing but the margins are declining because you're not getting the margins on proprietary equipment that you get on the intellectual property or the basic engineering design.
But overall we're very pleased with the scope expansion that our Technology teams have driven into our offering and we'll make more money as a result and we'd be happy to trade off more money in exchange for a little bit lower margin on the Technology business.
We'll take our next question from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> You had called out $38 million or about $0.20 of positive contract estimate revisions in hydrocarbons and I think specifically in gas mon.
Can you just talk about what that is? And is that for Australian projects that are ongoing or maybe some of the legacy projects that are ramping up? Well yes you're referring to some statements we made in the Q about those adjustments.
We did see an expansion of our scope of work on Gorgon during the quarter which increased the backlog on the Gorgon project for us.
Now that also had the offset of reducing percentage of completion and that explains a little bit why minority interest was light in the quarter compared to what we've been running traditionally.
So that was an impact.
We did have a couple -- we did -- as I've said we had our first LNG shipment out of Skikda.
That took away some of the risks that we had during the commissioning of the plant so we had some of the recoveries there funded liabilities which were in our budgets for 2013 and we're continuing to work on some of the other items on Skikda now that we're producing gas there.
Ichthys and Escravos were pretty much as expected.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then Bill previously you talked about China partnered with some other companies for construction on U.S.
ethylene projects where you don't have the technology but you could provide the construction services.
Can you just give us an update on where you stand with that? Yes.
We have -- we're continuing to look at those opportunities Steve.
As we've talked about in our construction-only business U.S.
construction we're continuing to pursue reimbursable opportunities until we see a settling down of the Gulf Coast craft market.
That's probably been -- I think it's prudent for KBR to date given the experience we've had in the last 2 quarters.
It may keep us out of a couple of opportunities where the owners are looking to get fixed-price construction.
But if someone is -- feels comfortable doing the fixed-price construction then so be it.
But we do feel comfortable looking at the integrated EPC and doing our construction there and we're very pleased with how that turned out on Dyno Nobel.
But those opportunities are not -- maybe not as voluminous as we'd like.
A lot of stuff continues to slide and I think owners are still from their perspective doing the prudent things of seeing if in the market they can get a lump sum construction for that piece.
They're looking for it.
And so that's probably taken away some of the opportunity set for us over this year and may affect us prospectively through 2013.
We'll take our next question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> First question is I think you Bill have already sort of answered it but I know you've had good close-outs and good execution on a couple of your largest projects.
As you look out to later half -- latter half of 2013 and into 2014 is the job income on the hydrocarbons and specifically gas monetization side going to continue to directionally point up even though we've seen a couple of large closeouts over the last 8 months? I would say that as we look at the portfolio in gas mon we expect to have FEED awards that will increase volumes at gas monetization in the second half compared to first half.
Our execution on Gorgon and Ichthys Gorgon should remain constant; Ichthys should continue to ramp up.
We expect that Escravos will complete but we really haven't had material impacts from Escravos in the P&amp;L for some time now.
And then on Skikda while that closes out we still have some claims with the customer regarding the extension of time and the liquidated damage provisions that we took a couple of years back that we hope now that we are producing LNG the customer will take a more favorable view of our performance and be willing to assess more openly the issues that gave rise to these charges that we took and particularly related to subcontractors of our customer that we used who had a contribution to these delays.
So I think you could see some continued momentum in the earnings growth at gas mon for those reasons in the second half compared to first half.
Research Division</strong> And as a follow-up the second question is for Sue.
You've talked I think over the last 2 quarters a little more about your working capital dicing  [ph] up perhaps  [ph] the DSOs and all.
As you look out is that -- do you have certain milestones we should look forward to in terms of really seeing these materialize in terms of timing? Sure.
Tahira as we think about what's going to happen in 2013 on working capital and cash flow all of our businesses are very well aware of where they need to be for the year on these items.
We're working it hard.
We're disappointed that more of it hasn't materialized in Q1 but we definitely are making progress.
And again the team knows where they need to be and what the problem spots are and we expect those to be in line with our expectations by the end of 2013.
We'll take our next question from Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> I guess first for Bill.
You did mention this year you don't expect to see a lot of very large EPC projects but you had been pursuing a handful of sizable awards in the Middle East particularly on the oil and gas side.
Maybe you could just give us an update on where you stand with some of these offshore projects like in Abu Dhabi and elsewhere.
Are those still viable opportunities for you in '13? The 2 projects we were pursuing in the Middle East in oil and gas of magnitude were both losses.
We were pleased with the commercial offering we put together and I think we learned some things as an organization working with Korean contractors that we expect to be able to move forward on other bids.
Unfortunately on the larger one we had had the low price after the first round and there was a rebid and another party made a dramatic cut in price to jump ahead of us and was awarded the bid.
So both those 2 large efforts were losses but we took away some positive experiences gained in doing joint EPC with the Korean contractors in the Middle East on oil and gas projects.
LLC</strong> Got it.
And just Sue just back to working capital.
You had been discussing the last couple of quarters just about collections from the U.S.
government.
Can you just talk about where that stands? Are you hopeful that gets resolved shortly? Is that part of the 2013 plan? It is part of the 2013 plan Brian and we're making some progress.
But as with most things with the government it's slow.
We expect that some of the funding issues that I described in the fourth quarter call will be easier to get to than some of the closeout activities for -- and forms one with the other part.
But we do expect to make significant progress in 2013.
And like me say our team is working that very hard and we're moving along as we expected we would be through the first quarter.
We'll take our next question from George O'Leary with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just wondered if you could provide a little incremental color on Kitimat and kind of timing expectations there.
I think last we'd heard it was potentially late 2013.
I know Chevron is good for the overall project moving forward but they're a pretty meticulous customer.
And with the review of the FEED is there kind of a delay in timing around that project? Well I'll take the -- first of all when Chevron and Apache announced their agreement there were some time to get in and complete the documentation of Chevron officially joining that venture and the exiting of Apache's 2 partners.
And I believe that is coming to a conclusion right now which has obviously been an important thing for the owner group -- or the new owner group to get squared away.
Chevron is very meticulous and I think they will pursue the project very thoughtfully and carefully.
But given that we're in late April right now and where we are in the discussions it's -- we're ready to go very quickly with Chevron.
But from our perspective if it does slide into first quarter then that would be -- or later we're still very interested in the project and we'll -- whatever progress the owner group wants to move forward we're ready to go at any time.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That was very helpful.
And then from kind of a chemical standpoint in downstream outside of ammonia what opportunities are you most excited about in 2013? And do you think we could see some more activity around sort of the gas-to-liquids project as we move into '14? Yes I do think you could see some more activity on that as we move into '14.
We've continued to follow with great interest the developments in gas to liquids because we believe through our Pearl GTL experience we have something to offer that's differentiated of having done one of these of such a large scale.
And even our experience on Escravos is a benefit there because that puts us with 2 major GTL projects that are -- that can go on our résumé.
So we're hopeful those will continue.
Again the sponsors have to look at what all their issues are.
Particularly as it gets into the siting what kind of agreements they have with the local governments how do they want to structure their feedstock offtake contracts all of which we don't have any perspective as KBR into.
But relative to discussions that we're having involving GTL projects we're pleased with the continued evolution as KBR.
And then in the chemical space certainly we're seeing a lot more activity in terms of projects in the U.S.
and I would think that bodes well for us because of our ability to deliver integrated EPC services on these projects.
And our prospect list in our -- principally our downstream business looks as strong as it's been in some time driven by the North American market largely.
We'll take our next question from Rob Norfleet with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question Bill.
Recently INPEX has been saying that they've been seeing some obviously challenges in cost inflation at the Ichthys project in Australia which is obviously not uncommon given the tight wage rates there in that region.
When you look at that contract for you all it's split between fixed and cost reimbursable.
I just want to understand kind of what your exposure would be though given that 75% of the contract for INPEX was structured as fixed if there were various wage rate inflations or cost overruns what the impact would be on KBR -- I mean what your exposure is there? We think we've appropriately structured the contract.
There is a large reimbursable portion which does include the local construction cost for that project.
As we've talked on previous calls the largest part of our fixed-price exposure relates to home office services where we feel we have a very good ability to estimate cost and productivity and we also have a significant amount of back-to-back procurement that Sue's talked about on prior calls.
So we see -- we see the market as it was when we signed the contract a year ago.
We also believe that the situation in Australia is similar to where it was a year ago and that it's perhaps INPEX looking at the market and seeing things change.
But I don't think the comments they're making are materially different from the comments that have been made by other owners in Australia for the reasons the other owners have made those comments.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful.
My second question I just wanted to ask about obviously the PEMEX the arbitration.
I mean it looks like you all have moved past that process into actually trying to see some of the PEMEX assets in Luxembourg.
Can you kind of talk about what the timing of potentially getting some of those assets would be? And if you do end up collecting cash what you would envision the use of that $350 million? We are -- I think outlined in the Q we're still pursuing our remedies in New York and those efforts in front of the judge there continue.
We had a set of hearings 2 weeks ago on that that we think went well for us and we could get a ruling from the bench in the coming weeks or certainly the next few months on that which would -- could result in the closure of EPC-1.
We've been working on the parallel path of Luxembourg for some time now.
We believe that the Luxembourg courts have affirmed the arbitration and that as we've proceeded with the banks and the questions that have been risen by the banks to the courts over there have been addressed as we would like them to be addressed in Luxembourg.
It does take some time for this process to work out in Europe and -- but it does give us a second opportunity to get our monies collected.
And certainly if all else fails we have the arbitration under NAFTA which we haven't executed yet but we're still looking to diligently pursue the collection of the monies.
I guess when the money comes in if we're successful the first thing I'm going to do is count it and make sure it's all there and then we'll figure out what's the best use for that.
But I think Sue has made comments I'll let her comment again about how we look at using cash and -- but I don't think we're going to have any kind of different strategy in terms of how we look at cash.
So Sue do you want to add any thoughts there? Well and I'll second what Bill said we'd be very happy to receive the cash.
And as we look out at whatever time it is that we actually receive the cash we'll do an evaluation of where we are on several different items.
So what we normally talk about is operating expenses dividends share buyback and acquisitions being the final piece of that list.
And so at the time that we would receive those cash -- that cash we'd do an evaluation of what made the most sense at that point in time and come out with a communication.
We'll take our next question from Will Gabrielski with Lazard Capital.
Research Division</strong> Can you provide some color around IGP overhead and just -- as a percentage of revenue it's the highest it's ever been and I don't know how much of that is associated with the federal work versus the other segments.
But is there any leverage there that you might have later in the year? I think as we -- as you look at IGP overhead it is overhead.
And with declining volumes the overhead as a percent of sales will go up.
We are taking out overhead as businesses shrink and we will continue to do that.
We had a perhaps greater softness in our infrastructure business than we envisioned 3 or 4 months ago so we're evaluating where our overheads are and what we're going to spend money on and we're going to be very aggressive trying to continue to rightsize that organization.
We do hope that we'll be able to grow back some of these businesses so that the overhead as a percent of sales will decline.
But we are mindful of the -- particularly in our government businesses as we've shrunk down that NAGL we can show that the overhead has fallen in NAGL over time.
But with a lot of the tail issues that we see it's not a 1:1 shrinkage of revenues and overheads.
But we continue to look very diligently at what's the best use for that overhead.
And if it's not productive in terms of creating work  or we have a reset in terms of the size of the businesses we will take steps accordingly.
And you can go back and look as I said at NAGL and minerals how we've managed overheads over time and we'll continue to be good stewards of that spending.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In the Middle East and specifically Saudi what type of activity levels are you seeing in GES+? And then what's the pace of work like on Jazan and Sadara for your PMC roles? Yes.
The GES+ we're expecting that to grow significantly this year from where we were.
I think we ended the year last year at about 400 people.
We're expecting be north of 600 by the end of the year which we think is good.
On Yanbu that's going to continue.
It's fairly stable at this stage as the project is in construction.
At Sadara we're just now getting into the field.
We could see a little bit of growth there as the PMC starts dealing with all the different issues that are attendant to getting into the field with such a large project.
Jazan we're just getting there.
We could see a little bit of growth there.
But those are PMCs and it's good work for us but they're not the same degree of volume that you would expect on an LNG project for example.
We'll take our next question from Robert Connors with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just related to some of the downstream units from the ethylene crackers it seems like the lift there is much longer than some of these base load ethylene plants for things like polyethylene ethylene oxide and even some of the unpurposed production plants that are starting to emerge.
So I was just wondering are there some of these downstream opportunities? Can they exist for KBR? Or are the project owners looking to keep a lot of these downstream units in-house with EPCs doing the base load ethylene plant? Well I think our prospect list does have those downstream plants.
Doing an ethylene project is a large project by itself and those could be anywhere from $400 million to $700 million as a rule.
I think the other plants are separate enough.
And we're seeing on our prospect list those opportunities that tell us that the owners aren't limiting the entire ethylene chain to one contractor that they want to break it up to just get make sure that any one contractor doesn't get overextended and provide the benefit of multiple contractors on site.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And it seems like your comments about Abu Dhabi that you gave before but just recently we've seen some of the Asian EMCs start to I guess experience a hangover effects of their fixed-price bidding strategy.
So I was just wondering if there's pockets starting to emerge where pricing discipline or contracting terms are becoming a little bit more restored in favor of the Western EMCs at this point in time? Yes.
I think when we look at those bids several years ago and saw prices below our direct cost it was the cause of concern.
And I guess what -- there's a little bit of relief that these guys have taken on work very aggressively and that their underlying cost base is not necessarily different from what our underlying cost base is.
I do believe that in the last 12 18 months we've seen a better bidding environment a more disciplined bidding environment in the Middle East and I'm optimistic that that will continue so that we get a more narrow distribution of outcomes on the awards and not the very dramatic distribution we saw 2 or 3 years ago.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just for housekeeping was there an update on the 2013 LogCAP revs? No no.
We basically have said that the government businesses are stable at this point with -- we said that at the end of 2012 so we have not provided specific guidance on LogCAP.
We'll take our next question from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up maybe for Sue.
In terms of where you've got an equity investment projects like INPEX how much backlog are you burning out of that project not flowing through revenue? Well so what we've done and what we talked about when we booked INPEX specifically is that we booked the backlog at our percentage of the revenue of the contract amongst the partners.
And so then what we are doing as we go through and we actually book revenues into backlog we're also adjusting out through adjustments in the revenue line any revenues that are not flowing through the P&amp;L.
So in other words the equity investments those may not exactly be equal.
And so at any given point in time you'll have the percentage in backlog that's left on a project.
John if you were thinking about it from a modeling standpoint in prior calls we've described the duration of the project and I'd ask you go back and look at that but if we assume that -- we said 5 years and we assumed a normal distribution on your typical project performance you can kind of lay out the percentage of completion we're going to see this year in year 2 of 5 and then be able to look at the work-off that would be associated with that normal distribution percent complete.
That would be the way I would suggest you all look at that from a modeling perspective.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I appreciate that.
I guess what I'm also trying to understand a little bit is what your pace of bookings are because I can't just net them against the previous quarters.
In other words the change in backlog and...
Well the change in backlog is -- just on a revenue base in backlog is -- obviously we see that and it does tell a different story because you're not seeing -- the challenge that we all face and we've talked about it prior is that with equity accounting we're taking out revenue dollars in backlog and they're flowing in on the equity side in the P&amp;L so you don't see the 1:1 correlation between change in backlog and what's going into the P&amp;L.
And believe me that's why we spent a lot of time last year describing how to be -- how to think about it in terms of the duration of the project the normal S curve so that as you could look at what is really happening in the backlog that you could get a sense of what was coming out on Ichthys.
And we've stayed away from commenting specifically on any one project from a revenue side or a backlog adjustment and so that's why we continue to refer folks who have questions -- because it is a gap and how you're looking at your model -- to think more analytically of the normal distribution and percent complete times the backlog that we booked.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Well I was hoping to try and figure it out a little more but I appreciate the help.
And...
Yes.
Some of your peers might just ask us what the number was and we'd have to politely say no we can't -- we can't say...
Research Division</strong> I know I know I know.
The other question I apologize too if you said this but in terms of the embedded margin in your backlog how does it look now versus the last couple of quarters? It followed a little bit the falloff in the revenue backlog John.
It didn't fall off 1:1 because we added some higher-margin stuff than we worked off and that was the EPC phenomenon versus adding FEED work in there.
It's about flat with where we ended the year.
This concludes today's time for question and answers.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference back to our speakers.
Well thank you all for joining KBR's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
We appreciate your attention we appreciate your questions and we look forward to continuing our dialogue with you all as 2013 unfolds for KBR.
Thank you and have a great day.
This concludes today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the KBR Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] For our opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Zac Nagle Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to KBR's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is also being webcast and a replay will be available on KBR's website for 7 days at kbr.com.
The press release announcing second quarter results is also available on KBR's website.
Joining me today are Bill Utt Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Sue Carter Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call Bill will provide an overview of KBR's second quarter operating results highlighting a number of key areas from each of our business units.
Sue will then provide an overview of the key financial takeaways for today's call.
Lastly before turning the call over to Q&amp;A Bill will provide brief closing comments.
After our prepared remarks we will open the floor for questions.
Before turning the call over to Bill I would like to remind our audience that today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting KBR's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in KBR's second quarter press release issued last night KBR's Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30 2013 and KBR's current reports on Form 8-K.
You can find all these documents at kbr.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Bill? Thank you Zac and good morning everyone.
KBR delivered a solid second quarter with earnings per share of $0.61.
Overall we had strong project execution across our businesses which drove job income up 8% year-over-year with job income margins up 153 basis points.
The second quarter results were negatively impacted by nonrecurring charges in the amount of $11 million.
These costs include office closure and severance costs in the amount of $7 million as well as $4 million related to a true-up of lease expenses in Australia.
Second quarter results were also favorably impacted by a 12% effective tax rate for the quarter.
The second quarter was also a strong bookings quarter for KBR.
Ignoring foreign exchange impacts across our backlog in the amount of $611 million KBR's second quarter book-to-bill ratio was 1.1.
Across the 5 problem projects we discussed on our fourth quarter call our execution remained consistent with the project provisions we took in the fourth quarter and we did not take any further charges in this portfolio of projects in excess of these provisions.
At our U.S.
construction business unit 1 project experienced an increase in cost which was offset by lower estimates complete on the other 2 projects.
We continue to estimate that all of the projects will be completed by the end of 2013.
For the KPC projects KBR has completed its work on the available construction fronts.
On the KPC 2 project all construction activities have been completed; however due to operational requirements the customer has elected not to provide KBR the opportunity to shut down a portion of the plant so as to allow KBR to complete punch list activities and conduct final performance testing.
As a result KBR has commenced demobilization on the KPC 2 project.
On the KPC 1 project KBR has completed all construction activities with the exception of a conveyor across an area where the customer has placed waste fill from its coal mining operations.
As a result of this waste disposal activity the soils upon which KBR was expected to construct the conveyor have not adequately settled to permit construction of the remaining works.
This ongoing soil movement has been documented by third-party geotechnical firms.
We have notified the customer of this issue and have issued a change order for both the time and cost to allow for the soils to settle and KBR to appropriately construct the remaining conveyor system.
This request has been rejected by the customer.
As a result KBR has completed the construction on the available fronts and is also in the process of demobilizing its staff on the KPC 1 project.
During the fourth quarter of 2012 KBR took provisions to complete the projects and accrue any potential liquidated damages.
We believe these provisions remain appropriate under the present circumstances and KBR did not take any further provisions for the KPC projects during the second quarter and do not anticipate taking any further provisions going forward.
As we look out to the balance of 2013 we are revising our EPS guidance range to $2.55 to $2.90 from $2.45 to $2.90 reflecting our outlook after 2 quarters of solid performance.
We see our LCA expense higher than we expected when we gave our initial guidance in January which will continue to be a drag on earnings in 2013.
The improvement in LCA with the timing of awards for new projects has been slower than we anticipated and we will continue to maintain our resource center staffing to execute key projects as they are awarded to KBR.
We do anticipate improvement in the second half over our first half LCA results.
Generally offsetting these higher LCA costs is a lower tax rate.
As we look at 2013 our execution the expected pace of new awards and our outlook for resolving a few outstanding issues on some legacy projects we feel good about our position and our prospects to continue to deliver strong recurrence to our shareholders over time.
Turning to some of the business unit highlights from Q2 and the trends we see heading into the balance of the year.
Bookings remain generally consistent with our expectations for singles and doubles while several large projects continue to move to the right.
We had some key wins in the second quarter such as 2 North American ammonia EPC awards including Dyno Nobel worth approximately $600 million and an ethylene furnace.
Additionally we recently announced an important win at NAGL valued at $134 million to support Europe's first land-based ballistic missile-defense system at Romania's Deveselu Air Base.
We also were awarded a FEED contract for Petrobras' Canadian Pacific Northwest LNG project.
Moving on to some key business unit highlights.
At Gas Monetization Q2 job income increased 7% year-over-year due to strong project execution and increased volumes at our 2 primary LNG projects Gorgon and Ichthys.
Looking forward we continue to expect strong margins in this business through the continued strong project execution a mix shift away from lower-margin projects which are at or nearing completion project milestone achievements and potential for favorable resolution on project close out items we've previously discussed.
Additionally we continue to have a very healthy pipeline of future prospects.
For the Kitimat LNG project the additional FEED analysis is substantially complete and we are preparing for the EPC competition for the project.
For the Gorgon LNG fourth train project extended pre-FEED activities continue and we now anticipate a transition into FEED in the first quarter of 2014.
For the Tanzania LNG project KBR continues to execute pre-FEED activities.
For the Tangguh 3 expansion train we are in the bid preparation phase for the FEED which we anticipate will move forward in the first quarter of 2014.
In the U.S.
we are in talks with a customer regarding a GTL project and believe that project could reach FEED in 2013.
We also continue to track opportunities for additional LNG and GTL developments maintaining an active dialogue with sponsors regarding opportunities in both areas and remain enthusiastic that a number of projects will move forward.
Regarding our other projects in Gas Monetization both the Escravos and Skikda projects are now in the commissioning phase.
At Downstream we had a tremendous level of U.S.
bookings in the quarter with a book-to-bill of 5.8 across a number of key strategic areas.
This includes our previously announced Dyno Nobel project as well as another ammonia EPC project worth approximately $250 million.
New awards also include the EPC contract for 2 new ethylene furnaces utilizing KBR's SCORE technology valued at approximately $100 million.
We continue to be bullish on growing prospects in the U.S.
for additional ammonia urea and chemicals projects.
We have several bids outstanding and anticipate an active bidding environment for the second half of 2013.
From an execution standpoint Uzbekistan ethylene project is progressing well as are our Middle East portfolio of PMC and CM projects.
We also have a couple of bids in for FEED in PMC work in the Middle East for refinery and petrochemical projects and we are seeing increasing engineering work volumes associated with our KBR-AMCDE joint venture.
Technology delivered another strong quarter with 47% job income growth year-over-year driven by execution on the business unit's backlog build over the past several quarters.
In the quarter we also booked a number of new ammonia and ethylene awards in conjunction with our Downstream EPC project awards.
We continue to see a robust series of global opportunities for growth across our world-class portfolio of leading technologies with particular strength in the ammonia and fertilizer space as driven by continued strong project economics.
At Oil &amp; Gas we continue to perform post-FEED and pre-FID activities for the Shah Deniz 2 project.
KBR is also involved in pursuing 2 floating LNG developments one with Höegh and the other with GDF SUEZ on the Bonaparte project.
At Services we had a strong second quarter with revenue up 46% and job income up 31% year-over-year.
Our Canadian business has doubled in size year-over-year during the first half of 2013.
We continue to anticipate a robust flow of new work from the oil sands as well as substantial opportunities from natural gas mining potash and SAGD.
During the second quarter we also saw solid income growth from Industrial Services and at the Building Group driven by new manufacturing-related projects in aerospace and technology.
At Power our 2 large EPC projects SWA and Ghent are progressing as scheduled.
We are also seeing an improved bidding environment for both pollution control and combined cycle projects.
At NAGL sequestration government budget uncertainty and a slower award environment remain challenging.
However we continue to believe this business has generally stabilized at current levels.
Our recently announced award for a $134 million contract to support Europe's first land-based ballistic missile defense system at Romania's Deveselu Air Base is a good example of how we are building backlog.
We continue to see other solid opportunities in the marketplace for NAGL over the coming months.
At IGDSS execution on our Allenby &amp; Connaught and our Afghanistan-related project continues to be strong.
While we anticipate the construction component of the Allenby &amp; Connaught project to be completed next year the services component of the contract will continue to ramp slowly in anticipation of the completion of construction.
We are continuing our efforts to diversify this business in anticipation of the Afghanistan activity wind down and completion of the Allenby &amp; Connaught construction project.
As part of these efforts during the second quarter we were awarded a contract by the London Mayor's Office for Policing and Crime to provide facilities management integrator services to the Metropolitan Police Service.
Building off this award we see additional opportunities to expand services to other Metro London and U.K.
policing departments.
We also continue to pursue new opportunities with the Ministry of Defense through public-private partnerships in the U.K.
and Australia camp support in the nongovernment market and potential emerging opportunities in Libya.
At Ventures an ongoing issue at the EBIC ammonia plant in Egypt is natural gas supply which has impacted ammonia production.
The owners are working on stabilizing natural gas supply but overall we still anticipate lower ammonia volumes in 2013 relative to 2012.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Sue to discuss KBR's financial performance and outlook in more detail.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
Let me summarize our financial performance and then go deeper on some of the key areas.
KBR had a solid quarter of execution with job income up 8% and job income margins improving 153 basis points versus the second quarter of 2012.
Hydrocarbons business group job income margins were up 390 basis points driven by strength in Gas Monetization Downstream and Technology.
The NAGL IGDSS Canada and Industrial Services business units also delivered job income margin improvement year-over-year.
Operating leverage was reduced in the quarter by higher business unit overhead driven primarily by higher proposal costs; higher SG&amp;A expenses including $11 million associated with implementation costs for our new ERP system; and higher labor cost absorption or LCA expenses driven by our resource centers' labor under absorption of $12 million; and $5 million related to an office closure.
Over time we expect to see these 3 areas return to historical norms which will help drive bottom line growth.
Second quarter revenue was down compared to the prior year's second quarter consistent with our expectations primarily driven by lower revenues from the Escravos GTL and Skikda LNG projects which are largely complete.
We did however see solid revenue growth in 2 key areas for KBR: Downstream and Services driven by strong bookings over the past several quarters.
Downstream revenue was up 33% year-over-year and Services was up 46% led by outstanding growth in Canada operations up 153% and robust growth in Building Group and Industrial Services up 44% and 27% respectively.
I'd like to highlight the $11 million of nonrecurring expense that we incurred in the quarter.
The first piece of this is the closure of an office which cumulatively cost approximately $7 million.
This cost were split between LCA which was approximately $5 million and overhead which was approximately $2 million.
The second is related to a review of our lease expenses in Australia which resulted in an unfavorable true-up of approximately $4 million.
These costs were split between corporate G&amp;A of approximately $2 million and business unit overhead in IGP of approximately $2 million.
Corporate G&amp;A was $63 million in the quarter including $11 million in expected ERP cost as that project continues to move forward into implementation.
As we look towards the balance of the year we now expect corporate G&amp;A to be between $230 million and $240 million for 2013 down $10 million from the top end of our previous guidance range of $230 million to $250 million.
We also expect ERP cost to be at the high end of the previously communicated range of $30 million to $40 million based on the pace of the projects' implementation.
We expect to drive cost savings across other areas to achieve the lower G&amp;A guidance range.
KBR under absorbed its labor cost in our centralized engineering pool by $17 million.
After taking into account approximately $5 million related to shutdown cost associated with the office closure approximately $12 million remains in LCA expense for the quarter representing a $3 million improvement compared to the first quarter.
KBR's effective tax rate in the second quarter was 12% lower than our guidance range of 26% to 28% primarily due to favorable tax rate differentials on foreign earnings as well as tax reserve releases related to final negotiations of transfer pricing agreements.
For the second half of 2013 we are guiding to an effective tax rate of between 24% and 26%.
KBR's backlog at the end of the second quarter was $13.8 billion down $411 million from our March 2013 backlog primarily related to normal project work off and adjustments in backlog based on the Ichthys project equity accounting.
The backlog reduction also included a negative FX impact of approximately $611 million relating to the 12% devaluation of the Aussie dollar against the U.S.
dollar in the quarter and the fact that our backlog for both Ichthys and Gorgon are predominantly Aussie dollar-based.
As of June 2013 48% of our backlog was fixed price and 52% was reimbursable compared to the 43% and 57% mix we reported for March 2013.
The mix shift is primarily attributable to the backlog book for Downstream which had a large fixed price EPC component.
As we've discussed on prior calls the types of risk in KBR's backlog include a high percentage of back-to-back contracts funded contingencies and KBR home office services.
So in our view the risks are not as high as the percentages of fixed versus reimbursable might suggest on the surface.
Turning to KBR's balance sheet.
We ended the second quarter in a strong cash position with cash and equivalents of $800 million down $104 million from the previous quarter.
Operating cash flow for the second quarter was negative $4 million which included approximately $108 million of bond draws related to the PEMEX EPC 1 dispute.
Operating cash flow without the bond draw was a positive $104 million.
Also we had a negative $32 million impact to cash balances related to foreign exchange.
Cash deployment in the quarter was $37 million for dividends pension contributions and CapEx.
Working capital defined as current accounts receivable minus current accounts payable improved $65 million.
Unbilled receivables improved $74 million with improvements across nearly all the business units.
The NAGL unbilled receivables balance declined $6 million in the quarter.
We continue to work very diligently with our government customer to obtain funding and resolve open items.
Improving our working capital position remains a key area of focus for the company going forward.
Moving on to our guidance for 2013.
As Bill discussed we raised our EPS range to $2.55 to $2.90 from $2.45 to $2.90.
There are a number of initiatives and factors we're working through which could impact our earnings.
One of the key areas that will clearly drive our results is the level of improvement in our operating performance in the second half.
We've had solid execution through the first half and we expect to see significant further improvement in operating income and margins in the second half as we continue to execute on our current projects and our new projects continue or begin to ramp.
We also anticipate additional singles and doubles in the second half that could add to earnings this year.
A second key area is the close out of certain issues on projects in our Gas Monetization business.
We've talked about potential upsides in Gas Monetization on prior calls and we have a number of issues where successful resolution can provide upside in the second half.
A third area is the potential resolution of a number of litigation matters such as EPC 1 that could also contribute to our results.
One final item that I'd like to address is the PEMEX performance bond draw.
I will refer you to our 8-K and 10-Q for all of the details surrounding the ongoing dispute with PEMEX on the EPC 1 arbitration award.
KBR was successful in an International Chamber of Commerce arbitration award in 2009.
The underlying work for which the performance bonds were posted was complete.
Through actions and appeals in the Mexican courts the bonds were drawn for their base value of $80 million plus interest for a total of $108 million which appears in noncurrent unbilled receivables on uncompleted contracts on the balance sheet.
We believe the arbitration award will be upheld and that KBR will be able to collect on the award as well as recover our cash from the bond draw.
And now I'll turn the call back to Bill for his final remarks.
Thank you Sue.
At this stage of the year our business is progressing satisfactorily with large awards slower than expected.
We've had solid execution so far in 2013 and our win rate on new awards is improving.
While our 2013 labor cost absorption expenses are higher than expected these have been offset in part by lower tax expenses.
We continue to see a robust series of new opportunities across our 14 market-facing business units.
The potential opportunities set for KBR continues to expand given our solid positioning and capabilities and I am confident in our ability to successfully win and execute this work both in the second half of 2013 and beyond.
We will now open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] We'll take your first question from Vishal Shah from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Bill I just wanted to better understand how we should be thinking about LCA going forward.
Do you need some of the big projects to drive your LCA improvement in the second half and also in 2014? And can you also talk about the cost increase that you saw in one of the U.S.
projects? Should we expect any more increases going forward? On the labor cost absorption we're seeing that being a regional issue for us.
We look at weakness in our Australian markets which we're trying to take steps to correct.
That involves mostly the civil infrastructure business in Australia which is not megaproject-related.
We're seeing weakness in our Singapore and Jakarta offices which is more oil- and gas-centric in terms of their outlook and we've worked to move some other work into those offices to minimize that impact.
But those are really going to come back based on either the additional work we sell in oil and gas or possibly looking at some of the larger LNG projects going forward.
We're also seeing some under absorption in our London offices that is -- part of it will get solved with the FID on Shah Deniz when that takes place and we expect that to take place later this year.
But there's also additional FEED work that will help mitigate that.
And as we move into Gorgon train 4 FEED later this year the first part of next year that will improve the situation.
We did see some mitigation of the LCA with the Petronas FEED which is being executed in London.
But to get the London situation fully recovered that's going to take some of the larger projects to move forward.
Now offsetting that is we're doing very well in the U.S.
We see very positive labor cost absorption numbers and we're looking at ways to try to balance off the portfolio effect of LCA.
But we're clearly focused on what we need to do in those regional markets and maintaining capacity for work that we do believe will come forward.
Now with respect to the U.S.
construction projects the cost we saw really got back to productivity and wage rates at one project.
There is some opportunity to recover some other expenses related to that project but we do have the fundamental base productivity and the wage rates for the work under contract that we signed up for.
But overall we do feel that the portfolio's appropriately provisioned and that we do see across the 3 U.S.
construction projects prospectively upside opportunities that could balance any future downside effects for further wage increases or productivity impacts.
We'll move next to Jerry Revich from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Bill can you give us an update on the number of U.S.
nitrogen projects that you're bidding on currently? And would love your perspective on the delays we've seen for the urea and UAN projects recently and where do you think the return structures stack up on the various derivative projects? Well we have a number of projects we are pursuing.
Off the top I think there are 4 of them that we're looking at at various stages of development that we are pursuing from an EPC perspective.
We do think there are other ones out there that haven't gotten to the point where I would say we're actively pursuing them but we have 4 of them that we're looking at right now.
I think in terms of what we expect to see on the margins we're not seeing any change from our previous comments.
These look like more like power plants and less like LNG facilities from a margin standpoint because they are more of a product than a design for the specific fuel type or the specific site.
These are all burning pipeline gas and so they look more like a combined cycle standpoint from our perspective as far as the economic opportunity for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in Canada with the various LNG projects at various stages moving forward can you just talk about how you see that basin evolving and what are the implications for construction costs depending on when projects move forward? It feels like a pretty concentrated area where the projects are being developed.
I think obviously Canada a resource-rich country with a small population it's just like Australia in many regards.
The projects going forward are going to be heavily modularized and you're going to have to really focus on how you're able to get the residual on-site construction talent either by partnering with folks or having subcontractors who are very strong in construction in those areas.
We've got a pretty good construction business in Alberta but we're also talking to -- or have other partners for some of the pursuits that are very strong contractors across Canada.
We're also looking at the opportunity to bring in third-country nationals just to maintain capability to do all that work.
I do think you're going to see these projects kind of spread out in time.
There was originally talk of 4 of them moving forward.
I think you're starting to see a separation with that.
You will have ultimately some challenges in Canada when you look at multiple projects being at various forms of construction concurrently.
And we're going to have to manage that by tapping into as much either offshore construction through modular fabrication coupled with as much resourcing either within Canada the Western U.S.
or even third-country nationals to come in and help those projects move forward.
We'll hear next from Jamie Cook from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Two follow-up questions.
One going back to the higher LCA relative to what you originally expected.
Is there any way that you can quantify that? I'm just trying to figure out when the raise in EPS -- I'm trying to figure out how much is tax versus the LCA headwind.
And then I guess just my second question relates to the guidance.
Obviously job income ramped significantly second half versus first half.
How much of that is Ichthys? And I guess if you could rank order sort of where the growth is coming from and then how much is dependent on new project wins? On our LCA Jamie I think our comments really is going to continue to improve.
It's probably a slower progression than we had articulated in our original guidance.
So it's a little bit slower going but an improving situation for us.
We've elected not to make a formal guide on LCA.
With respect to our guidance for the year Ichthys will continue to ramp-up like a traditional S-curve.
We do expect to see contributions from the new works that we are selling.
We had a good -- we sold $2.2 billion to $2.3 billion in the quarter and we're very pleased with what we sold there.
And we are going to get some additional volumes there.
We're going to get some additional -- we believe recoveries as we work out the closing issues on the LNG and GTL projects are getting towards completion.
And so I do think there are a number of areas that we have opportunity to deliver the guidance.
And in part these various areas have caused us not to narrow our guidance maybe as much as we would have in past years.
But we do think there's some new work that we want to sell particularly in our IGP business to help improve their job incomes for the second half.
But we think the opportunity set out there is pretty good for us to be within the guidance range we offered.
Research Division</strong> I guess Bill one last question on EPC 1 or PEMEX.
I guess the news flow over the quarter was a little bit disappointing from my perspective.
Can you just provide how you're viewing the potential for you guys to get cash from PEMEX and sort of the timing of when we'll have final resolution? Well yes the news was for us mixed at the quarter.
We did have some progress in Luxembourg regarding the enforcement of the ICC arbitration.
And we believe PEMEX continues to lose their protest in the Luxembourg system and we are working towards a seizure of assets to the extent we can find them in the Luxembourg banking system.
And so we continue to have progress there but that path takes time.
We had a fairly -- in our view a fairly good session in front of Judge Hellerstein in New York some time ago at which he said he'd rule fairly promptly.
We're still waiting for his ruling but part of his initial ruling was that we were in good shape with respect to our claims on that award.
The Appeals Court asked him to go back and consider have available remedies were they available to KBR in Mexico.
And we went back at the Hellerstein's request and have -- we believe proven to our satisfaction what we believe will be the judge's satisfaction that we did not have adequate relief in Mexico for this and expect that that fact plus the drawing of our bonds by PEMEX which the judge really encouraged PEMEX not to do should help our situation in the New York court.
So we're really -- we're pursuing very actively 2 opportunities to recover and we're also in the early stages of a NAFTA filing to get that money.
Net-net what that means with respect to when cash will flow we don't know.
You could get a ruling from Hellerstein today that could have cash flowing based on his ruling assuming the Appeals Court acts fairly quickly on his logic because we believe PEMEX would appeal.
We do believe you could see cash possibly as early as this year.
But again that would depend on Hellerstein ruling and the outcome from an Appeals Court but more likely it's probably going drag into '14.
Up next is Steve Fisher from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Bill where you're seeing cost running up in North America to what extent are you seeing customers ending up granting better terms and conditions as opposed to just deferring projects or compared to just they're still trying to find some contractor to take lump sum terms? Well I think their first step is always to try to find a contractor to take lump sum terms.
But I think there's a reality setting in where customers aren't generally going to be able to get lump sum construction certainly in the U.S.
Gulf Coast.
We have seen in our contracts a pretty good risk sharing that's been developed between the contractor and the owner where things that we can manage such as productivity get allocated more towards us and where you have labor per diem and other financial matters we're sharing those risks to have some skin in the game related to the cost.
So we do see the market changing.
I can't comment on what will happen going forward particularly as it relates to some of our peers.
But from the KBR perspective we do see an environment where there's a pretty good degree of risk sharing going on between the customer and the contractor related to those matters that -- particularly the wage rates and per diems that will drive impacts on productivities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then Bill are the singles and doubles you mentioned going to be enough to keep your backlog flat over the next few quarters and does that include an assumption of Shah Deniz? Well I think we are operating under the presumption that Shah Deniz will achieve its FID in December and we would call that a good solid double for KBR.
From a backlog standpoint I think we did a pretty good job this quarter of ignoring -- we had a lot of FX change in the month of June where I think the Australian dollar went from about $1.02 to $0.94.
And that took our backlogs down $600-plus million.
I think we can get close on the singles and doubles.
We have to have all of our business units contribute to get there.
I don't think you're going to see it being a Downstream only event.
You're going to have to see some pickup in the Services group.
They were about 0.7 last quarter and we got up -- we continue to be optimistic.
At Canada we do see some pretty good opportunities in the rest of the businesses Industrial Services and Building group and we've got to continue to drive sales within the IGP business.
And I've talked about some of the recoveries in infrastructure.
I think Mining is going to be challenged.
Power's got to step up.
NAGL's got to step up.
And hopefully we'll see some progress on the diversification efforts at IGDSS.
So if we execute then I think you will be able to maintain backlog generally at its -- about where it is now.
Andy Kaplowitz from Barclays has your next question.
Research Division</strong> Bill can you give us a little more color on the risk of KPC 1 KPC 2.
It seems like you do have some significant disagreements with the customer.
How confident you would be that the reserves you've already taken to these projects so far should hold as you negotiate with the customer going forward? Well we looked very closely at where we were on those reserves throughout the month of June and a lot of these activities took place in May.
And then certainly when we set the provisions up we had expected that this work would go on throughout 2013 and we had accrued the potential LD exposure we had for being late in meeting the obligations under our contracts.
As we look at KPC 2 the customer was not going to give us any kind of window of opportunity to go in and do our punch list and do our performance test.
And with respect to performance test we had taken provisions that looked at things in the worst case.
And there's a possibility we could have done better but we have already provisioned the worst case.
Now their operational constraints on KPC 2 really are their business.
And we just can't afford to keep a full construction team mobilized including the vendor support reps to -- on-site on standby for some chance they might in the next month or 2 or 3 allow us to go on and complete the punch list.
The plant is in operation it's running and the customer doesn't want to turn it off.
So we made the decision that our work is essentially complete and they've not allowed us by their affirmative actions to complete our work under the contract.
And so we've deemed it complete.
The customer would prefer that we stay around on-site to some point that's indefinitely defined in the future to do these activities.
And we've elected to say no that's not consistent with the contract and we're going to demobilize.
So there is some disagreement there.
On KPC 1 we had bid that project to go across a pit.
A pit that was very constructible and we could build foundations and not have movement.
However during the course of construction the customer elected to put its waste disposals from its coal mining operation in this pit and attempt to fill it up.
And right now I've got -- we've got moving soils that are moving significantly in a way that do not allow us to safely or productively build conveyors.
I'm not sure how you would build a conveyor that could move several centimeters a month on in terms of up or down or left or right or forward and backwards.
So we have filed a change order with the customer both for time and money that would allow us to complete those panels across that area.
And the customer said no you should fix that and continue your construction and we're not going to give you any relief.
And we feel that we are very clearly entitled to the relief if we're going to continue that.
The customer has disagreed with us.
We have had a third-party geotechnical firm look at the movements of the soils in that area.
Their results have confirmed our internal reviews of the geotechnical situation and we feel that we are entitled to relief if we're the complete it.
Again we can't build that safely or productively or cost-efficiently and therefore have told the customer that unless they give us this relief including the time to allow this area to appropriately settle so that we can do our foundation work for these panels that we have no choice but to demobilize and declare our activities complete.
So that's the situation we're in on KPC 1.
But I think it is an appropriate action on the part of KBR given the actions caused by our customer that prevent us from performing the work according to how we had planned to execute this work when we signed the contract and until we get the appropriate relief in both time and cost to facilitate construction over this new environment created by the customer that we're going to demobilize and just wait.
And so how that plays out remains to be seen.
But from our standpoint it did not make sense for KBR to continue to go forward with this work in a manner that we didn't think would be safe either to our employees or the safe operation of those facilities for the customer.
Somewhat lengthy explanation but that's the context.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful Bill.
Just shifting gears.
I think we can understand the infrastructure relative weakness in Australia.
What I'm having a little bit of a hard time with is on the Oil &amp; Gas side.
I mean we all know about Shah Deniz and its ramp-up.
But Oil &amp; Gas itself there's quite a few opportunities out there yet slowly but surely your backlog's been coming down in that business and you talked about some incremental weakness.
So where is it coming from? Are customers now taking more time to make decisions? Has it been that you bid on those Middle East projects and you didn't win those that we heard about last quarter.
What is it in Oil &amp; Gas that's happening? Well I think Andy what we're seeing is twofold: One we've been without a leader in that business for a while and I think that's affected the business.
We announced a new leader for our Oil &amp; Gas business yesterday and we expect that that will be helpful in getting us more volume.
But I think the broader issue is the types of projects that we have performed which have -- and we've performed very successfully which is design of topsides for oil and gas facilities.
We haven't seen a lot of that work.
And so we have seen KBR look for other opportunities which led us to move more into project delivery with respect to the Middle East projects we bid last year and we're continuing to look for a bigger play in delivery with respect to FLNG and the 2 projects I talked about in my comments.
We would still look for those opportunities to do our traditional engineering and lump sum engineering on topsides and we just haven't seen the volume of work to allow us to get our share on those in the last 18 to 24 months.
One observation I will make is when we had the Macondo issue in the Gulf of Mexico we said that we would start feeling the impacts 18 to 30 months after it because of the prohibition on drilling at that time.
We are suffering through a very low level of activity in the Gulf of Mexico at present.
We do see prospects on the horizon because the drilling that has taken place post the moratorium that is 18 to 24 months ahead of where we get active has resumed.
So we do believe our business certainly in the Gulf of Mexico will pick up because of the resumption of drilling and the facilities related to development of oil and gas facilities in the Gulf of Mexico.
And so help is on the way in that regard but we have a number of things that have impacted us on Oil &amp; Gas ranging from the lack of leadership the Macondo issues just absence of what has traditionally been our business on topsides design and the timetable to move into more project delivery opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
So it sounds to me like maybe sort of a bottoming process now in that business and then as you ramp-up on Shah Deniz and you get the new leader in place maybe next year it could be better? Yes.
The new leader was with us 18 years before leaving us a couple of years ago.
So I expect his learning curve to be pretty fast and we're looking forward to his impact being felt more quickly than normal because of his legacy knowledge of KBR.
We'll move next to John Rogers from D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Bill when you've talked about the delays in some of these larger projects in -- especially getting to the FEED and final decisions on it.
Is there a point in here -- I assume you don't want to talk too much about 2014 but -- where you have to really start shifting the targets that you're going after to fill in for work if these bigger projects continue to get pushed out? That's an easy question to ask and a harder question to answer.
We do look at more projects and pursue more projects than we can execute John.
If we were to be able to get all of the projects that I alluded to on our call we would over sell the physical capabilities for KBR to do that work.
So there is an element of attrition that we're planning in our bidding.
And so the first 1 or 2 that may get delayed they might not have any impact on us.
But however if you see several getting delayed it could have delays across the entire E&amp;C space.
As we look at Shah Deniz which would be a very very significant project for Oil &amp; Gas that's obviously caught up in a broader project related to the pipelines that will get the products to market.
And so we're seeing the big projects being looked at from the entirety of the infrastructure.
Shah Deniz could have gone forward to FID several months ago.
But again as an owner you're looking at not just our project but the full value chain to get your product to market which has delayed us from achieving FID.
And candidly I agree with the owner that that's the right thing that they need to be doing.
On some of the LNG projects we've got some of our customers who are waiting to achieve a certain level of heads of agreement on LNG sales before kicking projects off.
And again we have -- Kitimat could have gone to FID several months ago but the owners are electing to fill out other areas of their value chain before dealing with what is the mainstream activity for an E&amp;C firm.
So I agree with what everybody's doing.
They're doing the right things from a business perspective.
But across their value chains it's not just the lead time for doing a FEED before you get FID but how does everything else evolve in their businesses to permit them to competently take an FID on our segment so that their business model is preserved and meeting their overall risk requirements.
Research Division</strong> But I guess -- and as you look at this are there other -- not completely different markets but other areas of emphasis or target that you can shift towards? Well I think -- we're looking at everything we can.
We've -- obviously putting a lot of emphasis on the U.S.
market driven by our Downstream business and we continue to believe that we can sell more work in that market.
And we believe work may come faster in that market compared to our Gas Monetization business for example.
We've got some really big opportunities in the floating LNG space as well as Shah Deniz that we're looking at in Oil &amp; Gas.
We do see some opportunities in Power that will be out there and bids that we have in place today that we want to drive very strongly towards.
There's a lot of opportunity that IGDSS is looking at but it's high risk in new markets.
And for example their efforts in Libya lots of needs have been identified but do they have the infrastructure to have budgets and cut projects for it? That's something to be seen.
So I think we're taking the appropriate steps to sign up whatever we can that meets our risk-adjusted job income thresholds and we have opportunities to fulfill the capacity that we're currently carrying and we're making an investment in the future at KBR by carrying this LCA.
And we also believe that we have an opportunity to grow our resource centers by -- growing them 25% would get us back to where we were 3 years ago.
So we're not just sitting around waiting for the next LNG project to come in.
We're very active in trying to get the business in the house to generate not only the job income but reversing the LCA charges and getting that turned around to being a positive as it was a couple of years ago.
We'll hear next from Tahira Afzal from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question is Bill at a recent conference you highlighted around 15 FEEDs and preliminary FEEDs that you were tracking.
And I just wanted to see if you have an update on them as a whole as we go into the second half of 2013 and into 2014? I don't have anything substantive to say specifically to that.
I will say that we're continuing to win some FEEDs and some FEEDs are being completed.
So we still see a pretty good FEED window that we hope will evidence future work when those FEEDs are complete.
But really we are not seeing any material change to those earlier comments.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess the second question I have is for Sue and that's really on free cash flow.
If you can provide us any update and how the recent PEMEX drawn [ph] really plays into your cash allocation objectives going forward? And a few quarters back you talked about DSO improvement and some focus there.
Any update on that will be helpful as well.
Sure.
So as we look at the cash situation I mean obviously as I said we're very focused on what's happening with working capital and all of the different elements.
So we worked very hard and have been working very hard over the last year to make some improvements.
And we have some headwinds with our government customer that's hard to move.
And as I said in my prepared remarks that didn't move very much during the quarter.
The bond draw obviously was operating cash and took the operating cash down to a lower level.
But I will also say that one of the things I didn't highlight is that as we move through the end of the quarter we did see that we had some timing once again with heavy receipts.
In fact the receipts were $63 million in the first week of July.
So I think the cash flow in the second quarter was better than what it appeared on paper and is encouraging from an outlook standpoint in terms of what we're trying to do with improving working capital and doing all of that.
In terms of the cash deployment and the activities obviously it's not necessarily the cash balance it's where the cash balances are located that impacts whether we continue to do our dividend which of course we do and have increased that and plan to continue with evaluating the dividend.
We continue to invest in capital to grow the business as we've said and our pension obligations.
But we didn't make any share repurchases in the second quarter.
And again that's a function of where we're at U.S.
cash and a whole bunch of considerations.
So I think our main focus in terms of cash and the deployment of cash is one to right the working capital situation and that's what the focus is all about.
And as that continues and some of our work continues to shift to more of a U.S.
base so for instance the ammonia projects start to be more of a U.S.
book and hopefully some of the other projects will go forward then we'll continue to look at adding back the share repurchase to the deployment actions.
We'll move on to Robert Norfleet from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is John Ellison on for Rob.
In regards to your revenues for the second half of 2013 I wanted to know can we expect to see any meaningful growth here? I know that all the work being booked in the backlog especially relating to LNG and petrochemicals is FEED-related.
I want to know if we should expect to see a more muted level of top line growth in the near to immediate term before moving towards larger EPC-related work that we expect in 2014 and out years? So John as we think about where the revenue goes as we look at the second half I think what we saw in the second quarter is fairly indicative of what happens in the remainder of 2013.
Again we do have some FEED activity coming on board we do have other projects ramping up but we also have the Escravos project and Skikda really not a piece of the overall revenue profile as they're in the commissioning stage.
So I think where we're at is pretty indicative until we get more of the projects to ramp-up.
And again it never hurts to remind that the Ichthys project is an equity-based project meaning that it doesn't have the same revenue profile as what say the Gorgon project that's a consolidated project would and that also has an impact.
But again I think it looks about like where we're at in the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got you.
And with hydrocarbon's margins around 14 1/8% [ph] I wanted to know if we should assume like for the remainder of 2013 if this margin trajectory should continue especially as you mentioned with Skikda and Escravos winding down and Ichthys ramping up? And also to add on to that also as we look into 2014 with these FEEDs moving to EPC work while dollar profit will likely increase should we expect a lower effective margin here? Yes.
I mean I think your points are valid as we look at this.
So what happens to margins over the last part of '13 and as we go into the later pieces where we're booking the EPC contracts particularly in Gas Monetization? You've got the Ichthys project which again is going to continue to ramp over its 5-year period with sort of that bell-shaped curve.
We're in about 1.5 years out of the 5 years.
So that continues to grow and does have a good impact on margins.
The roll off of Skikda and Escravos which were lower-margin projects albeit great projects will continue to show a better margin profile for us going forward again because those are rolling off.
And then to your point on the FEED versus the EPC contracts as you get into the EPC those margins may be different than the FEED.
But again the business is performing well.
We're operating well.
You'll get a bit of lumpiness if as we talked about in the prepared remarks that we do get some close-out activities on the projects.
But overall we think they are performing very well and will continue to in Gas Monetization.
Moving on to Brian Konigsberg from Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Bill maybe just starting with U.S.
LNG.
So it sounds like you're pursuing a couple of FEEDs here.
It sounds like the fundamentals of the market may be getting a tad better.
I was just curious is your interest raising in the prospects for participating in the market.
I know you wanted to do some select projects but maybe just give us an updated thoughts on how aggressive you might be? I think our criteria for pursuing LNG projects hasn't changed.
It remains a global outlook for KBR that we'll weigh an opportunity at Tangguh for example the same way we would on the U.S.
Gulf Coast and try to pursue projects that way.
We do look to have a preference for working more with sponsors as opposed to developers of projects.
We are interested in finding projects that can provide the right risk and return balance for us.
There's an awful lot of risk allocation that goes in the project financing that that does factor into our internal analyses when we looked at risk-adjusted rates of return.
That being said we are interested in pursuing that market but want to pursue it in a way that represents a fair risk-adjusted job income for KBR as well as represents the best and highest use of our people for the project.
Given all things considered in terms of the risks the timings et cetera.
So we're still interested we still want to be a player.
We think that there's a lot of projects that will ultimately move forward in the U.S.
and we would like to find a way to be a player consistent with how we'd like execute projects from a risk-adjusted job income perspective.
LLC</strong> Maybe can you quantify how many you at this point intend on trying to participate in? No.
We don't comment on stuff we're interested in.
I could say we look at everything and then we make our calls on what we pursue and then when we have something tangible to talk about such as a FEED award we'll let you know as quickly as we can.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just moving on to power markets.
So it sounds like you're still looking for a combined cycle on some environmental work.
Has the discussion changed at all with some of the policy discussions we've had over the last couple of months related to government? I mean do you find that some of the utilities are maybe pulling back on their plans to potentially implement environmental retrofits and maybe more intend to kind of close down plants instead? We haven't seen anything directly from those recent discussions on that.
Now where that will manifest itself will be in what projects go out to bid and not and that may have some impact on that.
We can't tell yet.
We did have a flurry of mostly industrial activity after the elections when it became clear that the proposed Boiler MACT rules would get adopted and we had a number of folks want to move forward on studies and some projects and we've been executing those.
But right now it's a little early for us to see any impacts.
And I'm sure a lot of the utilities that are planning some of the pollution control projects are still trying to digest what these proposed changes or actual changes in regulations mean to them.
LLC</strong> Actually if I could just slip in one more.
Just a point of clarification.
You mentioned the FX impact on backlog book-to-bill.
It sounds like the FX at $600 million is an impact to the balance of your backlog.
But I just don't know where are you coming up with the 1.1x book-to-bill? Did it actually impact orders during the quarter or was it purely a backlog impact? It was a backlog impact.
If you think about it from a mathematical standpoint we started out the quarter with $14.2 billion of backlog based on the exchange rates at the beginning of the quarter.
If you would have taken that beginning backlog and applied the exchange rates at the end of the quarter that $14.2 billion would have been $13.6 billion.
So when we look at $13.6 billion on the adjusted beginning backlog relative to the $13.8 billion that we had at the end based on those same exchange rates there's a $200 million difference.
And so when we look at the $2 billion of revenues and we increase backlog adjusted for exchange rates by $200 million that's where we get the 1.1x in our mathematics.
Up next is Will Gabrielski from Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Last quarter you guys called out 2 larger power EPC opportunities I believe in the U.S.
Have those gone through the bidding phase and have you been notified yet on those? We're still working on one.
And one we are no longer working on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you talk about the Downstream business margins going forward? Obviously the margins have been very good but it's been a very FEED-dominated end market for you or segment for you and I'm wondering what that will look like going forward as you move through the EPC phases on your recent large wins? I think the way we look at it and I'm just going to stay really high level is that we'll see dollars of income go up and go up pretty nicely and we'll see margins come down to reflect the reality of the margins on EPC being less than what we see on FEEDs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you sustain double-digit margins in that business? I'd rather not give that forward-looking statement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The costs your holding the LCA costs are those being held for open book tenders or are those competitive bids? Where you're specifically holding capacity for anticipated awards? We don't break it down that way.
We just look out at our business where we think it will be and we make an assessment an intuitive assessment.
Are we better off letting all those folks go? And then when this business hits so having to rehire and deal with all the training of people.
And we've made the decision every quarter that the amount of work that we see on the horizon is better for us as KBR to carry these costs and these people because it will be a better solution for us than trying to hire these folks that we may see this -- we expect to see the situation continue to improve.
And therefore the issue we believe will ultimately go away.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then lastly just to follow-up on the U.S.-specific LNG question that was asked earlier.
Maybe a different way of asking that is are you at any level on any project engaged in a contract its feasibility pre-feasibility or early engineering? Any type of actual work order you have on any of these larger export jobs in the U.S.? My comment is still when we have something tangible to share with you we will.
Robert Connors from Stifel Nicolaus your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Outside of Kitimat it looks like the majority of the Gas Mon projects are transitioning to the FEED phase.
Just was wondering if these are the typical 18- to 24-month lead lag before you start to see EPC awards? And related to that it was a few years ago before the Australian LNG when we're all talking about that that I believe KBR indicated the LNG capacity was about 5 projects at one time that you were capable of executing.
Is that still accurate or has that changed over the years? Well I'll just make a comment relative to what we've previously said and that -- whatever that was I don't recall at this moment.
But the capacity we have to execute major projects be they LNG GTL Downstream chemical projects what have you remains the same level we commented on previously.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for the majority of those Gas Mon awards it looks like outside of Kitimat they're just transitioning to FEED.
Is there anything different where these projects will be sort of that typical 18- to 24-month lead lag before EPC? I think you've got to -- I mean I think we've been pretty clear on what we have disclosed our role is on these project.
And we don't see anything that's out of the ordinary in terms of what the progression is.
Now we have some of these things like we talked about on Kitimat where the customer wants to get a certain amount of gas under a heads of agreement which could delay it.
But the market hasn't changed in terms of really where the timing is once you start a FEED and how long you go until you have an FID.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
And if I could squeeze in one more.
Just sort of strategically when KBR bought BE&amp;K if I recall correctly BE&amp;K was marginally a Southeastern U.S.
contractor.
So just wondering if their skill set is easily transferable to the U.S.
Gulf Coast where much of the construction labor supply is nonunionized and do they need to develop the direct hire capabilities -- or excuse me direct hire relations in that region or is it easily transferable? Well BE&amp;K was a nonunion contractor throughout the Southeast.
One of their projects was a combined cycle project for the lower Colorado River Authority in Waco Texas.
So they fit in nicely to what residual capabilities we had at the Brown &amp; Root construction business.
And that's positioned us to be able to be a very -- to-date a very successful EPC contractor for projects that have been driven by the shale advances.
So there's nothing that we needed to do at BE&amp;K to prepare for this market.
They were already there in terms of capabilities networks and then the integration with our Brown &amp; Root construction.
We'll move to your final question and that will come from Michael Dudas from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> That's it.
Everything has been asked and answered Bill and Sue.
Well thanks for bearing with us Mike.
Thanks everybody for joining us.
I know we've gone a little bit over our time and we appreciate your continued interest in KBR.
And that does conclude today's teleconference.
We thank you all for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the KBR's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Zac Nagle Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to KBR's third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
Today's call is also being webcast and a replay will be available on KBR's website for 7 days at kbr.com.
The press release announcing third quarter results is also available on KBR's website.
Joining me today are Bill Utt Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Dennis Baldwin Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer.
During today's call Bill will provide an overview of KBR's third quarter operating results highlighting the number of key areas in each of our business groups.
Dennis will then provide more detail on the key financial takeaways for today's call.
Lastly before turning the call over to Q&amp;A Bill is going to provide brief closing comments.
After our prepared remarks we'll open the floor for questions.
Before turning the call over to Bill I would like to remind our audience that today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting KBR's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in KBR's third quarter press release issued last night KBR's Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30 2013 and KBR's current reports on Form 8-K.
You can find all these documents at kbr.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Bill? Thanks Zac and good morning everyone.
KBR's third quarter was highlighted by strong overall bookings with a book-to-bill of 1.2x and a healthy cash flow from operations of $178 million.
During the quarter we had a number of key wins across our businesses and a book-to-bill ratio of greater than 1 in 3 of our 4 major business groups.
Key wins included a large DuPont maintenance contract a $300 million urea EPC project for an unnamed customer and a polyethylene FEED for INEOS.
Additionally during the quarter KBR continued to make significant progress on a number of key prospects.
First our IGP business group received a limited notice to proceed on a new $500 million 600-megawatt combined cycle plant.
We anticipate receiving a full notice to proceed by May 2014 when all final regulatory approvals are received.
Second a KBR joint venture has been chosen for detailed negotiations for a large-scale U.K.
government project worth several hundred million dollars.
The negotiations for this project are expected to last for several more months.
Neither of these opportunities were booked into backlog in the third quarter.
Despite a strong bookings quarter KBR's third quarter results were disappointing compared to our expectations.
We delivered EPS of $0.16 in the quarter.
This includes a tax rate of 46% primarily resulting from the tax issue with our former parent worth $38 million in taxes $50 million of NCI expense for our partner's equity related to a change order on the Gorgon Project and a continued elevated level of labor cost absorption at $10 million.
We also faced some of near-term headwinds from incremental costs related to our Canadian implementation of our ERP system: a contract expiration and temporary dry-docking of a vessel at our MMM business and lower levels of gas supply and lower ammonia prices at our EBIC ammonia plant.
The third quarter pre-tax impact of these headwind-related items was approximately $17 million.
Lastly we saw a delay in project closeouts we originally forecast in the quarter that we now anticipate occurring in quarter 4.
I would like to discuss KBR's operational performance and key prospects in more detail.
Across the 5 problem projects we discussed on our fourth quarter 2012 call our execution remained within the parameters of the project provisions we took in the fourth quarter and we believe these provisions remain sufficient to see the projects through completion.
We are demobilized at the 2 Indonesian project sites and the 3 U.S.
construction projects are still expected to be complete by year end.
At Gas Monetization the bid packages for the Kitimat LNG project have been submitted and we believe Chevron will select to prefer EPC contractor by the end of the year.
For the Gorgon LNG fourth train project extended pre-FEED activities continue and we await transition into FEED.
For the Tanzania LNG project KBR has completed our pre-FEED activities.
For the Tangguh Train 3 expansion we are in the bid preparation phase for the FEED and provision of EPC pricing which we anticipate will move forward in the first quarter of 2014.
We also continue to track opportunities for additional LNG and GTL developments in North America and maintain an active dialogue with sponsors regarding these opportunities.
Regarding our other projects in Gas Monetization for the Gorgon project the project is progressing well and we've achieved additional work milestones.
We also received a scope expansion during the third quarter which reduced our percent-complete for the project during the quarter by about 1%.
For the Ichthys project we are seeing strong execution and as expected an increasing impact to the P&amp;L as the project ramps up.
We expect 2014 to be stronger than 2013 and think we'll reach peak staffing and progress on the project in 2014 and 2015.
At the Escravos and Skikda projects both projects are in the commissioning and close-out phases and KBR has de-staffed our construction teams from these sites.
At hydrocarbons we're focused on executing on the ammonia and petrochemical work we've recently won as well as continuing to win new work and building strong backlog based on the industrial renaissance in the U.S.
driven by low shale gas prices.
This includes our previously announced Dyno Nobel project.
Additionally we won 2 other U.S.
ammonia-related EPC projects: 1 previously announced ammonia project worth approximately $250 million and 1 new urea project worth approximately $300 million.
We continue to be bullish on the growing number of prospects in the U.S.
for additional ammonia urea and chemical projects that have several bids outstanding in what is expected to be an active bidding environment for the balance of 2013 and 2014.
We also have a couple of bids outstanding for FEED and PMC work in the Middle East related to refinery and petrochemical projects and we continue to increase our engineering work volumes at our KBR-AMCDE joint venture.
Although technology bookings were a bit light this quarter we continue to see robust global opportunities across our portfolio of technologies with particular activity in ammonia and fertilizer spaces.
Offshore we continue to perform post-FEED and pre-FID activities for the Shah Deniz 2 project and look forward to this project moving forward to FID at the end of the year.
We're excited about the progress we're seeing on large-scale FLNG projects and are actively preparing pre-FEED and FEED bids for a couple of potential projects.
We're also seeing increased activity in the Gulf of Mexico.
After Macondo in April 2010 drilling activity in the Gulf of Mexico slowed considerably.
As we've discussed in the past offshore activity for KBR occurs after the drilling programs so we're now in the time period where we are actively seeing projects starting to move forward.
We see several pre-FEED and FEED project opportunities for 2014 starting up for a larger-scale EPC and detailed design work to move forward in 2015.
At Services we continue to see a robust flow of new work in Canada from the oil sands as well as substantial opportunities from natural gas mining potash and SAGD.
We've also seen good growth in our maintenance business with the large multisite DuPont win in the third quarter.
We also were able to renew the expired service contract at our MMM business at the end of the third quarter as well.
At our Power business we continue to see solid execution on our SWA and Ghent projects.
As I mentioned earlier we've also received a notice to proceed on another 600-megawatt $500 million combined cycle power project for an unnamed customer.
We also continue to see a good bidding environment for both pollution control and combined cycle projects where we are building a solid win rate on these projects.
At Ventures natural gas supply has begun to improve at the EBIC ammonia plant but we continue to see lower ammonia prices.
We expect EBIC to continue to see some continuing headwinds on earnings until normal levels of gas supply resume.
When you take a look -- when you take all these moving pieces into account we expect our 2013 EPS to come in around the low end of our previous guidance range of $2.55 excluding the negative Q3 P&amp;L impact of $38 million or $0.26 per share in taxes related to the prior parent dispute.
From an organizational standpoint we've taken steps to better streamline our business and focus the organization on selling.
To that end we've organized under 4 business groups and we've created a position to head up KBR's global business development.
With this new structure in place we will be able to better focus on high-priority prospects increase client focus increase sales communication and alignment and optimize our proposal dollars across KBR.
We feel these actions will drive better sales performance going forward allowing KBR to continue to grow backlog in the coming years and position the company to deliver strong shareholder returns in the future.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Dennis to briefly discuss a few financial items relative to the quarter that warrant further discussion.
Dennis? Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
First I wanted to touch on corporate G&amp;A.
Corporate G&amp;A was $66 million in the quarter up $3 million from the second quarter including $14 million in ERP-related costs.
Of this amount about $3 million was additional ERP spend related to the Canada phase of our ERP implementation which presented a headwind to the third quarter earnings.
Our expectations for corporate G&amp;A continue to be between $230 million to $240 million for 2013.
However we anticipate coming in closer to the top end of that range and we now expect ERP expenses to be approximately $40 million for 2013.
Second I wanted to provide more details on the accounting referee's report related to the tax matter with our former parent.
On October 11 2013 KBR filed a Form 8-K related to an unfavorable accounting referee ruling for a tax dispute with our former parent which determined that KBR owed approximately $105 million.
The earnings impact to KBR was $38 million in additional tax expense net of deferred tax assets and a previously recorded net liability of $30 million.
Our balance sheet line item due to former parent reflects the full liability amount of $105 million.
Also I wanted to briefly touch on the significant increase in our noncontrolling interest expense line.
Noncontrolling interest was $63 million in the third quarter.
This increase from traditional NCI norms was primarily related to a change order executed on the Gorgon project.
As you'll recall KBR is a 30% partner in the JV so 70% of the job income impact of the change order will be a dividend back to our JV partners.
Therefore the NCI impact related to this change order was approximately $50 million in the quarter.
Moving to labor cost absorption or LCA KBR continued to make improvements in the under-absorption of its labor cost in our centralized engineering pool.
The LCA expense was $10 million in the quarter down $7 million from the second quarter.
Recall that second quarter included approximately $5 million related to shutdown costs associated with an office closure.
So net of those expenses LCA was down $2 million but remained a headwind to earnings in the quarter.
We expect to make moderate improvement on LCA in the fourth quarter and into 2014.
Turning to KBR's balance sheet we ended the third quarter in a strong cash position with cash and equivalents of $959 million up $159 from the previous quarter based on strong working capital improvements in hydrocarbons IGP and Service business groups.
Over the past several months we've also seen several positive developments related to the PEMEX arbitration.
In September a New York court entered a judgment for $465 million which includes approximately $106 million for the performance bonds and interest confirming the ICC arbitration award.
PEMEX has filed a notice of appeal and indicated to the court they will post a bond in the amount of the judgment.
This bond should be posted by the end of November.
Also as outlined on our Form 10-Q we are also pursuing collection in Luxembourg and under NAFTA.
There were no material changes to these proceedings in the quarter.
Lastly on backlog mix as of September 30 46% of our backlog was fixed price and 54% was reimbursable.
This was not a significant shift from the second quarter mix of 48% and 52% respectively.
As we've discussed on prior calls the types of risks in KBR's backlog included a high percentage of back-to-back contracts funded contingencies and KBR home office services.
So in our view the risks are not as high as the percentage of the fixed versus reimbursable might suggest in Service.
I'll now turn it back over to Bill for his final remarks.
Bill? Thank you Dennis.
At this stage in the year KBR's business is progressing a bit slower from an awards perspective than originally anticipated.
We've had solid project execution in 2013 and our win rate on new awards has been good and is improving.
We've seen more EPC work in the market compared to quicker-burning engineering-only work.
This has added positively to KBR's backlog but near term project earnings on this work and competition for new work may challenge our margins.
However looking forward we continue to see several large projects targeted for FID in late 2014 or early 2015 and we are expecting to see an improvement in job income margin bookings in 2014.
On the positive side KBR continues to win our share of the available work and is well positioned to take advantage of the massive opportunity set of new project awards ahead of us.
Our strategy is to win and successfully execute this work and we're confident in our ability to deliver strong shareholder returns over time.
Now we'll open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] [Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from John Rogers D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I guess first thing Bill in your comments in the press release you talked about some job income that deferred into the fourth quarter and it implies -- your guidance implies even at the low end pretty significant improvement in profitability in the fourth quarter.
And I'm just trying to understand how assured are you at this point that those benefits are actually going to materialize or is it just an expectation that they will? And I have a follow-up.
Well John as we look out at those items they're largely related to project closeouts and we see opportunities both in Gas Mon as well as in NAGL for closeouts in the fourth quarter.
I'm convinced they're going to occur.
There's no doubt in my mind on that.
And I am fairly confident that they will occur in the fourth quarter just given where we stand in terms of progress that we're making towards getting this result and the issues that lie in front of us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Bill in the past you've talked about the job income within your backlog.
Can you comment on that at this point? Yes.
I think the trend we've seen this year John -- and let's [indiscernible] stripping away some of the volatility we have in Gas Mon which we admit will have a lot of volatility in backlog.
And we're focused on kind of the mix of work and the type of work that we have.
And so we're seeing that the work we're adding to backlog is being added at a lower as-sold margin than what we're working off.
And that's partially attributable to the types of -- to the mix of work.
And certainly the DuPont award we had for industrial services those type of activities traded a lower job income margin than a engineering-only project.
And then also we have a lot of EPC projects that we've added.
We've talked about the ammonia work for example where we're recognizing earnings on a percentage-of-completion basis.
And while we're performing the engineering at this stage on the projects and if we were doing engineering-only we might see work in the mid-teens.
We are recognizing earnings on that as a percentage of -- on a percentage-of-completion basis where we have the construction services and the percent-complete.
We have the procurement that has its margin in it.
And so the overall EPC margins that we're seeing on the projects we've signed up are lower than what we would see typically on an engineering-only project or an EPCM-type project.
And so we're seeing -- while we're getting the engineering accomplished on those projects and if they were engineering-only they'd be a lot higher margins than what we're seeing it's really the mix of the EPC work that we've signed up recognizing that on a percentage-of-completion basis as well as some of the other work in the backlog that's traditionally trading at the lower job income margin than what we're seeing overall.
We'll take our next question from Steven Fisher from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Bill you mentioned that projects are developing more slowly than you had hoped.
Can you just talk about what the key drivers of that are today? And is it more overall macro caution or is it more cost increases and you just have to keep going back in reengineering? What's driving that kind of projects continuing to move to the right? Well I think Steve the ones we're seeing moving to the right certainly involve -- let's take this -- the category of LNG projects first of all.
There have been a lot of announcements on projects: U.S.
Gulf Coast Canada East Africa some continuing developments albeit in a different form in Australia.
And with all of these developments -- again this is us KBR synthesizing a little bit what we hear from our customers.
There's a lot of people out there trying to sell LNG to a finite universe of buyers.
And so today it's a buyer's market if you will at least as we would anticipate it given just the broad number of suppliers that are out there.
And people are having to as a buyer look through and see okay what's going on with the -- will the project get delivered? Can they deliver on maybe some pricing that they're proposing? What's the timing going forward? Who are the sponsors? Are they selling from a portfolio or are these asset-only developments? So I think there's a -- I get the sense there's a lot of noise out there in the LNG space that's created at least in our minds some continuing delay in projects as our customers attempt to develop their offtake agreements.
And this has contributed to some of the delays.
To a lesser extent we are seeing some projects continue to look at costs.
We're working with some customers to take some of their early-stage designs and look at it from a fit-for-purpose standard as opposed to some of the underlying traditional norms that our customers are using.
And I think they're taking a harder look at their projects and trying to make sure they're buying what they need as opposed to maybe what they've historically wanted to design in their projects.
And so we're seeing some delays in that regard.
But we're working closely with our customers and we have people helping them find those answers to what is needed as opposed to maybe what their historical norms are.
So those are really the 2 big drivers that we're seeing in our space from the delay and awards perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then 2012 obviously was tough from an execution perspective.
As you're by the book a large presumably fixed-price power plant what actions have you taken following those 2012 operational challenges that might improve KBR's ability to execute projects like this? Well I think when we look at those projects Steven we have to go back and kind of sort through what were the triggering events in the U.S.
side that gave rise to that.
And certainly these were construction-only projects in a geographic area that saw sudden increases that we had not forecast to occur as early as they did in cost and per diems that actually lead to some productivity challenges we found on those projects.
In other parts of the country we continue to execute very well in construction-only projects and they did come in at as-sold profit objectives.
What we've done when we look at projects on an EPC basis we have a lot more levers to pull to manage things with respect to overall project delivery.
We can source materials differently.
We can move construction guys to different work fronts based on what we see coming ahead of us.
And so as an EPC provider we've got a much better view of the entire project execution including the deliveries of equipment and construction materials that we didn't have under the construction-only projects.
The other thing that we're looking at is where are the projects that we're bidding.
And again we're being very cautious in geographic areas where we've seen the volatility of construction labor per diems and productivities.
But in other parts of the country where we've not seen that type of volatility we've gone out and feel more comfortable about quoting EPC.
And in some cases we've engaged third-party subcontractors to perform construction services across the different trades where we don't have as strong a direct hire capability.
And they've been very comfortable in providing us the assurances that we're looking for in terms of the price for labor per diems and productivity.
So we've taken the lessons learned from last year.
We've identified geographically what those drivers are and then we think those geographic issues we found and we've reflected that in our bidding.
Now as we look at some of the projects that we haven't won we've taken -- those have been also in the areas where we've had the construction labor and per diem difficulties and we've taken a more conservative approach to those.
So I think we're doing the right things.
We're being thoughtful about where the projects are relative to competing work in the geographic areas.
We're being conservative where I think it's prudent for KBR to be disciplined and conservative.
And in other areas where we don't see these issues arising we're also looking at considering third parties to provide various labor to us that can manage that and pass that risk onto those third parties.
And we'll take our next question from Andrew Kaplowitz from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Bill we know you don't want to give 2014 guidance at this point but maybe you can talk about the puts and takes we should think about that would allow you to grow EPS.
Do you need to win another big project or 2 to materially grow EPS or could you do it with excess growing your small to midsize project work and then maybe Shah Deniz being awarded by the end of the year? I guess you're right Andy I won't comment on 2014 guidance at this point.
But speaking of what are we trying to achieve here we're clearly in a position where we still see headwinds on labor cost absorption.
The growth on Ichthys is not going to help that because our work on it is largely fabrication and construction oversight.
Our partners are doing the engineering there.
So we do need to fill up the shop that remains open.
We do need to sell some more EPC work or large project work.
We are seeing a good flow of activity in the $200 million to $400 million range that we've talked about in our comments -- or $200 million to $500 million.
Shah Deniz while we haven't moved into FID we've got several hundred people working on the advanced speed of that.
So we're not going to see a big pickup on Shah Deniz when that hits FID.
There will be a pickup but we do have a lot of folks that are continuing to drive the momentum of execution for Shah Deniz and we'll add more folks to that as we move into the FID phase.
So we really are at a position where we don't have a large anchor project in KBR at our Houston resource center and our London resource center.
So I'm pleased with where we are in that situation given what we've been able to sell with the midsize projects of $200 million to $500 million.
And we'll continue to look at how we position ourselves for more work on these large projects that are on the horizon for us and fill in the gaps where we can with the other work in our Power business and our hydrocarbons business and continue to drive shareholder value that way.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful Bill.
Just shifting gears.
Maybe you can give us a little more color on the competitive environment in the sense that you mentioned in the release this time that you were seeing these near-term pressures but sort of when we step back what we see is some of your competitors are starting to win some big work.
And it's so surprising that you haven't seen any improvement in the environment yet.
And maybe do you expect to see improvement in the competitive environment as you go out over the next year? Well I think we've competed on some of those projects that we were not successful on and we've taken as I mentioned in the earlier question we think a thoughtful view on how to manage construction and productivity risk in the U.S.
Gulf Coast where we see a very volatile environment.
It will remain to be seen kind of where the whole Gulf Coast sorts out in terms of construction labor and the volatility that we've seen in the past on that.
But I do think that in terms of the amount of awards that we've seen it's been a slower award environment than what we've expected or have seen historically.
And I'm throwing the global KBR into that because it's not just the U.S.
that we're seeing.
We play across the Middle East Australia Africa.
And so from our standpoint it's been relatively quiet and that work that has come out has been I think pretty heavily contested to the credit of our customers who obviously are looking to get the best value they can for their capital projects.
So when I talk about the competitive environment the awards that are coming out it's a little slower than what we've seen historically.
The competition is a bit higher and so there's -- the headwinds on the work that we do win.
It's some pretty competitive margins good margins that we can execute but it's still I think a competitive environment.
And we'll take our next call from Jamie Cook from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First I guess one thing that strikes me about 2013 Bill is just the level of project closeouts the positive contribution from project closeouts that will help 2013.
And so as I look out over the next year or so in addition to the sort of headwinds you sort of mentioned to Andy I guess my other concern will be 2013 would be an unusually high closeout year.
So my question is is that true so that's an additional headwind we have as we look out over the next 12 to 18 months? Or would you consider 2013 a normal year that you would have just as many opportunities over the next year versus you had this year? And then I guess my second question is -- you mentioned vendor selection from Chevron on Kitimat.
Can you talk about any update on how you think you're positioned on that project? I feel like the vendor selection thing is new.
And originally I think you said November.
Now it's late in the year.
Sort of has that gotten pushed out and what your view is on Kitimat? Okay look 2 000 closeouts we've always had project closeouts and changes that we've reported regarding all these projects closeouts et cetera.
I think what we've seen this year is probably higher than normal just given my intuitive feel that I haven't gone back and taken a study of what closes out.
Certainly you've got changes in projects that we continue to work through and then also some very longer-dated projects I'm thinking Skikda and Escravos that have completed construction this year.
And you see that winding down in the revenues for Gas Mon.
And as you get to the end of these projects you do have opportunities for closeouts and adjustments and we think we do a pretty good job of being conservative on how we book projects and provision them over the life of the project.
So from a life cycle standpoint in 2013 we probably have projects closing out to a higher degree than we've seen in prior years.
We've announced a bunch of several projects that are EPC but I don't see them closing out next year.
So I think next year on a relative basis we'll have fewer closeouts than we've seen in 2013.
On the Kitimat project it's still the 2 parties that -- we understand there's still 2 parties participating.
We've continued to have a dialogue with the owner group.
There's a lot of information that's been provided a lot of discussions on not only financial but technical and certainly contractual terms.
And so our best guess today is end of year they'll have a preferred EPC contractor selected.
Research Division</strong> I guess Bill just one other question.
You mentioned in your prepared remarks that I think you now have a new head of development.
You've realigned the businesses.
And I guess my question is what was the primary decision that drove that? If you think about how the market views KBR they view KBR as a competitive disadvantage in the United States.
And is this sort of your way of saying well maybe there were some opportunities that we missed for whatever reason we're making the changes to right -- you're making the changes to I guess fix that? I mean sort of if you could just comment on that.
What drove the changes there? Well I think what has driven the changes has been the fact that we've been able to bring in some really good people into the company in the last 2 years.
And so as we've -- and you see that reflected in our revisions to our financial statements where with some very good people we brought in I can look at things across business groups and less focus on business units.
So that's been the primary organizational change.
And I do think breaking out Gas Mon as a separate group given its complexity and size does provide a better bandwidth management for the 4 key group executives we have at KBR.
From a sales standpoint we can always do better.
I don't think we're disadvantaged in the U.S.
I just think that as we've matured as a company we used to talk a lot about business development oversight and controlling the risk we're bringing in the portfolio and I can say that we are doing a great job as a company.
We can declare victory on what we wanted to achieve in terms of looking at projects making sure we are the best in class in risk awareness.
And so it's time now for us to evolve as an organization that we can take our foot off the brake a little bit on this and then push more down on the accelerator.
And that's why we're going to spend more time emphasizing sales while maintaining same level of thoughtful control and discipline in our biddings.
So the first one is recognition of the executives we brought in.
I'm very pleased with that.
That's probably the biggest change.
And then the more subtle change in the organization is the fact that I believe that the organization has in the last several years achieved what we wanted to achieve in risk awareness and in how we're bidding and how we're executing.
And so we're now able to focus more on driving the organization to a better sales performance and sales focus while maintaining that good discipline to the bidding environment.
We'll take our next question from Jerry Revich from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Bill you mentioned in your prepared remarks U.S.
LNG and GTL projects that you're competing for and working on or hoping to work on.
Can you just give us a sense for the projects that you're focused on when are those expected to reach final investment decision in the U.S.? And I guess presumably you did one of the import terminals that's now a brownfield.
I guess how should we be thinking about the timing as you see it for whether you're selected? Well on the general comment I made about U.S.
GTL and LNG projects we don't have a permission to disclose any of the work that we're doing.
We are on one project working with the customer to -- and I'd pick up in an earlier comment -- to get fit for purpose on their overall design to help them get to a -- what is a necessary capital cost as opposed to what some of their historical norms might have been that have driven cost higher from their internal estimates.
So we've got a bunch of folks working closely with the customer on one of those projects to help them get to the necessary capital cost.
The other projects we're working on they're at various stages.
I would say that the former probably you could see some FEED activity in 2015 as we complete our near-term activity -- excuse me FEED work in 2014 as we complete some of the near-term study work.
But a lot of the other stuff is going to be late second half of '14 or '15 in terms of when they achieved their FIDs just given the aspects of what they've got to conclude in terms of LNG sales and other commitments they need to get to to move their projects forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for the technology and the EPC opportunities you see in ammonia you spoke about 4 projects in the past.
Looks like you've converted a couple of them.
Can you just give us an updated project count that you're focused on? And you mentioned soft bookings in technology in the quarter.
I'm wondering is that a timing issue as you see it based on the ammonia work? The technology bookings I think was a little bit of a timing work.
We're still forecasting internally that we're going to be on target with where we expected to be at the end of the year.
Third quarter was below our budgets and so they are anticipating a recovery to get to the 2013 targets that we have.
In terms of the ammonia prospects we've been really successful on Dyno Nobel and then the 2 ammonia and urea EPC projects that we've announced on an unnamed basis.
We continue to track 3 or 4 more projects that are in various stages of development.
We feel really good about our position on those.
Again when those projects are able to achieve their respective FIDs I think we'll have more to talk about.
But we continue to track 3 or 4 fairly closely at this stage.
We'll take our next question from Vishal Shah from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to understand your Service backlog.
I know you showed nice growth in bookings in the Service business.
So just curious to see whether this kind of a run rate is sustainable going forward.
Also in the IGP segment certainly you said that that business has stabilized so can you just provide some more color on what you see in that segment? In the Services backlog I'll try to address what I think you were asking about sustainability.
We did continue to get -- obviously we got the very large DuPont booking this quarter which -- that's a multiyear contract and I don't expect us to be able to book one of those every quarter.
I'd like to be able to do that but reality is it's a onetime booking that -- we'll have other bookings over time but not that large.
So it was a little bit of a blip there.
In terms of the other businesses in Services we've had we're continuing to see some recovery in the building group.
We've had some good bookings continue in Canada on our workup in the oil sands.
And also the fabrication work that we're doing we seem to be doing very well in delivering modules that are built to design and fit-up issues are minimal and we seem to have gotten more than our share on modules.
I hope we can continue to maintain the very good performance we have in our module fabrication yards up in Edmonton.
In IGP it's -- we're thinking that -- we're still seeing activity in the U.S.
governments very competitive.
The last couple weeks with the government shutdown were not helpful I think to the entire space in terms of new awards or moving things forward.
We've had some good awards in Djibouti in Romania.
We continue to see some good work.
We continue to make the Navy's global construction program MATOC deal.
We've got some good prospects for continued growth in our U.K.
business.
Maybe it's a sort of rolling over the work.
We expect to see falloff in Afghanistan and on the first phase of the Allenby &amp; Connaught project.
Minerals and infrastructure in Australia we think have bottomed out.
We hope to see some recovery there next year.
And then Power continues to I think be well positioned.
The award that I alluded to that'll get booked between now and next May is a continuing indication of a stronger business for KBR and Power and we hope to be able to continue to see growth within that segment of IGP.
We'll take our next question from Brian Konigsberg from Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of questions.
You talked about the closeouts into Q4 and you expressed your confidence in that being executed.
Can you quantify how much you anticipate that will contribute maybe not exactly but a rough range? No I really can't at this stage.
I think we obviously have some matters on some projects that we've talked about previously that we think will get resolved.
And we have others that is just not appropriate at this time to talk about given where we are in our reviews and discussions.
LLC</strong> Right.
And just on the problem projects that occurred late last year and you've been performing well on this year are you anticipating you can get some clawback in cost in Q4? Is that baked into your assumptions? No it is not.
Those projects I believe Dennis accounted for as loss-making projects under 8011 and so we've got a mark-to-market accounting essentially on those projects.
You may want to comment a little bit about how the accounting drives us to not have things out in the future but today.
Well yes.
We've made provisions for those losses and those projects are tracking to those provisions.
So we booked the accounting based upon our best estimates and the projects are tracking according to those estimates.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And if I could just slip one last in.
So the ERP spend in '13 obviously a little bit more elevated.
I know you don't want to give that -- the guidance for '14 but do you think that it could trend lower next year? I think ERP overall is going to be up year-over-year.
We're going to roll out the United States implementation next year.
Canada was a good pilot for us.
It's a big business but it's also one that touches a lot of different elements of what KBR does from procurement to human resources to project management.
And so we'll have some comment in our guidance about ERP in the 2014 guidance but North America will be the big rollout year and then we'll pick up the rest of the world over the following 1.5 years.
We'll take our next question from Tahira Afzal from KeyBanc Capital.
Research Division</strong> First question is if I look at your commentary in the competitive landscape that is indicated I mean are you just seeing a more aggressive bidding environment or are you -- is it something in your cost structure that's a little different to some of your peers as it stands right now? And I guess I'm asking this because you have pointed out that maybe you're 1 of the top 3 if not 4 on the modular construction side.
So I would love to get an idea whether this is just say aggressive bidding or is there something else going on? Well I think our data is kind of limited by what we see.
I know that in the projects that we have bid those that we've won and those that we've lost they've been very competitively contested.
I believe that as we look at just the level of award volume that we see over the last quarter or so that it's been probably a little bit lighter than what we've seen historically in the space.
And you will all probably have a better view of that than we do.
But it appears to us given the dynamics that we're seeing that there are fewer projects out there being competed than what we've seen in the recent past.
And that has contributed to what I think is a -- that competitive environment we're seeing today.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And Bill if you look at your free cash flow clearly still solid.
Could you comment a bit on directionally what we should expect going forward and for these cash allocation usages going forward? We've spent a lot of time working on the working capital.
We still have I think some opportunities both in Gas Mon and in NAGL to continue to draw improved cash flow in those businesses just given the timing we're seeing to get invoices paid.
From allocation standpoint I don't think our allocation of cash has changed from our prior commentary.
And we remain focused on being good stewards of cash.
And we hope to be able to continue to have those programs that allow us to take our excess cash that we don't see being needed in the deployment of the business and returning it in various forms to shareholders as we've done in the past.
We'll take our next question from Will Gabrielski from Lazard.
Research Division</strong> To take that point Tahira was just touching on a little bit further.
I mean you guys have a pretty clean balance sheet and presumably you're going to collect a fair amount of cash over the next year not only from operations but also hopefully from the government and hopefully from PEMEX.
I mean have you guys given any thought to jumping in front of that and taking advantage of cheap credit as an opportunity to raise your capital to get out in front of that and buy back stock ahead of what it sounds like you think will be a better award environment 12 or 18 months from now? We're pretty conservative.
I don't know that -- no we have not.
We really will look at what cash we have.
We'll continue to manage the business conservatively.
And we kick around ideas like that but I don't see our capital allocation and sourcing cash changing in the near term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
I guess when you talk about it still being competitive or there being less projects to bid on maybe than it has been historically is that maybe a function of just the type of projects that are happening in the U.S.
that you just find yourself less interested in or competitively at a disadvantage versus what's happened in the prior cycles? Or do you still feel that's just the broad market statement that -- just not enough activity and too many players chasing too few projects? I think it's more the latter.
I don't see where KBR has any disadvantages or competitive issues in the North American market.
I think it actually -- relative to other geographic markets it's actually a stronger basis for our ability to compete just given our ability to do integrated EPC work.
And I think we've been successful signing up over $1 billion this year between the 3 ammonia plants that we spoke about.
I think it's -- you got a lot of activity out there a lot of people talking about with different folks on LNG and GTL projects.
And those things are moving at the speed they're going to move at.
And as much as we and our brethren in the space would like to get those accelerated they will go forward when they are able to go forward based on decisions taken by our customers.
So we're being as supportive as we can helping them address issues that we can help them.
And for a lot of the issues we're simply a spectator.
And that's obviously taken a lot of focus of our customers.
They're making -- looking at very large projects that I think play to KBR's strength.
And until those things finally start dropping into FID it's going to be a lot of looking at other projects that can come forward to maybe take their places in our respective backlogs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on hydrocarbon margin.
Do you think you've found the bottom here for that business? Or does mix continue to serve as a headwind to the percentage margin even if the EBIT dollars are growing? That's a hard one because you've got a number of -- we're looking at just EBIT dollar in aggregate.
That's how we're trying to manage the business.
And it goes back a lot Will to the comments that I made several years ago on Skikda.
And while Skikda was a low-margin project it was a great project from an earnings standpoint and a risk standpoint.
We've got some -- we continue to have a number of initiatives in oil and gas that are project delivery that are clearly going to have a dilutive effect on the margins we've historically seen but I think in terms of aggregate dollars they're going to be far better for us than what we've been doing in the past.
So I'm excited about where oil and gas is going.
We've seen downstream margins slide a little bit from where they were when they were just doing engineering projects and PMC projects in the Middle East to doing an EPC work largely in the U.S.
that's going to drive margins down.
But it's all driven by how do we get the highest dollars that we can for the risk that we're taking.
And I'm very pleased with the directions that both downstream and oil and gas are taking or have taken regarding getting work that's going to increase the overall profitability of KBR on a risk-adjusted basis.
I think technology will continue to perform and they do a great job of expanding their offering with respect to new features.
We'll probably see perhaps some lower contributions as a percentage of the overall dollars on license fees and probably higher proprietary equipment sales which traded a lower margin.
But again you could see a situation where all 3 of the hydrocarbon businesses see their margins go down but see some significant increases in the amount of dollars they're bringing into KBR which from our perspective is -- we're more interested in dollar drivers as opposed to margin drivers.
We'll take our next question from Rob Norfleet from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
But just one I just wanted to look at -- you all obviously cited that you expect the existing backlog about half of it to be burned off over the next 12 months.
Can you kind of talk about outside of that contribution to revenues over the next 12 months? What are the other opportunities in terms of quicker-burning engineering-only work maybe that we could expect to see hit to kind of fill in the gaps? Well I think in terms of the backlog we could only bid on what our customers want us to bid on not what we want to bid on.
I mean where there are opportunities to bid engineering-only we're being very aggressive I think being really proactive to get those type of just -- home-office-service-only opportunities into the fold.
And we are seeing those but we're also seeing probably a greater proportion of the work that we are pursuing on EPC.
And if you look at an EPC project and throw in the procurement and I think we've talked about Power for an example that you may see high single digits low double digits on those kinds of margins.
And those are going to be lower certainly than what you see in engineering-only but you're going to have a longer tail on those earnings.
So we'd love to get as much near-term backlog but we're kind of at the -- be at the mercy of what our customers want to buy not necessarily what we want to sell.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's clear.
And the second question I guess gets back to something Tahira asked earlier just regarding in some ways contracts that you've not been successful on winning.
Again I guess one thing that I wanted to just get your thoughts on it seems like customers are at least gravitating more towards the joint venture concept the consortium of 2 to 3 players versus the 1 contractor going at it alone.
And it seems like this had kind of allowed some players to come in fairly late into the FEED process and then be very competitive in some of these contacts.
I know you guys have utilized the JV structure obviously in some contracts but it seems like you did go at it alone in a fair amount.
Can you guys talk about that from that standpoint? Yes.
I mean our logic is very linear in that regard.
We look at a project and the first question we ask is can we do this by ourselves? And so we go through a series of screens or gates that you get a project that's $15 billion we're probably saying no we can't do it by ourselves.
And so we move down to the next question of are we better off with a partner? And even if we believe on some of these projects we can bid these by ourselves we still ask the question are we better off with a partner from a risk-sharing standpoint or skill set capability or any number features.
And we look at what do we think is the best solution for us to win.
And on certainly the Kitimat project we have a partner on that one.
We talked previously about partnerships we have with JGC on both the Petronas FEED as well as the continuing work on Tangguh.
We look at the larger projects that we're pursuing.
They typically have partners with us on those.
And so we continue to look at what does it take for us to be most competitive on these projects and make our decisions based on the highest NPV for KBR taking into account either to go at a loner approach or go with a partner.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Nagel at this time I'll turn the conference back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
I'd like to thank you all for joining us and we look forward to speaking with you soon.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to the KBR's Fourth Quarter and Annual 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Zach Nagle Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and welcome to KBR's fourth quarter and annual 2013 earnings conference call.
Today's call is also being webcast and a replay will be available on KBR's website for 7 days at kbr.com.
The press release announcing fourth quarter results is also available on KBR's website.
Joining me today are Bill Utt Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Ferraioli Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call Bill will provide an overview of KBR's fourth quarter and annual 2013 operating results highlighting a number of key areas from each of our business groups.
Brian will then provide more detail on the key financial takeaways for today's call.
Lastly before opening the call for Q&amp;A Bill is going to provide brief closing comments.
After our prepared remarks we will open the floor for questions.
Before I turn the call over to Bill I would like to remind our audience that today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting KBR's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ significantly from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in KBR's fourth quarter and annual 2013 earnings press release issued last night KBR's Form 10-K for the period ended December 31 2013 and KBR's current reports on Form 8-K.
You can find all of these documents at kbr.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Bill.
Bill? Thanks Zach and good morning everyone.
Q4 was a strong bookings quarter for KBR both in aggregate with a book-to-bill ratio of 1.1 and across our major business groups with 3 of our 4 business groups having book-to-bill ratios greater than 1.
KBR also delivered $209 million in operating cash flow during the quarter.
Additionally our Board of Directors has reviewed and approved our capital allocation strategy.
Most notably they have authorized maintaining our current dividend and have initiated a new $350 million share repurchase program which terminates and replaces the buyback program previously announced in 2011.
The Board of Directors' actions affirm our long-standing commitment to efficiently returning excess cash to shareholders.
Brian will discuss the details of our capital allocation strategy further in his prepared remarks.
Despite strong bookings and cash flow in the fourth quarter our overall financial results were well below our expectations.
For the fourth quarter of 2013 we delivered $1.7 billion of revenue $27 million of net income attributable to KBR and $0.18 of earnings per fully diluted share.
The earnings for the quarter were less than anticipated for a number of reasons.
While provisional acceptance was achieved on a major LNG contract negotiations related to the final closeout continue and have not yet concluded in a favorable settlement as we had anticipated.
This was a significant headwind to our quarterly earnings.
However we remain optimistic about our chances to successfully close this project.
Additionally as part of our closeout activities on the project we recorded a $17 million pretax noncash charge associated with foreign currency accounting which occurred over the life of the project and an additional $20 million pretax charge for increased costs due to delays in project commissioning project taxes and other items.
With provisional acceptance achieved we remain optimistic about successfully closing out the project in 2014.
Although the timing and amounts of any favorable closeouts remain uncertain we believe this closeout could yield between 0 and $0.27 per share to earnings if and when realized.
This closeout is not included in our 2014 earnings guidance.
We also saw headwinds in the quarter resulting from a number of discrete items including $13 million in legal contingencies covering an expected settlement related to the legacy FCPA issues with the African Development Bank and other legal disputes; $13 million in severance and other personnel-related costs associated with continued efforts to rightsize our organization; an approximately $16 million noncash impact related to a reduction in the percentage of completion on the Ichthys LNG project due to an increase in the estimated cost to complete the project; an additional project closeout gain that will not occur as anticipated; and finally a higher-than-expected tax rate resulting primarily from a valuation allowance taken against certain U.S.
state tax loss carryforwards during the quarter.
Lastly our markets remain very competitive and some of the awards and work we expected in the quarter did not materialize as these anticipated project awards were delayed canceled or lost which also impacted our quarterly results and our outlook for 2014.
Turning to full year 2013.
Net income attributable to KBR increased to $229 million from $144 million in 2012.
We generated $290 million in operating cash flow as compared to $142 million in 2012 and the 2013 operating cash flow amount includes the onetime payment of $108 million in performance bonds to an -- on an ongoing dispute for a long-completed project in Mexico as well as the cash funding for the series of projects where provisions were taken in the fourth quarter of 2012.
We continue to believe that payment on the performance bonds and related claims will be recovered in the future but the amounts and timing remain uncertain.
2013 performance was driven by our Gas Monetization business which generated the highest revenue of $2.2 billion and gross profit of $324 million.
Hydrocarbons also had a strong year with revenues increasing 18% from 2012 to approximately $1.5 billion led by an increasing number of downstream projects such as ammonia which are taking advantage of abundant natural gas particularly in North America.
However the mix of projects has trended more toward longer-term EPC projects at lower average margins and therefore gross profit for this segment was relatively flat when compared with 2012.
The business volume in our Infrastructure Government and Power segment declined in 2013 with revenue approximating $1.5 billion as compared to $1.8 billion in 2012.
Government expenditures and customer investments in mining and infrastructure projects remained slow.
Gross profit for the segment increased to $65 million from $20 million as the significant job losses on 2 projects in 2012 did not recur in 2013.
In our Services segment business was strong in 2013 with revenue increasing 28% to $2.1 billion primarily driven by increased activity related to oil sands-related projects in Canada.
Gross profit was also higher on increased activity and also as a result of charges in 2012 taken on 3 projects that did not recur in 2013.
Looking forward to 2014 our earnings per share guidance is between $1.75 and $2.10 per fully diluted share.
This guidance does not include any contributions from the project closeout mentioned earlier.
In the near term we continue to see a highly competitive marketplace and an absence of very large EPC contract awards for new LNG plants in 2014.
As we've previously discussed we're also seeing a shift in our business to more EPC work such as the Dyno Nobel project which tends to have longer-dated contracts and near-term lower margins than pure book-and-burn services work.
The cancellation of a gas-to-liquids project and the loss of an LNG project are also reflected in our 2014 guidance.
However we see a number of excellent opportunities in key strategic markets with substantial work to execute on existing projects for our customers and with the addition of new work in key strategic areas such as gas monetization oil and gas downstream technology services and services supporting the oil and gas area as well as the International Government Defense and Support Services business.
Now I'd like to address each of our business groups and opportunities we see in more detail.
At Gas Monetization while we expect to see an active EPC bidding environment this year we don't see customers reaching final investment decision on any mega LNG projects in 2014.
We see excellent opportunities for KBR on these projects when they move forward and intend to remain very active in the space.
We continue to execute well on our 2 major LNG projects Gorgon and Ichthys and expect strong execution through 2014 which will help to fuel earnings.
Additionally we continue to see a robust pipeline of prospects for KBR in 2014 and beyond where we believe we will be successful consistent with our leadership position in the gas monetization space.
We're actively pursuing 5 pre-FEEDs across the globe from Africa to Eurasia to North America.
We also anticipate working on 2 FEEDs 1 in North America and 1 in Asia one of which we believe will be completed in 2014 the other in mid 2015.
We're also working with Anadarko on the Mozambique LNG project by providing EPCM support services for the early works on the project.
With respect to EPC bids we expect to provide EPC pricing on 2 facilities in 2014 both greenfield LNG projects in Canada and the U.S.
and EPC pricing on an Asian brownfield LNG facility in mid '15.
Additionally we continue to look for opportunities to fortify strong relationships with our key customers.
We're pursuing 2 ongoing alliances with Shell and BG for engineering work feasibility studies pre-FEEDs and FEEDs.
These alliances could allow us to capture additional opportunities relative to upcoming projects.
In Hydrocarbons we're focused on executing on the ammonia and petrochemical work in both Downstream and Technology that we've already won.
We're also focused on continuing to win new work and to building strong backlog based on the industrial renaissance in the U.S.
driven by low shale gas prices.
We see strong opportunities for growth in Hydrocarbons and expect a book-to-bill of greater than 1 for 2014.
Downstream activity continues to be robust and we expect to win our fair share of work in this market in the coming year.
We're pursuing a number of multi-hundred-million-dollar awards that we believe could reach FID in 2014.
We're also seeing a high volume of sub-$100 million prospects where we think we have a good opportunity to win work and further expand the portfolio.
We also believe 2014 will be a good year for both technology and the oil and gas businesses as we see a strong pipeline of prospects ahead.
A strong suite of technology spanning a wide variety of markets positions KBR well to continue on a strong growth trajectory with particular strength in the ammonia and fertilizer spaces.
We were recently awarded onshore and offshore EPC work for the Shah Deniz 2 project when it reached FID in the fourth quarter and look forward to continuing our execution at a healthy pace on this project.
We're also excited about the progress we're seeing on the large-scale FLNG projects and are actively preparing FEED and an EPC bid on one project.
We're also positioning ourselves well on a number of other early-stage FLNG projects.
We're also seeing increased activity in the Gulf of Mexico including our work for BP on their Mad Dog Phase 2 project which was referenced in today's upstream publication.
We see several pre-FEED and FEED project opportunities for 2014 setting up the larger-scale EPC and detailed design work to move forward in 2015.
At Services we're focused on executing on the substantial work we've won over the past 2 years primarily in the Canadian oil sands.
We continue to see a strong demand for oil sands-related work as well as substantial opportunities for natural gas mining potash and SAGD projects in Canada.
At IGP we're seeing opportunities for growth in both our Power business and our IGD and SS business.
We continue to execute on our SWA and get EPC projects.
And as we discussed on our Q3 earnings call we received a limited notice to proceed on a 600-megawatt $500 million combined cycle power project for an unspecified customer and we expect to fully book the balance of this project in the backlog in the middle of 2014 when all final permits and approvals are received by our customer.
We continue to see a good bidding environment for both pollution control and combined cycle projects and we are building a solid win rate on these projects.
At IGDSS we are continuing our efforts to diversify this business in anticipation of the Afghanistan activity wind-down and completion of the Allenby &amp; Connaught construction project.
We continue to build and develop relationships where our core expertise can be best leveraged.
We're excited about the number of new opportunities developing for outsourcing opportunities both at the Ministry of Defense and with the local police forces in the U.K.
through public-private partnerships in the U.K.
and Australia camp support in the minerals market and potential emerging opportunities in Libya.
We think this diversification will yield good results for us in 2014 and beyond.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Brian to discuss a few other financial items and to cover our capital allocation strategy in greater detail.
Brian? Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
To begin I'd like to discuss a few changes that we've made to our disclosure and that's based on the feedback that I've received from my recent discussions with investors.
First we've changed some of the captions in our financial statements to more closely conform to industry standards.
On the income statement we added a gross profit line and moved equity in earnings of unconsolidated revenues out of total revenues.
On the balance sheet we changed descriptions on a number of captions and are now using industry terms such as cost in estimated earnings in excess of billings the so-called CIE instead of unbilled and also using billings in excess of cost in estimated earnings so-called the BIE instead of advanced billings.
We also added a new caption called claims and accounts receivable.
This caption contains the items related to claims with customers that we believe are collectible but where the timing is uncertain and collection is likely to extend beyond 12 months.
The key items included here are the PEMEX arbitration award and $226 million in claims receivable for costs incurred under various U.S.
contracts where there are either disputes or where the costs exceed the government's funded amount.
We also added additional disclosure around our cash balance and where the cash actually resides.
We trust these changes will make it easier for investors to better understand our financial statements and as always we appreciate any additional feedback you may have.
Moving on to the details of our cash.
As of 12/31 we had $1.1 billion in cash and cash equivalents.
Of that amount $69 million is held by consolidated joint ventures for future use by those entities.
Of the remaining balance $355 million is held by our domestic U.S.
entities and $675 million is held by our international subsidiaries.
The domestic cash is used largely to support daily obligations of the U.S.
entities and to fund our general corporate needs such as funding our new ERP system the payment of dividends to shareholders and repurchases of our outstanding common stock.
The international cash may also be available for general corporate needs but prior to any repatriation the cash may be subject to local restrictions such as capital adequacy requirements and obligations incurred in the normal course of business by those foreign entities.
Additionally any cash repatriated to the U.S.
may become subject to U.S.
income taxes.
An example of one of the significant obligations of the international entities relates to our U.K.
pension plan.
You'll note in the 10-K our underfunded U.K.
pension obligation has increased by nearly $100 million from last year due to a decline in the discount rate and an increase in the expected inflation rate.
Now I'd like to move on to discuss our capital allocation strategy in a little bit more detail than outlined in the press release.
We remain confident in the future of KBR and believe we are in the right markets working on the right projects and pursuing the right prospects.
As a result we believe we will continue to generate strong free cash flow.
We believe we have been good stewards of the company's cash and have been active in returning capital to shareholders.
Since 2007 KBR has distributed approximately $828 million to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.
However during 2012 and 2013 the amount of capital returned to shareholders declined largely because our U.S.
cash balances were significantly lower than in the past.
As our logistics work supporting our troops in Iraq and Afghanistan decreased our domestic revenue and the corresponding cash flow also declined.
Over the same period of time we've ramped up a number of the mega LNG projects overseas which resulted in the fundamental shift of us generating less U.S.
cash and more international cash.
As we see work moving back to North America driven largely by the favorable project economics originating from an abundance of natural gas we anticipate our U.S.
cash position will continue to improve.
However we're also looking at ways to repatriate foreign cash to the U.S.
in a tax-efficient manner.
The capital allocation strategy approved by the board has 3 primary objectives: First to pursue a limited number of target acquisitions that will enhance our technology portfolio.
Our view is KBR is large enough and has a broad enough range of services to compete on an international basis without the need for a transformational M&amp;A transaction.
Second to return capital to shareholders on a regular basis by continuing to pay a dividend; and third to return capital to shareholders via share repurchases of our common stock.
As part of this plan the board has authorized a new $350 million share buyback program.
This authorization replaces and terminates the buyback program previously announced in 2011.
We have not announced the specific time frame to complete the repurchases but we will provide regular updates as appropriate.
Lastly I'd like to make one brief comment on the 2014 guidance.
We expect earnings to be stronger in the second half of the year than in the first half of the year.
And with that I'd like to turn the call back over to Bill for his final remarks.
Bill? Thank you Brian.
In the fourth quarter we had a solid book-to-bill of 1.1 and strong cash flow of $209 million.
We missed our expectations on a number of other fronts which made for a very tough fourth quarter and a disappointing end to 2013.
Looking to 2014 we continue to see KBR well positioned in key markets particularly at gas monetization where we're well positioned on a number of future prospects.
We also believe we're well positioned to execute and win new work at hydrocarbons downstream technology oil and gas at services with oil sands-related work and an IGP in both power with combined cycle and pollution control and in IGDSS with a diversification strategy that's well underway.
We're also pleased with the board's approval of our capital allocation plans which we believe will enable us to continue to provide strong returns to shareholders over time.
Finally before turning the call over to questions I'm advised that the search for my successor at KBR is in full swing.
The search committee of the KBR Board of Directors along with their search firm are working diligently on this assignment and any further comment or announcement will come at the appropriate time.
Now we'll open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from John Rogers of D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
Maybe if you could just talk about especially on the Gas Monetization side.
I mean at this point 2014 looks like it will just be running off your existing work in 2015.
We're hopeful that we'll get some projects coming in.
I guess I'm just a little surprised one how much that market has deteriorated for you and I'm trying to get a gauge of when we might see a recovery there.
Well I think John you have to look at the cycle of work that we go through and we certainly had put a lot of effort into a gas-to-liquids project that did not go forward.
That had been something we were working on and had targeted that with our teams to fill an award position in 2013.
And certainly we were very disappointed with the news on Kitimat.
And so it's created a gap in our portfolio.
Notwithstanding that gap we're still pursuing the projects as they're developing in East Africa.
We're still looking at the expansions at Tangguh.
And there's still opportunities for us in the British Columbia arena.
We're under discussion on some projects in the U.S.
Gulf Coast but we're very candidly taking a very objective approach that we're still not seeing a lot of LNG contracts being executed with the project sponsors.
And this is just what we're being told by the project sponsors and that has the underpinnings of the timing at which these projects are moving forward.
And there's still a lot of we think a lot of prospects out there but I still see the market being reset based on getting the gas sales agreement and offtake agreements completed before they jump into a secondary activity which is building the plan.
Research Division</strong> But a lot of those projects Bill I mean I assume wouldn't -- even if you'd won them wouldn't have had a big impact on '14.
And yet it looks like the margins and I don't know if it's just Gas Mon or what else are just coming in a lot lower than what we were thinking a few quarters ago and relative to your original guidance for 2013.
Well when we look at the gas monetization we're looking now where -- fundamentally the Escravos where we had some negligible contributions and Skikda where we have had contributions over time have wound their way out of the portfolio.
But for the closeout activities we referenced in the comments Gorgon we think will be fairly steady during 2014 along historical lines.
And you will see how that project continues to evolve as the subcontractors perform and make their progress on the site.
Ichthys continues to ramp up in terms of our activity.
We've always said our roles were going to be a little bit back end-loaded in terms of the fabrication management and construction management.
And we also believe that some of the headwinds we saw in the fourth quarter they're going to work themselves out as the project scopes expands and the customer addresses some of the increasing costs that we're seeing and that are an inevitable -- turning out to be an inevitable factor on all the Australian-based projects.
So for us those are still going forward smartly.
It's really what's the next wave.
And as we had looked at our work and our teams and where we were spending our time we had some pretty good expectations of work both on the GTL project that is not going forward and the Kitimat project which we were not successful in continuing our role as the project leader on the downstream phase of that project made us change from Apache to Chevron.
So it's kind of reloading the portfolio and taking the teams that we had designated for both of the 2 aforementioned projects and making them available for discussions with customers which are projects which we see being perhaps later in terms of their financial impact into our 2014 earnings than we had hoped with the others we were looking at even a quarter ago.
And John this is Brian.
Let me maybe help a little bit on the margin question as well.
Just to make sure we're all thinking about this the same way if you refer to the press release the $17 million charge and the $20 million increase in costs as well as the African Development Bank charge they're all in the Gas Monetization segment.
So if you just look at the raw numbers without factoring in those specific items yes the margins look a little bit lower than the underlying business really is.
And the Ichthys percent complete reversal too.
That also was against the Gas Mon segment.
That's correct.
And our next question comes from Jamie Cook with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Sorry we just -- we've got to switch back to the guidance again.
Brian or Bill I mean if you just look at what you guys disclosed in your 10-K I mean you have over $14 billion in backlog.
You said you'll burn through about half of that which implies at least $7 billion.
I'm just trying to understand what's embedded in your guidance Brian because even if you just take that $7 billion the implied margins for the business to get to your guidance are pretty subpar in my opinion.
So can you just help me understand? Do you assume just the $7 billion? Do we assume you're going to get incremental work? And why are the margins so low? Is it mix or do you not like what you see within the backlog? And then also Brian if you could help on -- is it tax? And why is the first half going to be weaker than the second half? Jamie let me address the first part of your question.
A lot of the issues we're seeing is mix issues.
If you look at the Dyno Nobel work that's a 4-year type contract.
Profits are recognized on a percentage of completion basis.
And so as we see projects like that ramping up you're getting less near-term benefit out of them.
The earnings will be there and they'll be longer term.
But it's certainly not delivering the impact that you would typically see when you're doing more engineering study work.
We've also -- we look at the mix of work we have.
We had a large award with DuPont on the maintenance business last year as a great win for us great positioning.
It's led to further EPC work with DuPont.
But it's also -- that's lower-margin work too in terms -- but the volumes are much higher.
And so we're dealing with a little bit the transition of selling work.
And as we're working it off we're working off a lot of EPC work that just doesn't have the near-term margin.
And that's really the explanation for the guidance as it relates to the burn-off of the backlog.
And I'll let Brian make some comments on that as well in addition to the tax point.
Yes I'd add Jamie that when you're looking at -- when you're thinking about volume I would suggest you think about a volume increase as Bill has been alluding to on this call as well as in the prior third quarter call.
So you'll see volumes pick up but because of the nature of more EPC work you may see a little bit of compression on the actual margin.
Moving on to taxes the tax rate was a little higher than normal in the fourth quarter.
We would expect the tax rate for the year 2014 to be more in line with our historic levels so a little bit down from the fourth quarter but in line with what you've seen in prior periods.
Research Division</strong> And then you didn't address first half versus second half so if you could address that.
And then I guess in terms of potential Brian I understand your comment and you want to put out probably a conservative guide.
I get that.
But just can you give me some clarification on whether you assume you'd do anything on the share repurchase? I'm assuming that's not in your numbers.
And then the other part of it is the closeouts on the LNG projects when you'll expect -- why did you -- why are you lowering your assumptions from 0 to $0.27 versus you thought you'd get $0.36 and then when we'll hear about timing on that? Okay.
Let me take it maybe in some reverse order.
Why did we lower the guidance or why did we lower our expectations on the closeouts? Well as you work through the process and more information becomes available we just updated the numbers.
So we think the 0 to $0.27 on one particular project is unchanged.
There really had been the potential upside on another project that we're not as confident of achieving so we've dropped our thinking on the total value potential on these closeouts.
In terms of the...
Research Division</strong> But in there is $0.27-ish 2 projects or 1? Sorry.
One.
One project.
But there were 2 projects in the mix -- or there are 2 projects in the mix for closeout.
However the second project we are not as optimistic at achieving some incentives or some upside potential on that project.
More specifically we had certain rights to a project where we had taken some significant provisions to get back to a certain position.
However in the discussions with the customer on that the customer cited very significant cost growth in the ultimate conclusion of that project.
And for the sake of a broader customer relationship we made the decision not to force that issue and instead just close out the project and certainly not get into a heated debate regarding the entitlement of that upside.
So that was a decision that we made and that's why that over the fourth quarter that discussion led to us not achieving that upside and why we don't believe that upside will be achieved by KBR.
And coming back to some of your other questions Jamie the first half versus the second half I thought Bill tried to address that in his remarks in that you have the EPC projects ramping up so you're going to get more toward the back end rather than the first half of the year.
And regarding the share buyback program in the guidance there is an assumption for some share buyback to be in the guidance but we're still waiting to see how we roll out the share buyback what vehicle we use for that.
As you know on the buyback there are different ways to accomplish that: open market some accelerated programs tender offers et cetera.
So we haven't announced anything about how we're going to execute the share buyback.
So I'll leave it at that there is some share buyback assumed in that guidance but we'll give you more updates as we move along with the program.
Our next question comes from Jerry Revich of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Brian can you talk about the ERP spending outlook beyond 2014 as you take ownership of that process? And then also just talk about the opportunity to repatriate cash to the U.S.
You mentioned in your prepared remarks some additional disclosures and I'm wondering if you'd just flush out for us where you are in the process of considering how to get that cash back into the U.S.
for buybacks.
Okay.
Regarding the ERP this will be a heavy year for the ERP.
2015 will drop a bit from '14 and by then we'll have rolled out the majority of the program.
So you're really looking at '14 and '15 for ERP spend with '14 being the higher of the 2.
Regarding taxes we're looking at a number of vehicles to bring back cash in a tax-efficient manner.
We have several ideas and I'm highly confident that we'll be able to fund the share buyback plan with existing cash as well as the cash that we expect to generate over the next year or so or 18 months.
When you take a step back one of the things we're looking at the cash tax impact varies by jurisdiction.
So the majority of our cash tends to be in Australia the U.K.
and in Canada.
And we will look to bring back cash in the most efficient manner that we can.
Some we can do immediately.
Some may take a little bit more time for tax planning purposes.
But I don't think at this point in time we'll have any problems in funding the plans that we announced earlier today -- or yesterday I should say.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Brian just a clarification on the ERP system relative to the spend in '14.
What do you view as normalized and how much lower do you expect '15 versus '14 just on the pure ERP spend? I'm not sure I understand the question when you say normalized.
Research Division</strong> You're rolling it out.
So you mentioned you're rolling it out so your costs are elevated in 2014.
So once you've completed the rollout what do you view as the long-term ERP spending? The normal long-term spending should be less than what we've been doing on an ongoing basis.
What we've been trying to do is carve out the unusual or the onetime spend that will go away once the ERP program is completed.
So once we get through 2015 I think we'll have our normal spend that you've been seeing or less.
I think more specifically Jerry we're still running the business on the existing -- largely on the existing ERP system.
And as Brian was saying we've got a whole separate team that's developing and now implementing the ERP's team.
And we expect to see that team go away and resume more towards historical run rates of our overhead.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And lastly Bill can you talk about the chemicals opportunities in the U.S.? It looks like one of your customers received board approval for a sizable ammonia plant.
Can you just give us an update on your expectations for ammonia order cadence and ethylene projects that you're pursuing in the U.S.? Yes.
I think we're -- I'll just comment broadly about the Hydrocarbons business of which technology and downstream are 2 of the 3 legs of that stool.
We're very optimistic about that business continuing to grow.
Our expectation is backlog in the Hydrocarbons space will increase during 2014.
And we're -- don't want to comment on any specific project but overall we feel really good about what's in front of us in Hydrocarbons.
And the next question comes from Steven Fisher of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I think investors are trying to assess whether 2014 is really a trough year.
And I know it's hard to say at this point but just wondering what things you can do this year to support earnings growth as you look out into 2015.
I know you said just now that ERP is going to be down a little bit but what can you do this year to support earnings growth and are there any other tailwinds that you already know of? Well I think there's a lot of optimism around the shop here.
If you look at the -- in our oil and gas business yes there was some mention about KBR related to BP's Mad Dog Phase 2 project.
We're seeing a number of FLNG prospects on the horizon including one where we're preparing the final FEED bid and APC bid.
We're pleased with the award from BP in the Caspian but we're also told that if you look at the history of work we've done at Shah Deniz and ACG that given what BP is hoping to do in the future that we're probably not halfway through that whole program with them.
And so oil and gas has got a really good prospect list ahead of them beyond even the couple of opportunities I just cited.
In downstream we're seeing U.S.
chemicals ammonia some international refineries that we're pursuing.
They all look to be fairly promising and I think our competitive position in these projects is very good.
We're expecting technology to continue to grow and they had a great sales year last year.
We'll see some contribution this year but we'll get largely inventorying some earnings for future years as these technologies come online and we're able to recognize all of the job income from those technology sales.
We talked about Power.
We believe we've got one in the bag on that major combined cycle project that will hit backlog in second quarter.
That's continuing to have a good cadence of awards in pollution control and combined cycle projects for us.
At IGDSS we've got a number of things we're looking at extensions of the Allenby &amp; Connaught project some MoD outsourcings that we expect to see in the middle of the year some results from that where we have bids in.
There's some public-private partnerships that we're very favorably positioned on and are working through the mechanisms there.
Canada we're expecting to see continued growth largely in the oil sands and a rebound in our U.S.
construction business.
And we've already talked extensively about the reloading of the prospects in Gas Mon.
So I think there's a lot of good things going on here that will portend to see stronger earnings in 2015.
And really it's up to the teams here to be able to execute these prospects but we do have a lot of optimism across the portfolio for what the business can do.
Research Division</strong> I guess I was wondering more within your control also in terms of cost restructuring and things along those lines.
Well Steve I think you know me well enough that that's always an area of focus for me.
We've done some of that already since I've been here and it was underway before I arrived.
And it'll continue to be an area of focus as we move forward.
We made comments about some of the charges we took about adjusting the size of our workforce to max the workload and those activities are normal in this business.
So yes that's certainly part of the mix as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could just ask a quick question on Ichthys in terms of the trajectory there.
What is -- is 2015 expected to be steady with 2014? And I guess on the scope of your own work when does that occur? And I think you had some price -- fixed-price elements of that at risk.
When do you get beyond that risk period? Well if you think about Ichthys we're still ramping up and we should see improvements if you just think about normal percentage completion taking place in the second half of '14 and into '15 and '16.
We also will see a higher degree of Services revenue from the services we'll be performing in the fab yards as well as the on-site construction management on that.
That will also give increased momentum on Ichthys going forward.
And as we look at the fixed-price elements we have had significant discussion about that in prior calls where while you've got contractually a large amount of fixed price in our backlog that the open positions really are not that material for a company of our size.
What we saw on the cost estimates we think that the costs are going up on some of the bids we're getting back.
We have a certain discipline we follow for accounting that as costs get back and we go through our check estimate process that it does affect the percentage of completion which we're doing on a cost-to-cost basis.
It hasn't cost us earnings over the life of the project.
In fact we probably will be able to get some additional margins through the negotiations of the change orders on the increased costs.
And so as we look at things we're not that worried about where we stand from the management of the fixed price exposure of the project particularly given some of the fairly reasonable debt bands where we're eating some costs if we are to exceed these budgets before -- after which we pick up on a reimbursable-of-our-cost perspective.
So nothing's changed from our perspective on the fixed price.
The overall Ichthys news is probably more profitable for us over the life of the project but we had to take the hit because of the cost-to-cost accounting in the fourth quarter.
And our next question comes from Andrew Kaplowitz of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So Bill or Brian can you give us some more color on the level of utilization in your business? Is your labor cost absorption in 2014 going to be similar or actually worse than '13? And I know Brian you said the $13 million that you took in sort of cost takeout I know you mentioned that but is there more you can do? I mean clearly the sort of outlook in your Gas Monetization business has changed here.
So can you work on that more here over the next 2 years? But I'm really curious about that labor cost absorption number.
Well just to maybe give you some color on the labor cost absorption Andy as the cost of resources we have in the pool -- and we're being very good and aggressive about the variable costs or the personnel-related costs in terms of trimming that.
However we are still working through a little bit more slowly the implications of real estate that's not being used.
And so our ability to manage that doesn't turn on a dime.
It turns much more slowly.
And we're working to take the steps to minimize the unused real estate cost that we have in the portfolio but that's going to take a little bit of time.
Yes.
And to follow on on Bill's comments that's exactly the point.
The utilization to answer your question is in many places quite high.
But to Bill's point if you have excess office space or other fixed-type costs even though you have the workforce fully utilized there isn't the volume to absorb all of that overhead.
So when I was commenting on earlier about -- on the cost side to Steve's question that's exactly what I was thinking.
We do have opportunities on more of the fixed costs.
We are looking at that.
That is a goal for 2014.
And to answer your specific question we would believe the labor cost underabsorption will be better in '14 than it was in '13.
Yes.
To answer the -- our chargeabilities have remained very good for the people we have in the company.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
But I mean just to pin you down a little more Brian just marginally better or a lot better? I mean better is -- you did negative 60 or around that in '13.
There's a big difference between negative 30 and negative 50.
You know what I'm saying? Andy I'm not going to be more specific but yes yes is the answer.
It'll be better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Bill maybe just to push you a little bit on sort of the future -- the forward outlook here.
You've grown backlog over the last few quarters here without big Gas Monetization projects.
So as you look at '14 I know you sound confident that you can grow Hydrocarbons backlog but if you look at the whole company how do you feel about backlog for the whole company? Is there a chance you could grow backlog even though we know Gas Monetization's going to go down? Because that gets us more excited that '15 can be up and not down.
Yes.
There's a lot of things.
I think the aperture of how things could go is a pretty wide range as we've tried to pin down our folks.
We certainly have been I think fairly transparent on where we see the impact on backlog and the work-off of the Gas Mon backlog over the year.
Yes I think it's a much more optimistic picture in the rest of the portfolio is the growth opportunities we have.
It could be pretty powerful.
But as we look at things we're trying to risk-adjust them.
If we had a great string of luck you could see a much better backlog position than what we're signaling right now.
But we're trying to stay within the discipline of our rated go-gets on that and it's going to be tough for us to see much backlog contribution coming out of Gas Mon this year but the rest of the company looks pretty good from where we sit.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask you guys just one quick clarification on the Services business? I mean you're guiding to weaker earnings in the first half of '14 than the second half.
Services revenue was good but then it was lower in 4Q than 3Q even though the backlog was up 25%.
So was there weather impact at all in that business or in the first half? I think we've made some comments previously Andy about the -- our vessel -- maintenance vessels down in Mexico we tripled them.
And we've seen a higher percentage of the time on those vessels being out of contract which does give us headwinds on the margins in Services and we're working hard to get them back on contract.
Clearly there's a lot of change going on in Mexico and PEMEX in particular.
And some days we feel like we're pushing a rope on it but we remain optimistic that we can get those boats under contract and get a much better performance out of that business in the second half of the year certainly compared to where we see the position of that business in the first half.
And I think that's probably the bigger -- the biggest impact or the most visible impact here in terms of what's going on in Services.
And the next question comes from Tahira Afzal of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> My first question is in regards to the Technology if you could be looking to pursue an acquisition.
Are you looking for something on the mainstream side on the ethylene polyethylene side? Are you looking at second derivative products on the polypropylene side? Or are you going for something even more out of way there [ph] maybe coals to olefins and all? Anything you can provide there actually would be helpful.
Well we have a -- our distribution network is established.
And what we're trying to focus on is to fill in adjacencies to our existing technologies to be able to expand our offering to offer multiple technologies as opposed to singular technology.
So that's our first avenue.
If we have an opportunity to look at something that's not an adjacency well we certainly will consider it.
And for us as we look at the distribution cost of that technology it's -- we believe largely the technologies that aren't adjacencies will still be sold to the same customer base that we're calling on right now.
And so it's a pretty wide spectrum of what we're considering but with a stated preference for us to look for adjacencies where we think there's some benefit of providing a broader value package than we would selling one-offs.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And not to belabor the point but I think even Andy was probably asking the right question because there clearly is a slight lag of [indiscernible] in the near term.
If you're looking at 2015 and this is -- you're at this point next year and your backlog is flat will the progression of profit recognition as you've described it for some of your larger projects which doesn't really contribute that much this year and the potential of even better underabsorption levels this year would that be sufficient for you to see a 2013 up year? Or will you need something much more than that? Well that's a pretty wide-ranging question.
As Brian has commented we do see a bit of roll-off on the ERP spend.
We're continuing to attack costs.
And yes as we talked about there is some time it takes to work through unused real estate cost.
If we were sitting with backlog where it is at the same level today as we'd see a year from now it depends on the mix and where it is and how we sell it.
We think that the work that we're going to be able to bring into the portfolio in Hydrocarbons will be at consistent Hydrocarbon margins which is good but again it's dependent upon the mix whether it's EPC or if it's Services-based.
We think that some of the strategies that we put in place several years ago about project delivery are driving that business into EPC where we expect to see larger net job income on these projects.
But it's going to be recognized over longer period of times.
And I'll just use the -- and we contrast that with the margins we've done on topsides engineering design versus project delivery.
You probably see multiples of the job income but probably at a just to be very imprecise in my number half the job income margin.
So it gets back to mix.
We feel pretty good about where the prospects are teeing up and we think that if we do execute as to what our plans are that we'll continue to see KBR grow and get back to a growth platform that we've had.
And I think we've pretty well exhausted out the shrinkage in the North American government business.
We see -- expect to see a little bit more in IGDSS in Afghanistan.
But those margins have come down on the rebid.
So it's really too early for us to get in and look at 2015 but if we hit the awards a lot of things could spin around including the LCA if we're able to fully absorb the real estate costs better than we're expecting to do in 2014.
And Tahira I would add that we're looking to grow all of the businesses in 2014 in terms of backlog and revenues with the exception of the Gas Monetization.
As we said it's so lumpy that if you don't get an EPC award in a given year you're always going to burn off some of the backlog.
So we shouldn't discount the opportunities that exist in the other businesses.
And I'm not sure if that has been understood in your question.
And our next question comes from Vishal Shah of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Susie Min for Vishal Shah.
I know some of your competitors have been awarded some of these larger LNG projects as well as ethylene projects which I know you guys don't compete in.
But how does that position you for maybe projects that customers may not have considered you guys for but may be concerned about these other PMC players to have the capacity to do it? Do you see any change or does that position you better? And then I have a follow-up question.
Well I think it honestly positions us better.
We had A teams that we had put on both -- we had an A team that was working on the Kitimat project.
That's now available.
And we had a A team that was on the GTL project that is not going forward.
So I would say as we look at the next projects that are coming up as customers are considering the project teams which we think is one of the more important aspects of how you make contractor selections that we're going to be offering really good teams and we believe that those competitors of ours who have sold work will probably be consuming some of their better people on those projects that they've won.
And we think that gives us on a relative basis a stronger offering than we believe our customers can make.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just within the Hydrocarbons margin profile.
I know in the past you guys have said Gas Monetization margin should probably trend closer to Hydrocarbons as some of your project work that's kind of higher single digit works off.
So how can I think about I guess maybe both of those margin profiles? I know we don't really have anything new on Gas Mon until maybe 2015 timeframe.
But to focus more on the Hydrocarbons business between the mix of technology as well as the new ammonia projects you guys have booked how should we think about that margin profile? Well I think to come back to Brian's points on -- he made earlier I think it was to John we took a lot of -- yes had a lot of headwind in Gas Mon this quarter on Ichthys and Skikda and the other costs we had.
And so the Gas Mon margin should particularly with the roll-off of Escravos and Skikda over the year should be pretty good for us as these lower-margin consolidated projects are no longer having as material an impact in our earnings as they have historically.
In Hydrocarbons if we're pursuing the same type of work the margins should be there.
But as we look at a project like Dyno Nobel where as we cost these things internally with respect to our engineering we're still making the same margin in engineering on -- intellectually on Dyno Nobel as an EPC project as we are on a traditional engineering-only project.
But what happens is is you make a far smaller margin on procurement a lesser margin on construction labor.
And so as you take the project and you average the margins across all of the different components and engineering is let's say 10% of that you're coming up with an EPC award that is appropriately priced at a job income margin that's far less than you do on a Services basis.
And so as we're looking at these and rolling these into the percentage of completion you're seeing a lot of margin compression -- or we expect to see a continued margin compression on the Services business related -- the Hydrocarbons business related to the mix of work.
But overall as you look at the life of the project and over a multiyear period it's going to be a much more robust period of earnings for us than we would have had had we stayed in our Services-only model.
Our next question comes from Brian Konigsberg of Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Most of my questions have been asked but I guess maybe just touch on the commentary with the DOJ and the complaints about kickbacks and how material might that be? Any commentary you could provide around timing of discussions or potential litigation and potential maybe size of the risk? I would just say that we have fully disclosed our positions on those in the K.
I would say that as we talked about in the release we didn't see anything from our side that was new within the lawsuit filed by the Department of Justice.
There was a lot of rehashing of things that we already knew.
It perhaps was as much a tactic by the Department of Justice to get something out to maybe in their view to pressure us.
But yes as you read our K and you've listened to us over the years we've got a lot of stuff going on and so we don't spook easily when they file a lawsuit.
We feel that we've been a model citizen in terms of our conduct over there.
We report stuff when we're aware of it.
We terminate people when they get off the reservation.
We make restitution where it's appropriate and we remain very proud not only of the services that we've provided to the men and women who serve the Armed Forces but we do so with the belief that we did it with the full intent and character required of any contractor performing services for the U.S.
government.
Now as we move to the closeout and the inevitable issues that arise not only in this case but others there'll be a debate.
We've got a lot of things we're working on and this just was one that came up.
We were actually surprised it came up because we were very much in discussions with them.
But the government chose to take that public and so we've chosen to address it.
But it really doesn't change our tenure -- our tenor or cadence or belief about where we stand regarding our positions on the closeout of LogCAP matters.
We feel that we have a very robust discussion internally with our law department with our accountants with our auditors and other outside advisors regarding the provisions that we have on the balance sheet related to the risks.
And we feel that we're appropriately provisioned for what we believe is the ultimate disposition of these matters.
A long answer to say it was just another lawsuit from the DOJ.
And Brian we also updated the disclosure that we have around all of these disputes particularly the government ones in particular that hopefully it provides a little bit more clarity about both the cash exposure as well as the book exposure.
LLC</strong> Yes.
Actually I just looked through that section of the K.
There are always a lot of numbers that are thrown around in that section.
Can you maybe just give us maybe a shortcut and quantify as far as what -- how much of the Form 1s are outstanding and what you're pursuing where that stands right now? Because I know there's just a number of items in there.
It's a little bit hard to put together.
Well there's a lot of items in there but I -- maybe trying to get by with the easiest answer is with all the review we do with our advisors with our management with our board we think we've taken the appropriate positions on our balance sheet regarding these risks.
And where we don't see a provision that's -- or we call out the absence of a provision we think we will ultimately prevail appropriately according to the accounting we do every quarter on that.
And Brian I think you've got to go through them one by one because each one is a separate issue and stands on its own merit.
So take a look at the disclosure like I said because I think we've added some clarity to this issue in this latest version of the K.
LLC</strong> Okay.
That would be helpful.
And then just lastly just on pricing I know maybe it's hard to be precise and you might have to go market by market but it does seem just from your commentary the large projects that you have been pursuing have been very competitive.
Would you say that the kind of the I guess the as-sold or core margin on these projects have been declining? And maybe that is a reflection of your peers wanting to fill up capacity but also the project donor just being tighter on controls or cost controls.
Maybe if you could provide us a little color on that it'd be helpful.
I think you're seeing good healthy competition on the projects and I think you're seeing -- and it manifests itself not only in terms of margins but also the risks that contractors are being asked to take on.
It's a slightly different risk environment than we saw a couple of years ago.
And we continue to have very open transparent and robust discussions regarding the appropriate risk allocations with our customers particularly in a very dynamic and changing environment that we find ourselves in here in the U.S.
Gulf Coast.
And at this time I would like to turn the conference back over to Bill Utt for any additional or closing remarks.
I'd like to thank everybody for tuning in.
We very much appreciate your questions on KBR.
We hope we've had the good fortune to address your questions to the best extent that we could.
And we look forward to following up with you over the coming days and weeks if you have any further questions regarding the 2013 10-K and annual results.
Thanks and have a great day.
Bye-bye.
This does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate everyone's participation today.
Good day and welcome to the KBR's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
As a reminder your lines will be in a listen-only mode for the duration of the call.
There will be a question-and-answer session immediately following the prepared remarks.
You will receive instructions at that time.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Zach Nagle Vice President of Investor Relations &amp; Communications.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and welcome to KBR's first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Today's call is also being webcast and a replay would be available on KBR's Web site for seven days at kbr.com.
The press release announcing first quarter results is also available on KBR's Web site.
Joining me today are Stuart Bradie President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Ferraioli Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call Stuart will begin with opening remarks.
Brian will then cover the quarter’s results and our market outlook.
Please refer to the accompanying presentation that is posted on our Web site at kbr.com.
After our prepared remarks we will open the floor for questions.
Before turning the call over to Stuart I would like to remind our audience that today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting KBR's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that can impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in KBR's first quarter earnings release KBR’s earnings presentation KBR's Form 10-K/A for the period ended December 31 2013 and KBR's current reports on Form 8-K.
You can find all these documents at kbr.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Stuart.
Stuart?  Thank you Zach and good morning everyone.
It’s my great pleasure to be on my first earnings call as KBR’s President and CEO.
I’d like to take this opportunity to make some initial comments on why I joined KBR and to touch on what would be some of my initial areas of focus.
Prior to even being approached by KBR I recognized that KBR has a rich and bright history with long list of awards of projects a high degree of success in technology and obviously a strong commercial history but fundamental to KBR’s success is the quality of our 27 000 people located across the world and I am honored to be in such a prestigious organization.
As great as this organization is however I recognize that KBR has faced and continues to face some recent challenges.
My focus since arriving a whole 2.5 weeks ago is however entirely on the future.
My goal is to put this company on a path that delivers value to our clients as well as our shareholders by designing and building world-class projects in a safe and economic manner.
Our fundamental principle continues to be captured by the simple term KBR or we deliver.
I approach this task with a sense of urgency.
Over the coming months I’ll be letting more of our global operations as I cover the world and would be leading an in depth strategic review of the Company and how best we can address the markets we serve.
Once completed I will share KBR’s strategic direction with you and also expect to be able to return to our previous practice of providing earnings guidance to investors.
It’s my privilege to be here with you today and I look forward to getting to know you better in the coming months.
I’ll now turn the call over to Brian who will run through the presentation and discuss our first quarter results.
Brian?  Thank you Stuart and good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
Referring to the presentation I’ll start on Slide Number 3.
Obviously an overview of the first quarter you know now that the CEO is in place and as we announced in the press release Stuart and the rest of the team will be undertaking a strategic review of all of our businesses.
With the filing now that the Q for the first quarter as well as the 10-K/A that we have previously filed we’re current with all of our financial reporting to the SEC.
Obviously the Q1 results were adversely impacted by the services and IGP groups.
While the Gas Monetization and Hydrocarbons segments continued to perform well.
The Canadian fabrication and modular assembly contracts remained challenging with a $41 million loss for the quarter.
And the EPS translated into a loss of $0.29.
Clearly this is below our expectations.
However our strong cash balance of approximately $1 billion at the end of the quarter allowed us to return some cash to shareholders.
We paid the normal quarterly dividend of $12 million and we bought back $56 million worth of shares in the first quarter and $94 million year-to-date.
And the share repurchase obviously was stopped prior to we learned about the problems we had in Canada.
However the Company’s current market position remains strong and we have a very good pipeline of pre-FEED FEED and EPC opportunities into 2014 and beyond.
Turning to Slide 4 and specifically let me address the Canadian pipe and modular assembly contracts.
These are seven contracts that are a unit rate structure which are unique to our business in Canada and that was signed in 2012 through December of 2013.
Now these contracts represented significant sales growth approximately double the revenue that the business had previously undertaken and also the modules that we signed up for were larger and more complex than what we had done in the past.
Costs in general in Alberta have increased for us as well as others but we also had significant productivity challenges in our modular assembly yard relating to these modules.
We found that we had insufficiently trained personnel on the ground in Canada to deal with this increase in sales growth as well as the complexity of the modules and that’s project managers project controls accounting and even in the executive management professionals that we had in Canada.
And also unfortunately we were slow in indentifying and communicating the accurate estimates door and execution and this is what led us to the restatement that we have previously filed.
Four of the seven contracts are largely completed.
One project was initiated in late December 2013 and that obviously would translate into a Q1 event rather than the 2013 activity that we had previously reported and that project has roughly 10 million of the 41 million loss for the quarter.
The balance of this loss relates to increased quantities on one of these unit rate contracts and typically when quantities increase it’s an increase in business for us but if you are in a loss position because of the cost and productivity issues that I previously mentioned obviously the loss widens.
Most of the client drawings on this project have now largely been issued so hopefully the commodity or the quantity risk is largely behind us.
When we first announced the issues in Canada we also mentioned that we have one master service type agreement which allows that client the right but not the obligation to place additional work with us.
We received no additional work from that client in the first quarter or frankly through today and we are in discussions with that client about amending the terms of that existing agreement.
You see the financial impact outlined in the chart below and the results of the first quarter are obviously in our consolidated results.
Moving onto Slide 5 looking at the first quarter results as expected with no major LNG EPC type awards expected in 2014 our backlog declined for the quarter.
However we are much more optimistic for our second quarter particularly for our hydrocarbons both upstream and downstream opportunities as well as the IGP segment which we announced that we received a full notice to proceed on Marshalltown the 650 megawatt gas fire power plant for Alliant.
So we expect the bookings to be higher obviously in the second quarter than they were in the first quarter.
The gas monetization on the two LNG projects in Australia remains very strong and we received a preliminary closeout on a legacy LNG project and we have included $33 million pretax gain in the consolidated financial results.
I refer to it as a preliminary closeout because although we have reached the agreement for most of the issues with the client we have not yet finished the project and we still have people below us sub-contractors and suppliers that were closing out purchase orders and agreements with them.
And I also wish to comment that in 2013 there was a $30 million improvement in the profit on gas monetization due to some cost improvements on existing work.
The underperformance for the quarter was in the services business primarily with Canada fabrication that I previously talked about but we also had $8 million to closeout two of the U.S.
problem construction contracts that we have talked about in the past.
IGP was adversely impacted from the decline in new bookings during the quarter but also from charges on some legacy disputes of $14 million.
And I’d like to touch on this latter point in a little bit more detail.
We are trying now to commercially resolve some of our legacy disputes rather than seek resolution exclusively through the legal process particularly on disputes with major clients.
Now this may result in reduced recoveries from what we had previously recorded on the balance sheet but we believe it will result in cost savings on future legal fees that are typically recorded as a period expense.
If we are successful it will bring resolution to these matters quickly and it will improve the timing of any cash flow.
However I want to be very clear that when we believe there are unsubstantiated claims against KBR we will strongly defend our shareholders interest and if the commercial settlement rule is unsuccessful we can always return to the legal process to resolve the matter.
But that resulted in $14 million in charges on the IGP and we also had some within the Hydrocarbons segment for the quarter as well.
Moving onto Slide 6 speaking about the segments the revenue declined primarily because of the reduction in the gas-to-liquid and LNG projects in Africa that are either completed or are nearing completion.
And we had a increase in the hydrocarbons revenues because of the increase in the EPC ammonia and urea projects that we have ongoing within the U.S.
In terms of the profitability I mentioned the $33 million gain in gas monetization previously but in hydrocarbons we continue to see the mix of profits or margins being different on the full EPC contracts compared to prior periods when we did much more in a way of technical services.
Burt we also had a 8 million in lower earnings on two of the Middle East projects from 2013 and we also had an increase of about $3 million in proposal expenses and $9 million higher cost on two EPC projects about 50% of that 9 was for one of these legacy disputes that I articulated earlier and the balance being on another project that is nearing completion.
The IGP segment decreased primarily because of reduced volumes on the LogCap III and IV contracts as well as the $14 million in charges I previously mentioned.
And services in addition to Canada and the problem U.S.
construction contracts the MMM joint venture that we have in Mexico to do offshore maintenance the two shifts were primarily out of contract for most of the first quarter and therefore resulted in a year-over-year decline of about $7 million.
Those vessels were MMM are now back in operations.
Turning to Slide 8 looking at the market we have a lot of activity underway I should say within our Gas Monetization segment.
You see we’ve commenced work on the Shell Global LNG frame agreement which we believe will lead to future EPC opportunities.
And we have a number of pre-FEEDs FEEDs and EPC opportunities as listed on the slide.
We’re about to bid three multi-billion dollar EPC contacts and you see the three listed below and their expected dates.
However we also would like to point out that the earnings that we expect to hold throughout 2014 but will be lower in 2015 compared to ’14 because of the timing of the new EPC awards.
So Stuart tell me I missed the slide I am sorry I had something out of order.
Something you missed that Slide 7.
I missed Slide 7 something that happens technically here it jumped right to Slide 8 so I apologize but again the gas monetization activities remains very-very positive for the future.
Turning back to Slide 7 where I should have been cash management and cash allocation remain an area of focus as you can see we have approximately $1 billion in cash and we articulate on this slide where we’ve allocated capital during the quarter and year-to-date.
I want to point out since January of 2007 we’ve returned $885 million to our shareholders.
And so far this year we bought back about $3.4 million -- 3.4 million shares under our repurchase program.
You see the capital expenditure is about $15 million which included about $9 million of our ERP spend.
Moving on to Slide 9 hydrocarbons back to the market outlook.
We believe we’re well placed for a number of offshore engineering opportunities particularly in the UK Norway and the Gulf of Mexico the FLNG market is still rather active and we have opportunities there we’ve won multiple refinery FEED projects in North America which positions us well for participation into the EPC phase.
We have three ammonia urea EPC projects underway and we believe there are other opportunities coming in North America.
We expect to see opportunities in the ethylene derivatives industries in North America and our technology folks remain active throughout the world again with a particular focus on ammonia and we’re continuing to see expansion opportunities for our ongoing downstream and offshore work in the Middle East.
Moving on to Slide 10 for IGP IGP has some good growth opportunities in the international government market particularly in the UK and continued movement within the U.S.
power markets our Aspire or Allenby &amp; Connaught joint venture in the UK is nearing the end of its construction phase in 2014 and we’ll continue with the services phase for approximately the next 27 years or so.
So that’s a good annuity tail to the construction work that is nearing completion.
But we have multiple additional growth opportunities in the international government services business particularly with the UK’s Ministry of Defense but also with police support services training and other outsourcing activities in the UK as well as other countries throughout the world.
We have a number of U.S.
government overseas military sustainment opportunities and process and we recently booked a new base operating support agreement in Bahrain.
And as I previously mentioned the IGP Group booked the Marshalltown power plant that we had been working on for some time.
Turning to Slide 11 the services group again there are opportunities there in the North American construction and industrial services market but this business remains very competitive.
The Mexican offshore business continues and the contract in place for these vessels typically are in three year increments and are reoccurring and we’re well capitalized or well placed to capitalize on our activities that we have ongoing in the industrial services market in Saudi Arabia.
However the Canadian market is attractive to us but we obviously got to get our situation clarified and fixed with our pipe in the modular assembly work in Canada.
So in summary on Slide 12 2014 is clearly a transition year but we will be launching a new strategic review of our business.
However KBR remains a strong global company with a diverse portfolio of businesses technical capabilities and a very strong and technically savvy staff.
We plan to capitalize on areas of our core strength LNG hydrocarbons and international government services.
We have a large number of pre-FEEDs FEEDs and EPC bids in the gas monetization and hydrocarbon businesses and the cash management and allocation of capital will continue to be a focus.
Once we complete the strategic review we anticipate being able to return to providing earnings guidance to you in the near future.
With that that concludes our prepared remarks and we will open it up for comments.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Jamie.
I guess two questions and one is for Brian and then I guess one is for Stuart.
Brian I just wanted you to address the guidance because you said steady earnings through I think ’14 and then ’15 should be a down year.
So one you didn’t make money in the first quarter so is it ex the charges that you have had could you just give a little more color? And I guess while I understand that the big gas monetization project opportunities are more of a 2015 EPC opportunity is there not enough opportunities in IGP or in hydrocarbon or in your other businesses to sort of help the earnings trajectory or does that imply the margin profile in the backlog is just that bad? And then I guess my second question Stuart while I understand you have only been in KBR for 2.5 weeks you are an industry veteran.
So my question to you is I am assuming you did a lot of due diligence in terms of going to KBR and based on your customer conversations what is the view on KBR because the concern from the street is that KBR has lost its game or has lost people or is it a competitive disadvantage and we will probably not be one of the beneficiaries of the whole oil and gas cycle.
So just sort of your thoughts there and whether the management issues will resolve and you guys probably lose wining less work than KBR would have historically? Thanks.
Jamie first of all let me address the earnings.
May be there is a miscommunication or I misspoke I am not sure which.
I was referring to earnings being down in 2015 exclusively for the gas monetization business not the consolidated results.
And that’s because the rundown in the two large LNG projects this year and the timing of new LNG awards EPC LNG awards in 2015 the timing as such for those new awards that they will not offset the rundown as you know Gorgon is in the back half of its lifecycle and if this is reaching the peak or nearly at the peak.
So exclusively to gas monetization it will remain a strong profitable business but it will be lower in volume in ’15 than gas mon is in ’14.
But I guess Brian my concern would be the other businesses in the first quarter and I understand there is charges in there but it doesn’t give you a lot of confidence that that business can the profitability can start to improve.
So what gives you confidence?  Well I think again as we were accommodating our position in the marketplace and the hydrocarbons business is growing as it has increased year-over-year now the EPC margins are lower I understand that but we have plenty of opportunities in both upstream downstream to continue to grow.
And the technology is a very steady profitable business so those two businesses are very-very well placed.
The international government business as I mentioned before I think there are plenty of opportunities to grow there and that is frankly more profitable than the business that we have had historically in the U.S.
Services like I said we have some challenges in services and the driver will be in 2015 those other segments in terms of growth.
And let me hand the call back over to...
Wait one question Brian before you hand it over to Stuart how do you feel just because of may be other concern is I mean you have been on board since the fall and Stuart just joined 2.5 weeks ago.
I mean besides some of the issues that we have today how do you feel about the inherent profitability of what’s in backlog and what’s the risk that we have more charges to come?  Well I am comfortable with what we have in backlog other than the Canadian project and even there we are hopeful that that’s behind us but I can’t guarantee that obviously you know that as well as anyone.
Some of these charges that we have taken are on problem projects that are now over some of them are on some commercial disputes that we are taking a differing view on and we’ll see how they play out.
And we’ll see if we are able to dab some upside on some of these.
So I don’t view there being additional charges to kind of I thought there were additional charges to come obviously we will take them in the first quarter that’s what the accounting requires.
So again I go back to -- we are well positioned in the marketplace.
And I think the Company has a history of being able to execute well.
And there’s no reason why we can’t.
Okay.
Thanks Brian and then Stuart? Yes.
Thank you first to addressing me as a veteran I mean the level of work what was coming through to KBR sort of from end business to grant owners is at very high levels.
The growth in the hydrocarbons business and really KBR’s position in that sector it kind of demonstrates I think that there’s no sort of discerning market view on that side of the business.
And I think what you’re seeing in the LNG market in terms of timing of awards is exactly that it’s timing of awards.
And so I don’t know where you’re picking up the sentiment that KBR is not well placed to pick up work in the oil and gas hydrocarbons and LNG marketplaces.
I think I would have to say the opposite to that.
Okay.
Well I am curtained just because we haven’t won anything out I guess that’s where the concern is coming from relative to the peers? Well I mean yes I mean there’s a number of things that I have come through the hydrocarbons in the second quarter as well with -- you’ll see it coming through into the earnings as we progress through the year.
Alrighty I’ll get back in queue.
Thank you.
Thank you Jamie.
Good morning.
Good morning Jerry.
Brain can you talk about where are you in the receivables review process? It sounds like the Canandian have crosses over on the issues might have come up as you were working through that process.
Are you through with implementing the type of changes you were looking to put through across the company as you think about the global practices? And are you comfortable that we’re not going to have any other similar issues like the Canadian project? Well yes I am comfortable.
We’re not going to have issues like the Canadian projects throughout the company.
We spent a lot of time and effort internally reviewing what we have in processes that we have in place.
And these projects in Canada were unique to Canada.
We don’t do high fabrication and modular assembly elsewhere in the world within our own shop.
So I am quite comfortable we don’t have that same situation somewhere else.
In terms of the receivables we review receivables on an ongoing basis.
The difference is -- if you want to call it a philosophical difference or maybe a slight change in direction in trying to resolve things commercially rather than through arbitration or litigation yes that is relatively new.
And that’s something that Stuart and I reviewed within each of the businesses.
And we believe it’s a more prudent approach to take.
So in my view it’s more of a timing issue if we reduce the estimated recoveries of these receivables today and forgo the legalities going forward.
We get either to the same spot or maybe even a better spot versus keeping a larger balance on the books spending the legal fees in the future as a period expense and then waiting for a resolution two to three years down the road.
But receivables is an area as part of our cash manager we focus on routinely and the businesses are looking at every day.
Okay.
And Stuart Brian can you just talk about on the Lake Charles LNG project are you bidding on that in a partnership with Technip? And also can you just lay in I guess in the last LNG cycle you had a very good partnership with JGC you still have one more project that you’re jointly bidding on but can you talk about which of your peers you see building a closer partnership over the coming years? And just Stuart if it happens surely ask the question but would love your broader thoughts around that issue? I mean I think you are right we had a very historically and still do have a very cross fleeces that we do to see we’re working them in the ongoing LNG projects and that they are partner in bidding Pacific Northwest and historically the projects in Indonesia that are coming up with we saw the business positioned well with JGC in doing that work and we’ll continue to work with them in that arena.
We in terms of our competitors and how they are lined up I mean I think you have to talk to them about that I don’t think it’s for us to comment.
But we’re working hard on Lake Charles and yes we’re partnering with Technip on that who executed that we did the pre-FEED and Technip did the FEED so we’ve got a lot of knowledge on that project to take forward onto the bid.
Thank you.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Steve.
Stuart probably a little too soon to ask you about your expectations for a strategic review but maybe will it be fair as if you could talk about what were some of the major initiatives that you implemented at Worley you think might be value-added at KBR? I think it would be too generic an answer I mean I think probably just returning to the strategic review that I’d would rather talk about KBR than I would liked what I did in my past.
And I mean looking forward the intent on this is that on timing if you like it probably worth giving some guidance on that but the view is that we started a strategic process.
It will take a couple of months to sort of bed down and really looking at that what are the attractive businesses for the future for KBR where we can be differentiated and as a consequence the barriers of entering a high and the returns are more attractive and that’s where the focus will be so it will be a focus on quality of earnings as much as anything and ensuring we have got a differentiated position in attractive markets of the future.
That will then -- we will work that through and our intent would be to make sure we are coming back to you I guess in the later part of this year as such that we can provide earnings guidance going into next financial year.
Okay and then just curious to your thoughts on risk management I mean how much risk do you guys feel comfortable putting in the backlog at this point.
I know prior management has sort of sworn-off fixed price construction-only scope so I guess I am curious for your thoughts on that as you pursue some of these LNG bids in particular? Yes I mean it’s a good question.
I mean I think that our risk processes are in what I have seen over the last couple of weeks are actually very well hold.
It’s quite a stringent process that the Company goes through to weigh up its risks and quantify them.
In terms of lump sum construction in its own right we will be staying away from standalone lump sum construction contracts.
In terms of us really looking at the larger LNG opportunities I mean the way those would be looked at and we are not even close to signing contracts on them so it is difficult to really sort of give you detailed information about the liability associated with the construction elements of that.
The reselling elements that are clearly wrapped as a lump sum and there will be some of it that move just given the gestation period and longevity across these contracts.
I mean so I think our appetite for risk is and award will be one that we can manage and we are not going to take something on and that we feel that is something that we can’t manage going into the future.
And that encapsulates a whole bunch of different aspects from the labor markets to the procurement cycle to how defining the engineering is at the point of putting a lump sum price on the table and et cetera.
So it’s a very difficult question to answer specifically on those LNG jobs just from the cycled event today.
But I would add Steve from my part we do have several EPC contracts that are underway in the U.S.
some on the Gulf Coast where we do have construction responsibility and although relatively early in the construction phase those projects are going relatively well.
So the Company does take fixed price construction risk in certain cases and as Stuart said this will continue to be an area where we will be in discussions with our partners and clients about risk allocation and what we take or don’t take but I think it would be wrong to come away to assume that we do not and we will not take construction risk.
We do take some that we think is prudent.
But we won’t take into the future standalone construction risk.
Right.
I mean we are involved in the engineering and the procurement of the overall project management that’s something we feel that we can manage whether it’s just a standalone construction within our services business where we have seen that a number of these U.S.
contracts that Brian referred to earlier that didn’t go particularly to plan.
So we won’t be doing that again.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you Steve.
Hi.
Good morning and this is Alan Fleming standing in for Andy today.
Brian maybe I’ll start with a question for you labor cost under absorption has been an issue for you guys over the past 12 to 18 months and this quarter it looked quite a bit better than it at any point I think probably since early 2012.
So how much of this was some of the low hanging fruit in terms of cost that you have been out able to take out of the business and how much better can absorption get this year and into ’15? Well that’s a great question.
We have been talking about this the labor cost absorption obviously since I’ve gotten here and well before I got here.
And if you recall on the prior calls we have talked about reducing the staff levels throughout the world to match the workload that we had but there was a secondary phase dealing with more of the tougher cost to reduce fixed price cost such as rents and light.
We have continued to work on that but more importantly we have continued to work on winning new work and the chargeability factor and that has improved on both ends.
So we should say the cost reductions have continued but the chargeability has also improved.
Clearly for it to continue to improve we need to continue to win new work and as I mentioned we are well positioned to do so and how good could it get on the custom in my career to seeing that labor cost absorption to be over absorbed.
So it could get significantly better but it really comes down to doing the blocking and tackling selling new work and keeping your cost reasonable for the peeks and valleys that occur in this industry.
Can it get significantly better in 2014 or is that significantly better in 2015 and beyond? It can get -- I don’t want to characterize it or quantify it I should say.
It certainly couldn’t get better in both the ’14 and ’15.
Okay okay I appreciate that.
And then if I could ask you about that the three large LNG projects you’re going after two in North America one in Indonesia can you talk about your confidence in those pursuits? And what’s different about your approach on these projects per se Kitimat because I think investors seemed skeptical that KBR can win another larger LNG job and so can you be more aggressive on these bids than you have been in the past and do you need to be more aggressive? I think it depends on what and how you define aggressive.
The answer to the question is yes but it doesn’t necessarily mean to say you have to be commercially aggressive.
And I would add that the feedback on Kitimat I think we’ve talked about it in the past it wasn’t it was a reimbursable contract it wasn’t so much terms and conditions per se or being more aggressive on terms and conditions that was the deciding factor.
Our understanding of things were extremely close in the evaluation in other factors other than when you’re looking at a fixed priced type contract in what the determination on the client slide was.
So I don’t agree with the thought that we cannot compete and we cannot be successful in pursuing these LNG projects.
We are very-very successful in pursuing the work that we current have executing it well and there is no reason why we can’t do that in the future.
Okay I appreciate again.
Thank you.
Hi good morning.
This is [indiscernible] on behalf of Tahira.
My first question is regarding the booking cliff going forward can you please comment on that and the correction you expect on the book-to-bill ratio? Okay in general we have said that our backlog will be down year-over-year through 2014 and that’s because of the LNG projects.
We are currently executing two.
We are finishing up a third.
And we have a gas to liquids project also that’s virtually complete and no new EPC bookings in 2014.
Those projects and that business is so large that it is very challenging for the other segments to offset the decline so year-over-year we would expect backlog to be down which is no different from what we had previously been saying.
When you look at the other businesses though the hydrocarbons business I am much more confident that we could have some growth in backlog or breakeven on year-to-year but given the strategic review that we talked about earlier I am not going to comment too specifically on what we expect backlog to be and the same with the IGP just booked the 650 megawatt power plant.
They have some other opportunities that could be booked this year on the government services side that we could see the possibility of an uptick in their backlog.
Services is a little bit more challenging too we’ve got through the review and get the pipe fabrication and modular assembly business stabilized a little bit more challenging to predict what that business activity will be between now and the end of the year.
So the core businesses remain very confident but LNG the bigger bookings would not come until 2015.
Okay got that.
And my question is have restatements impacted customer perception of the company? Not that I’ve heard.
I haven’t had any feedback or positive or negative frankly from any of our folks who deal directly with the clients.
No likewise.
Okay.
And last question is on the FLNG projects can you throw some color on the prospects and the opportunities you see in that space? I mean I don’t think we want to talk about specific prospects just given their phase of where they’re in the development cycle but we are involved in a number of very what I call early stage development of these projects I mean in terms of pre-FEEDS and moving into the frontend hopefully in the next week as well and there is a growing number of them it’s a market that is growing and KBR comes with all the requisite skill sets to be able to differentiate themselves in that mind.
Alright thank you.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Hi this is Susie Min for Vishal Shah.
Thank for taking my questions.
I guess I want to go back to the backlog comment I know in the past you have said you expect increased in backlog and bookings and the other segments except for gas mon and bookings this quarter was pretty low so it would imply a pretty large ramp and could you may be give a little bit more color on whether you still think that that hope to? And then I have a follow-up question.
Thanks.
Okay.
Again back to the gas monetization no that will continue as is that will be down year-over-year.
Hydrocarbons a much more opportunity for maintaining backlog reflect the growing backlog.
IGP is a little bit more challenging.
It depends on timing of some of awards later on in the year which could or could not happen in ’14 but certainly the activities on the government side is quite positive.
A little less optimistic on the power side may be than we were at the beginning of the year but they have good opportunities as well.
So services is the one that’s very difficult for us to comment and in my prediction on services would likely be down year-over-year just given the fact that we are focused on stabilizing a business and we need to do that before being out aggressively seeking new business for that pipe fabrication and modular assembly business.
The construction business though in Canada and the industrial service business in Canada continues to perform reasonably well.
We think there are opportunities there.
Whether they are going to be able to grow the backlog is too early for me to say at this point.
Okay.
Thanks that’s really helpful.
And then in terms of the bidding environment how competitive is it? How should we think about what the margins for these projects could look like compared to what you already have in the backlog?  Yes there should be in general there is not a shift a major shift in market conditions if that’s what you are implying by that question.
So it should not be significantly different.
Remember though on the hydrocarbons with EPC business we will have lower margin given the construction element of that work versus a pure home office type service business where the margins are only on our technical services which tend to be higher.
So you have a mix issue within hydrocarbons but if you compare EPC contracts within hydrocarbons I don’t think you are going to see a significant move one way or the other.
Yes understood.
Okay great thanks for taking my questions.
No problem.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Marty.
Could you provide us with an update on your current thinking on capital allocation policy given the strength of the balance sheet could we possibly see KBR looking at a larger share of purchase program? Well as we have mentioned in our prior call we had announced the $350 million share buyback.
And we always have the maintenance program in place to recover shares to cover the long-term incentive compensation that are given to employees.
So those two plans still remain in place.
We have bought back $94 million worth of shares earlier in the quarter so we are fulfilling our statements as we said we were interested in executing a share buyback plan.
At this point in time we are not announcing or we have no intention of announcing any incremental share buyback plans.
We have sufficient firepower to do so should we wish but beyond that I am not going to comment anymore specifically about what we may or may not do in advance of any share buybacks or not share buybacks just given the sensitivities and being in the marketplace I don’t think it’s good for the Company to be telegraphing in advance to other traders what we may or may not do in that regard.
But I can tell you that capital allocation is an area that Stuart and I spend a fair amount of time discussing already about what my thoughts are what his thoughts are and it will remain an area of focus and clearly part of the strategic review we will dwell upon exactly that what do we do with what we have a strong balance sheet.
So as I have said in the past my thinking is everything is on the table.
We consider all of our options when we look at capital allocation and I don’t think anything has changed in that regard.
Okay.
And then you spoke about some optimism for growth in the hydrocarbons segment could you talk about outside of the U.S.
what you’re seeing in terms of demand geographic areas types of projects that may provide you with some optimism outside the U.S.? Yes.
I mean we’re seeing a far greater level of activity for KBR under the marketplace in general.
And the U.K.
and the Norwegian Continental Shelf that we recently announced a award of the FEED contract for the Maersk Culzean Project in the North Sea and we’re working with Statoil in a number of things that are happening in Norway.
And obviously working with the other IOC’s in the ongoing projects in the North Sea so the level of activity around the UK and the Norwegian Continental Shelf is very buoyant.
East Africa is also extremely buoyant and you know there’s a lot of activity across Mozambique across Tanzania into Uganda and less over at some in Kenya.
So lots of activity happening there both in LNG and in offshore and the deep water markets in Angola continue to offer opportunities as well.
And then our activities in the Middle East particularly around United out of Emirates continue with some focus.
And again there appears to be a significant projects moving forward in that arena.
And we’re reasonably positioned on a couple of those.
You know that the markets in and around Australia are probably more suppressed and albeit that things like FLNG and I guess the offshore side of hydrocarbons continues with some activity to start our onshore LNG projects that we are doing right now.
There is very few new ones coming through in Australia because of the high capital cost that’s been seen there.
So that’s probably a run through.
Well that’s a and the other area is in Latin America where the activity in Mexico to publicize you know when the Mexicans are trying hard to establish a basis of investment for their oil industry.
So following on from I guess Brazil.
So it’s there is activity all over the world and you know other than I think probably the Australia onshore big project gas arena the activity level remains high.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thanks good morning.
Hi Will.
When you talk about gas mon earnings being for the rest of the year is that off of a run-rate that includes that $33 million of called non-recurring item that impacted 1Q favorably or is that off of the 1/11 you reported from an EBIT standpoint? Well obviously we’re not going to have the 33 every quarter but we still think there are some other opportunities to improve upon I guess what you refer to as the run rate.
So no we won’t get 33 every quarter but we still have the opportunity to close out additional items on that one particular contract and there maybe some additional opportunities throughout the year.
But what we’re trying to get to is the core earnings from the two main LNG projects that are underway we’ll continue to be strong both Gorgon and the Ichthys projects continue to go well.
And they’ll go well into 2015 that’s what we’re trying to communicate.
But the year-over-year will not be a higher and that’s because the lack of timing of bookings of EPC contracts in '14.
And we don’t execute in -- we won’t execute enough of the new one in '15 to get any significant earnings from them in 2015 to offset the ramping down as the Gorgon one in particular heads towards the back end of this lifecycle.
Okay.
Can you also help with Allenby &amp; Connaught and you know as a construction of these lines are down is there any way you can help to quantify the size and impact to that on numbers or how quickly that fades away or is it already gone? No no it’s still ongoing but no I can’t I don’t want to be specific about an individual projects earnings per se.
I think more importantly though is there are a number of opportunities similar opportunities in the U.K.
and possibly elsewhere where we can do other contracts like that where we can partner with someone maybe have a joint venture and execute construction or other type of activities and then have a tail for services.
So it’s not so much the Allenby &amp; Connaught project it’s being the only one out there.
There are other structures within the UK and some other countries where we can do similar things.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
The triple M or MMM vessels that you own in Mexico I mean how it feels like that’s a headwind more often than it’s been a tailwind.
And we don’t think about modeling those specifically or I don’t anyway but they do seem to poke their heads up more regularly over the past few quarters as a negative.
How comfortable are you that you need to be in that business I mean how strategically it cores into your relationship with that customer or is it something that you’re very confident is going to be fully utilized now on a good consistent basis going forward? I mean I guess there is two questions you’re asking and the one I think from the strategic view point I think we’ll look at it as part of the strategic review and tell you after we’ve done that review rather than say on the fly here.
So we’ll come back to you with that.
In terms of it being reported in the last few quarters that’s quite correct because they were out of service they have recently gone back in service on sort of three year term contracts which I think historically being the norm and so other than figuring out where we are going to strategically without business I think that you’d probably hear less about it going forward.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning Brian.
Just starting -- just on gas mon again so just trying to think about the trajectory there.
You did about 400 million of revenue in the quarter.
You have a couple of things still kind of winding down.
I mean are we thinking the run rate into ’15 not including the potential wins on the other LNG projects you identified.
Is 1.2 or does it ramp down even more meaningfully than that into next year and maybe buffer a little bit by the potential awards.
Well I don’t think we are going to give specific guidance about what the revenues may or not be of any segment.
So I am going to pass on that till we get back into giving some guidance.
The quarter is primarily driven by the performance on the two LNG projects we have and the closeout on one of the older projects.
There still is some revenue going through from two of the projects that are closing out but it’s really the Gorgon and Ichthys projects who will really drive the earnings of gas mon and as we said Gorgon is past its peak so it is coming down in terms of volumes of business where Ichthys is still ramping up or near its peak but the line just won’t cross and we won’t get enough earnings from the new jobs in ’15 to offset the ramp down on Gorgon but beyond that I can’t be more specific at this time.
When we come out of this strategic review and we determine what guidance we’ll give then maybe we’d give you a little bit more color on that.
Okay yes fair enough.
And just separately just on I guess employee turnover retention rate I just want to get a sense of has that been picking up over the last couple of quarters just given the disruptions within the business we’ve seen.
Are there incentives being put in place or maybe if you get color on that is that a concern of yours that needs to be addressed? I think looking after your people should always be at the top of your list we are a people business that’s for sure.
And I think that yes there are retention there is some retention plans in place particularly at the project levels and things like that for key people and that’s being looked at continuously and our turnover rate very significantly across the world and really is driven by the markets in which we operate into the many UK market at the moment is good but it’s not half as hot as the Houston market for example where the turnover is a bit higher than it is in the UK.
So it’s something we monitor consistently and so we work hard on and is it a concern? No.
Is it a focus area? Yes.
And I would add I don’t think that this is only a KBR issue particularly in the Houston market.
I know a fair amount about some other E&amp;C companies in the market and there is a fair amount of movement.
So to Stuart’s point I think it’s a lot more market driven than necessarily KBR driven.
Okay if I could just actually sneak in one more just about the recoveries.
I guess I am just trying to gauge how big that might be? I mean what are the assumed recoveries that are sitting in the balance sheet right now.
And just to be clear I mean are those items that had been recognized as revenue and profit in historical quarters that has been maybe sitting in the un-built receivables I guess you’re reevaluating that may turn into a charge if you assume it’s not recovered.
Is that the way I should be thinking about it? And separately I know the account actually the earnings in excess of billings actually ticked up in Q1 even though you recognized a bunch of charges in the quarter.
Does that illustrates that there is some more potential costs that are being distributed between you and customers that might need to be I guess transitioned into a charge if a resolution isn’t made? Okay first of all in terms of the un-approved changeovers and billings I am trying to recall exactly which footnote it is but there is a footnote that specifically details that it’s part of I guess footnote number five.
So you can see the detail there and there is also footnote number six where we have the long-term claims and receivables which is primarily the EPC 1 project with the dispute ongoing with PEMEX as well as the government disputes that we’ve had and the IGP power.
I look at not one particular line item on the balance sheet as I think you referenced.
I look at more what I consider the working capital accounts.
If you look at the receivables the cost in excess or unbilled I think you referred to it.
The accounts payable and the billings in excess we were actually slightly better.
We are down about 23 million from those same accounts as of year-end so we’ve had a net reduction of working capital and that’s an area that I am focused on and it’s an area where I think we still have additional opportunity to improve our cash flows on.
So I don’t think you should look at just one item on the balance sheet because cost move up to accounts receivable and payables and the billing and all interact with one another so I think you should look at them those four accounts on a net basis.
I’d just like to close by saying I look forward to meet somewhere all of you in passing over the coming few months.
Thank you very much for listening.
You know it was a difficult quarter but I think the future is very-very positive.
We’ve got a lot of work to do.
I don’t think anyone disputes that but it’s a -- there is a huge commitment in this.
The people I’ve met in the business so far are absolutely passionate about what they do and where the business is heading.
So without saying too much more at this juncture I thank you for your time and we’ll talk again soon.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day and welcome to KBR's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
This call is being recorded.
[Operator Instructions] For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Zach Nagle Vice President of Investor Relations and Communication.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for KBR's second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Today's call is also being webcast and a replay will be available on KBR's website for 7 days at kbr.com.
The press release announcing second quarter results is also available on KBR's website.
Joining me today are Stuart Bradie President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Ferraioli Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call Stuart and Brian will cover the quarter's results in more detail and discuss our market outlook by major segments.
Please refer to the accompanying presentation that's posted on our website at kbr.com.
After our prepared remarks we'll open the floor for questions.
Before turning the call over to Stewart I would like to remind our audience that today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting KBR's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ significantly from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in KBR's second quarter earnings press release KBR's earnings presentation KBR's Form 10-K/A for the period ended December 31 2013 and KBR's current reports on Form 8-K.
You can find all these documents at kbr.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Stuart.
Stuart? Thank you Zac and good morning and thank you for joining us today.
If we move to Slide 3 which is the overview of the Q2 2014 results.
I thought we would just start by really sort of highlighting I guess the fifth bullet point down there really my sort of my onboarding activities.
I'm very conscious that I've not been very much engaged with the shareholder community and the analysts since we last talked probably a month ago now.
And the reason for that is I've actually been traveling the world and trying to really get the pulse of KBR really understand our customers view and to meet our people spend a bit of time with our partners and really sort of see the business at the core phase.
And then in that month I've spent time obviously in the U.S.
but also been to -- our businesses in the U.K.
I've been to Singapore Jakarta and I'm currently in the U.K.
now having just spent the last 2 weeks going around Australia and the job sites there.
And also I've been to our businesses in Sweden.
So quite a busy time but I think really important as we move through this strategic review process really to get a very sort of firm understanding of what KBR is and what we're doing and the sort of quality of the people we have which has been a real real sort of uplifting eye-opening part of the last month or so.
So I thought I'd just touch on and say that I think we'll be coming out to see you probably in the latter part of August and start that dialogue in a more engaged way from then on.
So going to the top of the slide the EPS loss for the quarter was $0.06 which was a good improvement from last quarter and Brian will touch on that a little bit later.
But clearly this is well below where we need to be.
The operational performance of gas mon and hydrocarbons remained very very strong and the I guess the bookings for hydrocarbons was also increased significantly in the quarter.
IGP continues to lag a little albeit it's moved into the black this quarter but I guess the pleasing piece there was the backlog increase.
And services continues to underperform predominantly again in our Canadian business and with losses on the quarter of $41 million which was obviously well below where we want -- we need that business to be and Brian will give you a bit more detail around that as we go through the presentation.
Another strong quarter for cash.
It's a very -- it's becoming a stronger and stronger focus for KBR and I think you can see that and the size of the cash balance and we continue to repurchase shares and obviously pay the quarterly dividend.
I will touch again on our capital allocation later on in the presentation.
So I think I'll talk more about the market but I think there's been a bit of rhetoric in the press about where we sit in the North American I guess the shale gas revolution and really the growth of opportunity in that space.
And I think we'll touch a little bit in the presentation now that I have got a better handle of how we're doing in North America.
But it's a far stronger performance than I think the -- than we've probably given ourselves credit for.
And I think really looking forward there's a very strong pipeline of work heading towards -- from the market heading -- that gives us these sort of opportunities.
So that's the introduction.
I'll now hand over to Brian who will give you a little bit more meat around the bone and what's happening in Canada and then he'll lead you through the key financial results and metrics.
Brian? Thank you Stuart and good morning.
Turning to Slide 4.
As Stuart mentioned the quarter's results were again dominated by Canadian projects particularly the pipe fabrication and module assembly contracts.
As context we have 7 of these contracts that we've talked about in the past 4 of which are largely completed.
These contracts represented significant sales growth but the modules that we are manufacturing and assembling are far larger and more complex than we had historically completed.
The cost increased and productivity decreased and that's what's driving the financial results.
As Stuart mentioned earlier we had losses during the quarter of $41 million these are primarily on the 3 remaining projects.
And the 3 remaining projects are a little bit different than the first 4.
The 3 projects that remain are tied to unit rates based on weight of the modules and therefore any increased welding or other assembly work that is required when we receive the drawing from our clients increases our cost but it doesn't allow us to increase the revenues because the weight in many cases did not change.
And that's what's driving the $41 million estimate to complete the additional 3 modules that you see here.
We mentioned in the past that one of the clients has a master service type agreement where they have the right but not the obligation to place additional work with us up in our Canadian fabrication unit and no new orders were received from that client throughout this year.
Turning over to Slide 5.
Looking at the consolidated financial results for the second quarter versus the prior year.
In general it was a relatively good bookings quarter particularly for hydrocarbons and also for IGP who booked the Marshalltown gas-fired power plant.
And more encouragingly we are optimistic about the bookings for the latter half of this year for hydrocarbons which again is being driven by work resulting from the shale gas revolution here in the United States.
So we expect bookings to continue to be strong for hydrocarbons in the balance of the year.
Gas monetization continue to perform well particularly on its 2 large LNG projects in Australia but backlog continues to decline from that business as we mentioned in the past because of those 2 large projects burning off and not expected to book the next mega EPC project until 2015.
So the gas monetization burn off is what's really driving the decline in backlog.
But that's going pretty much as expected.
Hydrocarbons continues to perform well and is actually better than they performed in the first quarter and continues to reflect the shift of more of the EPC-type work which is higher revenue with lower margins but they also are having some increased proposal costs associated with those opportunities I talked about earlier.
Services continues to be dominated by Canada as we mentioned before.
IGP's results volume of business continues to decline in the U.S.
as the work in support of the U.S.
government continues to decline.
Their results were impacted by a $14 million impact for increased cost and lower margins on a power project but that was offset by a $15 million gain which appears in the equity earnings line on reduced cost and insurance recovery on one of their international projects.
Turning over to Slide 6 to talk a little bit more in detail about the individual segments.
As I mentioned revenues were down primarily because of gas monetization.
The 2 projects that were very significant in volume in 2013 for them a gas to liquids and an LNG project are largely completed but services were also down from a revenue perspective year-over-year.
And that's due to the North American construction projects that they had at that time which are now largely complete.
And the increase in hydrocarbons reflects the EPC contracts primarily tied to ammonia and urea and ethylene projects that we've talked about in the past.
They continue to perform well.
From the earnings perspective gas monetization earnings were lower than similar quarter in 2013 because 2013 had higher fees on a particular project sort of a one-off that did not reoccur in 2014 but they also had about $6 million in proposal costs that increase year-over-year.
And that's again related to the large EPC projects that we are in process of bidding and we're expecting awards to begin in 2015.
Hydrocarbons as I mentioned continues to perform well.
But they also had about $2 million in increased proposal costs year-over-year.
Again for new ammonia prospects that we are currently pursuing.
IGP reflects the reduced work volumes that I talked about before.
And it also has $6 million in close-out costs associated with the U.S.
government legacy type work that we were doing in Iraq primarily in Iraq.
We've added additional disclosure in the appendix so you can see more visibility into the U.S.
government work that is really winding down.
Services as I mentioned earlier is dominated by Canada.
And on the other EBITDA line it reflects an $18 million improvement of our labor cost utilization rate.
This reflects increased chargeability to contracts and also cost reductions that we've talked about that have been ongoing for some time.
The other EBITDA line also includes a gain on a sale of some excess property that we had and also a foreign exchange gain of $10 million.
Moving onto Slide 7 looking at the second quarter versus the first quarter of 2014.
This is a new slide for us and given that the change in the management occurring this year we thought this would be a good way to look at how things are progressing.
So starting from the revenue line.
There was an increase in the revenues from the first quarter and again this is largely due to hydrocarbons EPC contracts that we mentioned earlier.
From an earnings perspective the gas monetization continues to perform well and up to our expectations.
But they also had some close-out gain in the first quarter which was not repeated in the second quarter.
So obviously that one-time event is the primary reason for the drop in earnings for them from the first quarter.
Hydrocarbons as I mentioned is performing well and IGP has returned to a profitable level as mentioned by Stuart and it also increased its backlog which is nice to see.
In services besides Canada the other headline is the MMM joint venture that we have in Mexico which services the offshore oil rigs.
The vessels are back on a 3-year type assignment so we expect to continue to see an improvement in those earnings going forward.
Moving onto Slide 8 cash and capital allocation.
As a Stuart mentioned earlier we still have a pretty robust cash balance $969 million at the end of the quarter and you see the split between the domestic and U.S.
cash.
In terms of return of cash to shareholders you see $52 million was returned during the quarter $120 million so far this year and $937 million since the spin back in 2007.
That $937 million represents about 50% of the earnings since then.
And as a Stuart mentioned we continue to focus on cash management.
I think we have some areas to improve what we think is already a pretty good process and you see we had generated $37 million of operating cash flow during the second quarter even with some of the challenges we had in Canada.
Capital allocation remains a priority and clearly that will be a significant focus of the strategic plan that we are in the middle of.
And finally you see the share count based upon the shares.
3.5 million shares repurchased so far year-to-date.
CapEx was $18 million which included $9 million from ERP and our ERP CapEx guidance for the year remains unchanged at $25 million to $35 million for the year.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Stuart who will talk about the markets.
Stuart? Thanks Brian.
Okay.
So moving to Slide 9.
Gas monetization.
No real change I guess from last quarter there.
The work continues on the 2 mega-LNG projects that was kicked off.
We announced the Shell global arrangement and we have just kicked off with that.
It continues to be strong pipeline of pre Front End and FEED NPC opportunities that you can see listed there.
We've got some major FEED work just finishing off Pacific Northwest as we move into the EPC bid phase of that and we're expecting once the political situation in Indonesia settles down with the appointment of the new President now looking at -- that that's happened and that transition will happen now through September into October and that word is expected to come out the other end from that process.
In terms of the 3 big EPC contracts we're bidding Pacific Northwest it stays on the estimated time line.
Lake Charles also is on -- stays on the estimated time line and LNG might slip a little bit in Indonesia because of what's happening politically but still holding pretty much to those sort of dates that you see there.
And I guess I think these are the 3 sort of key prospects in LNG that our team feels that we stand the best chance of winning and we're pursuing them with some vigor.
So I guess moving on now to slide 10.
Brian talked a little bit about the Q2 bookings.
It was led I think by the Maersk Culzean offshore FEED which in itself is very strategic because it's takes it firmly back into the U.K.
North Sea which is an array of work coming up there and in the regional sector as well.
We've secured significant additional scope in our existing downstream projects in Saudi Arabia and through I guess good performance.
And we've kicked off Q3 with some solid bookings as well.
Some of which you'll be aware of the Al-Nasr work for ADNOC in Abu Dhabi in conjunction with Hyundai HHI which is being executed out of Singapore and Jakarta offices so that is pretty healthy backlog for those businesses and also we've secured a significant Gulf Coast chemicals project.
And so coming back to what I alluded to earlier we're executing 3 EPC ammonia and urea EPC projects in North America.
And I think the thing to note there is that they're using KBR technology.
We've got a very strong position in ammonia technology and it's a key differentiator to get in early and then pull through and sort of position ourselves for these EPC projects.
And we are currently bidding 2 additional projects with expected award dates in the second half of the year.
Chemicals again a highly buoyant market for us again in North America and we expect major EPC awards in again the second half of 2014.
And we're working on a number of front-end studies and proposals for ethylene and derivative projects also.
The refinery market in North America is also quite buoyant for us and we're doing a number of FEEDs with EPC and other opportunities.
Coming back to technology it's a bit of a business that's grown nicely over the past several quarters and it continues to really be a global play for KBR and allow us to get in very early as I said before.
So continued strong market there for us.
FLNG activity there is growing.
We're feeling pretty confident at the moment about a bit of good news coming through in the next month or so in the FEED phase and then rolling into an EPC opportunity.
We're engaged in many ultra deepwater Gulf of Mexico pre-FEEDs using KBR production semisubmersible technology with opportunities continuing to feed in.
And I guess those that don't know our position in the semisubmersible market is arguably the market leader.
And this is an area that we've probably not talked about enough and it's an area where we have really a technology-led differentiated position.
So quite exciting as there's more and more activity in the offshore deepwater sector and workovers and drilling continues to be a sort of an increasing market.
As I've said before we've got additional offshore project shoots in the U.K.
and the Norwegian sectors of the North Sea.
So now moving on to Slide 11 IGP.
Strong operational performance continues in the U.K.
for the Ministry of Defence for construction and long-term facility maintenance contracts and we we're recently awarded a longer-term contract by the Australian Defence Force for their helicopter landing dock ships.
And I guess the way to think about these is that they're sort of more in line with annuity type contracts they're longer-term recurring revenues and fairly predictable going forward.
So attractive piece of our business.
We continue to work on the EPC power projects in North America and recently booked Marshalltown as Brian mentioned earlier.
There's multiple international government services opportunities.
I think it's a good market for us in the U.K.
and as they are really coming [ph] from Europe.
There's trading opportunities we continue to support expeditionary support for the U.K.
government and the MoD.
And we've actually taken some of our skill base and started to apply it into a different area of the market and that's with the U.K.
police and local government authorities which we feel is a good market for our skills sets.
And the Australian Defence Force continues to throw out significant opportunities over the next little while with the announcement of quite significant capital spend in that area.
And we're supporting a number of U.S.
overseas-based operations and I think opportunities in that space continues to appear.
Moving on to Slide 12 the outlook for services.
Continued opportunities in North America in our industrial Services business.
And I guess also the way to think about industrial services for us is really asset services longer-term arrangements and in the U.S.
construction arena as the economy continues to improve especially for us as a differentiator to our own EPC pursuits and ongoing projects.
The Mexican offshore industrial services business again longer term contracts and we've put more vessels on 3-year deals going forward.
We've got industrial services ongoing in Saudi Arabia and I think we're well placed as that market continues to drive outsourcing and expand.
In Canada Canada long term is an attractive market but I'm sure you'll appreciate our current focus right now is on stabilizing what we're doing in the module fabrication area.
So turning on to Slide 13.
So in summary 2014 remains a transition year for KBR and as I sort of announced last time we've kicked off the strategic review process and that's moving along.
Gas mon and hydrocarbons continue to perform very well.
IGP has improved and -- with increased backlog and services impacted by Canada.
I think the key takeaway is that our position in North America is probably stronger than we've sort of told before and I think there and globally there's large opportunities through the work that we're seeing coming to tender.
A very strong focus and there will be an ongoing and increased focus on cash management and capital allocation efficiency and I think you see that coming through strongly in the cash balances.
So that's really all for my I guess the prepared presentation.
We're going to hand it over to the operator for questions now.
But please note Brian and I are actually in different cities at the moment so it would be really helpful for us if when you ask your questions if you could direct it to one of us.
Thank you.
Now we'll go to the operator.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Andrew Kaplowitz of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Stuart just looking at hydrocarbons the process that you talked about.
Backlog was down a little in 2Q but revenue was up nicely as you talked about.
Can you talk a little bit more about the visibility in hydrocarbons to the extent that with all the prospects you mentioned have you gained confidence that you can grow backlog in the segment going forward? Yes.
Yes is the short answer.
I mean it's multiheaded.
I think there's the offshore side of the business I think we continue to work hard to take early positions and work that through.
And I think we're seeing significant upside coming through in the business there.
And it's interesting talking to our people and to analysts -- a lot of the rhetoric is usually around LNG and obviously the historical LogCAP business.
But the hydrocarbons business where obviously it's got a very bright future.
We've got a technology position we're differentiated we've got a very strong front pre-FEED offering in the semisubmersible arena but also in one of our businesses called Granheme which has got global recognition in that space which allows us to get early entry into the marketplace and it allows us to sort of get in with sort of high end technical specialist capability.
And then if we do well in that arena we can get more opportunity to pull through into the EPC area.
So I think it's highly prospective for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful Stuart.
And now this question might be for both of you guys.
Can you talk about the losses a little bit more in Canada? You had the same level of charges in 2Q in that particular area as you did in 1Q and the projects are -- you're getting to the projects and supposedly you can make more conservative estimates us you go.
So why should we have any conviction that you're now conservative enough with how you look at that work going forward? Why wouldn't charges in the segment last well into 2015? Okay.
Let me start with that Andy.
This is Brian.
The difference is that the scope of work is defined by drawings that we receive from our clients.
On the remaining contracts the majority of the drawings have now been received from the clients and therefore we're able to do the take offs to understand exactly what the scope of work is.
So when the quantity of work increases based upon drawings that's what's driving the results for this quarter.
So it was really impossible for anyone to be able to predict what the scope of work will be when you don't have the drawings that are issued for construction in-house.
So as we get to the back-end of these projects the drawings are in and now we have defined the scope and therefore we're much better suited to be able to estimate what those costs are to complete.
We still have to execute and that would be on us but with defined scope it gives us more confidence in the estimates that we currently have.
Research Division</strong> And Brian just to clarify are the drawings all in now or are you still waiting for some -- for the last project or two? Well the drawings are in.
It takes a while to go through all of the scope and do the material take offs which are in various stages on the last 3 projects but there's always the possibility that the client could change some drawings.
And clearly that's something beyond our control but we're much more confident that we're closer to the end than to the beginning.
So touch wood with defined scope the estimates we hope are a whole lot more accurate now than they were in prior quarters.
Research Division</strong> Brian let me ask you one more follow-up.
You had a new $14 million change in estimated cost to complete on the North American power project.
We understand that there's noise in the business pretty much always but how do we sort of dial down the noise from the legacy projects is it we're just going to have to sort of get used to these things or keep -- maybe you can talk about what you think of noise outside of the Canadian project going forward? Well the short answer is no we shouldn't get used to it.
We should not be having negative adjustments to projects.
But to the extent we had some positive adjustments going the other way offsetting shows me that our estimates are getting centered where you should have some going opposite ways.
I think the comment that we made earlier about gas mon and hydrocarbons performing well is a driver as we look to the execution of the business and IGP has been suffering from decreased workload.
So you have these offsets that aren't really the message for IGP.
IGP to me is more the volume of business.
The government business in the U.S.
had declined as well has the minerals and Infrastructure business.
As volume of business ramps up I'm much more optimistic that their earnings could get back up to a significant contributor to the organization.
And then services obviously is being dominated by Canada.
We'll get that behind us and we'll move on.
And Canada has been historically a nice little profitable business for us and we remain confident we can get back to those levels but it's going to take some time to work through the remaining 3 projects.
We'll take our next question from Tahira Afzal of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
This is Sunil [ph] on behalf of Tahira.
My first question is regarding the gas monetization margins.
How should we look at the steady-state margins going forward? Would it be around 17% to 18%? Well we really don't comment on margins.
We don't give margin guidance but as you know there are 2 projects continuing 2 LNG projects continuing.
One of which is consolidated one of which is primarily recorded through the equity earnings line.
Those 2 projects are crossing in that the project that's consolidated the Gorgon project had reached its peak and will be ramping down where the Ichthys project as recorded on the equity basis is ramping up.
So you should see those 2 lines crossing as we move forward into 2015.
So beyond that we don't give margin guidance.
Okay got it.
And next one on Stuart if you could tell us the implications the problem projects in Canada would have to KBRs positioning on large LNG projects in Canada.
Are like are customers concerned there? Yes I mean I don't think of any impact at all they're a very different part of the business operating at a very different level in the business.
And I mean I don't see any impact in the slightest in terms of what we're doing with our LNG pursuits.
And really talking to the customer it's not even on their radar at the moment.
So I don't see it being -- it's not good for KBR that's for sure but I don't think it's negatively impacting our opportunity and our position on the LNG pursuits.
Our next question comes from Steven Fisher of UBS.
Research Division</strong> Stuart I'm wondering if you can give us any feedback that you can share on your impressions from your travels related to sort of company strengths and weaknesses as you see them sort of the employee mindset and what feedback you're hearing from your customers.
Good question.
So I think the business is in general as I guess for the last little while is likely to shift.
And I think everyone is highly positive in terms of now we've got -- well now we've got a direction in that sense.
I think the other piece Steven is clear that the way we'd like to convey our strategy has not been felt through the business.
I think going through the strategic review it's been -- not just welcomed by the board and the Street to some extent but also from our people.
They really want to understand where we're heading as a company and what businesses are attractive for the future and ones that we'll invest in and which ones that we might want to not be in.
And so I think that's actually been sort of fed back to me extremely positively and the fact that we recognize that we are a people company and we're only as good as the people we employ and the fact that we can trust and empower our people with the right level of sort of control and deliver in a consistent way and really get behind the message of "we deliver" and I think the response to that has been terrific.
And I have to say the quality of the people in KBR is enormously impressive.
And the number of people that you meet there have been with the company for many many years and are committed and they're building things in interesting places and really high end technical specialists.
It has been that key skill set undoubtedly exists as do the underpinning processes and procedures to deliver.
So I think really it's actually just setting a forward path putting in place an appropriate leadership and structure that allows the business to be unleashed a little bit and to strive and grow on the capability it has.
It's a very exciting sort of space to me and I think the people that I've met are up for the future which is also very pleasing.
Research Division</strong> Stuart another one for you.
You mentioned that you're pursuing those LNG projects with some vigor.
Can you just give us some sense of what that means? Does that mean a specific focus on which personnel you're putting on there? Is it a comment on pricing? How should we think about what that means? I think the way you should view it is that we're very focused on it.
We're not getting distracted by going after 10 of these things and -- we're going after 3 that we feel have got the best chance to reach FID which I guess means they'll go right through into the main development phase and not just be stuck at FEED or whatever.
We feel that we've got a very good chance for there -- for our big dollars are not being wasted.
So it's really getting the attention of our organization to make sure we're putting the best people on it that we're thinking about the best technical solution that we're thinking about commercially where we need to pitch it.
And I think at the end of the day bringing our partners along with us and making sure that those relationships are the best and that we've got the right dialogue going on with the customer.
And I think in the past I think we've been criticized for not securing some of these in the last bit of while.
I don't know what the reason is for that but I can assure you there is 0 complacency going forward.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Jerry Revich of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Stuart in your prepared remarks you spent some time stressing the company's opportunity in North American construction projects.
I'm wondering if you could just flesh that out for us.
I appreciate you're in the middle of the strategic review but to the extent you can comment where do you see the company's mix of business going between contract hire versus fabrication? And just talk about the bid environment fixed price versus cost plus and how you're thinking about the company's focus on what's the right I guess level of risk that we should be thinking about as you look to grow that part of the business if I understood your comments right? I'm glad you picked up on that.
It starts off as talk about really on technology.
And if you think about where we sell our technology that's a very low risk entry and -- as is the associated proprietary equipment that we sell with that technology.
It -- with pretty good returns in that space.
So even the standalone technology play is very healthy and fairly low risk.
And as we sort of move that into FEED and into EPC what we're seeing there's really a good portfolio of opportunities across the I guess the ammonia-urea space the gas space and obviously the refinery space.
And it is a sort mix of lump sum EPC reinvestable EPC and I guess traditional services depending on the client and the maturity of where the engineering is when people want to sign contracts.
And I think the takeaway really in terms of the level of risk that KBR will take on is that we will be very very selective when we take on EPC projects going forward.
And we will not be chasing revenue for the sake of revenue.
We want to make sure that we've got a very solid basis for execution that we've got a good relationship with the customer and that we really have the people and the wherewithal to execute these projects and really understand in certain -- I mean there's certain areas in the U.S.
where it would be pretty challenging to take [indiscernible] risk on things like labor rates and things.
If you look at the Gulf Coast which is very hot at the moment wages and per diems are moving up quickly.
So our clients the mature clients recognize that so you can get levels of relief through your contractual negotiations in that space.
So I think that's probably the best way to think about it.
It's a portfolio where we're trying to engage early that allows us a very strong insight into what we'll be taking on and that we'll be -- will only be taking on things that we feel that we can deliver and that we'll be doing in a very commercially fund there.
Research Division</strong> And sort of the -- I guess willingness to take on additional fabrication work just can you give us a sense for how you're managing that process? Is that at a standstill until you complete the portfolio or review or how are you running that part of the business? And then as a follow-up can you just talk about if you're pursuing opportunities in ethylene and propylene in North America or are you purely focused on urea-based projects? No we've got a number of ethylene projects that are coming through now and I'm not going to talk about specific pursuits but yes we are pursuing them and we have technology in that space.
In terms of the fabrication piece at the moment we are -- the fabrication is only isolated to Canada and we should stress that point.
I mean historically that business is turned over about half of what it currently does and was making a reasonable return with that turnover.
I think we should be looking at sort of taking it back to those sort of levels and making sure that we're executing it with the complexity of module that that business really understands i.e.
lower complexity.
And if we start to move the dial a little bit make sure that we manage it in a far better way than we've done recently.
And so I mean I wouldn't get caught up on the Canadian issue.
I think the key piece there is actually not about future orders it's about closing out the ones that we've got.
Our next question comes from Jamie Cook of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess a couple questions.
Stuart I would just like to hear your thoughts.
Obviously in the space you've seen a lot of M&amp;A happen more happened since the first quarter and the rationale behind the M&amp;A in this space is that sort of scale matters in particular for winning some of these big projects.
So can you talk about your thoughts on that? Do you think KBR is at a competitive disadvantage because they're smaller than some of your peers and just how you think about M&amp;A? The second question is the other pushback I get on your stock a lot is while we have this noise related to the fabrication projects or a power project here and there there is still a big concern out there that there's another shoe to drop on some of your larger projects.
So as you've been there since early June can you talk about your confidence level in the existing backlog that you have? And then my last question is you're more positive it seems like on bookings potential in the back half of the year based on some of your comment.
Do you feel we're at a point where bookings in the back half of the year could accelerate versus Q2 levels which were better than I would have thought? I there's at least 3 questions there Jamie.
I mean the M&amp;A activity in the marketplace it's interesting.
And for us going forward going into the strategic review process as you're well aware what I would say is we've got a very strong cash balance.
We don't have any debt.
So that we certainly got headroom to be looking at acquisitions.
And my view of them is that they are an accelerator to strategy and we've got to define the strategy and then if we feel that on a particular acquisition that the right price actually helps to get us there quicker then it's certainly on the table.
So that's the probably the first statement and we'll always be looking and that's -- in terms of does it really really...
Research Division</strong> But do you think -- I mean do you think scale matters in terms of winning some of these larger projects and that's perhaps why KBR didn't win some of the other projects? Because that's why Shaw acquired CBI you could make the argument why a common [indiscernible] requiring.
I mean I don't -- do you know what I mean? I mean do you think scale is the major issue in terms of why you think about it? I mean I'm sure size matters but I don't think in this particular case of what we've seen in the bids that -- and I'm talking to the guys that we've -- and some of the ones that we haven't.
Well I don't think our balance sheet and the size of the company has sort of any bearing on it whatsoever.
And typically we're doing these projects with partners.
And so when you look at even the -- I mean the Gorgons that we're doing at the moment [indiscernible] with BBC [ph] and excess of john rich [ph] over BBC [ph] anti order [ph].
I thought I don't really see that as the limiting factor at all and I think you bring in partners to mitigate some of that risk and the client helps you do that as well.
Research Division</strong> And then the second question was another shoe to drop on the other bigger project and then the bookings in the back half? Yes.
I mean I think in terms of the -- I mean I've not been out on the Gorgon site and had a look and talked to the customer and done certainly in excess then [ph].
They're both commercially different but I don't see us dropping a ball in either of those in a significant way.
In terms of the hydrocarbons projects I think the way the EPC projects are being managed there is quite pleasing with a strong commercial focus and delivery focus on those.
And I think the guys understand that the marketplace is such that if you deliver it's the best business development you can do so there's a lot of focus on it.
So I'm not thinking we're going to stub our toe there.
And we've got the EPC power projects we've got 3 of them and they're at different levels of development.
Marshalltown was just started and SWA is over 80% complete and gets a little bit different again.
So I think we've got a clear commercial focus and delivery focus on those.
And I mean there's no certainty in this world Jamie on those ones but I think we've got enough oversight and scrutiny going into them at the moment.
But certainly through the course of the next little while we'll really understand where we're at.
Research Division</strong> And then just confidence level that bookings perhaps can grow in the back half of the year? Well that's the plan.
I think the market...
Research Division</strong> I like that plan.
Yes.
Okay I mean it is the plan.
Our next question comes from Will Gabrielski of Stephens Capital.
Research Division</strong> The power project that you guys are having issues on can you just talk a little bit more about what the actual issues are? We've done -- I mean we started to look at all these major projects in a very sort of detailed way and we want to make sure that people aren't sort of just given the most hugely optimistic view and that they're praying for better weather or whatever I mean I use that as an analogy -- but not in specific.
But I think what we're seeing is that as we're looking very closely at these projects and this particular one was really the cost to complete we're too optimistic and when we actually looked at what work was left to be done what schedule needs to be done and there was an increase in cost to complete.
That's the bottom line and...
Research Division</strong> No problem I'll...
And they're still profitable.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned North American refining opportunities.
What exactly are you referencing there? Again I mean I don't think we're going to talk about specific projects here but we're...
Research Division</strong> No I meant by type of -- I meant type of projects revamps environmental tier 3 what exactly are you referencing? Yes mostly -- I mean it's revamps to deal with the change in mix in fuel types and things like that.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then Allenby can you just comment on how that's going to trend in the second half of the year within IGP equity income? I mean in terms of the equity income I think it's -- well I mean it's performing on a consistent basis in terms of the facilities management of that which runs for like for the next 30 years or so.
But the construction element is coming off as the facility are coming to conclusion.
I mean I went to visit that site as well and I mean it's -- I met the customer and they were very very happy with what we've done and the quality of the service they are finding is terrific.
So I think that's going to be a consistent performer over the next little while.
I guess the potential upside in Allenby cannot through that [indiscernible] venture is really the army of relocating back from Europe from Germany in particular back into that their Salisbury Plain area where we've built all these facilities.
So there is a need for additional facilities and there is a need for expanding to growing the facilities management piece there.
We obviously will be looking to have an active role in that.
Research Division</strong> And then just quickly ERP spending this year and any expectation for what that change will be in '15 versus '14? I think Bryan could talk about ERP.
We think '15 will be also comparable to this year.
We're in process of rolling out in the U.S.
now.
We've done our first phase in the U.S.
and we will continue that in the U.S.
in the early part of 2015 and then the balance of the world in 2015.
So pretty consistent in '15 as in '14 and then a significant trail off thereafter if there's any rollover into the following years.
Our next question comes from Vishal Shah of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to better understand anything changed on a structural basis in the pipe fabrication business.
Are you seeing more complex projects larger projects? And are you looking at some of the strategic opportunities in that particular business as you conduct this review? Well in terms of the actual projects we have as I have mentioned previously they have been more complex and larger than what we had done historically.
There's a term I've learned the Alberta Module which was a relatively common type module that had been done by us and others in the past.
And in the more recent past these contracts are more complex more work being done.
So there has been a shift there.
I'm not sure whether that's a market ongoing market issue or if it was just specific to the projects that were ongoing at this point in time.
And as Stuart mentioned earlier Canada is a relatively small -- or the fabrication component of Canada is a relatively small component of our business.
Yes it will be included in the strategic review but it is -- in context it is one of the smaller components.
It just has had a major impact on these 7 projects.
Research Division</strong> And just as you consider the landscape going forward are you reevaluating your strategy around capital allocation in terms of between buyback and M&amp;A? You said 50% of your cash was returned to shareholders in the form of buyback is that going to change going forward? Well that will be part of the strategic review.
So it's premature to comment on capital allocation.
But clearly all of those options have been on the table.
We had not precluded any of those in the past and we'll see where the strategic review goes.
But I would imagine that they all -- will remain on the table as we roll forward.
Our next question comes from Rob Norfleet of Alembic Global Advisors.
I guess my first question just on the LNG opportunities.
Clearly you mentioned mostly greenfield opportunities.
I wanted to get your thoughts as it relates to some of the existing or legacy projects that you're working on for example Train 4 in Gorgon Tangguh obviously a project you worked on before.
These are projects you talked about favorably before and I'm just curious about your thoughts about getting the FEED and EPC on those as well as any other projects where you see increases in the scope? I mean the current projects are always open to an increase of scope as changes come through.
That's the first statement which I'm sure you know well.
But I mean when you look at Train 4 in Gorgon I think the focus on by Chevron and the partners and certainly I had a chat with them about it only last week as really to get the first 3 trains going.
Some of the infrastructure's already in place for Train 4 and you would have to think the economics around that would make sense given that the supporting infrastructure is already in play.
But I think right now because of the port cost increases in that particular project that the focus will be very much in the short-term to make sure we go hard to come [ph] and going through the plant.
In terms of -- but what I would say is that once the facility is up and running and there's a lot of -- I think there's a lot of hesitancy in the marketplace as well at the moment.
There's a lot of noise around Angola and LNG as you're probably aware they've had some issues.
So they want to start it up and make sure that it's running well et cetera.
And that thereafter I'm sure that the Train 4 will be under consideration and I'm sure that KBR and JGC will be well placed to go after it just given that we've done and just finished the first 3 trains.
In terms of Tangguh the 3rd train in Indonesia is very much in play at the moment and that's -- we are going after that quite aggressively and as you rightly pointed out we built the first 2 trains so we feel that we've got a good shot at that particular project and BP are very driven to get it sanctioned and through the process in Indonesia.
Okay great.
Second question can you just discuss a little bit the competitive environment you're seeing in North America? I'm you all clearly seem very upbeat about several projects in chemicals and oil and gas moving to EPC in the second half of the year which is great.
But a number of your competitors have really stated that they're continuing to see kind of sluggish activity products are getting pushed out and it's a very price competitive environment.
So can you just kind of discuss what you're seeing in the North American market? I really won't talk about competitive statements but certainly what we're seeing at the moment and certainly our backlog would prove that out and the opportunity is in front of us and I mean I think the -- perhaps the differentiator for us is that we get in with our technology as well.
So there's -- we actually don't see such huge cost pressure in that area at the moment.
We find it competitive as ever but no more competitive than sort of 3 4 months ago.
Okay great.
My last question is for Brian.
Brian I know the strategic review is ongoing so obviously you'll have a conclusion to that at some point.
But where does buyback at this juncture kind of sit on your plate? I mean while you're doing the review are you still going to be active in buyback clearly given where the stock is trading? I just want to kind of get your perspective on that.
Well as we've commented in the past we don't really talk about timing of buyback.
There are a lot of people out there who trade in stocks as their living and I don't think it serves our shareholders well for us to give any indications about when we may or may not be in the marketplace.
So I have to defer but clearly we still have a lot of authorization available under the existing facilities but it will be part of the strategic review.
That's what I can say.
Okay.
And lastly any update on PEMEX? No.
It continues to move along the legal process.
We always are thinking of ways that we might be able to reach out and come to a commercial conclusion there rather than a legal one.
And as we mentioned in the last quarter there's a renewed emphasis in general here on resolving disputes commercially rather than legally.
But no nothing new of any significance to report on the PEMEX EPC dispute.
Our next question comes from Robert Connors of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> I don't know if this one -- I guess this question is for both of you but I get it lot from your shareholders is there's always been this cloud that's been overhanging KBR that despite a great reputation in international LNG there really remains an unquantifiable liability on the legacy Iraq and Afghanistan work.
So do you continue to see that your shareholders are best served by keeping these 2 segments together or is that being explored in the strategic review? I think you know the answer to that question.
I mean that's very much part of the strategic review process and we'll come back and talk to you about that later.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you just remind us where you're at on percent of complete on Ichthys LNG as well as the breakdown of fixed-price versus cost plus exposure? Previously we used to get a breakdown on that.
I mean I was just there.
They just crossed the 50% complete mark so there was a big celebration for that.
And in terms of the breakdown I don't actually have those figures in front of me.
So I mean we might have to do that offline as we've done it before.
Next question comes from Michael Dudas of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Two questions for Brian.
First Brian the labor productivity improvement we've seen can that maintain in the second half or do you need to see more visible in the new bookings to help absorb some of the underutilization? Well clearly you always need new bookings because projects are rolling down and you need new ones to roll on to replace them.
But now we're feeling a lot more optimistic about the utilization of labor than we were certainly a year ago.
And you can see it's made a pretty significant improvement from a year ago as we said.
So yes we always do need some new bookings but again we remain much less concerned about labor costs utilization than we did a year ago.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And secondly on cash generation second half of the year is there going to be a change in the mix from international to U.S.
given your plan? Any meaningful change in the mix? No.
I can't think of any meaningful change in mix.
No.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And for Stuart thoughts on the Russian business given some of the concerns over there? Sorry say that again.
I didn't quite hear it very well.
Research Division</strong> About your relationship with Gazprom and some of the Russian opportunities? Yes.
I mean our exposure in Russia is fairly minimal.
It's very politically volatile as you know at the moment.
So I mean I don't see it as a material risk to the business at the moment.
But we've got some small PMC work ongoing but -- it's good for relationship building but not -- it won't commercially prove a risk.
That concludes today's question-and-answer session.
At this time I would like to turn it back over to Stuart Bradie President and Chief Executive Officer of KBR for final comments or closing remarks.
Well I think good level of questioning.
Thank you very much for your interest and your questions towards KBR.
Certainly now I've now been in the job 6 7 weeks now and I'm thoroughly enjoying it and I look forward to getting out and meeting with you as we get into the back end of August.
So thank you very much.
And that does conclude today's conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Thank you.
Good day and welcome to KBR's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
As a reminder your lines will be in a listen-only mode for the duration of the call.
There will be a question-and-answer session immediately following the prepared remarks.
You will receive instructions at that time.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Zac Nagle Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for KBR's third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Today's call is also being webcast and a replay will be available on KBR's website for seven days at kbr.com.
The press release announcing KBR’s third quarter results is also available on KBR's website.
Joining me today are Stuart Bradie President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Ferraioli Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call Stuart and Brian will cover the quarter’s results in more detail and discus our market outlook and financial statement.
Please refer to the accompanying presentation that’s posted on our website at kbr.com.
After our prepared remarks we will open the floor for questions.
Before turning the call over to Stuart I would like to remind our audience that today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting KBR's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ significantly from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in KBR's third quarter earnings press release KBR’s earnings presentation KBR’s Form 10-K A for the period ended December 31 2013 and KBR's current reports on Form 8-K.
You can find all of these documents at KBR.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Stuart.
Stuart? Good morning and take you to slide – first slide related with KBR safety.
Safety is a core value at KBR and we start every meeting with the safety moment when there is more than three people in the room.
And looking off to yourself and those are value is a moral on our business impeditive that it needs leadership commitment.
And at KBR we are refreshing our focus and energizing the organization with the goal of zero harm through continuous improvement.
And as you can see we are making some progress.
So moving on now I’d like to just turn to the quarter overview.
In short a better quarter with strong reimbursable bookings in hydrocarbons and a good cash position but frankly still too much noise albeit as a balance to the puts and takes.
EPS improved to $0.21 which is not acceptable albeit an improvement of over I guess a loss of $0.32 on the same period last year and a loss of $0.06 in Q2.
Operational performance was as expected and Gas Monetization and Hydrocarbons with the exception of a now resolved welding issue on Hydrocarbons project and bookings in Hydrocarbons exceeded $1 billion with over $900 million in reimbursable EPC and engineering services which gives us a good balance to back roll the portfolio.
Pleasingly Services stabilized in the quarter with all the businesses in that segment in the block and the net position in Canada was largely unchanged.
IGP continues to lag and this was driven largely by ongoing performance on EPC power projects.
Cash was again a good story in the quarter and I’m pleased to report we resolved a number of the legacy commercial issues.
The strategic review is on schedule and we are booking to lock in on Analyst Day to New York on December the 11<sup>th</sup> and invitations will go out for that I think later today Zac.
Okay I’ll now hand over to Brian; he will take you through the numbers in a little bit more detail.
Thank you Stuart and good morning.
Moving on to Slide 5 you’ll see at the top of the page the bookings of just over $1.3 billion were relatively strong as Stuart previously mentioned that’s driven primarily by our Hydrocarbons segment with the $1 billion of bookings and $900 million on reimbursable contracts.
Backlog at the end of the quarter was $12.1 billion and that reflects decline from the year ago but as we have been speaking about for several quarters now this is largely related to the Gas Monetization projects burning off with the next round of bookings expected in 2015 on those negotiated type projects.
Moving on to the actual performance for the quarter as Stuart mentioned Gas Monetization continues to perform very well particularly on the two Mega LNG projects in Australia.
Hydrocarbons performance again was good with a one exception of the welding issue that we previously mentioned but that increased the cost for the quarter by $18 million pre-tax.
Services stabilized and I guess the good news is that there was no real news out of our services compared to where we’ve been.
IGP is where all the noise occurs for the quarter.
We had an increase in forecast cost to complete an EPC power project here in the US and that was about $33 million pre-tax.
We resolved a number of commercial issues and that resulted in a net gain pre-tax of about $8 million.
However we still are incurring significant legal fees and we have $4 million in the quarter with ongoing disputes.
And finally one of the disputes we did settle with the tax sharing matter that we had with our former parent and we recorded a $24 million pre-tax gain associated with that.
Finally on this page I want to point to the corporate overhead number you see that that has come down from a year ago and reflects the conversations we’ve had in the past about trying to reduce ongoing costs.
Moving on to Slide 6 comparing the segment information.
You see the revenues were relatively down from a year ago but again consistent with what we have been saying on the Gas Monetization.
And that’s the burn-off of two projects that we had in 2013 Skikda and Escravos both of which are largely completed.
Hydrocarbons you see the revenues are increasing and again as we’ve been saying in the past related to the EPC work that we are doing in the downstream industries here in the US but during this quarter we also have picked up some additional services bookings more in the upstream side.
Moving on to the profit and earnings for the quarter Gas Monetization variance from a year ago reflects the large change order that we had booked in the third quarter of 2013 that which did not reoccur and Hydrocarbons we talked about the welding issue.
IGP has the cost associated with the power projects as well as the settlement of the various disputes.
Services are stabilizing and see a significant improvement from where we were a year ago which again 2013 was the start of the problem projects that we had in Canada.
The other gross profit reflects $13 million year-over-year improvement in the utilization of our labor and reduced costs and that’s again an area we’ve been working on throughout the year.
And finally the other EBITDA reflects the settlement of the tax sharing dispute that I talked about previously.
Moving on to Slide 7 to compare Q3 with Q2 of this year the revenues were relatively flat.
Moving on to the earnings the only thing that I’d point out here is in the second quarter we had a $15 million benefit relating to an insurance claim that settled in IGP which did not reoccur during the quarter.
Services as we mentioned earlier stabilized and the triple M joint venture offshore maintenance vessels that we have in Mexico are under contract and also helps contribute to the earnings for the quarter.
Moving on to cash on Slide 8.
We had a strong operating cash flow quarter generating a $158 million in operating cash flow.
You see the cash balance was a healthy $1.048 billion.
However most of which that remains overseas with $710 million abroad.
But the capital allocation remains a priority for us and you see during the quarter we returned an additional $17 million to our shareholders and that gives us a $137 million returns so far year-to-date from both share repurchases and dividends.
And in total we’ve returned to shareholders just under $1 billion since the spin back in 2007.
The share count is down to $145 million and we’ve actually repurchased 3.8 million shares rather than the 3.7 million shares you see on the slide.
CapEx $12 million for the quarter $7 million related to the ERP rollout.
We are reviewing all of our CapEx expenditures going forward including ERP and we’ll have more about that when we talk to you on December 11th when we – we’re talking more about our strategy.
And with that I’ll turn it back over to Stuart who will talk about some of the markets with which we participate.
Thanks Brian.
Moving on to Slide 9 on the market outlook for gas monetization.
As Brian mentioned earlier the work continues well on the two Mega projects in Australia.
We are starting to get a bit of momentum behind the Shell Global LNG agreement and we are seeing quite a lot of activity in the pre-front and engineering design phases of the Gas-Mon business.
I guess the major FEEDS in process are those completed.
I guess the update on there is that during the quarter KBR/JGC/Rekeiysa JV was awarded.
The FEED and EPC bid opportunity for the Tangguh Train 3 and that’s a BP led venture in Indonesia and that’s a two horse race against another joint venture consortium.
The award goes on in terms of bidding for the three multi-billion US dollar EPC contracts the Pacific Northwest Petronas.
The bids were submitted and we continue to work with the customer and the award is still scheduled for next year.
Lake Charles the bid for that is ongoing and again award expected next year and the Tangguh LNG in Indonesia I’ve already mentioned.
I think just dealing with this head on I think the market fundamentals in LNG remain sound but with the capital discipline being an ever increased focus I think and some of the uncertainties around politics and environmental issues et cetera around these big LNG projects that could have a continued uncertainty in FID timing.
Moving on to Slide 10 and in the Hydrocarbons segment we’ve talked about the Q3 bookings being strong in the quarter and some highlights there that the Koch Nitrogen EPC which is reimbursable EPC was awarded in the quarter the work for INEOS again reimbursable EPC during the quarter.
Pleasingly we also picked up the – I guess the FEED for the ENIs Mozambique FLNG and that leads to an EPCIC submission in the summer of next year.
We continue to work in the Gulf of Mexico on BP Mad Dog Phase II project and we signed a master services agreement with Statoil in the quarter.
So our continued presence in North America continues to be strong and we are now executing for EPC ammonia/urea projects in North America that really differentiated because of KBR Technology and currently we are bidding two additional projects with expected awards late this year and early next year.
Chemicals continues to be a really strong market and a significant opportunity and – by also executing a number of FEEDS in the downstream and Chemicals sector with EPC rollover opportunities.
Downstream in the Middle East remains strong also.
And our technology markets led by global ammonia as well as other chemicals again remains strong.
We do have some additional offshore project pursuits and particularly in the UK and Norway and in the North Sea.
But I think it’s again sort of dealing with this sort of head on I am sure that we’ll be cautious on the oil price I think our perspective on that is there is no panic from the IOCs that we’ve talk to.
I think $80 oil was around three years ago when the projects still preceded and at that time however I think the world once – at the margin will be economically challenged.
There is definitely an increased capital discipline coming from the majors.
That said our principal exposure is in the Downstream and Chemicals market and Gas Monetization and that remains very attractive with the lower gas prices.
Moving on to IGP.
Our work in the UK for the Ministry of Defense really around one-time facilities management and maintenance contracts continues to perform really well.
And I am pleased to say that we have confirmed this preferred bidder for the UK Ministry of Defense fixed Wing Training contract which is over $700 million contract.
We are in joint venture 50-50 and essentially we’ve got a procurement period of three years to acquire a number of aircrafts and then a 15 year contract to train the UK Ministry of Defense pilots over that period.
So again an annuity type contract which fits.
We are still seeing a lot of international government services opportunities.
The UK army for example are they are having to return all their armed forces from Germany back into the UK by 2020 and that’s a significant opportunity given that we already did the housing and the rebasing of the military in Salisbury previously.
We’ve got – we are seeing a lot of opportunities in the expeditionary support services for the UK as well and then the – and for the UK police and local government services.
Our Australian defense force support services again we are continuing to see good opportunities as they move through their outsourcing program.
We are going after a number of US overseas base operation support again in the facilities management area supporting the US government.
It is one thing I would like to point out on this slide is that the strategic review will consider the future for fixed price EPC power projects.
Moving on to Services we are seeing continued opportunities in North America for Industrial Services and US construction and for the latter particularly a differentiator supporting our EPC offering.
The Mexican offshore business longer term contracts as Brian mentioned earlier puts us in a good shape there and I think our offering and we are first in the market doing some of this stuff in Saudi Arabia and Poland is also attractive.
I think the Canadian market overall for Industrial Service the maintenance side of our business is attractive and in the long-term I think the current focus is quite correct and I see stabilizing on the three remaining module assembly projects and we’ve made some progress in that area.
But again trying to deal with this head on the current oil price would give cost for concern that the near-term Canadian Greenfield prospects would be economically challenged.
So moving on to Slide 13.
I have mentioned this a little bit earlier where we are in the strategic review that the process continues and pleased to update you that is on track as promised.
We will discuss the results at the Analyst Day on December the 11.
We will also webcast that meeting.
Decisions taken could impact annual goodwill and other intangible impairment analysis and may result in restructuring charges.
The plan is to reintroduce guidance as promised before with the yearend financial results going into February 2015.
So in summary 2014 is a transition year and we said that before that the strategic review will be completed in Q4 as promised Gas-Mon and Hydrocarbons continued to strong operational performance.
Services has stabilized and IGP is impacted by charges on power projects.
Strong Hydrocarbon bookings on reimbursable downstream and oil and gas projects.
We resolved a number of legacy issues in the quarter which was very pleasing.
We are pursuing a large number of opportunities through pre-FEEDs and FEEDs into EPC and the backlog of projects our robust pipeline of prospects and a greater focus on efficiency makes us cautiously optimistic for 2015.
We plan to continue focusing and resolving commercial disputes and capital allocation efficiency.
Thank you.
Now I would like to turn it back over to the operator for questions please.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we will take our first from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Good morning folks.
Good morning.
Morning Tahira.
So I guess the current of much getting the qualitative things about – and restructuring and given an add you have placed those two events to come up so I guess the two questions I’ll ask Stuart I know the first two three months you really spent a lot of time interacting with customers going in checking out the head offices et cetera.
Would you talk a bit about how your focus has migrated over the last couple of months in terms of what you’ve been looking at? I mean you are absolutely correct.
I’ve spent the first little while going around a while meeting our customers and our clients and our partners.
I think the one thing I would say that the bones are good at KBR.
The people the process is the brand are all good.
And so really the focus now is really thinking about how we best – sort of bring the business together maximizing the synergies that naturally exist and looking at how we can become more efficient into the future with the backdrop of where strategically we want to take the business.
And that includes what businesses we really want to be in and the ones we want to invest in going forward.
But also taking a long hard look at the businesses that we perhaps don’t want to be in and then from there actually looking at how we actually migrate the culture as well to one that’s very market facing more empowered and highly accountable which I think is the right focus going forward.
So that’s really – it’s really around strategically where do we take the business how do we best organize ourselves to take advantage of the markets that are attractive in the future and who are the best people and what culture do we need to lead the business going forward.
So that’s been that’s what we are going out and spending a lot of my time as well as still engaging with our customers and ensuring that we’ve got that market facing focus.
Thanks a lot Stuart and as a follow-up you did some buybacks in the quarter but the stock did hedged probably the lowest levels you’ve seen since the 2008 when that crash.
So surprisingly it lies given that would you comment on whether you were sort of in an extended quite period perhaps so if you are looking a restructuring and you’d be shoring up some of your cash as part of the restructuring in terms of with the restructuring also includes many opportunities? Well Tahira this is Brian let me start.
We had pretty good visibility into some of the quarterly results which precluded us from doing any open market transactions.
So that’s one of the reasons why the activity was relatively liked.
As you know once we have that we can participate in open market transactions and we did not set up any advance purchased mechanism.
So that’s the short answer on share buybacks for the quarter.
All right thank you.
We’ll go next to John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Hi good morning.
Morning.
Hi John.
Couple of things first of all and I know you are going to give us an update in December but when you talk about the strategic review and what you are looking out there are there – and you mentioned the goodwill impairment potentially or restructuring charges but the cash costs of all this I assume are going to be modest or potentially modest to be more a deferral of expenses? Is that the right way to think about it or do you want to hold off? I’d say deferral of expenses I am not sure I understand… Well you mentioned in ERP and some of those.
Okay okay.
I mean obviously any sort of goodwill impairment is not cash and so you are definitely be right to think about it that way.
Right.
But certainly some restructuring costs would be sort of delayed costs and if we – an ERP again would be a delayed cost.
So it’s a balance I think.
Okay okay.
And then Stuart just in terms of your discussions with customers and what you are looking at out there? Do you have the sense that or could you comment on what pricing looks like I mean with the slowness in investment decisions push out of some upstream work and I don’t know whether KBR has to come to the market more aggressively to win more or just some thoughts there on how your bidding works now? I think the way we are bidding now is particularly in Hydrocarbons is coming through very strongly.
So I don’t see that as a particular issue.
But I think it’s what’s bidding is that as I have gone around and talked to customers that what price stands they would welcome a revitalized KBR and one that’s aggressively are pursuing in the market and that’s what our intent is.
Okay thank you.
We will go next to Steven Fisher with UBS.
Thanks good morning.
Stuart you mentioned the uncertainty of timing in Gas-Monetization project I guess that’s not surprising.
Is there a range of the degree of timing uncertainty? In other words do you have higher confidence in any of these projects going forward on schedule versus some of the others? Yes I mean that’s a really good question.
And I think Brian has mentioned on previous calls these were the – these are companies back some time ago when there is a number and pre-FEED and FEED that we will talk about later as they evolve.
But certainly I mean there has been quite a bit of noise around the Canadian prospects at the moment and the Canadian tax regime and we see the royalties’ position.
And so there is a bit of politics there and you would be a good bidding any time on some of those.
I don’t think any of us on this call could work that out.
But in terms of things like the – what’s happening in Indonesia BP have announced that they’ve signed the gas sales agreement to support the train 3.
So I mean my expectation with that is they’ve got the supply they’ve got the demand and sort of the economics obviously from their perspective of albeit that they haven’t got the EPC pricing in yet but assuming that all works out.
We would think that’s a pretty robust prospect and I thinks certainly for Lake Charles.
But again with Lake Charles looking at British Gas and they’ve now got a CEO and I am sure he is having a good look at their capital spend portfolio.
But as it stands today I mean that’s very much a tooling operation and – again the sort of the supply and the demand side of that is covered.
So again as long as EPC pricing sort of stands up and then you would think that that project would – that’s got a pretty good chance to go ahead.
So I think you have to look at each of them differently.
But certainly the lower gas price is making LNG still a long-term good market for us and the trick is as you rightly point out which ones do you go after and which ones do you think have the best chance of proceeding to the next phase.
Great.
Thanks that’s helpful.
And then on the Hydrocarbons segment where do you think you are in the lifecycle of the FEEDs and activity there.
I mean as you ramp up construction of what you talked over the last year or so or even more recently are you replacing what you are going to burn at a faster pace the same pace or slow in other words do you have the prospects coming in that could kind of keep this business continue to grow at a nice pace? Yes I mean we think that part of the market is very attractive and we are seeing a number of pretty robust prospects coming through the door and so I think the answer to your question is yes probably in short.
Is the size of the prospect in Hydrocarbons getting bigger in other words you need to win perhaps you were to replace what you are burning or is it about the same? It’s probably about the same.
I mean I guess… Thank you.
We will go next to Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Hi good morning.
A couple questions.
First I guess Brian what do you think is a reasonable time line for investors to expect less noise out of you know KBR's earnings I understand you made some headway on some of the commercial legacy issues but we still have a charge here we still have a charge there you been there over a year.
So can you provide us sort of an update and also an update on the two larger projects? And I guess Stuart the second question is for you.
I don't want to steal thunder from the Analyst Day but from looking at the slides it appears to me what we're going to here at the analyst day is does it make sense to be in power at fixed-price.
If you are in government maybe you go more international construction in the US is a bigger focus and that maybe we streamline some costs but that sort of the just a bit or is there anything more meaningful there? I'm just trying to read into from the retirements that you had an IGP recently too if that's shedding some insight on the strategic importance of the division.
And I get back in the queue.
Okay.
Let’s take the first in terms of noise for the quarter Jamie the commercial disputes we have that contributes to that we are working as hard as we can but we are not going to settle things and it makes sense for our shareholders.
So it’s hard to predict when you are going to get commercial settlement of legal disputes that takes to come to an agreement.
We have made some good progress I want to point out to this quarter we had – it was a net gain on these settlements.
In terms of the power project that you are referring to the charge on the power project that’s all driven by execution and that’s an execution issue and the accounting follows the execution.
So I can’t guarantee there will be any more charges related to projects but again I don’t think that that’s something that’s a legacy type issue to clean up.
It’s going to be driven more on performance in the field.
Sorry Stuart just an update on a larger projects because there's still a concern there's another shoe to drop there.
On the larger project like we seen from the smaller projects but on the med your projects in gas monitor how are they trending relative to expectations? Sure I’ll probably answer that Jamie.
I think Gorgon is the commercial basis for that for other’s it’s a reimbursable project and so I think the challenge there is just to keep working that to help the client get it on stream.
But I don’t think there will be any commercial noise on that.
I am not expecting any.
And on excess that’s a mix it’s a mix of lump sum unit rate and reimbursable and we are just moving through that.
I mean so far so good.
And we’ve got a lot of scrutiny on that from a commercial management and execution management basis.
But I mean the feedback from the reviews we have done recently are that we’ve – that’s going out as we would have hoped.
Okay and then just am I totally off in my read on your Analyst Day in December? I think Jamie you know I can’t answer that question.
But a good try.
Yes I think let’s have a chart in December of all of that.
I am very conscious of the fact that whatever we say we have to deliver on that promise and I’d rather be ready to say at that time.
Okay.
Thanks.
I'll get back in queue.
We’ll go next to Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays  Good morning guys.
Good morning Good morning.
Brian can you talk about cash generation going forward? You’ve obviously put a strong focus on cash generation since you come to the company.
Can you generate free cash flow closer to net income going forward? And with the cash continue to sort of move towards US cash because it seems there was much more foreign cash in the quarter and you actually see a majority of US cash as you go over the next year or so? I think the answer to all those questions is yes.
We do have a significant focus on cash.
The cash generation though impart is driven by the type of contracts.
So to the extent that we have more reimbursable type contracts it’s harder to have favorable working capital movement on those projects versus more of the fixed price contracts which tend to have more milestone type payments.
But there is no reason why we shouldn’t be generating cash equal to our earnings.
And typically we have a mix of fixed price and reimbursable type contracts.
So that’s certainly the goal.
And a lot of the work we won recently is of the US.
Okay Stuart maybe just on the topic of risk control since you've come to the company can you talk about your assessment of risk control over the last – how is it – when you step back how do we assess risk for the company? Because we keep seeing there is noise and I guess what I'm trying to figure out is a good enough at KBR or as part of the strategic review do you tell us that you are putting us in actually layers or anything like that? I mean I think that is it’s a fundamental piece of the strategic review.
Obviously the KBR does really well in some areas.
Risk management and clearly it’s not done so well in others and the whole emphasis going forward is to ensure there is a consistency of process.
There is a quality of personnel and there is an understanding of what we are good at and what we are not good at.
And I think if you can apply those three in a consistent way then you will start to see less noise coming from the execution.
I guess what I am trying to say Stuart is the risk assessment simply not has developed as you thought when you came to the company?  Oh no it’s really highly developed and I think one of the good and bad things about KBR is that it’s had some horrific experiences many years ago in the EPC environment.
They almost brought the company down and I think one of the takeaways of the – one of the only positive of that is you got really good at risk management.
And I think where we have strayed looking at the company is we have not applied that process consistently.
And that’s what we are going to do a lot of work to make sure that we do that going forward and we will talk more about that at the strategic review.
Okay thanks guys.
We’ll go next to Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Hey good morning.
It's Matt Rybak on behalf of Jerry.
I was wondering if you could say more about how you’re thinking about North America LNG opportunities beyond Pacific Northwest and Lake Charles particularly in the context what might be perceived as a slowing opportunity set.
And then if that is the case what end-markets do you expect to offset some of the softness? I mean as I said in – when we presented we do have a number of ongoing pre-FEEDs and FEEDs as we talked before about Gulf LNG and there was some press yesterday about what we are doing in Canada and in the pre-FEED arena.
And so we are seeing a number of those opportunities.
So I am not seeing a slowdown in that area but I think it’s worth pointing out that where we are seeing an increased activity is in the Chemicals and the Downstream sectors and as you would imagine taking advantage of the cheaper gas price.
Got it and then turning to the Services business can you possibly quantify what if any impact the Canadian pipe and module assembly projects had in the quarter? And maybe say a little bit more about how you are thinking about the profitability trajectory of the Services business going forward? I mean in the quarter the net result and Canada’s margin was largely unchanged.
So I think they’ve done a really good job of stabilizing the performance on those projects.
So that’s probably the first statement.
And I think again it’s part of the strategic review and I guess the reducing oil price you have to be cognizant that the cost of production and Canada is one of the highest than it becomes the first to be affected by those oil prices.
So is it fair to think that you can continue in the block going forward in this business? Or as you touched on earlier maybe there is some lumpiness in the performance going forward still? I mean I think the objective where we second our business is that – well in all our businesses that we told is that they are not going to operate in the red.
So there has been – if the market shrinks we have to shrink the business and the footprint to manage that.
Thank you.
We’ll go to Robert Norfleet with Olympic Global Advisors Hi good morning.
Good morning Rob Just a quick question on the awards in the quarter I mean.
Obviously a great job in the Hydrocarbons area.
I guess my one question was around the 90% of that being cost reimbursable.
Is that more by just given the risk power to the company? Or are we actually just seeing that trend takes place especially in the North American environment where we're seeing a lot more cost reimbursable versus fixed-price work especially in the Chemical side? I don’t know what the trend but there certainly- there is a balance of risk in the thinking both of the customers as to who is best to take on that risk.
I mean in certain areas in the US the labor market is very hard and then the Gulf Coast being a perfect example.
So the productivity risk and the wage escalation risk is – shared or worse than best taken by the customer given the size of their balance sheet.
So I think you’ll see a balance but where you can actually ring fence and you can provide your own labor force.
There is more appetite from lump sum.
Okay.
Great and it is my – just deals with margin.
Even when you back out some of the noise in the quarter the property charges and one-time items based in Hydrocarbons and Gas-Mon obviously we are still well-off where historic margins have been.
I know that partially imply labor absorption lower utilization rates.
But I guess two questions I had.
One is is there any structurally different in these businesses that margins can't get back more traditional levels especially in the Hydrocarbons area kind of the mid to upper-teens? And number two I’m just trying to get a sense if a work being booked today that's going into backlog at higher margins than the existing legacy backlog? Well Rob this is Brian.
You have to keep in mind for Hydrocarbons the type of projects has changed from the more recent past.
If you go back to 2012 and early 2013 there are lot more services type contracts and now we’ve moved to a much more EPC and EPC by definition will have a lower margin higher aggregate dollars but lower margins given the construction activity.
So as long as we continue to book EPC the margins will be less than they’ve been looking at periods that were primarily services.
I don’t think the Service component itself is any different but just given the nature of construction full EPC and the size of the project you are always going to see margins lower and if we just did professional services particularly in the oil and gas technology areas.
Okay that's helpful.
And how about just in terms of pricing right now as it relates to work we are bidding versus legacy backlog pricing? I don’t think there is much change but again the mix of projects is changing.
Okay.
And I guess I am just trying to get a sense I mean some of the companies some of your peers obviously are seeing improvement in margins but because of utilization rates not necessarily better pricing but mix being a component of that and in some cases seeing projects especially North American moves more towards the fixed-price basis.
I guess my question gets down to – is that big booking in Hydrocarbons when we had 90% cost reimbursable is that likely a trend we should see over the next few quarters? Or are we going to see more fixed-price work as we continue to see bookings kind of improve? Yes I mean I’ve tried to answer that in the last time but I think it’s a balance and it will be appropriate to who is best placed to take that risk depending on where in the country and at what phase the project is in the – that it’s – I don’t think it’s – I don’t think for us we are seeing a trend I think it’s a specific project.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
We’ll go next to Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice Good morning.
Good morning.
On the project in Hydrocarbons the $18 million increased cost on an and the IGP project with the $32 million increased cost are those projects both complete or how much do they have to go? So the Hydrocarbons was a welding issue and the project was – the welding issue is now resolved and that project is now progressing and that issue is – as far as we are aware it’s behind us.
In terms of the power project the way that that was done is that we were doing an estimate forecast cost to complete and that we continue to work on that to get the accuracy into both I think in our particular project is 85% 86% complete.
Okay and then with IGP even backing out the $33 million the margins were pretty low.
Is there anything else within a segment that was weighing on the margins this quarter that you can parse out? The legal fees are more certainly at the headwind in that business.
Okay.
The margins in that business are not acceptable at the moment.
Okay.
And Marty I’d point to the volume of business in the US government side has declined dramatically given the lock cap four run down and you know lock cap three is over.
So there is a volume issue on the US side.
The UK portion continues to perform very well.
Okay and then if I could one last question on the MSA in Canada on the fabrication side I think one of those stretched out a little bit a couple years and you were – I think working to try to mitigate your risk under that.
Anything you can talk about there? Yes we have not received any additional orders from that client throughout this year.
We have no new orders in all of 2014 from that client.
I only think about is that the client knows that we are very busy in our facilities there.
So the schedule is always important to clients and we are busy.
So there are other options available to that client and as I said to-date we have not received any orders at all this year.
So we remained with three of the seven projects and those three are progressing and they should be completed in 2015.
And each month that passes obviously our risk profile declines.
.
Great thank you.
Thank you Martin.
We’ll go next to Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Hi this is Chuck Grom on for Vishal.
How are you guys?  Good.
Yes hi good thanks.
Now that some of the ethylene crackers have moved in construction can you talk about the derivatives opportunities ahead of you? Can you just comment on like a level of field activity you are seeing and then how should we think about kind of like the peak award timing for the space? Yes I mean I think the – as I said before that market continues to be extremely buoyant.
I mean we are doing a number of FEEDs at the moment both in the refinery and the derivatives area.
I think it’s a very attractive market in North America right now.
So I think the timing of awards is it will progressively come through next year and beyond.
I mean there is no I don’t think we can put a pin in the mop and say it’s you should think about peak in such a month.
I think the way to look out it is it’s an extremely good and buoyant market and there is a number of opportunities coming through and I am sure you are hearing that from others in the market as well.
Sure so given your strength on the naphtha base portion of ethylene technology and the recent decline into the press but are you seeing anything in terms of like a pickup of interest or conversation with customers in that business? No not yet.
But I mean you could assume that that will happen but not yet.
All right.
That’s it for me.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
Yes hi good morning.
Good morning.
Just coming back to Canada and the master service agreements just curious I mean you noted the increased hesitancy as far as Greenfield projects in Canada do you think that just kind of the environment is inhibiting some of the additional orders under those agreements? And I guess perversely it’s protecting it from additional charges related to producing more modules which were missed at? I mean potentially but I think what there has been done and actually going to talk to customers about the position that we are in I mean no one wants to – nobody wants to give an order under a commercial basis that forces a struggle all the way through.
I mean these are mature clients.
They understand where we are at and at the end of the day it’s not good business and so I am not expecting that to – I think both of them actually mitigates the risk.
And just secondly just going through the balance sheet I mean maybe this is more for Brian.
With the strategic review and obviously I don't want to get too far ahead of it but your unbilled receivables both current and non-current still remain pretty elevated relative to your sales which kind of – I would think it indicates there is probably more costs that are being disputed within projects you are currently executing.
Is this – is there a high potential that we could see a write-down of questionable receivables as well under your review or do you feel comfortable with where things stand today?   Brian as you know if we thought that that was the case we would have taken it now in the third quarter.
So the answer to that is no.
But when you look at the working capital contracts they are relatively flat.
So we have some billings in excess some cost in excess.
But you know me well enough that I am not satisfied with having a net receivables.
I am much preferred having a net payable when we look at the working capital accounts for contracts.
So we have some opportunity for improvement there on cash flow.
But a lot of that has to do with existing terms and conditions in some cases in Canada where we don’t get to bull until we have completed shipping as an example.
So things could improve – will improve on those projects as we get to the end of the remaining three.
But also a scenario that I acknowledge that we can do a little bit better on in terms of getting terms and conditions that make invoicing more efficient and making the collections therefore faster than maybe what will we currently have.
Okay thank you very much.
We’ll go next to George O'Leary with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Company Pickering Holt &amp; Company</strong> Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Pickering Holt &amp; Company</strong> Just one from me on the Chemicals side we are seeing the US kind of ramp LPG exports and even starting exports and ethane in pretty dramatic fashion over the next few years.
So in that vein are you guys seeing international opportunities on the petrochemical side and chemical side converging in tandem with some of the North American chemicals and derivative projects that are out there? Yes there we are and particularly from the Middle East.
Pickering Holt &amp; Company</strong> And that was it for me.
Somebody else may have other questions.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Robert Connors with Stifel.
Nicolaus</strong> Good morning guys how are you? Good.
Good thanks.
Nicolaus</strong> If I look at just KBR in the past couple of years there were only really two acquisitions that affected the goodwill.
Those were the BEM K and the Robertson Schaefer I am just wondering which one of those end-markets is affecting your outlook and where the possible goodwill write-down could come from? I mean the Robertson Schaefer acquisition was I mean the minerals and mining business.
And I mean I think you could say it’s not the market there it’s I think we are starting to see come back a little bit but it’s been a struggle.
Nicolaus</strong> Okay and then just around the restructuring charges just what you expect to take qualitatively or are the majority of them centered still around sort of the Asia-Pacific region? Nope.
Nicolaus</strong> And if they can give us or which is vacancies.
I think we'll be looking across the whole of KBR as to we can get more efficient.
Nicolaus</strong>  Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Michael Dudas with Sterne Agee Agee</strong> Hi good morning.
Any indications in your technology business of improved opportunities from EPC and are sales picking up in some areas there that certainly we may want to hear about in the December Analyst Day meetings? I think the first thing I’d say I think and we think technologies are really good business.
Our growth in that business over the last few years has been very strong and we have taken the business not only from selling the technology but also into the proprietary equipment arena.
But there is also good margins and I think we are seeing a fairly good market for our technology globally.
And it does gives us a differentiated position not in all cases but in specific and project-specific particularly in cases we’d sort of move in when it’s appropriate into EPC and I think as an entry into that it’s a terrific differentiator.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Okay.
Great thank you.
We’ll go next to John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Hi thanks.
Just a follow-up – I guess first of all Brian in terms of your cash collections especially over the remainder of 2014 are there significant payments due from the remaining from the unconsolidated entries ? Significant payments no.
I mean good collections this quarter and…? Yes no no nothing to the volume of this quarter.
We will continue to collect some.
As you know the project is not consolidated as an example.
So and I will go back probably to the – more of the normal course.
Okay and then just one more in terms of the strategic review.
Are there portions – as you look at the operations in sort of the various segments are they all largely small needs modifications or have you gone as far as to think you might get out of the entire segments as a whole in the sense that you might be able to sell them? I mean I think that's almost like Jamie's question.
I think maybe we – you have to be patient with us.
And it's only a few weeks away when we can actually come and tell you exactly where we are heading down that path.
I mean I think what I would say is that nothing is off the table.
Okay appreciate it.
That’s the question and answer session for today.
I’d like to turn it back to Mr.
Stuart Bradie for any additional or closing remarks.
I mean firstly thank you very much for taking the time today to tune in and listen.
I think that this is a journey for KBR and I think we are making good progress and hopefully I will get to meet some of you or most of you hopefully in face-to-face in New York.
Thank you very much.
That concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Welcome to KBR's Fourth Quarter and Annual 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Zac Nagle Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us for KBR's fourth quarter and annual 2014 earnings conference call.
Today's call is also being webcast and a replay will be available on KBR's website for seven days at kbr.com.
The press release announcing KBR's fourth quarter and annual 2014 results is also available on KBR's website.
Joining me today are Stuart Bradie President and Chief Executive Officer and Brian Ferraioli Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call Stuart and Brian will cover results in more detail and discuss our market outlook by major segment.
Please refer to the accompanying presentation that is posted on our website at kbr.com.
After our prepared remarks we will open the floor for questions.
Before turning the call over to Stuart I would like to remind our audience that today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting KBR's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ significantly from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in KBR's fourth quarter and annual 2014 earnings press release KBR's earnings presentation KBR's Form 10-K for the period ended December 31 2014 and KBR's current reports on Form 8-K.
You can find all these documents at kbr.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Stuart.
Stuart? Thanks Zac.
And good morning everyone.
Beginning with page 2 Zac already discussed the Safe Harbor statement but note it's here for your reference.
Moving on to slide 3 safety.
We've talked about this in the last two calls.
It's a critical focus area.
Good safety is good business.
And we're driving a culture of zero harm at KBR and driving it hard.
And I'm pleased to report we're making significant positive progress as you can see by the statistics on the left-hand side of the slide.
It's a 26% betterment in performance from 0.38 to 0.28 over the period.
So very pleasing but it's a journey that never ends and we will continue to drive safety in everything we do.
Moving on to slide 4 in summary KBR is restructuring has very much begun -- we use the word begun -- 2015 will continue to be a year where we embed the change.
The leadership team is in place the strategy is defined and we're very much on track to deliver the segment margin percentages and to take out the $200 million of annualized savings we announced in December.
It's also worth touching here on two of the issues that we hadn't closed out previously the first of those being our view on our Canadian module fabrication business.
We've had a good look at that.
Our historical performance in that business doing the small-scale modules we've done in the past has been a profitable business.
And our view going forward is that we will scale that business back and mitigate the risk and continue to do those small-scale modules that has the capability the track record and the management systems to manage.
That's really where we're in Canada in that module business.
And in terms of the government services business we've now had a very close look at where we stand on a litigation perspective.
We understand clearly our lines of defense and we're comfortable that the strategy we put in place focusing on facilities management and the long-term annuity type contracts that are in government services is a good business and one that is aligned with the strategy we announced earlier.
So hopefully that closes out those two outstanding issues.
As I said before we have very much on track to achieve the target margins.
We've got the entire leadership committed to achieving those and being held firmly accountable to achieve the technology and consolidated margins in the low 20% range the E&amp;C margins in the upper single digits government services margins in margins in the low teens.
But that does exclude the legal costs associated with the U.S.
LOGCAP III legacy contract.
And all committed to driving the cost out of the business.
Coming to look at the summary of the results -- and Brian will touch on the detail in a second -- the results are largely impacted as we announced previously and I think very much in line with what we announced previously of restructuring associated with KBR's transformation.
It's also worth noting that a number of the projects the long-term legacy projects progressed through the period to a point where we're able to have an accurate forecast to complete on those also and that's been dealt with.
And it's also worth noting and tackling this head on that we're in a situation where we do have the loss making projects in power and some of the costs associated with restructuring.
And going into 2015 that will put pressure on cash.
And Brian will deal with that as we go through as well.
Pleasingly in the fourth quarter and very much in line with our strategy the early signs are very positive.
We won a number of good projects.
In February we announced that we were successful in a lump sum EPC ammonia award for Yara BASF very much fits with our differentiated EPC offering.
It's our technology its outperformed construction.
And our ability to differentiate using both of those was a key part of that win.
Also in the period we announced that we've been chosen as the only the single provider to BG providing all their early concept work and pre-FEED and FEED work to help improve the way that we can do projects together and very much in that global alliance arena.
A very pleasing win and one that will actually touch many of our businesses across the world.
Also we've recently signed what could be upwards of a 10-year deal with Saudi Aramco again strategically positioning us in Saudi Arabia.
So more of the regionalization and growing the business internationally in the offshore side for Saudi.
And it's been announced as well that we signed a technical services agreement moving forward on a sole-source basis towards EPC submission to Magnolia for their LNG facilities in the U.S..
It's worth saying though that the market is tough.
The oil prices are obviously still depressed.
I think the focus for us is on projects capitalizing on low natural gas feedstocks.
And we feel that with what we see in front of us KBR is well-placed for awards in 2015 given our strong positioning in that gas market.
So we're feeling pretty good about the backlog going into this financial year and with a strong focus on making sure that we understand the market and the customers well enough to understand which projects have the most likelihood to proceed.
So with that in summary I'll now turn over to Brian who will discuss the fourth quarter restructuring charges in more detail and obviously the segment results in more detail also.
Brian.
Thank you Stuart and good morning.
Turning to slide 5 the first slide here we try to break out the restructuring charges which dominate the financial results for Q4 and frankly for the entire year.
As you see in the first column we list the items that we had spoken about in December when we were in New York and the second column puts the fourth quarter actual numbers alongside.
You see that the charges turned out to be $1.156 billion so larger than what we had anticipated driven primarily by increased amounts of goodwill impairment and also some additional tax reserves that we've taken for financial reporting purposes.
Looking at each one of the lines individually if you go all the way to the right you can see where it's mapped to the financial statements that we're filing this morning with the SEC.
But the goodwill impairment of $446 million is largely the result of the acquisitions that have been made in the past for Robertson Schaefer and for BE&amp;K.
The second line ERP and impairments obviously we had mentioned in the past we were going to stop the rollout of our new ERP program.
And there are also some charges in there for intangibles and some real estate impairments that we have taken.
The tax reserves and allowances as I mentioned these are valuation allowances for financial reporting purposes.
It does not mean that we do not have access to those tax attributes.
We retain those attributes.
It's just for financial reporting purposes since we have these large losses.
We're not allowed to show the deferred assets on the U.S.
GAAP financial statements.
And there's more information relating to the tax situation in footnote 3 of the 10-K which is being filed this morning.
The next line is the U.S.
power projects that Stuart mentioned earlier pretty much in line with what we had anticipated in December.
The U.S.
government charges actually these are reversals of some revenues that have been recognized in the past.
Again we will continue to pursue these.
We think we're entitled to them.
However at this point in time we believe it's more prudent and less than probable that we will be able to obtain these revenues in the near term.
And finally the restructuring charges which include the typical severance as well as some impairment of operating leases.
Most of these charges as you see are non-cash.
I want to caution you though that future cash column of $180 million the majority of that will flow through our financial results in 2015 and therefore our operating cash flow will be adversely impacted accordingly.
Moving on to slide 6 financial results versus fourth quarter a year ago -- obviously again impacted by the charges we just went through.
Gross profit includes $130 million of the U.S.
power projects that we talked about plus $46 million of the U.S.
government services.
So in total $176 million of charges included in that gross profit line.
There are some other changes in our estimates as Stuart referred to earlier on and we will talk a little bit more about those when we get to the segments.
But we believe those are one offs and will not be recurring.
Then moving down you see the goodwill impairment the asset impairment and restructuring charges and then the tax valuation allowances.
Moving on to the segment reporting on slide 7 you see revenues are down consistent with what we've been saying for some time.
As you may recall in 2013 we had another LNG and gas-to-liquids project that were still ongoing.
Those projects have largely been completed and therefore the decline in revenues is largely associated with those two mega project.
However you see the technology and consulting group was down slightly.
They had a lot of engineering activity underway in the fourth quarter of 2013 which was not the case in 2014.
Nevertheless we would expect revenues to be higher in 2015 for technology and consulting than it has been in 2014.
As I mentioned for the E&amp; the gas to liquids and LNG projects are driving the decline year over year.
And on the government side it's primarily due to support for the U.S.
military and the UK Ministry of Defense in Afghanistan which obviously has scaled down as troops have been withdrawn from those operations.
On the gross profit and equity line the T&amp;C reflects the decline in the revenues I mentioned earlier.
In the engineering and construction group there was a net increase in costs to complete on projects of $22 million.
This again is what Stuart had referred to earlier where we have projects that have progressed further and we were able to have some more insight into schedule and final costs on those as reflected in the charge there.
And I might add that that's net of a slight pickup in Canada on the close out and continued progress on the modular assembly projects that we have talked about in the past.
Five of the seven projects are now complete.
In government services there was a $46 million charge we talked about relating to the restructuring.
There is also $17 million in charges related to several projects where we've done additional work we've incurred the cost.
We believe we're entitled to change orders but we have not yet been able to secure those change orders.
So if and when we do obtain those change orders obviously we would make an adjustment to those projects.
But at this point in time since we don't have those change orders in place and we're still in process of discussing with our client we were unable to recognize the revenues associated with those.
And then the non-strategic business reflects the charges relating to the power business.
Moving on to cash on slide 8 at yearend we had $970 million.
You see the breakdown the majority of which is still overseas.
During the fourth quarter we bought $4 million worth of shares back.
We were blocked from doing much in the way of share repurchases during the fourth quarter due to the ongoing strategic review.
But you see for a pretty down year as we're reporting year to date we've returned $153 million to our shareholders in capital allocation which is important to us and it includes capital returned to shareholders as you see.
And since the spin back in 2007 we've returned $970 million to our shareholders.
As we mentioned earlier with those restructuring charges particularly from power and some working capital reversals we would expect to have negative working capital from operations in 2015.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Stuart who will talk about our markets.
Thanks Brian.
On slide 9 our outlook for technology and consulting.
The technology market strength continues driven mostly by low-cost natural gas feedstock.
And so the investments in ammonia refining olefins and other chemicals continue.
We've got very strong technologies today and we're very well placed with those technologies and to grow our portfolio.
So there are good opportunities we see for new facilities.
But we're also seeing an increasing and a greater demand for revamps as existing facilities and existing customers drive improved economics looking for a quicker payback.
We're also seeing some very strong and good engineering and consulting opportunities.
In times of financial challenge customers are looking for innovative solutions where they can get projects more economical and this is a good opportunity for our consulting business to grow and to add value to our customers and allow KBR to have an early engagement with those customers.
We're always on the lookout for new products and new technologies that we can put into the sales pipeline and we recently announced the Showa Denka acetyls technology which we recently added to our portfolio.
Moving on to slide 10 E&amp;C.
E&amp;C is our project delivery business.
Again we've we highlighted there the recent awards supporting our strategic focus areas.
I won't touch on them again other than the final one which I didn't mention earlier which is really around the award of a major reimbursable construction services reimbursable construction project significant for us in the U.S.
and very much supporting our strategy of reimbursable stand-alone construction.
We continue with a healthy base of large projects in backlog -- the two LNG projects you are well aware of and we're now executing four EPC ammonia urea projects in North America using our technology.
Moving on the key near- and long-term prospects are focused on the strategic direction.
The Shell alliance is progressing well and we've received a number of assignments under that LNG alliance.
We continue to see good downstream opportunities in the Middle East in refining and petrochems.
And we continue work in North America downstream and chemical front-end designs with EPC opportunity.
And we haven't seen that slow down at the moment.
Low-cost developments in the Middle East and the Caspian we're seeing some onshore upstream opportunities.
And obviously we've announced the offshore piece of what we're doing in Saudi Arabia.
In the Gulf of Mexico and West Africa we continue to see where it makes economic sense we're engaged in a number of these opportunities onshore and in offshore.
But they are selective.
And we're also being very selective in what we're chasing in the North Sea Thailand Qatar and Indonesia.
But in all four the reason we've highlighted all four of those areas is we believe we've got significant opportunities in each of them and we believe those opportunities will go ahead.
We're completing a number of major LNG feeds as you are well aware -- Pacific Northwest Tangguh the Magnolia LNG.
And we've got a confidential client LNG pre-FEED in and around the U.S.
for a confidential client that is ongoing.
And the three multi-billion dollar U.S.
LNG EPC projects.
Pacific Northwest -- it's a little unclear as to the status of that being very open and honest and the award date is unclear.
Trunkline for British Gas in Lake Charles has been announced.
That will move out to 2016 and Tangguh LNG the FEED is ongoing and that's progressing as expected with award in 2016.
So moving on in government services we're feeling pretty good about government services particularly in the UK.
We've got significant opportunities in that space.
The UK Army rebasing essentially bringing all the UK troops back from Germany back into the UK.
And the client's confirmed its intention to contract with KBR JV for the facilities construction in 2015 and we're working that through now.
With that comes the incremental scope opportunity for the facilities management the long-term maintenance of those facilities that we currently do on existing facilities.
So a good long-term business.
And we've also been confirmed as the preferred bidder for the UK Ministry of Defense fixed-wing training contract which is essentially training the next wave of pilots coming through the UK Air Force where we operate the training facility for the UK government.
And again another long-term annuity contract.
We're seeing multiple international government services opportunities and expeditionary support services and equipment facilitation.
We're also working with the UK police and the Australian defense force.
For the U.S.
oversee base operations opportunities continue and we're seeing growth in the LOGCAP IV services in Iraq going forward.
In summary on slide 13 we've taken one step back to take two steps forward.
The restructuring is well underway.
As I said before the team is in place.
Everyone understands what we have got in front of us and is accountable for delivering what we've announced to the market and internally.
And I believe we're on track to achieve the margins and the cost-saving targets.
The fourth quarter results include significant restructuring and tax valuation related charges as we announced previously.
The operating results for the segments reflect some discrete items that are not expected to recur as we've managed to take.
As those projects progress to near completion in terms of the legacy projects we're able to take a good look at them.
The market is somewhat challenged but encouraging awards across our business.
We've talked about these key awards very much supporting our strategy and so the early indications are good.
We've highlighted the imminent opportunities with the UK Ministry of Defense for the government services segment which we're feeling pretty good about going forward.
And we expect a profitable 2015 even as restructuring activities continue and we embed the change.
2015 EPS target of $1.07 to $1 22 excluding legacy U.S.
government legal fees of $18 million to $25 million pretax is the guidance we're giving for this financial year.
Thank you.
Operator we would now like to turn the call back over for questions please.
[Operator Instructions].
We will go first to Tahira Afzal of KeyBanc.
I was wondering if you folks could give me a bit of trajectory on how we move through 2015 in terms of reaching your margin goal for 2016.
Clearly fourth quarter was a little lighter than the goal you set for 2016.
So I would love to get an idea of what you are embedding in your guidance.
And also in terms of margins if you can also give us an idea of how much of your guidance is really being influenced by cost savings.
Okay I will try that.
First we've identified in excess of $100 million in cost savings which is in various stages.
Some already has been actioned some is in process.
So that will be a phased approach throughout the year.
It's embedded in the guidance that we had given you.
And I also just want to caution given the current market even as we take cost out not all of that cost savings will be an incremental increase in earnings because of a tighter market than maybe we have experienced over the last several years.
So it will be a phased approach.
Like I said greater than $100 million has already been identified but the goal still is $200 million by the end of 2016.
Okay.
And if you look at your backlog growth Stuart you said earlier on at the analyst day that outside of LNG we could still see backlog growth coming through.
Of course that was before oil took a bigger dive.
So would love to get a sense on how you look at the competitive environment and build a quality backlog how your opinion has changed over there? You are right.
We talked about that before the oil price really started to drive down further.
But that aside I think the announcements we've made recently in this quarter signify that we still are firmly of the opinion that outside of LNG we can actually deliver a backlog of value into KBR and obviously to the shareholder base.
Thank you.
We will go next to Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
It's Vlad Bystricky on for Andy.
How are you? Maybe just following up on to Tahira's questions it seems like in this environment it's going to be very difficult to grow backlog from here.
So how are you thinking about earnings growth from here? We see your guidance for next year but how are you thinking about KBR's earnings potential beyond 2015? I think in terms of our thinking about backlog going into next year it's obviously a front-of-mind question for all of us and a focus.
And I think that as far as we're seeing in the marketplace where we're positioned today and across our three business lines we're actually seeing top-line growth for the technology and consulting business and the government services business as we talked about before.
In terms of E&amp;C which is the sizable of the businesses certainly as you look across the various regions they all differ.
And I think you have to actually say in Asia-Pacific where we've got the big LNG projects the backlog there will come down as we work off those projects.
As you look into Europe we believe what's in front of us today will be essentially the opportunity would be flat.
And as we look into what's happening in the U.S.
and across the Americas I think the opportunity to capitalize on the low cost of natural gas is a good one in the downstream sector.
So I think the opportunity to build backlog there is strong.
And so in terms of the earning potential we've given guidance for this year and as I said we're taking one step back to move two steps forward.
And in terms of looking at the potential into the following year our belief is that as we continue to take costs out of the business and we continue to get a strong focused in a strategic direction that we will grow earnings.
But we're not in a position to give guidance or an indication of what 2016 is at this juncture.
And then maybe as a follow-up we know about the three large LNG EPC contracts that you are bidding on and that you have highlighted.
Can you talk about given the uncertain timing of potential awards on these projects how you are balancing the need to take out costs today versus the longer-term opportunity you see on those projects? And maybe at what point would you become more concerned about the potential viability of those three projects? Viability in terms of them going ahead or us supporting our--? In terms of them going ahead.
I think if you look at the various differences in those LNG projects you've got Pacific Northwest which is essentially a greenfields plant and I think greenfield plants will be more challenge economically.
If you look at the Lake Charles project for BG although it's been pushed to the right by a year we're continuing to progress with the dialogue through the bidding phase of that.
And the economics around that are probably less challenged than the ones in Canada because there's a lot of associated infrastructure there.
And then when we look at Tangguh in Indonesia that's the third train.
The associated infrastructures are very much in place.
The gas sales agreement with the Indonesian government has already been signed.
So you've got to think that that also stands a very good chance of proceeding dependent upon the EPC price that comes in.
So I think the bottom line in this is that the LNG projects with associated infrastructure are clearly in better shape economically.
The greenfield projects because of the level of infrastructure that is acquired are more economically challenged.
That's probably the best way to describe it.
And the Magnolia LNG opportunity that we have as well the associated infrastructure around it as well.
So you've got to think that again dependent on EPC pricing the viability of that is probably less challenged than the greenfield ones.
And it's probably worth saying as well that our guidance for 2015 assumes in that guidance that these projects the big three LNGs that we've been talking about for a while that none of them go ahead in 2015.
Thank you.
We will go next to Jamie Cook of Credit Suisse.
Just another question as it relates to guidance.
Brian you said you've identified $100 million in costs.
It doesn't sound like all that hits in 2015.
But my question is one when you think about your guidance for 2015 how do we think about your burn rate for backlog because I'm trying to understand what you already have in place versus what you think that you have to win because as I look at your fourth quarter and if I try to normalize fourth quarter after charges and then annualize that I think I get to base earnings of $0.65 which implies you need $0.40 $0.50 or so to make your numbers.
So how much is cost what's in backlog and what do you need to win? And my second question is you guys still sound positive on the ability to grow backlog.
Stuart since we talked to you in December has your prospect list declined? Was your prospect list X billion and now it's this? Because I'd be more concerned on your ability to grow backlog and what that again implies for 2016.
Jamie your first question we would anticipate backlog at the end of 2015 to be relatively flat to where we're going into the year.
We're not expecting to have to book huge amounts of new work in order to be executed this year.
Obviously you book any large jobs this year the amount of profit to be accrued during the year is relatively small given the ramp-up of engineering services which is typically about 8% to 10% of the value of the project.
Again we think even in the challenging market we can maintain a flat backlog.
And then Brian is there anything we should be aware of in terms of earnings first half versus second half maybe with the cost actions you've taken? Do earnings ramp throughout the year? Is it back-end loaded? I would say ramping throughout the year because you are correct in some of the savings are more to the back end of the year than they are in the beginning of the year Sorry Brian one last question before the prospect listing.
As you think about -- obviously your balance sheet is fairly strong today -- but as you think about the market that we're in and the energy headwinds that we face does it cause you to be more conservative as we transition through 2015 and get a better feel for what energy CapEx is longer term that you would want to be more conservative and perhaps sit on more cash versus return it back to shareholders? I don't think I'm so concerned about the market per se in terms of changing our behavior.
I think we've been pretty clear on capital allocation.
We're interested in still growing the business.
We've talked about technology in the past.
And we also talked about a balance where we return cash to shareholders through dividends and through share buybacks.
So I don't think my views have changed significantly from where we were in December when we talked about this last.
Okay.
And last any cut on your prospect list versus December besides the LNG projects? Not really no.
I think some will move to the right a little bit but we're actually seeing a good level of activity in our key markets as I described on the way through.
I think it's also worth saying Jamie in terms of the $100 million of costs we've identified they are in various buckets as you can imagine.
One of those key buckets and we're substantially complete in this exercise is identifying where we had duplication and things like that and be able to take the people cost out of the business.
We've substantially addressed that.
And although some of the cost savings will come through in a phased way as Brian says because we're down the track on those and addressed them in Q4 and Q1 now that phasing will be less marked is probably what I'm trying to say Thank you.
We will go next to Steven Fisher of UBS.
Q4 obviously you had a lot of your restructuring activity.
You are now 2/3rds of the way through Q1.
I'm just curious how quiet do you think the first quarter would be? And is this the quarter where you really turn the page on a lot of the noise filtering through? Steve I think that's the plan.
But we also don't want to get into giving quarterly guidance Steve as you know.
But yes clearly we're trying to project to the end of these jobs.
As I mentioned before some of the noise we do not expect to recur.
And then wonder if you could just give us an update on the wind-down period of Gorgon and Ichthys how and when those roll off.
And then in the event that in 2016 you were to win both Trunkline and Tangguh when those get ramped up in 2017 would those equally make the same contribution to earnings that you are getting from Gorgon and Ichthys in 2015? I think the timing on Gorgon is being driven largely by Chevron.
But we see activity throughout I would say this year that the announced target is to get the first train up in the latter part of this year and then train 2 and train 3 to follow.
So there will be continued activity into the next financial year.
And in terms of Ichthys that will progress.
We're just ramping up to the peak on-site on Ichthys so that will continue through the next couple of years also.
In terms of the Tangguh the same sort of -- we don't actually comment on returns on individual projects.
But I think if we secured both Tangguh and Lake Charles that would be a terrific problem to have.
Thank you.
We will go next to John Rogers of D.A.
Davidson.
I just want to follow up a little bit on the guidance for 2015.
What tax rate are you assuming in there Brian? We'll probably be somewhere in the mid-20%s.
But no significant cash taxes? No significant cash taxes in the U.S.
but we always pay some cash tax internationally.
We did last year as well.
That's one of the things that you see in the tax provision an amount greater than the valuation allowances and that's the international cash taxes.
Okay.
With those earnings and I understand what you said about future cash outflow of the power projects in U.S.
government but I'm just trying to understand your sentiment on negative cash flow.
The projects that you've got burning off in 2015 are they cash negative significantly? I'm trying to understand what's happening there because it looks like the earnings are essentially in line with what you're talking about with these projects or maybe it's just not that significant a cash burn.
We have a couple contracts where we've had favorable working capital positions on and they are turning this year.
So you have the combination of the cash associated with the restructuring that we pointed out on slide 5 and then you have some of the timing on some of the projects that are getting near the end.
These are not the large mega projects that you may be thinking about but these are other projects elsewhere in the world.
What we're trying to do is be very up front and straightforward around the fact that we do have forecasts in these power projects that there are charges there and as a consequence of that there's a cash outflow.
But in the projects that are ongoing we're not forecasting any negative cash flow in those projects.
And Stuart in this bidding environment with depressed oil prices but hopefully decent attraction for gas monetization work the cash process or the cash flow of the project that you are bidding do you sense that that is changing substantially? Over the past couple of years a lot of contractors have been able to get substantial upfront cash payments on projects.
Do you expect this bidding environment to change? There will always be pressure on it.
I think as Brian said like what we did on one of our larger projects that's coming near the end now we've got a very healthy cash up-front balance that's being worked off now.
I think that there is a recognition in the marketplace as well that when you do lump sum EPC like that there is a cost of mobilization.
So it really comes down to the maturity of the client and choosing those clients specifically.
There will be pressure going forward as the market tightens but I don't see it really changing to the point of a significant difference to what we've experienced in the past.
But there will be some tightening I think.
That's obvious.
And I think also that our subcontractors and our vendors will see that tightening as well.
Thank you.
We will go next to Jerry Revich of Goldman Sachs.
I'm wondering if you gentlemen could just flesh out a little bit more on slide 11 you spoke about downstream opportunities in the Middle-East.
Can you just give us an order of magnitude of the size of the projects.
Based on Brian's comments of flat backlog exiting 2015 and over $1 billion in gas monetization burn this year that implies some really sizable projects elsewhere and wondering if you could just give us some more color.
I think in terms of -- we don't really talk about the individual project specifics but really if you looked at what's happening across the Middle East and where we're positioned in the Middle East our position in Saudi Arabia is reasonable.
We're executing the large Sadara Petrochem complex there today and that will continue.
We're seeing opportunities in and around Saudi Arabia both with Saudi Aramco and with SABIC who is essentially the large chemicals company in Saudi Arabia.
And the scale of those are typically significant.
And we're also looking very aggressively across the rest of the Middle East which is a good opportunity for us in Kuwait and Oman.
We recently announced the award of the Nasr project in Abu Dhabi that we're executing out of our Singapore office.
The activity in the Middle East is a good opportunity for us.
And typically the scale of those facilities they are typically significant.
Okay.
And it sounds like you have some momentum with the UK MOD.
Can you just flesh out for us the contribution you expect as far as defense JV? Is that a major driver of the margin profile that you're outlining for government services in 2016? And how much visibility do you have there? Jerry I would just say the majority of the work that the UK business does with the UK MOD and others flows through that equity and earnings line.
We typically joint venture with partners.
That's where you see the majority of our international activities.
But we're not going to comment on any specific project.
The one you referred to is ongoing.
And we have other opportunities.
As we mentioned the second phase of that [inaudible] type project as well as others with the Ministry of Defense and other local agencies in the UK.
Thank you.
We will go next to Vishal Shah of Deutsche Bank.
This is Chad Dillard on the line for Vishal.
Your margin targets for 2016 how does it compare to what you have in your margin in your backlog? And how dependent are these targets on bookings that you're going to get in 2015 and 2016? The answer is probably yes to both of those questions.
We've had a good look at the work in backlog.
We think we've set those projects up for success in the best of our abilities.
No guarantees of course but to the best of our abilities.
And that features of course going through.
And obviously looking at the market today and our expectation on margin performance on backlog is a critical element of the future and one we've worked out very carefully.
So it's a combination of both Chad.
And just to continue on that just wanted to get a sense of what you are seeing in the bidding environment.
Are you seeing project sponsors pushing back on your price or are you seeing more competition driving down the bidding price? We're not seeing particularly more competition I would say.
I think that the markets we're in it's the usual suspects in some regards.
But what I would say is that the speed of response of our client base has been quick to act on the reduction in oil price.
They've announced almost without exception a reduction in CapEx spend over the next little while.
And certainly they are looking at their own cost base.
That sort of thing only flows one way and that's downhill.
I think that what we've done is we've tried to actually pitch that and fit it into the guidance that we're giving going forward.
As we said the fact that we were ahead of the curve and looking at taking cost out of the business is good.
We were ahead of the oil price somewhat in that exercise because of the restructuring that was required.
So I think there is pressure from the customers but we've responded.
I think and got ahead of the curve on reducing the cost base.
And we factored both of those positive and negative into the guidance we have given.
Thank you.
We will go next to Chase Jacobson of William Blair.
Stuart the first question is on the ammonia market.
You guys have done a really good job in ammonia over the last year and a half or so and I know you mentioned that as a potential growth area.
Can you just talk a little bit about where we're in terms of the cycle of that ammonia market? There is lots of activity of course in the U.S.
just now because of the cheap gas.
There's a number of prospects still coming down the pipeline.
But ammonia of course being a fertilizer very much relates to GDP growth.
And we're seeing a lot of opportunity still in that sector in Asia we're seeing it in the Middle East we're seeing it a little bit in Africa and a bit of it in Latin America.
So it's not just a U.S.
opportunity.
It's a global opportunity and we run it as a global business with our global sales force.
That is why.
Our technology is one of if not the leading technology in the world and as a consequence of that we've got good market penetration.
And the second piece to that question is really around the revamps.
Our technology has been used in many existing facilities.
And of course they are trying to modernize those become more efficient and revamp them.
And as a consequence of that we have significant opportunities because we've got a very strong not only the technology base what we can bring to bear are industrial services type capability our brownfield construction and brownfield engineering capability and do a wrap on the revamps as well.
We're seeing good growth in both of those areas going forward.
Okay.
And then second question is as it relates to the non-strategic businesses can you give us an update as to where you are or if there's still opportunity for divestitures there how that's going to progress? And also what's assumed in guidance for the non-strategic businesses in 2015? I'll take it.
First the building group we talked about at the Analyst Day we have some interest in there with potential buyers.
And we would hope to be able to make an announcement within the next several months on that one.
Infrastructure also is in process and we have a good interest there as well.
It's a nice little business.
So those are in progress.
And mining is well on its way.
Probably less of an opportunity for divestiture there it's more restructuring in the U.S.
associated with that business.
And in terms of guidance there's really not much of anything in there for guidance from an earnings perspective but it does have an impact from the cash side particularly related to the power projects.
Thank you.
We will go next to George O'Leary of Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Company.
Most of my questions have been answered so I'll toss an easy one out there.
Just as you look out in lieu of oil prices falling off pretty hard you've got a lot of people coming in especially from the Gulf of Mexico with jack-up rig count falling off pretty hard a lot of labor coming in.
So are you seeing the labor cost worries or are your worries about labor costs abating in the U.S.? A lot of those rigs have two welders per rig so welding was an area where labor costs were really tight.
Could it be the case where we see labor inflation slow or stop or potentially even move the other direction? Just curious on your thoughts there.
You would think instinctively that would be an ultimate outcome of this.
We're not seeing it today but you would think instinctively that there will be a less tighter labor market.
But really the market that's probably of most interest to our peers and ourselves at the moment is around the Gulf Coast and the level of activity there is still very high.
Thank you.
We will go next to Robert Connors of Stifel.
My questions are a little bit more strategic in nature.
Over the past 10 years the fixed-price portion and the risk of KBR's backlog have see-sawed.
We went from 40% 45% of the mix with fixed price it got as low as 20% but it's back up around that 40% range.
So my question is when this restructuring is complete and we fast-forward to 2016 do you guys have a target range where you would like the fixed-price versus cost-plus portion to be? Maybe more of like a 20%/80% split between the two like other E&amp;Cs? We certainly want Rob to get a balance in what we're doing.
And as we announced our strategic positioning in terms of fixed-price EPC is to get out when we're only completing on cost.
And we certainly want to be differentiated when we're doing fixed-price EPC.
We lay down strategically where we feel we can be differentiated around our technology our self-perform construction or reference plant that we've done before.
And a number of the scale of some of these facilities is significant.
It would be probably remiss to actually put a peg in the sand to say 1 percentage or another.
I think the right thing to say is there will be a balance in the business and as we move into fixed-price EPC we will do it in a very considered way.
Would you say 40% though if I could push you it probably a little bit too high? I think you are pushing me and I'm probably not going to answer that question.
And then just related to the long-term margin guidance the equity earnings it also flows through both revenue and profit without a cost element to it.
So I was wondering what those numbers would be or a range for those numbers if we were to exclude equity earnings because this is going to be a large portion of that.
First of all it doesn't flow through revenues it just flows through the equity line.
We have so many joint ventures.
And trying to predict the way you're going to contract in the future is always a challenge whether we're going to have controls or it gets consolidated whether we're not going Ott have control.
So we just look at it on a blended basis on the long term and we would assume that the trends that we have had in the recent past would continue.
It's difficult to start breaking those lines individually and predicting exactly what margins are going to be one way or the other.
Thank you.
We will go next to Michael Dudas of Sterne Agee.
Two thoughts first Stuart your award on U.S.
construction services is there any trend that shows some support for some activity in the U.S.
on that front generally and maybe for you guys in particular? And secondly the opportunity for EPC awards relative to your technology business any thoughts of seeing some significant opportunities for bookings in the next say 6 to 18 months? Thank you.
I think the answer to both of those questions is yes.
Taking the last one first there's a number of technology differentiated EPC opportunities in front of us today.
There's no guarantee any of them will go ahead but we believe that we're in as good a position as any to actually capitalize on those opportunities.
So definitely a positive on that question.
And in terms of the reimbursable construction market yes the level of activity continues.
We continue to have good traction in that marketplace and it's a good business for us.
And not forgetting of course our construction business also supports what we're doing in the EPC environment.
Is it more regional or is it industry specific on the construction side? Yes it's probably energy specific and certainly for us it's not regional per se but certainly we would be looking in areas in the U.S.
where we have a very strong track record in history in terms of how we understand managing the labor and the relative influences of that labor market.
Thank you.
At this time for closing remarks I would like to turn the conference back over to Mr.
Stuart Bradie President and Chief Executive Officer of KBR.
Good.
Thank you for your time this morning.
It's very much appreciated.
The key message today is that we're very much on the path to the new KBR.
We're very focused in our strategic vision for tomorrow.
We really want to talk about what we're going to do not what we have done.
We've laid down some targets that we feel we're well on the way to meeting and we do believe that 2015 will return KBR to firm profitability and within the guidance that we have given.
So thank you very much again.
Thank you for your participation.
That does conclude today's conference.
Good day and welcome to the KBR’s First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
As a reminder your lines will be in a listen-only mode for the duration of the call.
There will be a question-and-answer session immediately following prepared remarks.
You will receive instructions at that time.
And now I would like to turn the conference to Mr.
Zac Nagle Vice President of Investor Relations and Communications.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for KBR’s first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Today’s call is also being webcast and a replay will be available on KBR’s website for seven days at kbr.com.
The press release announcing KBR’s first quarter results is also available on KBR’s website.
Joining me today are Stuart Bradie President and Chief Executive Officer and Brian Ferraioli Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During today’s call Stuart and Brian will cover KBR’s results in more detail and discuss our market outlook by major segment.
Please refer to the accompanying presentation that is posted on our website at kbr.com.
After our prepared remarks we’ll open the floor for questions.
Before turning the call over to Stuart we would like to remind our audience that today’s comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting KBR’s views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ significantly from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in KBR’s first quarter earnings press release KBR’s earnings presentation KBR’s Form 10-K for the period ended December 31 2014 and KBR’s current reports on Form 8-K you can find all these documents at kbr.com.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Stuart.
Stuart? Thank you Zac.
Good morning all.
I guess the journey continues and so I’ll move to slide three where I’ll just touch on KBR’s zero harm initiative.
I think what you see in the slide are logging indicators but to get there we have a number of leading indicators which are really driven by executive leadership and visibility of leadership on job sites and offices across the world really driving the message around Courage to Care and the message around Safety is 24X7 Initiative.
And now as you can see these results have really improved KBR’s safety performance.
And as we move through the first quarter we’re now really at the level where we need to be and that is moving into the top quarter of performance.
We want to get the zero harm we’re not resting in laws at all.
But its significant improvement it’s personally very pleasing I think clicking after yourself and those are the end user there is a core value at KBR and one I am totally behind so this is very much good business and great job by KBR’s people to get this performance.
So moving on to slide 4 so really the Q1 summary significantly improved earnings performance versus 2014.
I think the strategy is on track for the segment margins and the target savings by the end of ’16 that we published before and committed to achieving before we’ve got more than a $100 million of cost identified and action to date that will be taking at the business and realized through 2015.
The Mag LNGs continue to perform well and will remain significant contributors to earnings in 2015 and with the way the projects are looking in 2016.
That really in terms of resolution of pending change orders some of those LNG projects I think 2016 could be compliable to 2015 in terms of LNG earnings which is a shift from where we were before and is really just part of understanding I guess the longevity of these projects and the complexity simplifying the complex in terms of what it means to KBR.
We continue to win in strategically important areas the Yara BASF we announced full EPC in that we also announced the JV with the National Oil Company of Azerbaijan and SOCAR.
Strategy around reimbursable construction base them through in the quarter and I guess our positioning in LNG with Dragon LNG EPC and boil-off liquefaction project in the UK was pleasing win in that period.
Oil prices remained depressed.
No doubt about it and they were also top.
But I think KBR is focused on low cost natural gas projects in international government services position as well and also we’ve got the opportunity we’ll discuss a little bit further on in a presentation around UK Ministry of Defense and contracts that place is well for new awards through the year.
Our expectation as we declare that earlier as the backlog will be flat and we’re standing behind that statement.
We think that the opportunities in front of us a lot more below that top end with the tailwind and as expected our balance sheet is very strong it remains robust with zero debt but as expected cost was negatively impacted in the quarter due to certain non-project related payments and I’ll say that again non-project related payments and Brian will discuss that later in the presentation.
So that’s really the summary of the quarter and I would like to handover to Brian to put bit more meat around the bones in terms of the financials.
Brian? Thank you Stuart and good morning everyone.
Turning to slide 5 start with the bookings at the top right hand corner of the slide 899 during the quarter which has backlog of about USD10.3 billion.
I’d like to remind everyone that we only projects in backlog going out 5 years we do have a number of contracts that extent well beyond the five year time horizon and Stuart will touch upon those a little bit later.
Revenues declined during the quarter compared to the prior year primarily due to the completion of some North American construction projects that we had as well as the Canadian modular assembly projects and also from reduced activities on the LNG projects if you recall we had an LNG and a gas to liquids projects that were basically winding up but still had activity in 2014.
Gross project and equity in emerging that reflected improved underlying business performance and we’ve done a good job as Stuart has mentioned previously reducing our overhead cost.
So we had a good profit of quarter.
You see the G&amp;A is also down significantly from a year ago $21 million and the net income obviously reflects the solid performance.
EBITDA for the quarter $76 million.
Moving on to slide 6 looking at the individual segments the technology and consulting group had a mix up to more technology related services and less proprietary equipments so that tends to reduce the revenues but it increases the margin associated with that segment.
The E&amp;C the largest segment reflects the completion of the construction and modular assembly projects have previously touched upon and the government services is down a bit and that reflects less support for the UK military in Afghanistan as the UK has pulled back out of the Afghanistan obviously the services we provide declined as well.
Moving on the gross profit and equity earnings the technology in consulting reflects as I mentioned that shift in module work.
So it tends to bump up the margins but as we progress throughout the year we would expect more proprietary equipment to come back into the mix and therefore the margins will tend to back down towards the targets that we had originally talked about in December margins in the low 20’s in terms of percentile.
E&amp;C reflects the improved performance and a lower cost over heads.
In 2014 we had $41 million related to those losses on the Canadian modular assembly projects as well as 8 million on the North American construction projects they did no reoccur but we also had a favorable settlement in 2014 of $33 million also which did not reoccur.
Government services as I talked about is related to the buying out activity in Afghanistan we had $5 million in the U.S.
related to legacy legal fees on the U.S.
government contract as we try to close out the LOGCAP III and Rio contracts and the non-strategic businesses were relatively quite the way we like them to be and you see the EBITDA reflects reduction of the overheads in the earnings that we previously talked about.
Moving on slide 7 cash -- cash was down for the quarter 758 balance and you see the breakdown between domestic and international cash.
Primarily the uses of cash were as Stuart mentioned earlier non-project related.
We try to outline here the largest components we are in $12 million payment to our former parent as part of the settlement that we had reached with them last year that would appear in the operating cash flow on the cash flow statement.
We had more close outs of U.S.
government audits relating to primarily the LOGCAP III and LOGCAP IV contracts that required us actually send a check of $23 million back to the U.S.
government but I’d like to point out that the U.S.
government owes us more than we owe them and we would expect as we move forward for the cash flow related to these close outs to be positive when cash flow flowing to us.
We also bought out a partner in the Middle East in Saudi Arabia and that was $48 million 8 million of which appears in the operating cash flow and 40 million will show up in the financing activities on the cash flow statement.
We bought back $16 million worth of stock we pay $12 million in dividends and finally we had a significant impact related to the foreign exchange.
During the quarter of the U.S.
dollar strengthened and $28 million of the 64 that are shown here just reflects the translation of foreign currencies pound sterling Australian dollars and Canadian dollars just being translated back to the U.S.
dollar at a higher U.S.
dollar rate.
So it means those foreign currencies translate into lower U.S.
dollars for financial reporting purposes.
The balance 36 is reflected in operating cash flow that was a settlement of hedges.
We had a number of hedges in place as we always do and when the dollar strengthened obviously those hedges required us to settle and it cost us $36 million in cash offset by the gains that we had by the dollar strengthening and reducing the overhead or the overall liabilities that we had in foreign currencies.
So with that I’ll turn the conversation back over to Stuart and move on to slide 8.
Thank you Brian.
So I guess the market outlook for technology &amp; consulting really driven by gas and really lead by ammonia refining olefins and across the chemicals market.
We just received a significant order for license basic engineering and pre-FEED for work of series of ammonia revamps that will come through in Q2 bookings.
We’ve also just been awarded a technical services agreement that leads to I guess source EPC pricing for the another grass roots ammonia plant in Mid West U.S.
which is valued around about a $2 billion opportunity for E&amp;C U.S.
Our opportunities in China particularly around VCC - Veba Combi-Cracking technology which convert heavy hydrocarbons into lighter fuels like diesels is really gaining momentum in the start-up of the first commercial facility and China has gone pretty well and as a consequence have received a number of new inquiries around that technology.
The market is tight for the consulting business but we continue to see selected opportunities in upstream on onshore and offshore and more in midstream and downstream.
We continue to look for new opportunities to expand our technology portfolio as we’ve discussed earlier.
So moving onto the Slide 9 for E&amp;C our largest segment a number of key wins that we’ve announced in Q1 that really support our strategic focus the Yara / BASF EPC award the BG Alliance and that’s kicked off in earnest now and where that leads to over the next year with the announcement of Shell’s acquisition of BG.
We need to work closely with Shell under BG to see how that develops.
Saudi Aramco that work is in the process of kicking off in the long term agreement with them to support their offshore oil and gas assets and we discussed before this major reimbursable construction services award.
We also continue with a healthy base of backlog in E&amp;C the two mega LNG projects I mean those will contribute as I said before hopefully in 2015 under the resolution of pending change orders the earnings will be comparable in ’16 as they are in ’15.
Key prospects the support backlog growth in 2016 rather I would say that we do need to win them and we’re currently executing four ammonia urea projects in North America using our technology and what I would call a differentiated offering I guess with the technology and self-perform construction with our delivery capability.
So moving onto Slide 10 we’re going to increase our focus on the Middle-East and we have recently announced the strengthening of the management team in that area and obviously the acquisition of our Saudi partner -- one of our Saudi partners allows us very much to get clarity of focus in how we’re going to approach the market in Saudi Arabia that we feel regardless of oil price will continue to spend and develop and I think that’s absolutely vital going forward so we’re putting a lot of effort in that marketplace.
We talked about already the EPC pricing for the 2 billion grass roots ammonia urea complex in the Mid-West.
Low cost development in the Middle-East and Caspian are driving onshore upstream opportunities and I think the JV with SOCAR where we’ve got a strong footprint in country that plays to national content and the local seen positions as well for offshore ground field projects.
We’ve been supporting BP and Azerbaijan for decades now and we’re very well-known there and have actually helped BP develop all their assets in country to-date.
Offshore developments pretty selective but they continue in the Gulf of Mexico and Africa and we’re seeing again sort of some key opportunities in the North Sea and the UK and offshore Norway.
As I said we’ve got early works and early work award against the BG Global Alliance which is growing well and several major LNG developments are also in process that Shell Global LNG agreement we have got a number of assignments within that Tangguh Train 3 FEED JV work continues with pricing EPC pricing being submitted at the end of this year we think that project will perceive in early 2016.
And Magnolia we’ve talked about this before it’s a medium sized new technology and we’re in a so-so position there sort of working to get up pricing together by Q3 and I guess the better news there is they were working towards finalizing the EPC terms and conditions later this month.
And that’s very close to finalization and I guess the other piece that Magnolia have announced recently is they’ve signed I guess the first off take agreement for one of the trains which is really a key milestone in allowing these projects to go ahead.
We’ve also picked up a pre-FEED for a major LNG project for the confidential client and we’ve just been awarded the front end design for an exciting opportunity for FLNG in the Black Sea.
We are still in process with Pacific Northwest and Tangguh but the Technip/KBR JV was not shortlisted for Lake Charles and the reason for that is the joint venture was unwilling to take unlimited fixed price constructions risks in the Gulf Coast for a project of this magnitude and that was a highly considered decision by the joint venture.
So moving to slide 11 the outlook for government services I think we’ve got government services really heading in the right direction.
Now we’ve cleaned up what was the old IGP and we really understand our customer and where our business is heading.
So we’re seeing significant opportunities as a result that the UK Army rebasing the client has confirmed this intention to work with the KBR JV and contract with that entity for the facilities construction which is expected to be awarded in Q3.
The strong operational performance and incremental scope opportunities for long-term maintenance for the UK Ministry of Defense we got the ongoing what there we’ve got an agreement that will run for another 21 years and if we actually we’re looking very closely now the PFI arrangements are a little bit different than your typical commercial arrangements and any contract consolidations and things like that come with some obligations on the part of the UK government because these are finance deals.
And if we took that into backlog and we’re looking carefully whether we think that’s appropriate or not but just to give you and the market an idea of what that means it would be of the backlog would increase by about $4 billion which is really significant and I think is a true reflection of what the business has in hand.
We were confirmed as the preferred bidder for the UK Ministry of Defense fixedwing training contract which I talked about earlier that’s progress and there is a lot of work going on now really to sort of the financing in place et cetera to make that all happen and again is another long-term annuity contract opportunity and again the expectation is Q3 closure.
So a number of international government services opportunities with the UK police and other local governments and also with Australia.
And the U.S.
oversea base operational support opportunities continue and we’re recently awarded the Arabia credential with contract in Q2.
We’re seeing some growth and the services and Iraq as we support the U.S.
Military and what’s happening with Isis and we expect that to grow a little bit further and with opportunities to grow even further going forward depending on what happens there.
So returning to page 12 and to summarize I think in Q1 we saw a strong and improved operational performance and financial outcomes and the restructuring continues on track and continues on track to achieve the targets that we set out.
We continue to have good success and winning strategically in important projects and the areas where we’re pointing the business albeit we’re not running away from the fact this is a difficult market.
Backlog statements we stand behind in 2015 with opportunities to grow in ’16 and I guess the one piece again just to reiterate is the LNG projects remain significant contributors in ’15 and will be in ’16 and resolution of these pending change or this good result and LNG ’16 being comparable to ’15.
So we’re reaffirming our annual EPS guidance of $1.07 to $1.22 excluding legacy fees.
And as Brian said before the fees in Q1 were $5 million of approximately $0.03.
So that really concludes our prepared remarks.
And I’d now like to turn the call back over to the operator for questions.
Thank you.
The question-and-answer session will conducted electronically.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from John Rogers of D.A.
Davidson.
Couple of things first of all just on the G&amp;A reduction that we saw in the quarter is that a good run-rate or we continue to see that decline through this year and into 2016? Now as we said before we would expect more across to the action throughout the year.
So we would expect that those numbers to as minimum be the same but hopefully throughout the balance of the year decline.
So we’re not done with the cost reductions yet.
Okay.
I guess and that would suggest that the gross profit or the segment contributions and would come down a little bit from the run rate we’ve seen recently through the rest of the year? We’re keeping the guidance the same.
We have a long way to go as Stuart said it’s a pretty tough market.
So we’ll see.
It’s early on but we’re not going to give any additional guidance in terms of what the margins will be for the on a quarterly basis for the balance of the year.
Okay fair enough.
And if I could one more in terms of the buyback was modest in the quarter any update and thoughts there? No.
You know we don’t comment about what we’re going to do or not do in terms of share buybacks.
Obviously with the year end close process there was a limited amount of time in the quarter that we could be doing buybacks but we really don’t comment because I don’t think it does anything to improve our shareholder value by telegraphing what we may or may not do in the capital markets.
We’ll go next to Robert Norfleet of Alembic Global.
Hi this is actually Nick Chen for Rob this morning.
Congratulations on a nice quarter.
Just in terms of the cash that you guys have on balance something like three quarters a 1 billion.
How do you guys see yourself allocating that? Well as we said in the past Nick we try to have a balance of the capital allocation policy.
We’re trying to grow the business and M&amp;A would be a component of that we like the technology as an area of focus.
But we also are committed to recurring capital to shareholders.
And as you see on slide 7 we had $28 million in cash return to shareholders the repurchases and dividend and since this has been back to January 2007 we’ve paid back almost a $1 billion.
And we think we’ve taken a balance approach to it.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And I’m looking at your guidance actual portfolio of businesses right now.
You’d mentioned during the investor day looking into divestures or existing some of those businesses.
Are there any updates there? Yes.
We continue to have discussions with both our building group and our subsidiary as well as our U.S.
infrastructure our business as we previously had talked about and hopefully we’ll be able to close something this year.
As probably what he was saying that the divestures of those businesses is really to tie that up for the company and get the management focused on the key areas of the future.
There are not going to be massive dollars coming into door.
And I’m trying to be very straight forward there.
And I’d also add like Nick that these are nice little businesses and they’re not what problem business that we need into that there is much more of a focus on the strategy we laid out in December.
We’ll go next to Andrew Kaplowitz of Barclays.
Hi guy.
Nice improvement this quarter.
So Brian you stood by backlog growth in 2015 which was your previous guidance.
So maybe you can talk a little bit more about where will the back log I should say flat backlog for the year and where will the flattish backlog come from do you still need the UK mine work this year to get there and are you counting on bigger ammonia work or anything LNG this year? I think all of them.
It’s probably the way.
I mean we’ve come and I actually said that we expect the UK MOD contracts to close this year in Q3 and we still stand by that we think that’s the right timing and obviously that would factor into what we’re doing in terms of backlog this year obviously.
And then you I guess our pipeline of opportunities in North America we’ve talked about some LNG projects we’ve talked about some ammonia projects and some chemical projects in addition to what we are looking out in UK in the hydrocarbon sector.
So I think it’s a combination it doesn’t sort of it doesn’t hinge on one particular ward or another it’s a close to portfolio and so as a consequence of that that’s why we were happy to standby the statement at the moment because it’s a spread.
Got it and Stuart can I ask you about your ammonia portfolio in particular? You mentioned you are working on four ammonia projects in North America and two projects in the EPC stage.
Can you talk about the duration on these projects and your ability to maintain or grow your ammonia related business and what does seem like a more difficult overall environment for those types of projects? That’s a good question and I think pleasingly we’ve got some of one of the tail end but because of the awaken structure and we’ve got some just beginning I guess the engineering and have got two over three years to go and we’ve got some there are in the middle.
The other nice thing is two of them are lump sum EPC and two of them are reimbursable EPC.
So there is a good mix in terms of how we manage our risk there as well and I think the drivers around the ammonia interesting enough I think if you look at the starts around the implementation of the ammonia in the U.S.
I think the facilities they are planned to be build at the moment.
Well actually to satisfy the demand domestically and if you think about ammonia and its use and I guess food production and fertilizers going forward the opportunity to utilize cheap gas to become an export product from the U.S.
it hasn’t been even thought about and so when you start I am sure this has been thought about but it’s we know at that times of capacity.
So I think the opportunities and the drivers behind that part of the business is somewhat different to your oil &amp; gas markets.
But that’s why we think it’s an exciting area for us to be hugely differentiated with the technology.
We’ll go next to Jaime Cook of Credit Suisse.
Hi good morning and nice quarter.
I guess my first question I thought was interesting the comments you made about the L&amp;G project and that the income ’15 could be comparable to ’16 assuming that you get a favorable change order.
So one how would you handicap the probability of you getting that change order and what is that dependant on? I guess two how much does income ramp down? I mean if you don’t get that change order and then I guess just my second question actually one of you answer that first and then I will go with my second question.
Okay.
So I think Jaime we don’t really talk about individual project as you know in terms of their earnings.
But what I would say is I made the statement that it will be a substantial contributor and L&amp;G performance will be substantial contributor and ’15 obviously and then ’16 and that’s actually doing anything.
Very differently it’s just the way these projects have evolved and we think the change orders that we’re looking is not high change order.
It’s a number of the outcomes because of things changing on the projects themselves and we think that the valid was taken a very close lookout and we’ve done the forecast to complete analysis and we start those statements we stand behind we’ve been putting this into presentation if we didn’t think what we were asking for was reasonable and contractually right.
Okay.
So you wouldn’t expect the substantial decline if you didn’t favorable resolution on the change order that’s the way to talk about it? Yes I think I mean like all these things the way these projects evolve it’s difficult to make a firm statement around the level of decline.
But we still think it’s going to be a substantial part of around next to next year.
Okay and then just a follow up question on the cost cutting actions.
We saw the 21 million come out of G&amp;A which I think was just ERP and Brian you sort of mentioned that so you really don’t have any headcount reduction coming out of that? So how do we think about that in latter part of the year and then you also in the 10-Q you did mention that there were cost savings that hit the different segment lines.
So what inning of the ballgame are you with regards to the cost savings in the segment line and then again any color on how we think about this shift progress throughout the year? Jamie first of the G&amp;A same are not just ERP.
Was that majority of it? No maybe half of it.
ERP is a component of it but we also as you recall if when we stop the ERP program we must maintain and continue to operate the existing ERP system.
So there’s some offset to the savings of not spending on the ERP because we need to maintain and continue to operate the existing ERP.
So the majority our cost reductions and I don’t think it’s an – I know it’s an accurate statement about there being no headcount reduction there has been headcount reductions as the matter of matter of fact that’s where the majority of the savings have come from.
Brian I was trying to give you compliment that it should ramp your corporate G&amp;A should come down throughout the year you’re on the wrong side of this but anyway.
No I understand and I said that earlier it should come down but I just wanted to point out that it’s not just the ERP saving it is a very comprehensive approach to cost.
And on the segment line? Yes I mean I think you’re right Jamie you know that the cost of the headcount reduction you don’t calculate all in Q1 you will see more of that coming through the G&amp;A line as Brian said so thank you for the compliment.
That’s good.
We’ll take that.
And in terms of the coming through the segment line yes we would still – we’ll continue to drive efficiencies there.
We set out the target margins and we expect to achieve those through the timeframe we’ve committed to.
And the cost reductions through there will be driving that move to achieving those margins.
We’ll go next to Tahira Afzal of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
I think a lot of my free cash flow questions have been taken care of.
So I’ll go to the LNG side and just wanted to find out if I look at Magnolia LNG and the sponsors it seems like one of your key assets over there’s been on the technology side given the technology they’re using could lift we’re out to get some thoughts I know those guys have also are proposing a project they’ve had LNG in Canada.
Does that sound like an opportunity on the mix sized project there as well and some of the small to mid-sized LNG projects you’re seeing emerging in the U.S.
potentially in more interesting for yourself from a risk perspective? We think that the mid-sized LNG opportunities are attractive.
I think the capital requirements make them a little bit more attractive that we can get there the technology to work it becomes we feel quite compelling from a return perspective.
I think that the opportunity beyond this is clear because the capital intensity is lower if you can think about how you can actually replicate or motorize easy you can add a train after you can start offer 1 million tonne 2 million tonne train and then add another and then add another and so that there’s ways to do that and there’s ways to get more and more efficient doing as well for the time so we think that this is a good opportunity we think it could be very attractive to KBR’s future.
Got it okay and just in terms of some modeling new increase I know typically E&amp;C companies when they built in large projects a building domain on a probability basis so when I look at your flat backlog commentary does that view magnolia and as a whole in terms of how you see it does not exclude it would love to get a little more color around that.
What I said earlier it’s a portfolio of opportunities and it doesn’t hinge on one particular opportunity.
So hypothetically speaking if you do in booking Magnolia this mean could we apart from your UK opportunities let assume you get those two is there is a scenario of backlog potentially being after you through it.
I would rather stand behind the statement and the backlog is flat and you guys can do that you can think that too and there are lot of moving parts out there and we are working hard in all of them but as of you know you can’t win everything and not everything go and so I think we would rather stand behind our statement.
Got it okay.
And congratulations once more great job on the cost reduction side.
Our next question comes from Steven Fisher of UBS.
This is actually Cleve Rickard on for Steve this morning.
Nice quarter guys.
Just going back to cash flow a little bit -- sorry if I missed if the CapEx was essentially was zero in the quarter how sustainable do you think that is? Then more generally how consistent do you expect cash flow to be going forward? Well we are not a really a heavy cash-flow type business.
Our cash flow tends to be more IT related and as we mentioned earlier we had thought the role out of a new ERP system.
So CapEx is replacement of laptops and things like that.
So it should not be a significant component going forward.
And I’m sorry the second part of your question? Just on cash flow consistency and how consistent do you expect it to be in terms of operating cash flow or free cash flow? The goal is to try to have earnings cash flow equal or exceed earnings.
We did mention though at that the beginning of the year that we have some loss projects uptick the businesses that we are exiting on the power side.
So they will consume some cash but we are not projecting negative cash flow in total.
Okay thanks I appreciate it.
And then just touching on backlog what's your level of confidence that you can replace Gorgon on excess and you know some of the bigger downstream projects over the next 12 months to 18 months and I guess more generally how critical is winning large projects to KBR's future to sort of go through the evolution and restructuring.
I mean I think it's the portfolio answer.
I mean I think we are in a reasonably small club in being having market confidence to execute large projects.
So that will be a key part of our future.
But also you know what we are doing and what depends what these days you call big I guess but that -- you know what they were doing -- in the ammonia sector these are typically $400 million to $600 million type opportunities but when you put Rio on the back end it goes up to $2 billion type opportunities and I would call that reasonably big.
So again it it's a portfolio.
And you know I think that in terms of the statement aren’t flat backlog.
We have to be replacing what we are doing now to achieve the flat backlog.
Our next question will come from Vishal Shah of Deutsche Bank.
Hi this is Chad Dillard for Vishal nice quarter guys.
So if I look at the government services gross profit and equity margins and back out that $5 million -- cost gets about maybe like 9.5% margins and that compares to a target of low teens for the business.
So my question is how do you think about closing that gap? What needs to be done in terms of you know what projects needed to be rolled of and what you need to rely on the future bookings or are there margins levels already in the backlog to get to that target? And can you hit that in 2015? I think the commitments are achieving the targeted margins are into 2016 that's for the first statement.
That being said I mean the government services this is as I said earlier I think have not got it on track.
It's headed firmly in the right direction.
I think we're going to be working hard on the cost side of that business but at the same time the opportunity even to hold cost or reduce them and increase the volume particularly in the UK and a little bit in the U.S.
and Australia will allow us to drive to those margins.
I mean can you just talk about what you're seeing in your E&amp;C business I mean do you expect to grow backlog here in 2015? Then had there been any change in bidding activity are you seeing any pushouts or any shift in market mix? I think all E&amp;C businesses are experiencing challenges in this market.
Again we have been saying that probably as early as anyone and our whole philosophy here is to what strategically do we need to do two number one to be very competitive in this market place.
And secondly position the company to take advantages of the opportunities coming our way.
So far I think that strategy is bearing fruits and particularly with our exposure to gas.
So I think there will be quite -- I think the mix will be similar to what you've seen in the past and particularly the recent past in North America.
And so in terms of the backlog question again it’s that portfolio answer where it won’t be in one specific area it’d be in a number and it’ll be in a number of markets.
Our next question comes from Brian Konigsberg of Vertical Research.
Hitting again just on the cash flow question so correct me if I’m wrong I think that you mentioned that you think actually cash flow will be positive this year which I think is actually a change in the commentary from when you spoke last time.
Can you just clarify that that is actually the case? And separately I don’t know if you could take a ballpark guess do you think you could still end the year with about $1 billion of cash where you ended Q4 at? I don’t think we’ve changed anything Brian about what we’ve previously said about cash.
We’re likely to be as it get back to a more normal pace some of these one-time items that I outlined earlier go away but the earnings the cash flow from earnings is going to be somewhat consumed by the lost projects that I mentioned earlier on the power side.
So I wouldn’t be too enthusiastic about the positive cash flow I would think about it as more as a neutral cash flow for the balance of the year.
So neutral for the rest of the year okay got it.
And then can you comment on non-controlling interest so that stepped down in Q1? I mean is that the new run-rate and as you’re progressing to ’16 does that take a step lower as Gorgon wraps up? Curious to hear your thoughts on how that progresses.
As we said before the LNG earnings we would view to be comparable in ’16 versus ’15 so there is a component related to the LNG projects on Gorgon as you correctly pointed out.
So it will be the – I’m trying to avoid giving specific guidance on individual line items within the P&amp;L.
Okay but I assume the mix between the LNG projects will change even if your contribution or the total amount will be flat right so that non-controlling interest line could move around? Yes it could but you’re right you’re going to have Ichthys which is still ramping up versus Gorgon which is obviously closer to the back-end of the project.
And just last question.
Maybe can you just comment on this JV partnership that you bought out in the Middle-East what is it focusing on and where is the opportunity setting out now that you’ve full control on that? I mean it’s I guess it was a long time historical partner of KBR’s that we together with our partner we felt that the opportunity was probably better served for both of us to part ways and we think that Saudi Arabia as a very strategic market for us.
We like doing business there and we’ve got a very healthy relationship with Aramco and with Sabic in country and it’s been a large part of our history and we think just it will continue to be a large part of our future and acquiring and taking as the partner just really tied us up how we can take that business forward.
Our next question will come from Jerry Revich of Goldman Sachs.
Stuart I’m wondering if you could just say more about the technology path on Magnolia LNG.
You mentioned that it allows for a single train but I think there’s also the operators talking about significantly lower liquefaction cost as well.
Can you just flush-out here for us your offering there and whether the competitive landscape is more narrow on that specific type of technology any sort of color that you’re comfortable sharing with us? Yes I mean I think I said before I mean the component parts of the technology have all been proven before just not in combination I guess.
And so that the liquefaction pieces as no different I think that’s accruing piece that comes into this through the ammonia it’s driven by ammonia.
And if anyone in the world can really understand that I would say the KBR is as good as anyone in the ammonia technology so I think we’re kind of uniquely positioned to really understand the technology and understand what it can and cannot do.
In terms of the sort of it will produce LNG like any other LNG facilities so in terms of its offering to the marketplace there’ll be no difference there.
I think the attraction is that the operating cost and the capital cost are highly competitive and if we get that right it will be a compelling piece in the market place and I think that’s been proven out by the recent sort of announcement around signing the uptake.
I think the other piece in this a little I think the commitment the technology they are looking at it is these are 2 million ton train around new typical 5 million ton trains and Magnolia its first phase is looking at 4 million tons of two trains.
But there are opportunities to do more than that it’s something that’s being explored and for that side in particular and then you can actually replicate that model elsewhere in the world.
And where else do you think it could be the closest to being replicated? I think as mentioned that L&amp;G limited to the owners of Magnolia they have a got the beginnings of our project in Canada called bear head.
So they are already looking as you can actually replicate this elsewhere and they sort of moved that project along a little bit and they certainly feel there is a market for this beyond Magnolia.
Okay and then how would you characterize the competitive landscape on Pacific North West L&amp;G I guess on the Japanese press there is discussions about your competitors being really aggressive on price and I’m just wondering if you could just comment broadly on how the discussions they are going? I mean again that’s a very-very delicate stage of bidding cycle is probably inappropriate to comment and sorry but that’s the truth of it and I guess the statement that we would make is that we will only take on projects where we feel we can make a fair return for a shareholders and we will do in a way that we feel that we manage the risk and if we force them to situations like Charles that we announced that we feel uncomfortable and in KBR JV - [indiscernible].
So they didn’t proceed.
I think that’s probably the statement to make but I don’t think we can see specifically how we feel about Pacific North West at the moment.
Our next question comes from George O'Leary of Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Company.
Good morning guys.
Good quarter especially on the cost front.
And kind of in that range as we model going forward and you got a $100 million of cost save either coming in the works for achieved at this point could you kind of split out for us where the incremental cost save come from here kind of what leverage you are looking at point and maybe just qualitatively if it’s more further test to SG&amp;A and more if it is kind of overhead reduction within the segments.
The short answer George is going to be from both.
This is a comprehensive view of cost both G&amp;A line but also frankly in the businesses.
So it’s going to be split between the two order of magnitude probably more in the businesses because they are larger than the corporate staff and corporate activities somewhere in the neighborhood of typically 58% to 42% is kind of the spilt.
Okay got it.
That’s very helpful color and then maybe just one more follow up on that because most of my questions have been answered.
SG&amp;A reductions quarter-on-quarter were very impressive.
Would you guys say you are kind of ahead of schedule or in line with your plan? To us I think to most people on the street it seem a little bit accelerated but just be curious to get your thoughts.
I believe these comments as we’re on track.
These things go and fit and start.
It’s still early days in the year.
So we’re confident that we’ll achieve the 200 goal that we set out and we’ll give you update as we roll through the year.
We’ll go next to Martin Malloy of Johnson Rice.
Good morning.
Just a question on the $2 billion ammonia urea project opportunity in the Mid West is that essentially a pre-feed that’s what you’ve been awarded and what’s the timing of a potentially PC over there? So it’s a little bit more than a pre-feed because we actually have seen results and from the PC pricing.
So you have to get the definition and then you need.
We’re going to market and actually build up that pricing.
The customer themselves have got -- they feel solid backing to move this ahead.
So it really depends on whether we can actually get the pricing and the confidence around execution which we’re working very hard to wants to know.
So the timing is looking closure to year-end intend to been able to do all that work and away that sales wise of the KBR on the risks that will be taking on.
And secondly to get the owner aligned that everything in place.
So that’s probably what we can say in the moment.
But it’s an exciting opportunity we’re in a sort of so-so of position and that work is start at earliest.
Okay.
And then as far as the government services some of the opportunity there.
Is there any help that you can give us in terms of the potential impact to BKR size of the Army UK Army rebasing UK fixed-wing training contract? No.
Only because we don’t really like to comment on those individual things.
And again we’re in the process of negotiating those opportunities and its inappropriate to talk about scale or size or whatever it’s just not the right time to do.
We’ll go next to Robert Connors of Stifel.
I was just wondering if you can provide some detail on the timing of which you guys pointed out recently indicated in queues of the $370 million in foreign cash that’s out there.
And couples of things I guess like timing as well as if there would be any potential taxes on that amount what would they be as will you guys intend to use that amount for? Well Bob we’re tried to communicate that we have the opportunity to repatriate cash.
Not necessarily the intention to repatriate cash.
Well I’m going to bring it back when we need to do so if we need to do so.
In terms of the tax implications right now the current situation would be would not have any significant tax implications to us.
Given that we have significant foreign tax credit as well as some tax losses.
So the cash tax impact would be relatively are small and the P&amp;L impact would be also negligible.
So it just more the goal that we have publically stated have the opportunities and move to cash around more freely internationally without having leakage both on the P&amp;L as well as on cash taxes.
Okay.
And then can you give us I mean looks like execution on some of those problem projects was pretty good in the quarter.
But you guys completely out of what’s there because what we intend to find here and just E&amp;C land is critical settlement issues tend to still pop-up usually around year-end? I mean part of the I guess the objective of the way we start to the company is to get an option that focus on execution.
And very much aware that we put some lumpy results usually going to long way in the past and every efforts being may to ensure that we got head of the curve going forward.
Sometimes I guess historical projects we’ve taken a long hard look at those as far of the restructuring effort and the statements around the year-end.
And I think the teams have done a good job and actually addressing those situations that are very detail project level.
We’ll go next to Adam Thalhimer of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
The two businesses that you’re selling the buildings group and the U.S.
infrastructure business.
What should we be thinking about in terms of value and timing? I don’t think we can comment on the value number moving to statement earlier.
And again those people actually in the process of actually looking to acquire those businesses.
So again everybody an appropriate to see a number we have said its not that’s it’s tens of million it’s hundreds of millions.
We have made that statement before and that’s probably the right.
So thinking around this and the timing will be through the course of the year there is no one is more advanced than the other.
But in the world of acquisitions you know you’ve got to kiss a lot of frogs and sometimes the offer at the last moment.
So it is difficult to -- I'd love to give you a definitive answer on that but it would better to stand behind it and we’re not going to do that.
Okay.
And the three power plants what was the negative impact in Q1 as you look at as they start to finish up we’ll be thinking about one of those is more of a negative drag than the others in terms of one that finishes up this year versus ’16 versus ’17.
We don’t want to comment about profitability on any individual project.
So we can’t be more specific than that.
You see the results in the P&amp;L non-strategic businesses basically had the really no significant impact from the P&amp;L perspective.
Okay.
And lastly the pipe-fab award for the pipe fab contract in Canada runs through 2017.
What’s the chance that you would have another award pop up under that agreement.
There is always a -- I mean I think it’s pretty lower decline as maturely understand and the market is not -- the Canadian market is probably one of the first to be affected by the overall price.
So if you think about it in that context that gives you good idea.
And that is all the time we have questions today.
I’d like to turn it back to Stuart Bradie for additional or closing remark.
I guess the closing remark is thank you for listening and we do appreciate your attendance and your questions and obviously if there any follow ups we’ll be glad to fill those.
Thank you again.
That does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you all for you participation.
Good day and welcome to the KBR's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
As a reminder your lines will be in a listen-only mode for the duration of the call.
There will be a question-and-answer session immediately following prepared remarks.
You will receive instructions at that time.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Zac Nagle Vice President Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for KBR's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is also being webcast and a replay will be available on KBR's website for seven days at kbr.com.
The press release announcing KBR's second quarter results is also available on KBR's website.
Joining me today are Stuart Bradie President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Ferraioli Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call Stuart and Brian will cover KBR's results in more detail and discuss our market outlook by major segment.
Please refer to the accompanying presentation that is posted on our website at kbr.com.
After our prepared remarks we'll open the floor for questions.
Before turning the call over to Stuart I would like to remind our audience that today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting KBR's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ significantly from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in KBR's second quarter earnings press release KBR's earnings presentation KBR's Form 10-K for the period ended December 31 2014 and KBR's current reports on Form 8-K.
You can find all of these documents at kbr.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Stuart.
Stuart? Thank you Zac and good morning.
Turning to the first slide we start every meeting as most of – some of you who have had this before with a safety moment.
Today's no exception.
We thought we'd do something a little bit different.
Our safety performance that we usually put up as a graph to show how we're traveling.
It's still continuing to improve year-on-year with a 27% reduction in our recordable incident rate.
But we're trying to really personalize safety and I thought it would be worthwhile sharing this photograph.
It's actually the granddaughter of one of our foremen on site and it gave me a heard heart.
And the reason we use this imaging is really to make it a very personal thing in terms of looking after yourself and those around you and of course the most important people in one's life is generally their family.
So we're trying to make it very personal and take that key value not just apply it at the workplace but also take it home.
Okay.
So moving on just a quick summary of how the quarter has gone.
Significantly improved from last year underpinned by strong operating performance across the project.
The two mega LNG projects continue to perform well and as we reported last time we expect them to continue to be contributors to earnings in 2015 and in 2016.
We've announced that we've won the strategically important Johan Sverdrup contract from Statoil and this is the first of a multi-stage development so we're very excited about being involved in probably the largest project in the foreseeable future in and around the Norwegian and North Sea.
Government Services backlog now reflects the value of the full contract term for the PFI contracts in the UK and again we disclosed last time that we were looking closely at that and trying to be very transparent here that increases our backlog by $5.4 billion.
In terms of sort of the ongoing business backlog relatively unchanged from Q1 to Q2 which I think in this marketplace is a good performance.
The strategy is on track to achieve the targeted margins and cost savings by the year-end 2016 and we've identified now more than and actioned $125 million of those savings and these'll be the upside of that is realized through the rest of 2015 and beyond.
And we did close on the sale of the Building Group which was identified as non-strategic for new KBR.
We also in the quarter were excited about the strategic partnership with Bernard Capital for our industrial services and pipe fabrication businesses and we feel that's set for earnings growth via a 50/50 joint venture and Brown and Root industrial services and will expand our customer base and give us greater geographical reach for maintenance and small construction small-cap type projects.
The pipe fabrication alliance will also provide us and this is extremely important in these times particularly in and around the Gulf Coast access to facilities and with that investment.
Both transactions are expected to close by year-end.
And just to close on the summary I think it's important to recognize we've maintained a strong balance sheet through these difficult times and our cash position is providing flexibility in this challenging market.
Now I'd like to hand over to Brian who will put some more meat on those bones.
Brian? Thank you Stuart and good morning.
Turning to slide five if you look at the backlog it's up significantly but that includes the $5.4 billion adjustment Stuart referred to in the Government Services for the long-term annuity type contracts we have in the UK under the PFI initiatives that they have.
But as he mentioned backlog just looking at it without the adjustment and excluding the non-strategic business was flat was equal to that in the first quarter which again is pretty good in some tough markets.
The revenues were down a bit quarter-over-quarter but that primarily led to – or driven by Canadian pipe fabrication and North American fixed price construction projects which were underway last year which we had previously announced we were getting out of the fixed price construction work and the Canadian pipe fabrication businesses were running down.
And I'm happy to announce that in July we've shipped the last modules associated with the seven challenging projects that we've had over the last two years or so.
Also the revenues were down slightly as one of the LNG projects is running toward its conclusion which Stuart says will continue throughout 2015 and into 2016.
Gross profit was significantly improved led by the improved business performance and the reduced operational cost that we've been working on for some time.
And again last year we had $41 million in charges on those Canadian pipe fabrication contracts and another $19 million loss in our non-strategic business which is included in all these results here.
The overheads are lower and that again reflects the initiatives that we announced back in December.
And we did have restructuring charges for the period primarily severance related costs but also an asset impairment relating to some land with a building that we are in process of trying to sell.
We had this gain on the sale of the Building Group subsidiary of $28 million and the net income and the EPS of $0.43 reflects all of the above.
Turning to slide six and looking at the segments on the revenue side Technology &amp; Consulting continues to perform very well.
They had a little less volume of activity because as last quarter less proprietary equipment and a reduced level of upstream oil and gas consulting activity.
The E&amp;C decline again represents the Canadian pipe fabrication and North American fixed price construction contracts from a year ago which we are not really having this year and again a reduction in some of the LNG activity.
Turning to profit the T&amp;C group had very strong margins 26%.
Again this reflects the shift of work to more technology from the proprietary equipment and consultancy work but also reflects the reduction of overhead that we mentioned before.
E&amp;C has improved underlying business performance and reduced cost associated with its overhead but it also had a $15 million correction of an error which was a favorable correction.
This goes back to the spin in 2007 and it's a series of small adjustments to a number of years which added up to about $15 million so that's reflected in the equity and earnings numbers that you see here.
And the earnings also reflect continued progress on one of the – of the second LNG project in Australia.
As I mentioned 2014 had losses which were not repeated and all the Canadian modules as I said before have now all been shipped so our risk profile has reduced significantly.
On the Government Services side they continued to perform very well primarily in the UK Ministry of Defense projects as well as having reduced overheads.
They had $5 million in legal fees associated with a legacy U.S.
government LogCAP and RIO contracts.
And also the 2014 results had a one-time $15 million change a reduction in cost and collection of insurance proceeds on a project that obviously did not reoccur in 2015.
The non-strategic businesses continued to perform as planned.
They also had some lower overheads so those provisions that we had taken at year-end are holding.
Performance is good and we did have charges in 2014 which again did not repeat this year.
And finally we also sold the Building Group as Stuart mentioned and that's reflected in the non-strategic EBITDA line.
Turning to cash cash was down a hair for the quarter $731 million but still a good cash balance.
You see on the slide there were a number of one-time type events or non-operational type events the largest of which are funding the lost contracts for which we had previously taken a provision.
But you also see there was a payment as part of a settlement with our former parent.
We have one more of those to go.
And you see the net of these special items was $55 million.
We did not buy any shares back during the quarter.
The share price performed very well in the second quarter moving from $15.87 on April 28 which was the day before we filed our Q1 results and it rose to $19.48 at the end of June a 23% increase.
And even if you compare the share price performance to yesterday's close the stock is up 9%.
We remain committed to a balanced capital allocation policy that we discussed when we rolled out our strategy in December and as a reminder that includes investing in our current businesses adding new businesses and/or technologies and returning capital to our shareholders.
As you know we already pay a dividend and that yields currently 1.9% and we have returned an excess of $1 billion to our shareholders since January of 2007.
So with that I'll turn it back to Stuart and he'll chat a little bit more about the market.
Thanks Brian.
So moving to the next slide so the market outlook in Technology &amp; Consulting the technology market opportunities particularly led by ammonia refining and olefins and particularly in the revamped area remain strong.
Opportunities for our VCC technology which essentially takes heavy hydrocarbons and converts it into lighter fuels especially diesel for our first commercial plant now in full operation in China and performing well.
So there's a significant interest in this technology and so we see that as a good opportunity into the future.
In the consulting arena it's a tough environment and particularly in upstream E&amp;P but we are seeing some life in that market in the consulting and the study arena and looking at that very closely on specific opportunities.
And we continue to look for additional opportunities as we've reported before to expand our technology portfolio into new products and services.
So moving on to E&amp;C the Q2 developments supporting strategic focus areas.
I think again we set out our stall in December saying we were very very interested in the Statoil Johan Sverdrup opportunity and obviously we've secured that.
Again we're moving to grow our industrial services and maintenance business and reinvigorate in the Brown &amp; Root brand through this new joint venture and moved into the strategic alliance for pipe fabrication.
And the sale of the Building Group again announced in December was closed.
So I think a good quarter in terms of actually delivering on the promises we made in December.
We continued a strong base of large projects and backlog through 2015 and 2016.
The two mega-projects you're well aware of; they continue to be significant importance of earnings in 2015 and in 2016.
And as we reported last time favorable resolution of pending change orders could result in 2016 income being comparable to 2015.
We have a significant backlog of ammonia/urea refining and oil and gas projects and as Brian reported and am very happy to report we shipped the final modules on the Canadian pipe fabrication/module assembly contracts which reduces our risk in that particular business significantly.
And it's actually worth noting that that Canadian pipe fabrication business has rolled into our venture for the pipe fabrication business with Bernhard Capital.
Moving on to the next slide; good pipeline of near-term and long-term prospects.
It is a difficult market out there but I think as we set out our stall in December we're pointing the organization very much at key areas and key markets particularly around gas and geographies where we feel there are good opportunities and clients continue to spend money.
One of those being the Middle East and we've hired and strengthened our management team there by hiring a new President for the Middle East who's well-known in the region and been in and around the region for 20-odd years.
His name is J.
Ibrahim.
Onshore opportunities in the Middle East and Caspian do remain positive.
We've formed a joined venture in Azerbaijan with SOCAR the national oil company.
We've been in Azerbaijan for many many years and been involved in most of the developments particularly in the offshore side in and around Azerbaijan so we feel this sort of plays to the national content push and strengthens our position there particularly for brownfield work.
Offshore developments continue some continue anyway in the Gulf of Mexico and West Africa and again as I said last time we're being very careful to try and really understand our clients and which projects have the best opportunity to proceed whether it's through political need or whether the financials even with these oil prices are robust.
So we continue to work on the Maersk Culzean job in the UK North Sea.
We see more opportunities with Statoil not just in Johan Sverdrup but in other areas and we've got opportunities across Thailand Qatar and Indonesia.
The BG Global Alliance I mean the future of that is uncertain I guess beyond the close of the Shell BG deal but at the moment it's going very well.
We've awarded early work on it and that work is ramping up and proceeding well.
And as we reported last time we're a circa $2 billion ammonia/urea complex in the Midwest is moving to EPC pricing in around the end of the year December time.
Major LNG developments in process supporting backlog growth in 2016 and beyond in addition to obviously the ammonia opportunities.
The Shell Global LNG agreement is going very well also with a number of assignments underway.
And the Tangguh LNG opportunity in Indonesia again as reported is on track for EPC price submission later this year with award in early 2016.
You have seen some of the announcements from – on Magnolia LNG by LNG Limited.
They are now moving from I guess a four million-ton train solutions to an eight million-ton train solution because of I guess good progress and uptick in agreements.
They feel confident that that's what they can get.
And as a consequence of that they've asked us to upgrade our study and our EPC pricing for 8 million tons and that's underway and again will be concluded on that before year-end.
And work is underway on LNG Limited's Bearhead opportunity in Canada.
And again they've reported significant progress on a number of the approvals and permitting associated with that project.
And pre-FEED work and tendering ongoing for two major FLNG projects again as we reported earlier.
So now moving on to Government Services we've confirmed preferred bidder for the U.K.
Ministry of Defense Fixed Wing Training contract another long-term annuity type project and as we reported earlier this award is expect this year.
U.K.
Army re-basing discussions continue on a sole-sourced basis.
Decisions expected again within this year.
So strong operational performance in the U.K.
particularly on the PFI contracts and the sort of long-term facilities maintenance.
As we disclosed earlier our backlog has now been looked at and we've moved that up $5.4 billion higher to represent the true value of those contracts and across the whole of the O&amp;M life span.
We have a number of U.K.
– sorry – U.S.
overseas based operations support opportunities which we're tendering at the moment the largest of which is in Kuwait.
And the services in Iraq as we support the U.S.
military in their fight against ISIS that continues to ramp up.
And also I'm very happy to report that we continue to make significant progress at successfully closing our U.S.
government audits and legacy issues related to LogCAP III and the RIO contracts in Iraq.
So we had a good quarter in that arena.
So in summary significantly improved earnings versus 2014 driven by strong operational performance.
Our restructuring remains on track to deliver the cost savings of $200 million we announced previously and we're standing by that number.
And again very good progress and achievement in some areas a number of areas on our margin objectives.
On Technology &amp; Consulting we're running above that at the moment but the mix could bring that in line later through the year.
E&amp;C upper single-digits.
We're performing at that level and we're moving the Government Services business up towards the low teens as we progress I think up a percent on last quarter.
So continued success in strategically important areas.
Johan Sverdrup we've talked about the alliance for industrial services and pipe fabrication selling the Buildings Group.
We continue with a strong balance sheet which again in these difficult times is very prudent and gives us flexibility.
A good bookings resulting in relatively unchanged from the Q1 backlog which again I think a great performance in this marketplace.
Significant progress in closing out the legacy issues associated with LogCAP III and the RIO audits and also in part of closing out one of the major power plants.
Expect two major LNG projects to contribute to 2015 and into 2016.
EPS guidance now at $1.22 to $1.37 excluding legacy costs.
And post-closing we have shipped the final Canadian modules and the first of the three EPC power plants is now operational.
So again I think significant de-risking of the business during the quarter.
So I'd now like to hand it back to the operator for questions.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We'll now take our first question from John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Hi.
Good morning.
Congratulations on the quarter.
I guess first question Stuart of the $200 million in annual cost savings that you're targeting how much have you recognized of that in 2015? And so what would be the incremental amount in 2016? Brian's probably best to answer that question.
Yeah John we haven't given the specific ranges for that and the challenge is some of those costs are still in the results for the year.
As the reductions occurred throughout the year and continue to occur you had cost in there for the first six months you have cost in for the first three months so that $125 million is being spread out some of which have been identified and are being actioned and the costs haven't yet come out of the results that have been published.
So by the end of the year the full $125 million will be effective but it's really a blend throughout the year.
Okay.
Sorry the $125 million? You referred to $200 million in annual cost savings.
Yes.
Well what we've said is $125 million has been identified and actioned to date; $200 million is the goal.
Okay.
Okay.
Thanks for that clarification.
And then I guess Brian just one other thing.
In terms of the guidance the $1.22 to $1.37 that includes presumably restructuring costs? It does.
It does.
It reflects the gain on the Building Group sale which obviously had not been baked into the guidance at the beginning of the year but it includes the restructuring and it also frankly includes the correction of the error.
The restructuring and the correction of the error kind of balance out.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
I'll get back in queue.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning folks and congratulations.
Very solid quarter.
Thank you Tahira.
Inc.</span></strong> The first question Stuart we've seen sort of a scurry or flurry of LNG announcements recently including potential contractor selections.
If I do the math it seems that at least for the near term demand let's say for the next three years we're probably going to see an excess of capacity with customers are saying they're going ahead with projects.
So I would love to get your viewpoint do you think there's a chance you'll see a slight over-build as customers try to take advantage of a transitory low-cost environment? Or do you think eventually some of these projects will get slightly pushed out? I think probably the latter Tahira.
I think at the end of the day the customers themselves the client base are under capital allocation pressure as you know and they're trying to cut their own costs and some are out over their skis and they're trying to get back.
So I suspect the latter and that I think what will be important is the cost of development and the relative competitiveness of the LNG projects themselves against each other.
And I think we've said that all along that we feel the ones that are more brownfield in nature can take advantage of existing infrastructure et cetera that are really sort of have the best chance to go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
And Stuart the next question you mentioned again in your commentary that you're still hoping to see low teens kind of margins on the Government Services side.
I would assume that would mean that you still expect that large U.K.
contract to potentially be on time and we should start seeing a potential kick from that in 2016? Yeah I mean there's two of those contracts.
I think one is progressing very well the Fixed Wing and we do think that will close this year.
And the Army 2020 is as every year in the – you're in the – at the mercy of politics and we do feel positive that that will progress again; it may move out a little bit but I think there's a significant commitment from the U.K.
government to bring the Army back from Germany.
So it's just the (25:54).
So I think we made the statement so we think both of those happen this year but while certainly MFDS will happen this year and the decisions on Army 2020 will be made this year.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you very much folks.
Congrats and I'll hop back in the queue.
Thanks.
Thanks Tahira.
We'll now move on to our next question from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Great.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning Steve.
Just wondering if you could talk about the trajectory of backlog you see in both the near term in Q3 and Q4 and then how you think the backlog could progress in 2016 assuming Magnolia and Tangguh projects come through? And related to that are the Tangguh and Magnolia potential awards bigger than what you still have left to burn on Gorgon and Ichthys? Good question.
I think – I mean everything relates to timing I think Steve.
Our statements before were really that we expected backlog to be flat through the year and certainly our performance this quarter is – would sort of hold up in that debate.
I think going into towards the end of the year there's a lot – not a lot – but we're thinking very much very heavily around the fertilizer project and the timing around that is set for this financial year but again it could probably – it could slip.
It's not scheduled to but these things can move a little bit to the right and if it moves to the right it'll slip into early 2016.
But moving into 2016 on the broader question around Tangguh and our ammonia opportunities on Magnolia there's a good opportunity for us if the stars align with those things could increase our backlog.
Okay.
And then I'm not sure if I missed it.
I didn't see anything definitive in the Q but just if you could just give us the Pemex update.
It sounded like that was sort of potentially imminent but I know it's a hard thing to nail down specifically.
I don't know if there's any update there you could give us? Yeah unfortunately not.
Again I think we're at the mercy of the U.S.
legal system and we're still waiting for the ruling.
And as we said last time once that ruling is made assuming it's in our favor it then goes back to the lower courts for I guess the formal implementation of that ruling.
And thereafter the recourse that Pemex would have would be to the Supreme Court.
And if the Supreme Court does not hear that because it's simply a resolution of business not a matter of law and that's really the feedback we've had from the third-party lawyers but the external counsel that they feel it's unlikely the Supreme Court would hear that.
I mean unlikely doesn't mean they won't of course but it's unlikely.
And then it would be finally finished but we're waiting for that ruling to come out of the system.
And all the arguments and papers and things are all submitted and have been for quite a few months now.
So...
Are we still – sorry.
Go ahead.
Yeah no we'll obviously when that – when we do hear that we'll come out and tell you.
So probably still more in 2016 kind of timeframe for that? Yeah.
I think that's right.
Okay.
All right.
Nice job on the quarter.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Thank you.
We'll now take our next question from Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Hi.
Good morning and nice quarter.
I guess a couple questions.
You know one Brian as it relates to the guidance the implied guidance for the back half of the year I think implies like $0.43 to $0.58 which would imply numbers at the low end of the range are below the first half sort of clean numbers.
So I'm just trying to understand what would be the drivers behind that.
One are there any – just given the cost saving initiative that you should benefit from.
So are there any deferrals or projects getting pushed out? Are there any projects that are completing? I'm just trying to understand why the back end of the guide would be so much lower relative to what we've seen in the first half with the cost saving benefits that you're getting? And then I guess my second question relates to cash flow.
It was a little light in the quarter relative to what I would have thought.
So can you give your expectations on how you're thinking about the back half of the year? And then I guess my last question Stuart would be you talked about the two LNG projects.
Could you talk about the resolution of the pending change orders? I guess just given that we're six months into the year how you're feeling about that contribution in 2016? I think there was news this morning that there were pending strikes in the Gorgon project.
I'm just trying to get a feel if you're still comfortable with your ability to get those change orders.
Thanks.
Okay.
I guess I'll start off with the guidance.
Jamie basically we've changed the guidance for the gain on the sale of the Building Group.
We're trying to go slow walk before we run.
We've had severance costs in there that we hadn't contemplated at the beginning of the year.
We have a correction of an error that we hadn't contemplated at the beginning of the year and we still have a ways to go in some challenging markets.
So we're keeping basically guidance unchanged except for the transaction and we'll see how we go as we progress throughout the year.
In terms of cash pretty much as expected.
The last quarter we said that cash balance should be relatively flat through the last three quarters of the year.
Some quarters up a little bit some quarters down a little bit and I don't think anything has changed there as well.
So we were down slightly but nothing that was unexpected.
But I guess Brian just to clarify and I understand with the guidance but to be clear the cost benefit associated with the restructuring should continue to gain traction and there's nothing that you see today that would imply the earnings generated from your backlog should deteriorate for whatever reason via there's some projects that are completing via we're concerned about something.
I'm just trying to understand if there's anything that's in there.
No.
No projects that are completing.
No concerns other than it's a challenging market and we have six months to go.
So nothing in that regard anything significant change.
And the cost savings should continue to accelerate? The cost savings should continue to accelerate but that's something we have considered for some time.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just sorry Stuart the last question just on how you're feeling about Gorgon and Ichthys and the ability to get favorable change order as we look to 2016 versus six months ago.
Yeah.
It's difficult Jamie to be specific just because of the nature of the ongoing discussions and negotiations.
But we would not have put it into our presentation if we didn't feel we weren't confident of resolution.
Coming back to your question again about guidance and the things we're doing we're trying very hard to deliver on our promise.
And we're not putting anything down here that we feel is something that's not achievable.
So again we stay firm on the statements that we made earlier.
All right.
Great.
I'll get back in queue.
Thanks Jamie.
We'll now take our next question from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Jerry.
Good morning Jerry.
I'm wondering if you could just talk about the Johan Sverdrup field.
I think we're looking for total CapEx of over $3 billion.
Would love to understand what proportion of that would be addressable scope for you and then are there opportunities for follow-on work on the surrounding fields? And I understand those fields are moving towards final investment decision as well this year.
On Johan Sverdrup the first phase is circa $3 billion to $4 billion.
Our addressable piece of that is a piece that we've won to date and that cost to $850 million to $900 million that we're in joint venture with Kvaerner.
And so that's what we've announced.
I think the exciting part about it Jerry is the fact that we feel it's the first stage of a multi-stage development.
So I think the overall future CapEx spend on that particular development will be significantly above $3 billion for sure.
So that's probably the more exciting piece about it.
Okay.
Thank you.
And Stuart you spoke about in your prepared remarks opportunities in the Middle East in refining and petrochem.
I'm wondering if you could just give us some more color in terms of number of greenfields anything you're comfortable sharing just to flush out the opportunity set for us.
We've not I think most people are aware that we're in the midst of doing the Sadara complex in the Middle East which is the largest integrated petrochem facility in the world which is a joint venture between Dow Chemicals and Aramco.
And we've got a rich history in the Middle East and particularly in Saudi Arabia both with Sabic and with Aramco.
And we're seeing a number of opportunities not just with inside Saudi Arabia as well but outside and also people like Sabic companies like Sabic looking outside of Saudi to expand their portfolios and so I think it's difficult at this stage and we've not talked specifically about named opportunities in there but it's an ongoing part of our business and there are a number of key prospects in and around that part of the world for sure.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question now comes from Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research Partners.
Yes.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Brian.
Hey.
I just wanted to touch on the comment that you made seeing some progress on closing U.S.
government audits on LogCAP and RIO billing.
Will that give you the opportunity to accelerate the collections on the Form 1s that are outstanding? Is that included in the cash flow outlook? Yes the more we close out the audits there is an opportunity for us to collect some cash as we're pushing for funding.
The two are separate.
Some of the disputes we have with the Form 1s are separate from the audit but to the extent that we do owe some money we can offset it against what is owed to us so we eliminate the liability.
But to answer your specific question there is no significant amounts of cash included in the cash flow forecast coming from the settlements with the U.S.
government.
They could come but that would be upside.
All right.
Great.
And just secondly just questions on FLNG so involved in pre-FEED.
I was under the impression at least one of those was a little bit further along particularly on the east coast of Africa.
Maybe you can just comment is the next stage on at least one of those a FEED/EPC opportunity or will it progress into FEED and then later on into EPC? That's probably my choice of – oh sorry Brian my choice of words weren't particularly good there.
We did actually say that one is in pre-FEED and one is tendering.
And the one that's tendering is the EPC opportunity in the east coast of Africa.
And that would be anticipated by year end? Yes.
Understood.
All right thanks.
The client is saying that they will make a decision before year end.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
We'll now move on to George O'Leary with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Company.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good job on the cost savings execution so far.
I was wondering if you could just provide a little more color on where the incremental cost saves came from quarter-on-quarter? And then as you look forward if you broke it down into some buckets corporate costs combining facilities versus incremental reductions in work force where you see the lowest hanging fruit and then the more challenging cost cuts as we move through the back half of the year? Well the cost reductions really come across everything.
We are looking at all costs whether it be staffing levels whether it be office whether it be IT whether it be travel training et cetera.
So it really is a comprehensive approach and we're not trying to break it down by individual categories we're just looking at the totals.
What I can tell you is the majority of which is occurring in the businesses in terms of percentage it's embedded in the gross profit number that you see but you get a lot more visibility into the G&amp;A line which is pretty transparent in the financial statements.
So – but without question and unfortunately – the majority of the costs related to reductions in total staffing.
But again it is a comprehensive approach to cost and we are encouraging people to come up with ideas suggestions on how we can accelerate this be more efficient and we've gotten some very good responses from the staff as well.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
That's helpful color.
And then maybe just one more on customer sentiment.
As you – oil prices ramped up from $50 to $60 if you can call that really a bounce – at least in the U.S.
onshore you saw operators think about adding activity back.
I think your customer base is much more long-term thinking than that.
As we retrench down from $60 back to sub-$50 a barrel have discussions with customers changed or has their long-term outlook remained somewhat the same and not much change in customer behavior? I think what you're I mean both Shell and Chevron have asked for their redundancies over the last little while a day or so.
I think certainly their view would be that this isn't a short-term-ism.
There's a lot of market forces at play.
The Iranian situation as well will bring more oil on to the market.
So I think the sentiment of the customers is not changed.
I think it was there before.
But I think clearly there is this oil price will be we think at this level for some time.
And we've tried to set our stall out and our business to strategically line up against that.
And I think it's also we're seeing our exposure is predominantly in the gas arena rather than the oil arena.
And across areas it's not just oil and gas particularly with chemical companies et cetera.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks very much for the color guys.
Thank you.
And we'll take our next question from Robert Connors with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Good morning.
How are you? Good morning Rob.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> I just noticed perusing the Q very quickly that the language around a potential repatriation was removed versus the past couple of filings.
And just wondering what the reasoning was around that.
The repatriation of cash from overseas? Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
I believe there was a strategy that identified possibly up to $370 million sitting in Australia and the U.K.? Well we have repatriated some cash.
But to be honest I'm not clear why any language was removed other than we have repatriated some cash.
We had put a plan in place and we've been able to bring cash back without incurring any significant cash or P&amp;L hits.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Do you have any numbers around how much was brought back year-to-date? I don't.
But cash moves back and forth routinely.
We're talking at least a couple hundred million dollars.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
That was my only question.
Okay Rob.
Thank you.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
We'll now take our final question from Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
This is – thanks for taking my question.
Just wanted to get some clarification on the profitability of the two segments the E&amp;C segment is running at upper single digit margins.
And you still have some restructuring to go.
How should we think about that segment profitability in the second half? And could there be some upside to your target margins in that segment as well as in the Technology segment? Thank you.
Well I think we're sticking by the long-term goals that we established when we rolled out the strategy with the Technology &amp; Consulting being in the low 20%s.
The mix of work will impact both of the segments.
But in Technology &amp; Consulting the more technology the higher the margin would be.
The more proprietary equipment and consulting services those margins would come back down.
So it really depends on the mix.
On a longer term basis the blend in the low 20%s we think still is a reasonable estimate.
And the same with the engineering and construction where the mix has a big influence.
If you do more services the profit margin would tend to be higher.
If you do more EPC where you have the construction the margins tend to be lower the volume of business will be higher but the margins will be lower.
So again on a longer-term basis we think the upper single digits for the E&amp;C is a good basis.
That will move around from quarter-to-quarter depending again on the mix.
But we're pretty confident that we can achieve those goals that we set out last December.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
And can you just comment on the Middle East strategy? And you said that you are looking to hire new business head and president in that region.
What sort of changes do you expect to make in that region? Representation Vishal in the Middle East is very much about going and doing a project and coming out – the Pearl GTL project we did in Qatar would be a good opportunity.
But since then really our legacy has very much centered attention on Saudi Arabia.
And so we feel there's great opportunity for us to build businesses in and around the rest of the Middle East whether that's in Oman or Qatar or Abu Dhabi or Kuwait et cetera.
And opportunities in Iraq for that matter.
And really establish our brand is very well-respected it's very well-known across the Middle East.
And I think we've got a great opportunity and some significant growth opportunities for us looking at the Middle East in isolation.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thank you.
And that does conclude the question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Stuart Bradie at this time I will turn the conference back over to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Well thank you very much for taking the time to listen to us this morning.
Again it's a pleasure to be able to talk about a company we're very passionate about and we're very passionate about the future.
And I think coming back to some of the statements earlier we're very conscious that historically we failed to deliver on promises and certainly since my tenure we've been very clear as to what our strategic goals were and what the metrics would be that we should be measured against and we're sticking by those and we report against them next quarter again.
So thank you very much again for taking the time and I look forward to seeing you all as we travel around.
Thank you.
That does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good day and welcome to the KBR's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
As a reminder your lines will be in a listen-only mode for the duration of the call.
There will be a question-and-answer session immediately following prepared remarks.
You will receive instructions at that time.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Zac Nagle Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for joining us for KBR's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is also being webcast and a replay will be available on KBR's website for seven days at kbr.com.
The press release announcing KBR's third quarter results is also available on KBR's website.
Joining me today are Stuart Bradie President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Ferraioli Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call Stuart and Brian will cover KBR's results in more detail and discuss our market outlook by major segment.
Please refer to the accompanying presentation that is posted on our website at kbr.com.
After our prepared remarks we'll open the floor for questions.
Before turning the call over to Stuart I would like to remind our audience that today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting KBR's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ significantly from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in KBR's third quarter earnings press release KBR's earnings presentation KBR's Form 10-K for the period ended December 31 2014 and KBR's current reports on Form 8-K.
You can find all of these documents at kbr.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Stuart.
Stuart? Thanks Zac.
Good morning.
So turning to slide three Zero Harm programs and courage to care program continue to drive increasingly better performance in the safety and environmental arenas.
You can see our performance is trending very much towards the IOGP top quartile that's International Oil &amp; Gas Producers top quartile performance.
So very pleasing performance but it's a journey that never ends safety and we've got to be vigilant and keep on it.
But so far this year the performance is improving which is very pleasing.
So moving on to slide four.
So in a nutshell I think the quarter was – we had a very solid performance around the operating side improved earnings versus 2014.
We announced in December last year a number of prospects that we felt would go forward even in this low price oil environment at Johan Sverdrup being one that we won and it's going ahead recently and we've just won the detailed engineering contract for Maersk Culzean in the North Sea UK North Sea again which we identified last December.
We did a frontend design and that's moving ahead into the delivery phase and will be Q4 booking we just announced that in the last couple of days.
The two mega LNG projects continue to perform well and as previously reported we stick by that statement.
We expect to be significant earning contributors through into 2016.
What was very pleasing in the quarter were the positive earnings that came from a non-strategic power projects.
You may recall we did a forecast to complete exercise last December.
The challenge then was very much to continue to execute those projects within the forecast.
We put very strong management from our E&amp;C Americas group on to those projects.
So we very much managed them as part of the E&amp;C Americas portfolio and again very pleasing this quarter that we're starting to see the fruits of that labor.
Realized asset impairment restructuring costs of $15 million and a $6 million gain on the disposition of certain assets as we adjust our business portfolio.
Those very much relate I guess to what we – in the bullet point a couple of bullet points down when we closed the two strategic partnerships for Industrial Services and pipe fabrication which really we hope to accelerate growth in the Industrial Services arena and the pipe fabrication area.
Our cash performance was pleasing in the quarter.
We maintained a very strong balance sheet and a very strong cash balance.
And I think this provides confidence to our clients particularly in a market like this and it gives us optionality as markets continue to evolve.
Also in the quarter very pleasing the support of our banks came through and we closed on the new $1 billion bank credit facility and Brian will talk a little bit more about that in a second.
We continue to be well placed on strong gas business and gas monetization prospects and on the UK government prospects we reported previously so no change there.
The decision is expected in the near-term.
So all-in-all the strategy is on track to achieve the targeted margins and the cost savings by the end of 2016.
And the segment margins largely are at near target levels and we continue to be prudent in applying with regards to the competitive environment medium term.
And more than $150 million of savings have been identified in actioned to-date and the net benefit will obviously come through into 2015 but also beyond.
So I'm going to hand over to Brian now.
Hopefully there are a little bit more flesh on the bone around the numbers.
Brian? Thank you Stuart and good morning.
Turning to slide five the backlog for unfilled orders is around $13.3 billion.
We had some one-off type transactions going through backlog this quarter.
The sale of the Industrial Services or 50% of the Industrial Services business that Stuart mentioned before resulted in a de-booking of $340 million from our backlog although the work still remains within the joint venture.
And like many other companies the strong dollar had a foreign exchange impact on us reducing backlog by $391 million.
Most of which relates to the activities we have in the UK government business which extends out on one contract in particular almost 26 years.
Moving onto revenues $1.2 billion in revenues for the quarter.
This is down from a year ago which is as expected the winding down of the Canadian pipe fabrication and North American construction projects and reduced activity on one of the LNG project as well as the sale of the Building Group which we announced in the end of Q2 which is about $60 million in quarterly run rate revenues that we have sold.
And also I should point out that we announced we have a definitive agreement in place to sell our Industrial Services businesses and hopefully will close in the fourth quarter which again the revenues should drop correspondingly associated with that sale – so for infrastructure I'm sorry I misspoke.
Thank you.
Gross profit and equity in earnings reflects improved business performance and the operational cost that we've been working on for some time.
The G&amp;A is down $20 million from September from a year ago.
And if you recall the September timeframe is the point in time where we're measuring our cost reduction from.
As Stuart mentioned we have restructuring and impairment charges associated with the strategy that we're implementing.
And we also had a gain on the disposition of certain assets resulting in a net between the two of about $9 million in pre-tax cost for the quarter.
EPS $0.38 and EBITDA of $86 million.
Turning on to page six in the segments again on the revenue side Technology &amp; Consulting continues to show reduced levels of proprietary equipment sales and lower consultancy services primarily related to upstream oil projects.
E&amp;C as I mentioned before reflects the Canadian pipe fabrication and North American construction projects which we are exiting or executing as part of the joint venture and the non-strategic again shows the impact of the Building Group.
Moving on to gross profit as Stuart mentioned also E&amp;C strong operating performance and lower overhead.
Government Services had solid performance increased activity particularly on the U.S.
side.
So that's showing up on the revenues and in the earnings side.
During the third quarter of 2015 we had about $3 million in annual maintenance expenses incurred in the UK which typically occur in Q4.
So in 2015 they occurred in Q3; in 2014 they occurred in Q4.
Also last year had a $21 million award fee on the legacy LogCAP III project which obviously did not reoccur this year.
The non-strategic business reflects the power projects.
We're down to basically two projects one is largely complete and two more to go with the second one to be finished sometime around the end of the year or early part of the first quarter and the third one to be completed in 2017.
EBITDA reflects obviously the activities above but also a year ago we had a gain of $24 million in the settlement with our former parent that did not reoccur this year.
And it also reflects the impairment of $15 million and the gain on sale of $6 million that we previously talked about.
Moving on to slide seven and cash.
It was a relatively good quarter.
From a cash perspective operating cash flow was positive $54 million which results in a cash balance of $768 million.
You see it's up $37 million from the second quarter.
You see below that some of the larger unusual activities during the quarter the cash from the sale of the Industrial Services business as well as the investment we made in the pipe fabrication business resulting in $33 million cash inflow.
We continue to fund some of those loss projects that Stuart referred to earlier the settlement with our former parent the dividends pension and the foreign exchange impact.
On balance we returned $17 million in cash to our shareholders reflecting a balanced capital allocation policy that we've had in place for some time.
And for the year we've returned $57 million in cash in a year that had operating cash flow year-to-date so far of negative $85 million.
We've returned $57 million to our shareholders and we still have a quarter to go for the balance of the year.
And in total we've returned in excess of $1 billion since we have the spinoff from the former parent.
So as Stuart mentioned strong balance sheet good cash gives confidence to our clients and optionality as our markets continue to evolve which includes looking at some M&amp;A opportunities.
And I'll turn the call back over to Stuart.
Okay.
Market outlook Technology &amp; Consulting market opportunities led by ammonia refining and olefins very much as we reported previously but we're seeing a lot more activity particularly in the revamp arena in the Middle East North Africa and across Eastern Europe.
We're now starting to see opportunities for our VCC technology coming through again in Eastern Europe which is good.
And although the market is tight in our consulting arena I think we've now right-sized that business and we are starting to see more activity in upstream oil and gas albeit sort of I guess smaller type projects which is normal in the consulting space.
And as Brian mentioned we continue to look for additional opportunities to expand our T&amp;C technology portfolio into new products and services.
Moving on outlook for E&amp;C the strategic developments in the quarter the Industrial Services and maintenance business with the Brown &amp; Root joint venture closed in the quarter as did our strategic alliance for pipe fabrication and module assembly which I think is key and de-risks some of our execution for EPC prospects in North America.
We continue to capture previously identified large offshore projects.
Johan Sverdrup we mentioned before and as I said in my opening remarks where we've been up and (14:47) awarded the Maersk Culzean offshore gas development for the UK North Sea which is a Q4 booking.
We continue with a strong base of large projects for the remainder of 2015 and into 2016.
The LNGs you are well aware of and if we get favorable resolution of a pending change orders provides the opportunity for 2016 LNG income to be comparable to 2015 as we previously reported and we are standing by those statements.
Significant backlog of ammonia/urea refining and oil and gas projects and also in the construction sector in North America.
Good pipeline of near-term and long-term prospects focused on the Middle East as we're identifying a number of opportunities in that market onshore upstream opportunities in the Middle East and Caspian and our joint venture in Azerbaijan with SOCAR is tendering heavily for some good opportunities in the offshore brownfield arena.
As many of you know we've been in Azerbaijan for many many years and have a very good reputation there.
Offshore developments continue some in the Gulf of Mexico some in the North Sea obviously in Azerbaijan as previously mentioned and some in Thailand but again very specific opportunities that we're targeting in those markets.
We're continuing to pursue $2 billion fertilizer complex in the Midwest U.S.
and the major LNG developments continue to evolve which provide additional support for backlog growth in 2016 and of course beyond 2016.
On Magnolia LNG sole-source activity the EPC pricing and the contract award is expected in Q4 as previously reported.
And on Tangguh the FEED continues and EPC bidding is now set for early in Q1 2016 again as previously reported.
Work on the Shell Global LNG Agreement continues.
What's interesting is we're working also on four additional FERC FEEDs in North America.
Clients are confidential but again more in the developmental arena.
But quite a lot of activity in that space and pre-FEED work and tendering is ongoing for two major FLNG projects as previously reported.
There is a continued pursuit of LNG developments in North America where the economics are promising giving low forecasted cost of development cost and particularly low gas prices versus most regions of the world.
Government Services confirmed preferred bidder for the UK MoD Fixed Wing Training contracts.
Again we expect awards in Q4 as previously reported.
The UK Army re-basing discussions continue.
There's a strategic review.
The Ministry of Defense are doing what decisions to be made this month which will give us a strong indication of that opportunity.
Strong operational performance continue for ongoing UK PFI contracts.
And we continue to see a number of opportunities around overseas base operational support for example in Kuwait.
As Brian mentioned previously the work in Iraq continues to wrap up as we support the U.S.
Military in their against the ISIS.
And we continue to progress in successfully closing out U.S.
Government audits and during the summer the legacy LogCAP III issues and RIO billings.
And an example of that is we recently – the court dismissed and this is on the sodium dichromate case the court dismissed I guess the plaintiffs' only remaining claim in the last week or so.
And although we can expect an appeal I think this is still a significant and positive ruling for KBR.
Okay.
So in summary I think a very solid earnings and operational performance in the quarter.
The E&amp;C management made good progress I think in de-risking the business through strong performance on non-strategic power projects.
We very much look at those power projects as part of the E&amp;C portfolio which was a big big change in the way that we execute those projects in the past putting E&amp;C management across them rather than the old structure from what was called IGP.
So really good performance in that area and obviously closing out the Canadian pipe fab and module assembly projects.
We continue to capture prospects we specifically identified some months ago.
It was a new credit facility in place strong balance sheet which gives us optionality going into the future.
Our near-term prospects remain strong with backlog growth opportunities going into 2016 and beyond.
And our strategy is progressing and it is on plan.
Thank you.
And with that we'd like to turn the call over for questions.
Operator? Thank you.
We'll go first to Tahira Afzal of KeyBanc.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi folks and congratulations on the quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> So I guess first question is Brian if I look at your guidance for the full year and what's implied for fourth quarter can you provide any color on how you see that shaping up to the extent you can? Yeah.
You'll notice that we did not give guidance because we don't give guidance on a quarterly basis.
So I'm going to refrain from being too specific about what will happen in Q4.
But as Stuart mentioned one of the things that's most pleasing or important to me is the de-risking of some of these projects that has occurred over the last several months.
If you recall we have shipped the last modules up in Canada so those legacy pipe fabrication contracts are virtually complete.
And now on the power projects one is completed and the second one is an outage which will be completed as we said around year-end.
So that will be again a significant reduction in risk.
So I remain optimistic for Q4 but I can't be too specific in terms of quantifying it at this point.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
That's helpful and (21:21).
Second question is probably on backlog growth.
Stuart you sound balanced in terms of your macro framework but it seems you've sort of steered KBR to a point where perhaps you're getting market share and realizing a lot of opportunities.
So even in an environment that's tough do you still expect backlog growth in 2016 at this point? Well I think Tahira we've been very specific on and try to be as transparent as possible on the key prospects that we are going after.
And as we said last quarter many of the decisions around those will be made in Q4.
And you know if the stars aligned with a fair wind as they say if we can be successful in what we've identified yes there's opportunity for backlog growth going into 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Good.
Thank you.
And I'll hop back in the queue.
We'll go next to Jamie Cook of Credit Suisse.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning Jamie.
So just a couple of questions.
Brian can you just remind me year-to-date.
I mean I know you've identified $150 million in action but like what you've realized through the first nine months of the year? And then as we shift forward it looks like most of the benefits that you – the G&amp;A has come down year-over-year but on a sequential basis were sort of flattish I'm just trying to think about – when I think about future savings is it more in the G&amp;A line or up at the segment level? So that I guess is my first question.
My second question is Stuart really you guys sound fairly constructive with regards to LNG if you think about some of your peers like Floor (23:05) last week they're a little more pessimistic on awards moving forward in the short term just because of the size of the projects just for a lot of reason.
So if Magnolia or Tangguh doesn't happen can you talk about what else is left in the pipeline? And then third I think in the Q there was mention of the losses on the petrochemical facility.
So can you just give us a little color there how much it was unless I'm reading it wrong? Where we are in terms of percent completion any color on that? Thanks.
Okay.
Jamie I guess I'll go first on the cost side.
The way I'd like to think about it if you look at the G&amp;A line it's down $20 million from the third quarter from a year ago.
So on a run rate basis that's $80 million alone.
And even with the performance we've had some of the compensation accruals so probably a little bit higher than target.
So there's certainly more room on the G&amp;A line there on a run rate basis as we go forward.
But in general what I would suggest to you the savings have roughly been about 57% in the businesses and 43% on the G&amp;A line just to give you some order of magnitude on where the savings are.
And as we mentioned before as we roll through the year actions we take in the first quarter don't appear till the second quarter and actions we took in the second and third quarter obviously don't appear till later on.
So this is a blend which occurs throughout the year.
So we've said at least $150 million and as I mentioned in the past that's kind of a dynamic number where as people roll-off projects and they don't have another project to work on that those costs would fit in overhead and that was the result in a reduction in the savings.
So the $150 million reflects where we are as of today.
And we remain highly confident that we'll get the remaining $50 million by the end of next year.
We'll go next to Steven Fisher of UBS.
Hang on.
I don't think we answered all of Jamie's questions.
Yes.
I think Jamie's couple of questions is actually three.
So I think on the LNG piece Jamie again we've been very specific on the prospects that we're going after and where they are in the evolution.
We remain positive around those opportunities progressing and actually where our focus is today.
As I mentioned before we've got a number of I guess development projects that we're working on at the moment.
Will they all go ahead? Probably not but there is a number of them and we will work with the developers to the maximum extent we can to try and get those to move forward.
But I guess the statement around where we'll be in LNG remains the same and that is the work that we have in LNG will continue to contribute strongly in 2016.
And what we've identified we will continue to grow our backlog if those prospects come in.
Now on the petrochem I think the petrochemical project was really an issue around more – wasn't an execution issue.
It was more of squaring up some withholding tax which we did have to take in in the quarter.
So no real operational slip up there.
I think the pluses and minus overall in projects was positive.
So I think that's a minor issue that – no real concern.
We'll now go to Steven Fisher of UBS.
Great.
Thanks.
It sounds like you're pretty confident in the potential to get these two UK government awards in the fourth quarter.
So is that your base case? And then just can you remind us the magnitude of these? Would these take your backlog back above that Q2 level assuming you had say another $1.2 billion of sales Q4? Steve this is Brian.
I'll try that.
In terms of the size of these contracts these are going to be measured in the hundreds of millions.
And as we said we expect the decisions to be taken in the fourth quarter.
Question exactly on the timing of the bookings.
One of them is tied to third-party finance.
We think that will be done and completed in the fourth quarter.
But there's always the likelihood that one of these could roll over into the first quarter just given the financing timing.
In terms of the bookings of them as I said these are in the hundreds of millions.
They certainly are not the size of the LNG projects and the floating LNGs which are measured in the billions.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then Stuart how is your thinking and your customer thinking around some of these large E&amp;P project changes in the last few months? Specifically thinking about the $2 billion fertilizer complex Magnolia and Tangguh.
Is the degree of confidence still there and just the timing shifting out a little bit? And what do you think it's going to take for these things to actually move forward? I mean they're all different I think Steve is probably the first statement.
Magnolia is well advanced in terms we've agreed the contract terms and conditions.
It's a development project.
The off-take arrangements have been made public.
So I guess the input and off-take are progressing well.
It's really the EPC pricing in the middle and the capital market seems to be quite positive around the ability to stand behind a project with the arbitrage as a tooling arrangement that's in place.
So that's Magnolia.
I mean Midwest.
It's being in the Midwest that's got a logistical advantage.
So therefore a cost advantage in sort of producing fertilizer closer to market.
And again there's a number of financial instruments backing that.
So again we feel quite comfortable that it will go ahead should we be able to get to the EPC pricing levels.
No guarantees of course but that's the way it's working.
Tangguh it's a sub-train (29:49) as we said before of a existing two-train facility where the associated infrastructure is largely in place.
There's been a number of announcements from BP in Indonesia around the sort of structure and deal they've got with the Indonesian government.
So again no guarantees but the likelihood of that going ahead looks favorable.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thanks a lot.
We'll go next to Anna Kaminskaya of Bank of America.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Can you hear me okay? Yes Anna.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
So I just wanted to quickly follow up on Magnolia and Tangguh just from the timing of awards 4Q for Magnolia and 1Q for Tangguh when would they actually matter for your EPS? Because my understanding you would still have to wait for FID for Magnolia right if you put into the backlog.
When would they actually move the needle from EPS perspective? Well Anna as you know these'll start to ramp up next year.
We start with the engineering.
So they won't hit their peak until 2017 2018.
What's fortunate is the timing on the two existing LNGs.
As you know they're further to the back end of those projects.
So as they start to ramp down you have hopefully two more that we would book would be ramping up and those lines would cross somewhere probably in 2017.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
So you would still have some initial work starting in 2016 so we can still see it have some contribution.
That's correct.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And when do we have better visibility on just overall Australian projects I guess co-provision? Is it 4Q or is it 1Q? Are you referring to the change orders? Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Yes the change orders.
Oh I think it's difficult to predict an exact timing Anna on that.
I mean obviously the commitment we'll make is that when we do resolve them we'll tell you.
But it's an ongoing negotiation and there's no line in the sand as to when that will be resolved.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then finally I'm not sure if you can comment on it.
But just looking at the structure of the Magnolia project can you carry I believe 70% and your Korean counterparts another 30%.
What will they be responsible for in the project versus your scope of work? What does that 30% of economics what will they be doing? Because I'm thinking about you're having the labor relationship and you mentioned engineering know-how.
Just trying to figure out how the scope of work will be divided between the two of you.
I mean SK will contribute greatly for their 30%.
And at the end of the day KBR leading it.
The engineering will be driven out of our house.
But if we're doing module fabrication and that happens to be in Asia you can see where SK can play quite an important role in sort of construction management and site management of what's happening in that activity.
Pierce Fenner &amp; Smith Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
We'll go next to John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Hi.
Good morning.
Morning John.
Hi John.
Morning.
Just following up a little bit more on some of the pending work out there.
I guess Stuart are you fairly comfortable in terms of the margin profile or the risk profile with these projects? I guess one of the fears always is that as the market is slowing down or some of your competitors are hitting air pockets that there could be some margin pressure more competitive pricing I think not only in the LNG but the fertilizer projects.
I think your observation is correct John that there could be a tendency in the marketplace to be overly aggressive.
I think that we've been very considerate in what we're doing.
I think we've proven that with the way we dealt with Lake Charles and not taking on something we felt that as either too risky or the margins that we didn't want.
And both Magnolia and on the fertilizer project in the Midwest I guess the message is very much we're in sole-source negotiated position.
Okay.
That makes sense.
And then I guess Brian just in terms of the cash flows the big swing factors coming into the end of the year is it the LNG project close-outs or finishing those off or are there anything else that we should be thinking about? We think we're going to have a good cash quarter in the fourth quarter just from normal operations as the funding of the problem projects continues to drop off.
We also have the sale of the infrastructure business that we hope to close in the quarter.
So we think it's going to be a relatively good cash quarter.
That does not assume we do any M&amp;A-type transaction.
Okay.
And priorities on M&amp;A are still technology? Yes.
I would say that remains what we set out.
It's not the only thing we look at but certainly that's a preference.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
We'll go next to Jerry Revich of Goldman Sachs.
Hi.
Good morning.
Morning Jerry.
Morning Jerry.
I wondered if you could just talk about the U.S.
government opportunities that are in front of you where we're seeing some other parts of the budget that (35:37) military vehicle sales moving tire which is typically correlated with your business strategy.
You alluded to it in your remarks about opportunities to support U.S.
in the ISIS (35:48).
Can you just flesh out for us what the magnitude of opportunities could be or just help us understand the kinds of discussions you're having with your customer there? A lot of the stuff we do there Jerry is obviously in the classified arena.
It's difficult to give too much disclosure around that.
I think all we would say is that our relationship with the U.S.
government has vastly improved and I think that we continue to support them and I think we have a very solid performance ongoing and also recognize I think the opportunities to grow that business going forward exist and are being realized.
But to give more color on that is tricky as I'm sure you can appreciate.
One thing just to clarify Jerry to make sure it's clear.
In terms of supplying equipment vehicles and so forth that's not really what we do.
It'd be more of the base support and supporting troops on the ground feeding them and power water...
Managing logistics.
Yes.
All the logistics.
So base support things like that.
For sure.
Definitely all correlated right? And then in terms of if you could just on slide 10 you lay out at the top of the page a number of projects that could be meaningful for you folks.
A can you just flesh out for us the magnitude of opportunities on each project? Are we talking about a number of singles and doubles on the first five (37:22) that you have or any of these multi-billion dollars and KBR scope opportunities? I mean if we start at the bottom and work up I guess I mean the size of Magnolia has been sort of disclosed in the press.
I guess they're in the $3.5 billion to $4.5 billion type range.
There's a $2 billion fertilizer opportunity would be a KBR – if that goes ahead – a full KBR booking and not (37:53).
The offshore developments in the North Sea are all varying levels of magnitude but significant and similarly with what we're trying to do with SOCAR in Azerbaijan.
And some of the Middle East opportunities are also significant.
So I think what really is important here is there's a portfolio of opportunities across a number of geographical areas where we feel that not only are we reasonably well placed but the opportunity for those projects to proceed is in the high side.
All right.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Brian Konigsberg from Vertical Research Partners.
Yes.
Hi good morning.
Most of my questions have been asked but maybe just a little bit more on cash and cash flow.
Maybe just with the puts and takes you're talking about some of the legal items that you've been facing.
It sounds like those are coming in a little bit better.
How do you anticipate – I know you don't want to give guidance at this point but kind of getting out of 2016 we know Q4 is going to be a good cash flow quarter but going into 2016 do you anticipate we're going to start seeing free cash flow in line or maybe potentially in excess of earnings? Well certainly that's the goal Brian.
Once we get through funding some of these problem projects you would expect the earnings to be much more – the cash flow to be much more in line with earnings.
A lot is going to depend upon the mix in terms of timing.
If it's fixed price you have more opportunities to have the cash maybe as good as or even better than earnings.
If it's reimbursable then obviously the cash lags because you have to fund a little bit of working capital.
But all in all we would expect next year's cash flow to be certainly much better than this year.
Okay fair enough.
And maybe just an update on Pemex where that stands today.
Is that potentially a collection over the next 12 months to 18 months? I think your guess is as good as mine.
I think that the vagaries of the American Legal System continue to frustrate and that we – you know we – the position is the same as we reported last quarter.
That position is that we've – all the arguments have been made and we're waiting for the courts to rule.
It's the – we understand it's the final step.
The only step after this is if we get a favorable ruling is for Pemex to go to the Supreme Court and certainly our advice from the third party counsel is that it would be unlikely that the Supreme Court would want to hear a case that's not really – that might have lower constitutional change.
So as a consequence it would be pushed back down to the lower courts to administer and that will be the end of it.
I think the important point is the fact that the cash or the majority of the cash is actually in a bank account in New York under escrow.
So we will – it wouldn't have to be extracted from Mexico.
Thank you.
But as to the timing we wait.
Fair enough.
Thanks.
We'll go next to George O'Leary of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Morning George.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
See on page 10 the increased focus on Middle East opportunities both refining and petchem.
Maybe just some more color on what the composition of those opportunities look like.
Is it really more refining driven is it naphtha based cracking for ethylene? I mean some of this increasing gas production driving some petrochemical opportunities there just kind of more color on what you're seeing in the Middle East from an opportunity standpoint? Yeah.
I mean the Middle East is a market where we historically have done quite a bit of work.
I think what we've managed to do there is to go in and execute projects and then essentially other than Saudi Arabia where we've got a firm presence is we grew that market.
So we feel with our renewed focus in the Middle East in trying to build businesses there and establish relationships there there are opportunities from a geographical perspective as well as a sector perspective.
So you know we're looking at opportunities in Kuwait.
We're looking at opportunities in Qatar in Oman in Abu Dhabi and also in Iraq in addition to Saudi Arabia.
In terms of what we're seeing in terms of those opportunities there's some in the refining arena.
There's some in the petrochem arena I would say the – and some in the I guess what I'd call upstream onshore arena particularly in Iran and Iraq.
In Saudi they continue to having – there's a need to diversify their economy.
We're seeing how do they monetize oil in a better way in order to take into chemicals for example or do you take it through the traditional refining process? So there's a couple of opportunities significant opportunities in that space.
We're doing offshore work in Abu Dhabi today and there's a number of projects that they will have to do to continue to develop their fields and maintain their reservoirs in that arena.
And certainly in Qatar there's this offshore work that again we see will have to go ahead.
So I think there's a balance again across the geographies and the portfolio.
It's not one specific area and I think each of the countries is different and I don't – we can't paint them all with the same brush.
I think you have to be very specific as we said on numerous occasions on the client and the opportunity and really try and get your arms around the drivers as to whether these projects will go ahead or they will not go ahead.
And obviously with the ones you think you've got the best opportunity that's where you place your focus.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
That's helpful color.
And then maybe just one more were there any de-bookings in the third quarter? I know you guys laid out kind of the puts and takes of the currency effects and the other items that impacted backlog in the quarter.
But any of that in the third quarter? That's associated with what canceled projects? Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
No.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks very much for the color guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We'll go next to Michael Dudas of Sterne Agee.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning Michael.
Brian on the $1 billion credit facility could you remind us or share with us confidence issues relative to potential capital reallocation to shareholders through dividend and the share repurchases? I mean maybe Stuart is the improved confidence levels of couple these projects get booked for 2016 may improve the confidence level of returning the cash for shareholders or are there going to be a cash need here that might preclude some of this going forward given that your stock price probably tracking through (44:47).
First of all on the new credit facility there's a new cap that's been established of $750 million.
That's on my page 50 of the document.
It's called distribution cap.
So there's certainly plenty of fire power under the credit facility in terms of how we allocate capital.
There are some constraints obviously about incurring debt if we were to do a large transaction or something in that regard.
But I think the liquidity footnote spells that out pretty clearly in the document.
And in terms of capital needs for these projects going forward no nothing significant.
As I mentioned on – earlier on the call anything that's a fixed price or approximating a fixed price-type contract allows us some flexibility in terms of structuring the payment terms so that should not be a significant use of capital.
Reimbursable-type contract -- obviously you do have a little bit of a working capital build but nothing substantial.
So we hope to get back into the generating cash mode next year so that again will increase flexibility for us in how we allocate our capital.
And it's probably worth just emphasizing the share buyback program is still in place; that's not changed.
Excellent.
Thanks gentlemen.
We'll go next to Robert Connors of Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning guys.
Congrats on a good quarter.
Thanks Robert.
Thanks Robert.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> I just have – I guess can you paint for us in some broad strokes just terms and conditions around some of the JV contracts that were signed recently regarding the industrial maintenance services whether we can expect some sort of – will it be cost-plus or fixed-price type work and any other sort of general payment-type terms you can relay over to us.
I mean the Industrial Services by its very nature is brownfield.
It tends to be long-term relationship based.
As a consequence of that the majority is reimbursable which is typical for that business – is that we're not doing anything unusual there.
That's just typical for that business.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then on the – I believe it was page 10 the list of the future petrochemical prospects.
I didn't really see anything related to the second wave of U.S.
ethylene crackers.
Just wondering if you are involved in the six to seven that are sort of being talked about out there.
And just because looking back in KBR's history traditionally KBR has had some solid relationships with some of the Asian-based petrochemical producers and I figure that maybe you'd possibly play a role in this second wave.
I mean it's certainly our intent to play a role in the second wave.
We've got a – on the methane side we've got a strong technology component to our offering in conjunction with ExxonMobil's technology.
So we are certainly working hard to be placed in that second wave.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks for taking my question.
Thank you Robert.
We'll go next to Vishal Shah of Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
This is Chad Dillard on the line for Vishal.
It seems like you're gaining some momentum in the offshore business.
So can you share with us how you're positioned in that market given how – where the current environment is? Yes.
As we said before I think we recognized way back in December of last year that we felt that the reduction in oil price was not a flash in the pan.
We thought it was going to be a tough market going forward.
As a consequence of that we lined the company up to be very much a gas facing company and that technology plays to that.
And the oil side of our business is actually quite a small component but an important component nonetheless.
So as a consequence of the market and the oil price we felt that we needed to be very very clear on the opportunities for these projects to proceed.
So Johan Sverdrup was a perfect example where we looked at that opportunity.
We spoke at length with the customer and it's a – there's a number of partners in that customer and making sure that we understood the economics and the political drivers.
And we really sort of lined up thinking that project would go ahead and worked hard to secure our role in it which we ultimately did and the project is proceeding and certainly with Maersk Culzean exactly the same process.
So I think the answer to the question is that there will be opportunities in the offshore sector.
Those opportunities will be less than in history particularly for this little while and the medium term.
And the key is really understanding your customer and which projects are going to ahead.
And that's really the effort we put in really hard up-front and working really really strongly and aligned with the customer to try and get these projects over the line economically.
And I think we're proving that when we identify the prospects we've done our homework and those jobs are going ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
And the company has done a great job of executing on cost reduction but assuming the booking environment remains soft can you just talk about what additional latitude you have to cut cost over and above the $200 million run rate you've laid out? I mean I think if we get the $200 million which we're confident of doing through 2016 that would be – I think that's a good effort.
I mean there are – there continues to be opportunities.
The biggest risk in our business is really around people not booking the time to projects so setting on the – on overhead so to speak.
So we've got good opportunity to manage that very closely and make sure we minimize the time that people sit around that they're not charging to customers' projects.
And we're working very hard to make sure we've got systems and processes in place globally now that we manage that very closely and an ongoing and timely basis.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
I'll jump back in queue.
We'll go next to Tahira Afzal of KeyBanc.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi guys.
Just a quick follow-up on the M&amp;A statement you guys made earlier on.
Stuart can you – we're quarter more in can you talk a little more about what you're seeing out there in terms of visibility? I mean the M&amp;A is always – I think you – what's the phrase you got to kiss a lot of frogs and...
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
– we're continually looking at opportunities.
I think as the market continues the way it is today there will be more opportunity you would think.
So we need to stay across that and as Brian said before our focus has been in the technology side but technology only becomes available when it becomes available and you've got to have the ability to move quickly.
And so that – having that optionality that we have now and in terms of our balance sheet now it's really important.
So I think that we're seeing an increased level of M&amp;A opportunity yes but I think we're – but that's maybe because we're more actively in the market looking than before.
And that's probably the best way to put it.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And last question is really on the – I know there's been a change in management in regards to the ownership of execution of some large nuclear projects in the UK – sorry in the U.S.; does that create a fabrication opportunity for your new venture? Brian.
Yeah.
Potentially.
Potentially.
I mean I think there's enough fabrication opportunities out there regardless is probably the way to put it.
Yeah.
I'd say that the fabrication on the Gulf Coast in particular is relatively tight.
And we view it as a strategic benefit for us to have access to these facilities for EPC projects.
So yes I guess theoretically but our main purpose of doing the transaction is to support our EPC activities in our traditional businesses.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
We'll go next to Jamie Cook of Credit Suisse.
Hi.
Sorry.
Tahira sort of stole my question there but just back on the M&amp;A.
Brian you mentioned specifically M&amp;A in your prepared remarks you mentioned it again when you were answering John Roger's question and then when you talked about your credit facility you talked about if we were do a large transaction so I don't know if I'm just reading into something that there's something more eminent here.
And then my second question is given what you guys have going on in terms of the restructuring and refocusing the business would you feel – do you feel like KBR is at a point in time where you could handle a larger transaction? Thanks.
Okay.
Since I'm the one who made the statement I guess I have to respond to...
Well you brought it up three times so.
No it remains an area of focus in all seriousness.
We've had this from the beginning of the year as part of our strategy and to Stuart's point we've been looking at this quite closely.
There are some activities underway.
So I'm just trying to make sure that people don't forget about it.
Obviously we don't have much to say about M&amp;A until we actually have a transaction to announce and at which time we would announce it.
So wait and see.
But would you feel comfortable? I mean you've made some good progress on the restructuring and rightsizing KBR.
Would you feel comfortable with a larger transaction just given where you are or would it still be just small like niche technology-type stuff? I think Jamie again it depends.
I mean the niche technology runs a very...
They're easy.
– much easier to absorb.
If you do a larger transaction it depends where the geographical overlap is.
It depends where the industry overlap is.
It depends what the cultural fit is.
I mean to actually – I guess to answer the question it would be done in a very considered way.
And if I felt that we could not manage it we wouldn't do it.
Okay.
I'll get back in queue.
Thanks.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Stuart Bradie for any final remarks.
Thank you very much.
Just again thank you very much for the interest and taking the time this morning and the questions.
As ever they're considered and cause us some challenge sometimes.
But thank you very much for your interest.
And again we look forward to your continued support and we look forward to getting on the road soon and meeting you again face-to-face.
Thank you.
That does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to KBR's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
As a reminder your lines will be in a listen-only mode for the duration of the call.
There will be a question-and-answer session immediately following prepared remarks.
You will receive instructions at that time.
For opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Zac Nagle Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thank you for joining us for KBR's fourth quarter and fiscal 2015 earnings conference call.
Today's call is also being webcast and a replay will be available on KBR's website for seven days at kbr.com.
The press release announcing KBR's results is also available on KBR's website.
Joining me today are Stuart Bradie President and Chief Executive Officer; and Brian Ferraioli Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
During today's call Stuart and Brian will cover KBR's financial and operation results in more detail provide an update on our progress against our strategic objectives and discuss our market outlook.
Please refer to the accompanying presentation that is posted on our website at kbr.com.
After our prepared remarks we'll open the floor for questions.
Before turning the call over to Stuart I would like to remind our audience that today's comments may include forward-looking statements reflecting KBR's views about future events and their potential impact on performance.
These matters involve risks and uncertainties that could impact operations and financial results and cause our actual results to differ significantly from our forward-looking statements.
These risks are discussed in KBR's fourth quarter earnings press release KBR's earnings presentation KBR's Form 10-K for the period ended December 31 2015 and KBR's current reports on Form 8-K.
You can find all of these documents at kbr.com.
Now I'll turn the call over to Stuart.
Stuart? Thank you Zac.
Good morning.
So turning to slide three just a brief introduction on where we are on our goal towards Zero Harm and our safety performance.
Our Total Recordable Incident Rate for 2015 showed significant progress over a 30% improvement over the previous year and we continue into 2016 towards the goal of Zero Harm.
A great achievement and really everyone at KBR is very proud of where we're heading in this particular area.
Moving on to slide four; our year-end summary.
So significant progress against the strategic objectives that we set out in December 2014.
I'll touch in the next slide a little bit of I guess against our scorecard that we set out when we set out our stall.
We exceeded EPS guidance through the fiscal year and Brian will talk a little bit more about that later.
Good Q4 solid earnings on a backdrop of really good execution across our core businesses.
We secured the Magnolia LNG project in fourth quarter of 2015 which was good and we've announced the award of the UK's Ministry of Defense MFTS contract in the first quarter of 2016 which slipped a quarter and hence we just highlighted here because we expected it in the last quarter of 2015.
Our cost savings are on track.
We've identified and actioned over $165 million.
And we're confident we'll achieve our goal of $200 million through 2016.
We continue to have good performance on our non-strategic power project delivery again managed by our Americas E&amp;C business and that delivered some incremental profit in the quarter.
Also in the fourth quarter we had $36 million in restructuring impairment charges and these were partially offset by the gain on the sale of assets.
This really reflects our ongoing balancing of the business portfolio.
We also had $8 million of discrete tax charges in the quarter really relating to the change in the UK tax rates against our tax credits.
So that's a one-off.
We continued with a balanced capital allocation policy and in the quarter we returned $52 million to shareholders through dividends and buybacks and $109 million across the year.
And we continue to pay a competitive yielding dividend so no change there.
We also acquired very much in line with our strategy the technology subsidiaries from Chematur in the first quarter of 2016.
Okay so moving on to slide five.
We set out our stall very clearly and transparently at the end of 2014 and this really the scorecard of which we should be measured.
We said we'd exit non-strategic businesses those that we didn't fit – think fit with our future strategy or were not performing or very low margin.
And I think we've now completed all the sales that we set out to do.
We closed the U.S.
Minerals office.
And we've had good success in closing out two of the three EPC Power projects and with one of those due for completion in the first quarter of 2017 so really good performance in this particular area.
The businesses we took to review more carefully really are Industrial Services business.
We concluded the transaction and we sold half that business to grow it as we brought in a partner who really understood the local markets that we were operating in and that venture is starting to gain good traction and we're very pleased with the progress there.
We moved that Canadian Pipe Fabrication/Module Assembly business into a joint venture called EPIC where we hold a minority stake.
So again I think both of those are very much good results during the course of the year.
We set out a target of $200 million I've talked about that just previously and $165 million identified and actioned to-date so more to come there through 2016.
Target margins we set out Technology &amp; Consulting low 20s%.
We achieved 23.8%.
E&amp;C high-single digits 9.5% and the GS in low-teens excluding legacy costs.
And that was under the target in Q4 and Brian will explain why.
Again it's a one-off that will potentially resolve itself as we go forward.
We put a lot of effort into resolving outstanding disputes with the U.S.
Government.
We're going to give you a little bit more of color around that.
I think that we've – we could have done a better job in explaining that more fully in the past.
And it seems to be quite a hot topic when we go around talking to potential investors and our current investors.
And so we really want to give you sort of – our sort of view as where that stands today and Brian will talk about that next.
And again we continue to employ a balanced capital allocation policy.
And I think I've touched on all of them as part of the summary.
And we will continue with our policy going forward.
So now I'd like to hand over to Brian who will firstly give you a little bit of color a little bit more meat on the bone around where we are on our dispute resolutions and then he'll move on to the results.
Brian? Thank you Stuart and good morning.
Yes.
On slide six you'll see an update on some of the major disputes that we have and trying to compare where we were at the end of 2014 to the end of 2015.
And one of the areas that we had a fair amount of exposure going into 2015 was relating to the U.S.
Government audits.
Just with a little context for the period 2003 to 2011 that was the height of the LogCAP III contract support of the U.S.
military in Iraq.
And we invoiced over that time period $46 billion.
That's about $5.1 billion in billings per year.
Coming into the year we have three years still open subject to audit and we closed the year at the end of 2015 with only $9 million remaining being questioned by the government.
A tremendous accomplishment and we expect to get that $9 million resolved this year and hopefully within the next quarter or so.
Other years still open; the 2012 through 2014 the billings dropped down to only $1.2 billion for that time period so only $400 million.
So you see a significant step down in the amount of cost to be audited by the government.
And I'd point out that our success rate in justifying the billings that we rendered to the government is 99.89%.
So in my view a significant de-risking by the end of 2015 to where we entered the year relating to government audits of some very high volume activity that we've had in the past.
Also coming into the beginning of the year we had a number of sodium dichromate cases.
Two series of cases in the states of Oregon and Texas.
And actually in Oregon we had an adverse jury verdict of $81 million against us though which was on appeal.
During the year the cases were combined and transferred to Texas where all the cases were dismissed on the merits.
And one of the findings of the court was that no one was injured.
Now the plaintiffs are appealing this but again a significant de-risking from where we entered the year.
Another ruling from the court was that the contract indemnification including in our agreement with the U.S.
military protects us from these type of claims and costs.
So again it's not over but a significant de-risking from where we entered the year.
And finally the PEMEX this is an offensive claim where we've won several times in cases against PEMEX.
We entered the year with a case being on appeal with $465 million being on deposit in New York by PEMEX.
As we exited 2015 the hearings are complete and we continue to wait a ruling by the court.
So hopefully we'll hear in the near team and we're much closer to the end than we are to the beginning on collecting the $465 million.
Tuning over to slide seven; looking at the financial results for the quarter.
You see the revenues of $1.080 billion is down about $337 million from the prior year but $207 million of that relates to the fact that we now deconsolidate the Brown &amp; Root Industrial Services business that Stuart mentioned earlier and now comes through in the equity in earnings line.
And we also sold the Building Group in the second quarter.
And between those two it's $207 million.
The delta also reflects the rundown on one of the larger LNG projects in Australia that we've been talking about for some quarters now.
Gross profit and equity in earnings reflects the improved performance Stuart referred to earlier and clearly a significant change from where we were in the fourth quarter of 2014 when we went through the restructuring process.
G&amp;A costs continue to come down it's a $25 million reduction from a year ago quarter and that's again the cost initiatives that we've been talking about for some time.
The impairment of long-lived assets and restructuring charges continue as we rebalance our business.
$17 million of those charges relate to the write-off of ERP expenses and non-cash since the cash has been spent in last year and the cost initiatives as well relating to severance offset partially by some gains on the sales of excess office space and our Infrastructure Americas business.
The net of the two is about a $9 million hit to the quarter.
Net income obviously reflects all of the above.
And just one thing to point out the discrete tax of $8 million in the quarter this is in relation to the UK tax rate dropping from 20% to 18%.
So therefore the tax benefits that we have primarily related to the UK pension will generate lower value in the future when we get to deduct them for tax purposes.
But the good news is the tax rate on earnings will be lower as well.
All of that results in an EPS of $0.29.
Going over to page eight; page eight reflects how we think about the business.
As I mentioned the $0.29 EPS for the quarter and that's $1.40 for the full year.
But there are a number of these strategic initiatives that we've been doing throughout the year that are not really operational run rate type items and so we tend to back those out.
So specifically the non-strategic businesses although the performance has been better than what had been expected on the power plant portfolio that we still have with $11 million gain during the quarter which equates to about $0.08 and $27 million for the year which equates to about $0.19 clearly that's business that we're exiting.
And therefore it's not going to be resulting in the future.
The impairments and restructuring charges $36 million for the quarter equates to about $0.22 and $70 million for the year or $0.41.
The gain on the disposition of assets $27 million for the quarter $0.16 per share for the quarter and $61 million for the year which is about $0.40 for the year.
And then if you recall in the second quarter we had a gain we had a correction of an error that was over a number of years relating to a joint venture that we have in Mexico and that was about $0.10 and then the tax rate change in the UK $0.06.
So you look at the adjusted EPS after backing out these what I consider non-operational type activities you're at $0.33 for the quarter $1.18 for the year.
And then we continue with the U.S.
legacy legal fees which were $5 million for the quarter or $0.03 and $18 million for the year or about $0.12.
So when we think about EPS we think about $0.36 for the quarter and about $1.30 for the year.
Moving over to slide nine a little bit more detail on the P&amp;L.
We're looking at it from a segment perspective.
You see the Technology &amp; Consulting group the revenues are up.
That's largely related to increased volumes of proprietary equipment.
E&amp;C we talked about the deconsolidation of the Industrial Services group as well as the LNG project.
And also in there in 2014 we had the Canadian pipe fabrication work and Canadian construction which has – the pipe fabrication has been transferred to a joint venture and the construction in Canada has dropped off a little bit reflecting tar sands or oil sands activities.
Government Services is higher in revenues and that's largely related to the support for the U.S.
military abroad under the LogCAP IV contract.
And the non-strategics reflect the sale of the Building Group which was $81 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 that business was sold again in the second quarter.
Gross profit and equity earnings are up across the board compared to the prior year obviously with all the restructuring charges from the fourth quarter of 2014.
But again reflects good performance in T&amp;C on the proprietary equipment side especially we're talking about the technology component of it not so much the consulting side.
E&amp;C had strong performance during the quarter.
The Government Services improved from where we were a year ago.
But the margins are down a bit for the quarter.
And this reflects the fact that one of the project close-outs we received some subcontractor claims very recently actually after the year-end but before we filed so they're included in the fourth quarter results.
We believe there may be some merit to them but we haven't had the opportunity to fully evaluate whether these are recoverable from our client.
So we have the cost in there and zero revenues.
And that's why the quarter margins are down a bit.
If we are able to recover from the government we only upside relating to those claims.
The non-strategic business again reflects the power projects and the EBITDA again is reflective of all the above plus the fact that the change from the year-ago was all the goodwill impairment that we had taken.
Moving on to slide 10; we had a good cash of quarter.
Cash balance at the end of the year was $883 million and that's been driven primarily from $132 million of operating cash flow during the quarter.
That's the good news.
The bad news is we were successful in advancing some of that from 2016 so it's timing.
So the first quarter will be negatively impacted by that shift out of the first quarter and into the fourth quarter.
During the first quarter we have already spent $24 million to acquire three subsidiaries of Chematur.
This is in line with our strategic initiative to add to our technology portfolio.
And we're looking to add on with additional bolt-on acquisitions throughout the year.
So our balance sheet is strong and we believe that that's very important to our clients but also gives us optionality as things develop in some challenging markets.
We intend to continue with balanced capital allocation strategy.
And as Stuart mentioned we pay a very competitive yielding dividend of about 2.5%.
During the quarter we returned $52 million to shareholders $40 million in repurchases and $12 million in dividends.
And you see for the year $109 million was returned to shareholders and since the spin back in 2007 just under $1.1 billion have been returned to shareholders.
So with that I'll turn the call back over to Stuart and he'll walk you through the market outlook.
Thank you Brian.
Global hydrocarbons it's a tough market today.
I think it will remain a tough market for E&amp;Cs.
I don't think there's any getting away from that.
I think prudent cost management is essential and I think we've demonstrated good performance in that area which needs to continue but opportunities do remain.
There's ongoing demand particularly in the downstream refining petrochemicals arena which really supports where we're positioned in our technology business.
We're very gas-facing.
And it sort of expands the opportunities for E&amp;C pull-through from our early positioning in technology.
It's worth mentioning here two opportunities that we've called out before.
The first is really around the fertilizer EPC opportunity that we declared in the Midwest of the country.
In the last update I think I explained there were a number of those opportunities that we were pursuing.
They are all developer-led and we've got those still continuing at various levels of maturity.
There was a declaration recently around Midwest fertilizers and I think because we had talked about a fertilizer plant in the Midwest everyone thought that was the only one we were considering and that is not the case.
In terms of Tangguh the Tangguh pricing is in.
The two competitors submitted bids and we bid it as aggressively as we feel is sensible.
And as I've reiterated many times we are not going to do anything stupid in this market particularly in lump-sum bidding.
But we await the final results of that tender which we expect very soon.
We continue to see isolated opportunities in upstream oil and gas and I think those will continue through 2016 and into 2017.
The key there is to be chasing the ones that will go ahead.
Lower CapEx around the world should result in greater opportunities as people concentrate on their existing assets for our maintenance and turnaround business.
I think where we're positioning our Brown &amp; Root Industrial Services model gives us a really good opportunity to replicate that model.
Expand it in the U.S.
but also replicate it across the world.
And as Brian mentioned we're very keen on continuing to expand our technology portfolio.
In the Government Services side of the business very very different picture.
The markets across the globe are expanding for us.
We see an increase in U.S.
military overseas support for obvious reasons with significant strategic opportunities in the UK and across Europe.
There's been a sort of declared 2% of GDP spend in the UK and Australia which is seeing an increase in the spending in that market where we're well positioned.
And we see increasing opportunities to support in the Middle East as things progress there.
In summary in 2016 and beyond we see opportunities for stronger technology sales growth in that business and annuity revenue streams across KBR providing more continuity and cyclical protection and that's certainly the case in 2016 and we see that continuing.
Our balance sheet as Brian said we have very strong cash performance.
Our balance sheet is strong.
It provides significant optionality and allows us to move quickly as strategic opportunities arise and I'm sure there will be a number of those that come to the floor during these difficult times through 2016 and into 2017.
So to try and set out our scorecard and our stall for 2016 if you move to the next slide slide 13.
And the first bullet we've set out the margin objectives and we are standing by them and we'll progress through each quarter as we go along against those margin objectives.
And we stick by our $200 million cost reduction target that we established in December 2014 and will continue down that path through 2016 and into – and hopefully more into 2017.
We do want to expand our Brown &amp; Root Industrial Service model in the U.S.
but actually globally as well as we see good opportunity in the asset services side of the business.
I've talked – we've talked for many quarters about Brown &amp; Root technology portfolio which we've started to do because it's a good business in its own right the margins are attractive but it does position us early for opportunities in EPC pull-through.
We wish to expand our Government Services offerings particularly around areas where it differentiates us going forward.
And as I've said the markets in that particular business are growing today.
And we will continue with our balanced capital allocation strategy.
So moving on to slide 14 2016 guidance.
Our guidance is an EPS range of $1.20 to $1.45 excluding legacy legal fees estimated in 2016 at $50 million or $0.11 EPS.
It's worth noting also that approximately 80% of revenue supporting this guidance is already in backlog.
Now to try and get ahead a little bit of I'm sure some questions around 2017 I thought it might be worth just making a few statements around that before we open the floor to the questions.
First and foremost we are very conscious that whatever we say we really want to stand behind.
So we're right up front.
We're not going to give formal guidance for 2017.
However the 2016 growth in our Technology and our Government Services businesses has helped counteract the headwinds in our E&amp;C business.
And we see this continuing into 2017 and beyond.
And our strategic intent as we set out supports this.
In the hydrocarbon sector as you're all well aware our customers are limiting capital expenditure and 2017 is heading to be a tougher year than 2016.
That said our scale and our position opposite gas monetization particularly in downstream and petrochemicals and our technology positioning really helps us.
Our balance sheet gives us great optionality.
We are looking acquisitively as you're aware and we think there will be – there are and there will continue to be opportunities that align with our strategy going forward really around expanding the technology portfolio and thus giving great opportunity for EPC pull-through where it makes sense globalizing the Brown &amp; Root Industrial Services model around maintenance and turnaround and really growing our Government Services offering around differentiation.
And finally the other lever you can pull in a market like this is of course the cost lever.
I think we've demonstrated since the beginning of 2015 through the course of the year and with our targets of $200 million cost reduction that we're performing well in this area.
We believe there's more to go.
We can continue to get more efficient and this will continue in 2016 and into 2017.
And this really helps us competitively but also helps us achieve declared target margins.
So with that I'll hand over to Zac.
Operator at this time we'd like to open the floor for questions.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from Tahira Afzal.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi folks.
Congratulations on a good quarter.
Thanks Tahira.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
So first of all thank you for setting some qualitative expectations for 2017 which seem pretty grounded.
I assume at these levels it will help your stock.
If I was to look at the government side of the business could you give us more of an idea of some of the backlog opportunities you have – left over there if there's still some large ones on the UK side? And then number two the U.S.
side obviously we are seeing an uptick in some of the spending at least for this year.
Are you seeing anything of the same size and scope as the opportunities in the UK? We're not clear about the opportunities in the UK you're referring to Tahira.
You cut out a bit.
So I'm sorry we didn't hear the beginning of your question.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah sorry.
I know you've just won a very large UK opportunity.
But I'm wondering if there are some other lumpy large ones out there that you can highlight a little more.
And whether there are any similar ones now in the U.S.
with the spending here potentially picking up.
This is in the Government Services side of the business.
Inc.</span></strong> That's correct.
Yes.
So I think we've talked before about Army 2020 which is really the UK government bringing the rest of the UK army back to the UK mainland from Germany.
And that continues to progress well.
We're in single-source negotiations with the Ministry of Defense to achieve that goal.
As you know we sort of built the facilities in the Salisbury Plain for the UK army and we maintain them for the next 20-odd years.
This will be an additive reasonably-sized construction portion to this.
And then the maintenance portion will increase (29:10) current contract.
So I think a really really sizable opportunity for us and one that we will drive to conclusion through the course of 2016.
Probably mid-year sort of late Q2 maybe into Q3 depending on if we can get all the contract terms sorted out with the government.
But that's progressing very well and that's a sizable opportunity.
And in terms of the U.S.
side of the business we're tendering a number of sizable base contracts today.
The timing of award will happen we believe through 2016 but it's difficult to determine the exact timing just because it's a government process.
We haven't really called out those as specific opportunities because there's a number of them.
And if we get our fair share I think we'll see some good growth in that side of the business.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Okay.
And Stuart in regards to your qualitative commentary around 2017 being a tougher year and how that plays out for you would that be partly dependent on obviously Magnolia going ahead and being awarded for construction by the early part of next year? And is Tangguh just as important? Is it a less tough year if you end up getting at least one or both of those? I think from a – I think both are very different scales.
I would say that first.
I think Tangguh is far smaller in scale than Magnolia.
I think that the – for us neither of those opportunities are in backlog today.
None of them – we would not do that until they reach financial close it's worth calling that out.
That's really our policy and we'll stick by it.
It would be terrific if Magnolia – I mean the client is confident that they're at the right end of the cost curve.
They're still in a dollars per ton perspective at the very lower end of that.
So they feel that as they progress through 2016 the opportunity for LNG sales they believe will be good.
So in terms of looking into 2017 I don't think either of those opportunities for us are – we don't need either of them to actually deliver on our strategy of where we're heading.
Obviously if one or both were successful that would make life a little bit easier of course it would.
But I don't think them going ahead or not going ahead or being successful will detract from where we're heading.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much Stuart.
And we'll move forward to our next question from Rob Norfleet.
Good morning and congratulations on a nice end to the year.
Thanks you very much.
Thanks Rob.
Just a quick question.
I guess we always get into the question of guidance within guidance but when I look at the range of the guidance and Brian I think you did a nice job of kind of pointing out what some of the non-operational items were that impacted results in 2015 so we can kind of look at on an apples-to-apples basis.
But there is a fairly wide gap at the bottom end of $1.20 which would imply on an adjusted basis modestly down earnings.
And I know you guys have pointed out obviously some of the difficulties in the market.
But could you maybe point out just in terms of the low-end versus high-end kind of what – from a bottoms-up perspective you guys what would have to happen for kind of the lower end versus the bottom end to happen? Is it more that a project like Magnolia does not come to FID or is it just more CapEx cuts and the inability to win some of the larger projects that we've discussed? I'm just trying to get a general understanding of the range.
Well Rob again if you look at the range we don't think it's so far off to where we are for this year.
If anything maybe it's a – we have a good opportunity for to be up slightly in a pretty challenging market but it's a challenging market.
So we'll see how things play out but to answer your specific question about Magnolia Magnolia is unlikely to proceed.
The last we had heard from the client publicly was delayed until the end of the year.
So it would have no impact on this year.
Okay.
So within that contract given that you have a – obviously you've guaranteed a fixed price EPC contract would you likely extend that or how do you work with the customer in that regard? Yes I mean you're right.
We would look to extend that as we – within the realms of reasonableness as the year progresses.
Okay.
And just my question just involves around obviously we have two of the larger LNG projects that are pretty heavy contributors to the E&amp;C segment this year.
Can you kind of talk about the contribution this year and really the roll down of these contracts as we enter the second half of 2016 and what if any contribution there will be in 2017? So I think we've been pretty clear about the fact that our LNG earnings in 2016 would be similar to 2015 and I think we will continue with that.
The two projects are at different stages of I guess their cycle with Gorgon looking to produce hydrocarbon very soon and first LNG there.
So that project will run down through the course of the year while the excess project will continue and running through the construction cycle in 2016 on into 2017.
Okay.
Great.
And just lastly in terms of – Brian can you just give us in terms of cash – the amount of cash that U.S.
versus international and again how that potentially impacts the capital allocation decisions in 2016? We have what about $300 million.
It's in the 10-K there's a chart let's see if I can find it quickly.
But in terms of capital allocation it's at $336 million I am told domestically and...
It's page 36.
Oh page 36 I'm told but it's about $300 million or so.
(35:44) Yeah $360 million.
And in terms of capital allocation no it doesn't have a significant impact where the cash is located.
We're looking at opportunities on the M&amp;A side on a global basis.
Clearly on the buybacks and dividends that's more of a domestic cash issue but we have some fair flexibility about how we can move cash around in a tax efficient manner right now.
So the split between the two is not a huge issue in term of capital allocation.
Great.
Well thanks for the time and congratulation again on a good year in a difficult environment.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
And we'll move forward to our next question from Jamie Cook.
Hi.
Good morning can you hear me? Yes.
Good morning Jamie.
Yes.
Good morning Jamie.
Good morning everyone.
So a couple of questions Brian.
If I could just press you a little more on how to think about 2016 and 2017.
One is there anything unusual or how do we think about the cadence of earnings in 2016 first half versus second half? Because obviously that is implications for how we think about 2017 and just with roll off on the LNG projects.
And Brian your stock is trading like your E&amp;C earnings in 2017 are going to get cut by 60% or 70%.
I'm just – any color you can give if Magnolia is not going to contribute this year or contribute in 2016.
If we don't get Tangguh how bad could E&amp;C be? And then the other – my other question I guess would be back on the cash flow side while the market is very negative on I think your earnings outlook beyond 2017 I still feel like on the cash side people under appreciate sort of the opportunities for you to produce cash flow above your net income level.
So can you talk about as we think about a resort over the next 12 months to 8 months are there any one-time things that could significantly improve your free cash flow above net income and how you think about share repo versus deals given the free cash flow pipeline? Thanks.
Okay.
Well in terms of earnings...
I haven't even had coffee Brian.
I thought you said you're going to ask a couple of questions not 12.
Anything for a question.
What I can remember out of all those questions in terms of the earnings profile we do think there might be a little bit of a dip in the first quarter but a ramp-up more towards the middle of the year.
In terms of the cash flow as already indicated again we think the first quarter will be a little bit light given that we've accelerated some of that cash about $50 million or so from Q1 into the last quarter of 2015.
Plus we spent $24 million on the acquisition of the Chematur subsidiaries.
We've also on the fixed wing aircraft there was about $10 million capital contribution required for that project.
So the cash would be a little bit light in the first quarter but again should ramp up throughout the year.
In terms of the ability to generate cash as a company the drag that we have remains at power projects.
As you recall those projects or the project the one remaining project we have taken charges on and that project will not be over until the early part of 2017.
So that's going to continue to dampen if you would the cash until that project is completed.
We are focused on cash generation.
You saw we had a very good fourth quarter.
It remains a priority here.
The U.S.
– these are something that could really move the needle.
Certainly the PEMEX award if we were to win that the only option left to PEMEX would be to appeal to the U.S.
Supreme Court.
That may delay collections but outside counsel advise us that they don't believe it's highly likely that the U.S.
Supreme Court would hear a commercial dispute like that.
The cash is already on deposit in New York so it's not like we have to go and collect from the client.
It is already there.
So that certainly is a game changer if that were to occur.
What about anything with the government advanced pre-payments? And you didn't answer how you think about cash in terms of anything other than a small sort of technology deal? And you didn't answer the question on how bad E&amp;C could be in 2017 if you don't get Tangguh or Magnolia I mean does this get cut in half? I'm just trying to think about the worst-case scenario.
Well as Stuart mentioned on Tangguh and Magnolia; Magnolia if the project goes at year-end which is what the client most recently indicated its impact on 2017 earnings would be relatively modest.
I mean you are doing the engineering components which don't generate a large percent complete.
So that's not a significant driver for...
So what if neither of those happen? I'm sorry? I'm trying to understand how E&amp;C looks in 2017 if Tangguh and Magnolia don't happen? I mean it's an interesting question Jamie.
I think that one of our observations in 2015 was the level of I guess large jobs coming through the EPC cycle that we've announced is actually quite modest but the business continues to win a lot of work in I guess the smaller project – you can call them smaller project medium project type scale.
And those projects will continue and I think we've done very well in that area going forward.
So it's not a case of one or two projects and E&amp;C is in trouble.
I think the business resilience around E&amp;C is far stronger than just one or two projects.
And we'll move forward to our next question from Andrew Kaplowitz.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning guys.
Hi Andy.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Nice quarter.
How are you doing? So Stuart maybe you can talk a little bit more about the progress of restructuring that you've made.
We noticed – I think you changed your wording in the press release from guidance of $200 million to at least $200 million this quarter.
So how do we think about additional opportunities for KBR to take out costs and when and where can you do it? And then just following on to that also how do we think about the lower cost falling to the bottom line given pricing pressure out in the E&amp;C environment right now? Yeah.
I mean I think what we found through the cost reduction exercise is that you always attack the I guess the lower hanging fruit first.
But I think as I've explained often on the road the beauty of what has happened I think within KBR is the passion from the people and we're getting a lot of the ideas and the feedback up through the business rather than from the top down.
And so the ability for those cost savings to stick is far greater.
And as a consequence of that we're actually seeing greater opportunity to take cost continual cost out of the business as we go forward.
I think second the stall-out of $200 million in 2016 is really the target.
We do think there may well be opportunities beyond that but I think anyone who understands our business understands one of the things in a down market that you have to actually manage is your LCA or your non-chargeable time.
And we've been very transparent a dollar of cost out of the business is a true dollar of cost.
It's not we take a dollar out here and something happens over there and it goes up but that's not – we don't count it.
We've actually – we count everything.
And so we need to manage our non-chargeable time and maintain capability through this period.
And I think that setting our stall out the way we've done it is appropriate but I do think there are opportunities for even more efficiency through the business.
And that's why we've actually made the statement at least $200 million.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then you kind of talked about a lot of potential growth in Government Services.
I think you know this.
You did about $60 million in profits excluding legal fees in the year in 2015.
If you look at KBR historically outside of LogCAP it's been difficult for KBR to grow Government Services.
And it does seem like you have more opportunities than you had in the past.
And maybe still you can talk about how do we think about actual growth in this business going forward because I do think it's key to offsetting some of the hydrocarbon stuff but it's been a struggle to grow that business ex-LogCAP in the past? I think yeah it's difficult to talk for the past because I wasn't really here.
I would say it was – I mean you'd think running a contract like LogCAP III was pretty all-consuming.
But that aside we're now in a very different phase of development on Government Services.
We know strategically where we want to go.
We really understand the markets we're in.
We know the competitive landscape and we know our positioning.
And we know exactly where we want to invest and how we want to differentiate or the areas we want to move into to differentiate that business.
I think there's significant opportunity to grow it organically.
I think there are some opportunities to grow acquisitively.
And I think as we move though the course of 2016 I think you'll start to see that.
In addition I think the strategic opportunities that we are pursuing in the UK and in the U.S.
for that matter but I guess near term in the UK are starting to come through and these are really solid long-term annuity-type opportunities that will really set us sort of I guess our earnings platform in a very consistent manner going forward.
And we'll move forward to our next question from Steven Fisher.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Morning.
Hi Steve.
I want to come back to the 2016 guidance again if you could just give us a little more color on what you assume in there to follow up on Rob's question before.
I know Brian you listed the things that you don't really count for 2015.
I guess what are some of those things that you may or may not have in 2016? It sounds like I think what you told Rob was that the change orders you feel pretty good about but what about some of these other things that you may or may not have in there for 2016? Well we don't have the similar sorts of items that you see on slide eight baked into the guidance so asset impairments or severance costs or things like that if that's your question.
No it's more along the lines of the non-strategic recoveries on the power projects.
I mean maybe there could be some more things that are added in there.
Okay.
No.
I mean clearly we're hopeful that we can improve on the power project performance.
But we have not assumed that in the guidance.
You look at the slide eight and those are the type items that should they occur we back them out when we're looking at the underlying business.
Okay.
And then again just to follow up on Jamie's question and just again to harp on 2017 a little bit it sounds like your message is that you have enough small to mid-sized type projects to really kind of keep 2017 from falling off a cliff which is really what the investor concern is.
Is that the message that it's the small to medium-sized stuff that that itself can do it or you still need some of these other technology and downstream and chemical projects elsewhere? I think it's across it Steve.
I think part of it is the message around the smaller projects and not all consuming large projects will make us fall off the cliff.
But as I said before we think that there's an element of counter-cyclicality around our growth in Technology and our opportunity in Government Services combined with our optionality around the balance sheet.
And the cost reduction.
And of course the cost reduction.
So we've said all along that we are very focused on growing the bottom line.
And we'll move forward to our next question from Jerry Revich.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Jerry.
Stuart I'm wondering if you could just flesh out for us your broad range of expectations for orders in 2016 or prospects however you can frame it and maybe give us the major buckets within that what proportion of your orders do you expect to be driven by these mid-sized projects? And you spoke about refining opportunities maybe flesh that out for us as well in terms of whether that's brownfield or greenfield any additional color would be helpful.
I mean I don't think we've – Jerry in the past – and I don't think it's probably right that we give specific sector data like that.
We do think there's growth opportunities in the Technology side.
We do think – we've called out one or two opportunities in the Government Services side that have been there through 2015 that we'll continue to report on into 2016.
So I think that's pretty clear.
I think the key on the Government Services side is to look at the growth the demand growth the market growth and where KBR sits in that environment.
So that's probably easier.
In terms of the color around the E&amp;C and specific opportunities I think again if you went back and looked at our announcements through 2015 in the larger projects and look at our performance through the year I'll give you a sort of flavor.
I don't have the exact percentage and I don't want to quote one that's wrong.
But I think if you went back and looked at that then I think it'll you a good flavor of what we've just stated.
I think in the downstream sector and the petrochemicals sector I think the opportunities through the lower gas prices in the U.S.
will continue.
The chemicals companies continue to look at expansion opportunities because of the lower gas price.
There's certainly opportunities that we're seeing right now in the Middle East that they continue to look to I guess vertically integrate in their economies.
So I think you'll continue to see that through the course of 2016 and into 2017.
And I think because as we said very often where we are we're a gas-facing company.
Our technology is all gas-facing and really the projects that we do that are sizable are typically in the gas arena.
We've got some in the oil arena offshore.
But typically onshore it's gas.
And I think that plays well to the market opportunities that will exist going forward.
And Stuart you've won an outstanding share of nitrogen projects.
Now that that CapEx cycle looks to be slowing based on your real prices.
Can you talk about how active you are in U.S.
ethylene bids? How big of a focus area is that for you at this point? Yeah.
I think the next wave of ethylene projects that people talk about I think we're actively engaged in looking at that right now.
And that's a focus area for us.
I think we did some work in the last round of ethylene projects.
But I think people have pointed out that we probably didn't do as much as people expected and that's probably fair.
But again for us I think that gives us a great opportunity to get refocused and work hard.
We've got a very solid technology that we can apply to that market that has some real sort of advantages.
We just got to play on that.
And we'll move forward to our next question from Bill Newby.
Good morning guys.
Bill Newby on for John Rogers.
Morning.
Morning.
I was hoping to just get some more color around the acquisition pipeline that you guys see in the near term.
I think you mentioned some bolt-on acquisitions that you're seeing here in 2016.
But any more color there would be good.
Yeah.
I think we've said all along that acquisitively we would only do it if there was synergy on the revenue side.
We wouldn't do something purely for a cost synergistic benefit.
We want one plus one is greater than two.
And we've called out I think in our 2016 scorecard I guess the three areas.
They excite us at the moment.
The first is again broadening the technology portfolio; A because it's a great business in its own right.
We'll have a bit of a – if we could do that with a recurring revenue around solvent sales or catalyst sales that's terrific.
But also position us for the EPC opportunities going forward of which we can be a little bit more selective and get in early and be a little bit more differentiated which in this marketplace will really help.
In terms of the other area we are keen on it's broadening the Industrial Services model in the U.S.
and globally.
We do think that there'll be a lot more work in this area as people try to get more out of the existing assets and with a lack of CapEx that I think the last down cycle demonstrated that that was actually the case.
And I guess the third but certainly not the least is the Government Services business with an increasing demand the opportunity for us to broadening our service offering there and get into areas of differentiation is in front of us.
So I think that we've tried to be pretty clear about our strategic priorities for 2016.
And we will only do acquisitions if it fits our strategy and we'll only do it if it's synergistic in our revenue base.
All right.
Thanks.
Appreciate it.
And we'll move forward to our next question from Vishal Shah.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
This is Rakesh on for Vishal.
Thanks for taking my question.
So with the increased focus on bidding around maintenance and around work can you maybe talk about the pricing levels that you have seen and the competition that is present in the segment? I mean I think it's worth saying that the contracts that you enter into particularly in the maintenance side of the business are typically long term.
I guess the margin guidance we've given within E&amp;C we stick by.
The typically once you get the invoicing and the administration sorted out the cash performance is typically good.
So I think all of that plays to being an attractive business.
Certainly the risk profile they tend to be far more cost reimbursable than lump sum also which helps the cyclicality of performance.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
Thanks.
Okay.
I think we're done? And that concludes today's question-and-answer session.
I'd now like to turn the conference over to Stuart Bradie for any additional or closing remarks.
As ever thank you very much for taking the time to listen this morning.
We've tried to give us a little bit more flavor and color around how we've progressed through the year and resolving some of the legacy disputes.
I think the team has done a fantastic job really de-risking the business from where it was 12 months to 18 months ago.
And I think we've got a – it's difficult times in the hydrocarbons market less so in the Government Services side of the business.
So I think there's a good balance to what we're looking at in front of us.
And certainly I'm very proud of the performance we've done not only in safety but also in cash management through the course of the year which gives us great optionality.
So thank you again for listening.
And obviously happy to take any follow-up calls or questions through the course of the – for the next little while and the year for that matter.
So thank you.
And that concludes today conference call.
We thank you for your participation.