Good day everyone and welcome to the Apache Corp.
First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Mr.
Alfonso Leon Vice President Planning Strategy and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Leon please go ahead.
Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us for Apache Corporation's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This morning we reported first quarter 2011 net income of $1.1 billion or $2.86 per diluted share.
Adjusted earnings which exclude certain items that impact the comparability of results also totaled $1.1 billion or $2.90 per diluted share.
Cash flow from operations totaled $2.2 billion.
On today's call we'll have 4 speakers making prepared remarks prior to taking questions: Steve Farris our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rod Eichler President and Chief Operating Officer; Roger Plank President and Chief Corporate Officer; and Tom Chambers Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
We've prepared our usual detail supplemental data package for your use which also includes the reconciliation of any non-GAAP numbers that we discuss such as adjusted earnings cash flow from operations or costs incurred.
This data package can be found on our website at www.apachecorp.com/financialdata.
Today's discussion may contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions and no assurances can be given that those expectations will be realized.
A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental data package on our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Alfonso and good afternoon everyone.
As I'm sure all of you are aware Apache this morning announced its financial results for the first quarter of 2011.
During the quarter we achieved record production of 732 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day.
We also posted our third highest quarter of earnings ever as Alfonso pointed out $1.1 billion and our second highest cash flow ever of $2.2 billion.
The reality is that we faced a number of unexpected external challenges around the world since the beginning of the year: In Australia we have suffered 6 consecutive cyclones and have had problems with third-party FPSO; there have been some social unrest in Egypt; and like many people the Permian and central regions closed up during part of February; and then on top of all that the U.K.
government decided to raise taxes in the North Sea.
You would think our performance would have suffered and it did somewhat.
But despite the challenges Apache produced near-record financial results and had broad-based drillbit success with multiple new field discoveries.
And Rod Eichler will walk you through some of these in a moment.
I'd like to take stock of what drove Apache's performance in the quarter and it really comes down to a few things: It's really our portfolio strength our people and our culture.
The one thing we've learned as a company over 5 decades that if you want to make money in the oil and gas business over the long haul and not just now you need to have a broad-based and well-balanced portfolio of quality assets and you need to build a culture based on asset focus and returns.
And on the portfolio side producing 358 000 barrels of liquids a day 92% of which is crude oil certainly benefited our results for the quarter given the high prices.
But it's taken many many years' discipline and not allowing others or equity market fashions to get us into that position.
We produced almost as much crude oil in the Gulf of Mexico shelf as we do in the Permian Basin and 60% of our oil production is international.
These may not have been popular portfolio choices at the time we made them but today they underpin our cash flow and our business strength.
On the people and culture side.
I'd like to point out we're ahead of plan in nearly every operating metric in Egypt despite having evacuated many of our expats and the challenges of keeping business running during the social unrest we had there earlier in the year.
We didn't slow production we didn't drop a rig and we didn't even stop shooting seismic.
And it's because every single Apache kept their eyes on the ball and went beyond the call of duty to get the job done.
I'm happy to report that predominantly all our expats are back in Egypt already and those who are not are on their way.
And we have still a big job to do in Egypt and we're going to get on with it.
I could go over many other outstanding examples for the quarter.
It's a unique culture we've built over many years and which we are very proud to be a part of.
The other issue I'd like to touch on briefly is our capital.
Clearly our cash flow strength is ahead of our capital investment program we authorized earlier in the year which is about $7.5 billion.
And we plan to pay down debt but I can say we are also evaluating opportunities to put additional capital to work in attractive rate of return opportunities in a number of our regions this year.
And we'll have an update of this by our Analyst Day on May 17.
And with that I'd like to turn it over to Rod for operations highlights.
Thank you Steve.
In the central region production in the first quarter was down sequentially due to disruptions from unusually cold weather.
Apache operated 12 rigs in the region during the quarter and drilled 23 wells of which 20 were horizontals with an 87% success rate.
There are 3 highlights I'd like to note in the central region for the quarter.
Firstly we've drilled the first dual lateral well by any company in the Granite Wash.
This well targeted 2 different horizontal members of the Granite Wash from a single vertical wellbore.
The lower zone was completed at an initial rate of 6 million cubic feet of gas per day and 220 barrels of oil per day.
Two months later the upper zone was completed at an initial rate of 6 million a day and 40 barrels of oil per day.
Using this method realized $2 million in cost savings in this first application alone compared to drilling 2 single horizontal wells.
Secondly we completed the first horizontal test of the Granite Wash C formation [Marmaton C formation] achieving a test rate of 6.8 million cubic feet of gas per day and 180 barrels of condensate per day.
And thirdly in the Cherokee oil play we completed 2 wells one for 950 barrels of oil per day at 1.5 million cubic feet of gas per day and the other for 425 barrels of oil per day and 725 Mcf per day.
We intend to drill 20 more Cherokee oil wells this year.
And oil drilling including the Hogshooter zone represents nearly half of our central region activity.
We'll have a greater detail on these plays during our Analyst Day in May.
Moving to the Permian.
Production was down sequentially due to the impact of extreme cold weather-related freeze-ups compounded by third-party plant outages.
The region operated 24 rigs and drilled 110 wells during the quarter with 15 being horizontal wells.
Our current 24 rigs in the Permian represent a nearly 5-fold increase of our activity in the region from a year ago.
Horizontal development drilling in 4 water flood units located on the central basin platform has yielded excellent results.
23 horizontals drilled over the last year have increased production 57% to 7 700 barrels of oil per day in a level not seen in a decade.
We are completing another 7 wells with anticipated IPs of 250 to 500 barrels of oil per day per well.
Based on these successes a significant horizontal drilling inventory is building across our central basin platform assets.
On the Yeso assets acquired from BP we are planning to ramp up from 2 rigs now to 5 rigs by year end.
Our 4 wells completed there year-to-date are producing 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day per well and 16 more are awaiting completion.
We plan to drill 55 wells this year.
At the Wilshire field acquired from BP 9 wells will be drilled during the second quarter.
These initial wells will help appraise the drilling potential at Wilshire as well as BP's other former core Spraberry properties with the potential to prove up more than 400 drilling locations.
At this point former BP and Mariner assets represent more than 60% of this region's current drilling inventory.
Turning to the Gulf of Mexico area.
Production in our Gulf of Mexico shelf deepwater and gulf coast onshore regions was up a combined 8% sequentially.
In the Gulf of Mexico shelf we drilled 13 wells with a 69% success rate.
We currently operate 5 rigs and remain on target for our plan to drill 41 wells this year.
This plan is about 1/3 less than our desired level of activity reflecting ongoing constraints in the well purging process.
In the Gulf of Mexico deepwater we achieved first production from 2 projects during the first quarter representing 11 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day of combined initial production.
These were all tie-back projects that didn't require new drilling.
During the remainder of the year we expect first production from 3 small deepwater projects with combined initial production of 13 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
On the exploration front we expect the results of the first production test at Lucius by the operator Anadarko in the second quarter.
We continue to build and refine our prospect inventory on our 110 deepwater exploration blocks in anticipation of getting back to drilling for multi-hundred-million barrel oil prospects hopefully by next year.
In the onshore Gulf Coast we operated 3 drilling rigs during the first quarter and drilled 14 wells with 86% success rate.
Although many of them are still awaiting completion or testing preliminary economics suggest an overall 25% after-tax rate of return at our planning prices which are significantly below strip.
Turning to Canada.
Apache's Canada production was up 7% sequentially.
We ran 7 rigs in Canada during the quarter and drilled 61 wells with 95% success rate and achieved an 18% after-tax rate of return at planned prices.
18 of these wells target oil and EOR projects 31 targeted liquids-rich gas plays and 12 targeted natural gas.
All successful wells generated attractive rates of return reflecting the depth and richness of Apache's portfolio in Canada.
One highlight at this stage is that we have built a multi-year growth inventory at a number of liquids-rich gas plays in which we hold substantial acreage positions.
These include the Glauconite Viking Cardium Bluesky and Montney.
Liquid yields range between 35 and 80 barrels per million cubic feet creating compelling economics.
In Egypt Apache's gross production was up 2% sequentially during the quarter.
Oil was up 3% driven by our broad-based drilling workover recompletion and water flood successes.
Gas was up 0.5% despite planned turnarounds at Apache-operated plants and unplanned third-party downtime.
Net production was up 1.2% which is lower than our gross production growth primarily due to the impact under our PSCs and higher oil realizations on operator entitlement barrels which means as our cash flow goes up we report fewer barrels.
We operated 22 rigs during the first quarter and drilled 33 wells with 88% success rate in addition to drilling 12 ejector wells.
18 exploration wells were drilled with a 78% success rate.
We have made the first new field discovery in our 1.6 million acre Siwa concession Apache's westernmost concession in Egypt.
The Siwa-D1X discovery well test flowed at 4 500 barrels of oil at 8 million cubic feet of gas per day from 75 feet of AEB in Jurassic pay.
Apache has a 50% contract of interest in this well.
This discovery has opened opportunities both from the Siwa concession and in our adjacent West Kalabsha concession.
We intend to drill at least 2 follow-up prospects during 2011.
Apache also made what may be the first commercial Paleozoic discovery in Egypt during the quarter.
As you may recall our growth and running room in Egypt has been based on repeatable exploration success in a number of formations going down to the Jurassic.
We had not counted on deeper Paleozoic formations until now but we have worked the concept and it has paid off with our discovery at Tayim west 1X.
Two tests in the Paleozoic had a combined flow rate of 3 600 barrels of oil per day and 1.6 million cubic feet of gas per day.
This discovery opens a new play for Apache's Egypt team and introduces a new component to the attractive multi-pay environment of the Western Desert.
Two appraisal wells drilled in the Abu Gharadig south field acquired from BP in 2010 have increased its potential by extending the depth of logged hydrocarbons by 184 feet on the western flank of the field and 117 feet on the eastern flank of the field setting up multiple new well opportunities and a sizable resource to monetize through existing infrastructure.
The first 5 wells drilled by Apache at Abu Gharadig complex are expected to produce nearly 7 million barrels of oil equivalent with many more wells to come.
The Abu Gharadig gas plant will soon be at over 80 million cubic feet of gas per day throughput with the completion of the first 4 wells.
This is the highest throughput from the Abu Gharadig plant since 2001.
The plant was processing just under 48 million cubic feet of gas per day when we acquired it in November.
We have used existing infrastructure to add over 30 million cubic feet of gas per day and new volumes from the first few wells drilled on the block.
We currently operate 24 rigs in Egypt 2 more than in the first quarter and we plan to drill over 70 exploration wells in 2011 a 50% increase from 2010.
In Australia production was down 8% sequentially largely due to weather-related shutdowns caused by numerous cyclones and tropical storms during a very active weather season over Northwest Shelf.
All Apache's production and processing assets in that region experienced weather downtime during the quarter.
Production at Van Gogh averaged 4 850 net barrels of oil per day during the quarter up sequentially but below our plan.
Continued downtime and unreliability of the third party-operated FPSO remain a serious concern and we are working with the operator on a remediation program potentially including shipyard time in 2012.
These external difficulties were offset by excellent exploration results.
We have been operating 2 rigs in Australia and have reached GD [ph] on 4 wells year-to-date with 3 successes including 2 notable discoveries.
At Zola 1 we've made a significant new fuel discovery with 410 feet of net gas pay in the Mungaroo.
Apache is the operator of discovery and has a 30.4% working interest.
Importantly this new deepwater field 16 kilometers southwest of the giant Gorgon field along the same structural arch is near existing and future infrastructure.
It is too early to discuss resource size and next steps are to acquire new seismic and drill appraisal wells.
Zola was the second prospect drilled as a result of our 40% expansion in Australian exploration acreage last year and follows the Spar-2 success announced in November 2010.
At Balnaves Deep we made a deeper Mungaroo gas pool discovery in the Julimar-Brunello complex encountering 362 feet of net pay.
Further work is required but our current estimates are in the order of 370 Bcf of gas on a P50 basis which would bring Julimar-Brunello complex total gas reserves close to 2.5 Tcf on a P50 basis.
Apache operates this discovery with a 65% working interest.
We have 5 remaining well-kept prospects to drill this year.
We are now completing 7 new 3D seismic surveys covering 1.3 million acres of our new and existing exploration assets and working with this data to generate and upgrade future prospects will be our focus for the rest of the year.
Our 2 new major development projects entering production this year the first Reindeer Devil Creek and Halyard remain on target as our teams have worked hard to overcome the weather disruptions.
Due to timing of startup and ramp-up profiles these projects will only contribute about 7 million cubic feet equivalent of gas per day of net production in 2011 but anticipate 67 million cubic feet of gas equivalent per day in 2012.
And last the North Sea.
Production was down sequentially due to the previously announced Bravo pipeline downtime that will continue through September.
At the beginning of March we implemented a partial restoration of 7 000 barrels of oil per day as anticipated in our guidance for the year.
About 4 500 barrels of oil per day remain offline.
As in other regions the real news for the quarter is our team's outstanding drilling performance.
This is one of our best drilling quarters in the Forties Field in our 7 years as operator.
We drilled 5 successful wells with 3 rigs.
One of these wells Charlie 2-2 tested at 11 000 interim barrels of oil per day with no water.
This is the best well drilled in the Forties Field in nearly 20 years.
Our technical work was at the heart of this performance.
A new time-lapse 4D seismic survey was acquired over Forties during 2010 to identify accumulations of bypassed oil.
Charlie 2-2 successfully targeted one such area.
Four additional time-lapse targets in the same channel system are scheduled for drilling in 2011 as well as bypassed well targets at other parts of the field.
Apache plans to drill a total of 16 wells in Forties in 2011.
The region's development activity continues on target for first production from the Bacchus field in late third quarter and installation of a Forties alpha satellite platform in third quarter of 2012 which will provide 18 new drilling slots.
In the second quarter planned turnaround will reduce North Sea production by 6 600 net barrels of oil per day and we expect oil production for the region to be around 55 000 net barrels per day.
Lastly in Argentina.
The most significant operational development is our Gas Plus sales which as of April have increased to 75 million cubic feet of gas per day with a $4.93 per Mcf average realization representing a significant volume and price upside over the first quarter.
First quarter region production drifted 6% lower as we weighted offtake or readiness for these premium-priced sales volumes as Gas Plus has been the focus of our development drilling.
We currently anticipate second quarter production to be up about 10% sequentially.
We operate 7 rigs in Argentina.
Two are drilling Gas Plus wells one is drilling -- developing shallow oil reservoirs and the remaining 4 are conducting exploration drilling.
One of exploration rigs is going to pursue oil targets off of our new 3D in the proven but under-explored Cujo Basin and 2 are targeting unconventional resources in the Neuquén basin.
We expect to complete the first horizontal multi-frac shale well at Argentina in May.
I will now turn the presentation over to Tom Chambers who will cover the finance area.
Thanks Rod.
And as you've already seen from our press release and heard earlier on this call we reported earnings of $1.1 billion or $2.86 per share for the first quarter.
Adjusted for certain items that impact the comparability of results such as foreign currency fluctuation on deferred taxes and merger acquisition and transition cost we earned $2.90 a share up over 30% from the current -- prior quarter.
Higher daily production combined with significantly higher oil prices increased cash from operations 13% over the fourth quarter to $2.2 billion our second highest quarter ever and just the third time we've broken $2 billion per quarter.
As Steve indicated in his opening remarks our broad-based balanced portfolio continues to deliver excellent results.
Our oil and liquids volumes currently make up 49% of our total production but account for 77% of our total revenue.
More than half our total revenue is generated outside of North America driven by our portfolio of crude production indexed to Brent Oil price which is currently running at a $10 premium to WTI not to mention increasing gas prices in Australia and Argentina.
With higher oil prices and oil exposure comes pressure on costs including drilling and services.
However we were able to hold the line on our costs in the first quarter while expanding our cash and pretax margins by 23% and 37% respectively excluding merger acquisition and transition costs.
Cash margins rose over $8.00 per boe to $44.10.
And pretax margin which includes DD&amp;A rose just under $8.00 of boe to $29.33 which is about 50% margin.
You could find the details of these both on the financial supplement located on our website.
One cost I would comment further on is gathering and transportation.
You would note a significant increase over the fourth quarter 2010.
The primary driver of this is Canada where increased production from Horn River and properties acquired during 2010 at higher average contract rates than Apache's legacy properties.
At the end of the quarter our debt-to-capitalization ratio was 24% down slightly from 25% at the end of last year.
Higher prices and production drove cash on the balance sheet up $222 million to $356 million at the end of the quarter.
Turning to taxes.
As you have noted by now the U.K.
announced a proposal to increase the rate of the supplementary charge levied on profits from oil and gas production from 20% to 32%.
For this increase to take effect it must receive royal assent which is scheduled for mid-summer.
Upon assent the increase will be retroactive to March 24 of this year and will result in an increase in our current taxes and a onetime revaluation of our deferred tax liability impacting earnings for the year by an estimated $300 million to $350 million based on current forecast.
Since this rate change has yet to be enacted our first quarter results do not reflect the increased rate.
One last comment on taxes.
You will note that our effective tax rate was 41% for the quarter within our typical range.
However the deferred percentage was particularly low at 19%.
The primary reason for this was foreign net operating losses were fully utilized last year resulting in Apache becoming a current taxpayer in Australia for 2011.
We would expect the deferred rate to move back toward the typical mid-30% to 40% range by year end absent any foreign exchange fluctuations.
So to sum up as the year progresses we'll continue our focus on costs while growing our production with a strong focus on oil and our longer-term development projects while continuing to build our balance sheet strength which is truly a long-term strategic asset.
With that I'll turn it over to Roger.
Okay thanks Tom and good afternoon everyone.
Tom talked about the quarter relative to the prior quarter.
And I wanted to go back to first quarter a year ago to underscore how significantly our situation has changed and how that impacts our view and direction going forward.
In a world scrambling for oil Apache's oil and NGL production was up 57 000 barrels per day or nearly 20% with first quarter realization some $20 higher from a year ago.
Furthermore second quarter oil prices have risen another $10 to $15 to date over first quarter levels.
Accordingly we are benefiting from extremely strong earnings and cash flow that enhance our financial flexibility relative to both our competition and to our initial 2011 plan in several ways.
First the growth of our international regions means Apache is a leading beneficiary of today's $10 to $15 per barrel premium of Brent over WTI.
Over half our oil production is Brent.
Second as a result we are building cash balances rapidly particularly abroad.
Apache has now joined the ranks of those profitable U.S.
multinationals with growing cash balances outside the U.S.
that cannot be brought back tax-efficiently.
That limits us from using our rising cash balances to reduce debt which is predominantly in the U.S.
which is why our debt outstanding is flat quarter-on-quarter despite $0.333 billion of cash.
Consequently we've adjusted our views in the following manner.
We have tempered our plans to sell international assets in Canada and we'll retain some properties earlier earmarked for sale.
We now expect Canadian property sales to total something less than $0.5 billion.
On the other hand in the United States where we have the twin objectives of both reducing debt and increasing capital we are reviewing the possibility of selling some small non-core assets.
Looking forward.
At strip prices we now anticipate reducing total debt this year to between $7.5 billion and $7.8 billion while also continuing to build international cash balances.
We are also in the process of reviewing for possible increases to our initial capital budget of $7.5 billion as Steve indicated.
Given our robust cash generation and the outlook for oil prices we are currently evaluating funding initial capital projects.
And our focus in evaluating these projects is pretty simple: After-tax rate of return.
Additional capital for the year is likely to be concentrated in onshore North America where it's easiest to deploy it effectively on short notice.
Our inventory of projects is deep.
And with our expanding cash and financial flexibility we continue to add to it across our portfolio.
I'll close by quickly mentioning a few of the opportunities we've captured recently.
Our central region has gained a 75% working interest in operatorship in 122 000 contiguous acres at the Bivins Ranch in the Texas Panhandle.
There are 51 Granite Wash wells immediately to the south in the prolific Panhandle field immediately to the north of this relatively untouched block.
In 2010 there was a Granite-Wash-like discovery in the middle of this property that produced over 700 barrels of oil a day with expected ultimate recovery of 170 000 barrels of oil.
We are quite eager to shoot seismic and drill some additional tests at this 122 000 acres.
It's very significant in terms of being an addition to our central region's 1 million acres.
Also in the first quarter our Egyptian region gained a 70% interest in operatorship in the 40 000-acre North Ras Qattara concession.
We initially identified 8 prospects the first of which resulted in a 753 barrel-a-day new field discovery and a 22 well development in water flood opportunity.
In the North Sea we have contracted a purchase in 11.5% interest in the Nelson Field from a major oil and gas company.
This large high-quality oilfield produces approximately 20 000 barrels of oil per day and is immediately adjacent to our Forties Field.
The transaction gives us a toehold in this non-operated field and an opportunity to participate in its later life development.
In Argentina we have entered a fourth exploration basin the Noroeste basin by taking 50% of a 500 000-acre block with both conventional and unconventional resource potential.
There is new 3D seismic on the block and we plan to drill wells before year end.
Some of you are aware that over the last couple of years we've been building a "new ventures" effort to look beyond our existing sandboxes if you will.
One example of that is that we have become the largest acreage holder in the Cook Inlet of Alaska with some 300 000 gross acres.
And we intend to explore for large oil prospects there.
This opportunity is intriguing as 3D seismic has been quite limited there.
So our immediate focus is acquiring a regional 3D survey to unlock the basin's remaining oil potential.
And finally in East Africa we have contracted for a 50% working interest and operatorship in a 1.2 million-acre block offshore Kenya.
Our first well is due to spud in the middle of 2012 and it too will target a large structure for oil.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
And we'd be happy to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
On the back of some of the successes that you discussed in Egypt how interested are you in accelerating investment there to develop some of those successes? And do you see any constraints beyond -- or the political constraints do you see any constraints on the gas processing side? Well a whole lot.
Rod will really get into the details.
This is Steve.
But in terms of the -- we're going about it as fast as we can go.
I think we're going to spend about $1.1 billion in Egypt this year.
And the gas processing is really limited until we get that gas pipeline going south.
And I think we made that point when we made the acquisition of BP's assets in Egypt.
And I'll let Rod bring you up to date as to where that process is.
Right.
Brian as I mentioned in my remarks we have increased the gas production in that Abu Gharadig plant that we got from BP and we're doing some work inside that plant to restore some of the facilities that we've had some -- problems we've had this past quarter.
But nonetheless we anticipate the intelligent pigging the final pigging evaluation of that 24-inch 262-kilometer line from Abu Gharadig to Dashour LPG plant that should take place sometime in the latter part of May.
Once we see that we'll know to what we can re-rate the pipeline to perhaps its original throughput.
We have every expectation to be able to bring gas from our Khalda areas along with the gas produced from the Abu Gharadig field area I mentioned to ramp that up to perhaps the 7 840 million a day if the pipe's in good condition.
And so far everything looks good from we've seen in initial pigging stages.
And so when we think about say the new Paleozoic discovery and the potential for that to open up a new play is that something that we should think about as having more of a longer-term impact out a few years by just further continuing the same growth trajectory you're on for a longer number of years? Or is that something that could have more of a medium-term or near-term impact? Well I think that right now it appears to be -- it was a structure that we drilled a similar line of structures based on our 3D like we see in the adjacent parts of the western basin in the Faghur basin area.
What's unique about it is it's a Paleozoic reservoir that was charged with oil.
And we see many other structures continuing west.
It's the frontier part of Egypt there.
There are really few wells drilled in this part of Egypt.
We're very close to the Libyan border and this is exciting.
This is probably the -- this will the furthest most westerly production in the country.
Got it thanks.
And then in the U.S.
you mentioned you're considering accelerating activity there can you just talk about the ease that you expect to get additional rigs and frac crews? And do you see any synergies already? Or any gains from scale in places like the Permian where you now have a bigger position? Well we have about 25-rig program operating in the Permian and the guys are running full out.
Of course there's supplies services everything is pretty tight in this kind of high-oil-price environment but we have everything we need to see us through the year for our program that we have budgeted.
I guess my question was more along the lines of accelerating from here.
I think your indication that you're considering accelerating onshore North America maybe you could add a little color on where you think that might be if maybe it's not the Permian it's the rank out of its tent [ph]? Well the prospect inventory opportunities are certainly in the Permian.
We a see large inventory of locations.
We just only scratching the surface in many of these plays.
Well as you know the beginning stages of horizontal exploitation in many of these reservoirs that traditionally have been tapped by vertical wells over the last 100 years.
We're seeing a lot of very promising results there.
I also see continued acceleration and growth in exploitation in our Granite Wash program in Oklahoma and the Panhandle of Texas.
We have a substantial inventory of locations to be drilled.
So it's just a matter of how much we want to apply to the program to move forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I'll try 2 one I think general and one also on Egypt if I may.
Just in terms of your capital expenditure and your cash flow I mean it's pretty obvious what's going on in terms of the relative strength of cash flow.
But I'm just curious what are the operational constraints surrounding your ability to actually spend capital particularly in the lower 48.
I guess what I'm getting at is that it's all very well seeing all the cash flow but to what extent can you efficiently reinvest that capital? Well you're really constrained by [indiscernible].
Physically the only place we're really constrained in terms of not having services is in the Gulf of Mexico.
And the fact of the matter is you can get services for a cost.
And the question is what kind of cost you want to pay and what kind of rate of return do you want.
Or what kind of rate of return do you want.
And also how do you look at your overall balance sheet.
Because it really is a balloon it's a balance.
So we're going to -- it's not rocket science just to figure out we're going to have some more cash and we're going to spend it while we stick to our commitment of paying down some of our debt.
But having said that it's an opportunity-driven thing in terms of rates of return more than anything.
I mean we've got lots of places to spend money and we're going to spend them in the highest rate of return projects we've got.
And right now that's going to be in the Permian Basin for oil and the Granite Wash in the Texas Panhandle.
I guess Steve what I was kind of trying to get to was in terms of your own internal people your capability to actually absorb significantly.
I mean what's the limit on the...
You mean organizationally? Yes right in terms of your capability to actually absorb more activity levels.
Well I would tell you probably the biggest -- the Granite Wash we could absorb just because that region if you remember we split those 2 apart.
And we had to rebuild and we were very damn fortunate because we started rebuilding it before we ever got big in the Permian Basin.
We were much smaller when we started that activity.
But in terms of limitations of big jumps and I'm not talking about another 10 rigs but big jumps in activity in the Permian it's going to take us a little while.
Because we're just going to get the manpower out there.
But if you look at where we've come and where we are today in the Permian Basin I mean we're -- we were running 5 rigs this time last year we're running 25 right now.
We'll be running 25 all year probably or more.
So that's a big jump.
So that's not a factor? In the organizational issues it's not a factor on maybe why the BP assets haven't seen a lot of activity lately or to date? You know what I've got a -- you've got to understand and I can't say this enough.
We're going to take the best prospects we have.
And so if they're BP prospects we know we made a good deal there.
I mean it becomes more and more obvious every day just in the things that we're working on right now.
But it also -- we don't have to drill all the wells that we've got on the Permian Basin BP in this year.
We got a lot of places to spend cap on.
It's really the balance of the portfolio not do we have prospects to look at in BP.
I mean we could put another 25 rigs running today on BP assets but we're just not going to do that.
And hopefully you'll see more on that on May 17.
You'll see a broader array of opportunities.
It's just a question of which ones we're going to focus on at the current time.
Okay.
I appreciate your answering that Steve.
the more -- I guess the more detailed question is on Egypt because clearly your volumes were up despite a significantly higher oil price.
I guess Rod what I'm curious on is you've always talked about repeatability of your drilling program out there.
Can you just talk about how the 100 000 barrel a day target in light of the success you had in light of the additional capital in light of the BP assets why is that number -- why are we not seeing that number skewed to the high side in terms of over the -- your targets may go there as your activity level moves forward? We're just at the beginning stages.
We're 9 months into the 100 000-barrel deal over 5 years and the objective is to meet that.
And with the BP acquisition of the 602 000 acres those 3 development leases we may indeed exceed the 100 000 barrels and maybe even before the 5 years is up.
It's really too early to see large additions.
We just began drilling on the BP properties just since November when we took over operatorship.
So it's a little slower.
Let's face it since January 25 things are not the same in Egypt with regard to the government processing of paperwork.
It's been almost at a standstill in February and early parts of March.
So we've had some slowdowns though operationally in the field there's been no material slowdowns.
But getting approval for routine things like development leases it's been slow.
But I expect that that will change as we go forward.
And it is [indiscernible].
Yes.
It is yes.
Your next question comes from the line of David Tameron of Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> Can you just give us a little more color on the Cook Inlet what you're doing up there what you're chasing? Just a little more color than what you talked about.
Well it's principally an exploration play in what had been considered to be a mature province.
The one thing we've done is there's a lack of any regional coverage of any kind of a modern 3D seismic program which really in our experience makes a big difference in your opportunities to drill successfully.
It's a very robust petroleum system a lot of oil in place.
A lot of areas have not been covered by seismic nor the existing seismic is suitable for modern-day prospecting purposes.
And we have of course with the early stages of all this activity but that was kind of the concept we went to this area.
LLC</strong> All right.
Moving over to the Granite Wash.
You talked about $2 million cost savings on that dual lateral.
Can you tell us what your cost was and if you're planning on doing more of this going forward? That's about a -- on that first example that's about a 12% to 15% cost savings of a dual lateral versus 2 single lateral horizontal wells.
In that area those costs run about $9.5 million for a single lateral.
That's for like a 4 000-foot lateral.
LLC</strong> Okay all right.
And then going forward is this a one-off or is this something you plan putting on the development program? Or how -- can you talk about going forward what your plans are? This was clearly is the first time it's ever been done by anybody.
This was clearly a test of concept.
As you know there are many stacked washes in this part of the Anadarko Basin and we have every intention of expanding the technique and trying it in other areas different zones.
So it's just the beginning for us first well.
And it's not much different.
We've got pad drilling in our Horn River with the frac manifold we've come up with to be able to do that in a -- really for a smaller area and do more things.
And I will tell you the same thing's going to happen with -- in the United States with dual laterals.
And one of these days you'll probably have quad laterals just because of the cost versus the space that you have to take up.
I mean it's much more efficient.
It's just you've got to learn how to do it.
And this was our first one and it turned out to be pretty successful.
LLC</strong> All right.
And then one more.
Australia you kind of alluded to it with Van Gogh.
Can you talk about the FPSO and some -- kind of how you see that playing out in the next couple of quarters? As you know In the fourth quarter of 2010 we had some difficulty with the turret mooring seals and subsequently with the mooring anchoring system that came as result of a routine inspection.
We've made temporary corrections at both of those.
And in fact the field presently is -- the gross production there runs about 27 000 to 30 000 barrels of oil per day.
But it's still less than our 40 000 to 42 000 barrels a day that that field was producing when we went offline for those initial repairs back in the October-November time frame.
Going forward our plan is to work with the operator of the vessel to fully restore the production that we had achieved previously by making some additional repairs to the previously referenced turret mooring seals.
And that may indeed involve some dry dock time for this vessel to effect the appropriate level of repairs sometime in 2012.
And our initial estimates is it could be -- that could be as much as much as 4 months of downtime based on our current engineering evaluation.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then it sounds like you said 2012 issue with 4 months of downtime is that right? Is that what I heard? That's correct.
Possibly yes.
LLC</strong> All right.
And so is the implication it runs at that -- if it's going to run a lower rate the rest of this year until you make the assessment? We just have a few points on the curve that we'd like to -- our target is to get up to the 40 000 range gross.
I think if we can achieve a consistent rate at 30 000 with less mechanical problems we'll certainly be happy with that as the interim product.
But we'd like to factor fully.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Polak of Scotia Capital.
A question for you on the acquisition of the interest in the Nelson Field.
You guys have stayed pretty busy around Forties there with the Maule and Bacchus discoveries and now this.
Do you see further opportunities to consolidate that Nelson Field? And are there any synergies given the proximity to Forties for you? Yes.
We've had our eye on the Nelson Field for many years now.
It's literally adjacent a mirror image to the Forties complex just to the southeast.
Very close I mean you could see their platforms from our platforms.
It's a natural fit to our program.
Same depositional channel system that goes from Forties.
A little bit lesser quality in the reservoir rock compared to what we have in the Forties but nonetheless it's an attractive field.
Really we'll have a 10% non-operating interest but this gets us in the door.
And I think we will have a lot to contribute and suggest to improve the general operations and how to approach cost savings and so forth going forward and perhaps give us the opportunity to gain additional interest in the field to preferential rights in the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani of RBC.
LLC</strong> Just sticking with the North Sea for a second there.
What did that interest in that Nelson Field cost you guys? Well we haven't -- everything's not -- the deal has not closed quite this yet at time -- I'd say at this time.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So I take as that I expect you to close in the next couple of months? Just wondering if there's any type of time horizon on that? Yes.
We're waiting on a final governmental approval which we expect to receive imminently.
I think the closing will take place sometime in the next 10 days.
LLC</strong> Okay I understand.
I guess in the Granite Wash you guys mentioned picking up this pretty sizable ranch here Bivins Ranch.
That it was around 122 000 acres.
I thought that was your comment there.
Do you guys operate that? And what's your working interest on that? I'm trying to get a sense on how much you paid for that.
We will operate the entire 122 000 acres the seismic as well as the drilling.
We have a 75% working interest in the operations.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And what did you guys pay for that? We're not disclosing our price per acre on our land transactions.
We have competitors in the area.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And do you guys expect to potentially pick up more acreage in the Granite Wash as well I guess? Yes we're continuing to try to add to our position at Granite Wash both in Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Switching topics over to kind of the LNG side.
Any progress that you guys have made on contracts there whether or not it's Kitimat or Australia that you guys can share with us? Yes I'll turn it over to Janine McArdle who's our President of Kitimat LNG and Head of our LNG Gas Monetization.
In Australia on our Wheatstone project we're continuing to finalize our sales and purchase agreement with the buyers that we initially announced with HOA.
And under Kitimat we are talking to several different players in advancing those discussions.
Your next question comes from the line of Pearce Hammond of Simmons.
Thank you for taking my questions.
The first is a follow-up to the previous question on Kitimat.
What is the timing that we might hear something on these off-take agreements? We're in discussions right now.
We hope over the next several months to make some further announcements.
But as you know these negotiations take a little bit of time.
But there is a lot of interest at this moment.
And then switching gears to North American service.
What level of service cost inflation are you seeing right now? And in the Permian for example as well as in your central region? Well it's getting outrageous.
[indiscernible] At some point it's got to stop.
Honestly it's probably up 10% 15% for the first quarter.
And what were you planning when we went through your budget process on a percentage change year-over-year? We don't plan.
We try to beat them up as much as we can and beat them down.
Okay.
And then lastly switching gears to Egypt.
Recently there was some sabotage on a gas pipeline to Israel.
Does that negatively impact you guys? No.
I'll let Rod talk about that.
That pipeline has been controversial in Egypt for years and the gas sales agreement to Israel has been controversial for years.
And it has no impact at all on our business.
In fact we have the opportunity to sell more gas really if we had it.
We just don't have it right now.
Rod do you have a comment? Well this is the second explosion or fire on that pipeline in the last 60 days both of which were probably terrorist acts.
This pipeline in the most recent one was a metering skid on the line just before the line crosses into the Gaza waters and Ts off it goes along the Sinai to Jordan.
It's on the far east side of country.
And all of our production or gas production is on the western desert side.
It's probably 1 000 kilometers away from this location.
All of our gas is sold into the national grid to the government in the west side of the delta.
Also perhaps some of our molecules after we fiscalize our gas.
The government may take those molecules and put them into that pipeline but we have no direct association with that gas flow.
Great.
And then final question.
And Steve this is a hard question but at as it relates to Egypt I think the former oil minister has been detained in like house arrest or whatnot.
When do you think you'll get some clarity on the political situation in Egypt? Is it post these elections coming up in the fall? Or what's sort of your read of the tea leaves right now? Well there's not unlike any change in government.
The previous government whether it was ministers or prime ministers -- have to answer to the people that are in power now.
That doesn't say they did anything wrong or they did do something wrong it's just the fact that they have to answer to them.
In terms of our situation in Egypt frankly we have probably the best petroleum minister we've ever had who used to be the Chairman of Khalda was then the Chairman of EGPC and now the minister of petroleum for Egypt.
His name is Abdoul Ghurab and been in the business for 25 years worked for GAPCO [ph] which is the Amico-Lamico [ph].
We really don't find a lot of problems with the ministry what we -- or even concerns what we are going to run into here not too long from now is that we're going to have to take things to parliament because most of these things come under parliamentary agreements for new acreage for new gas contracts et cetera it has to be approved by parliament.
The first order of business will I think is supposed to be in September they're going to have parliamentary elections which is historically when they have them anyway.
And then the ruling council has indicated that they will have a presidential election by the end of the year.
So obviously both of those are important.
Frankly the parliamentary elections are as important or more important than the presidential elections at least in terms of having government start getting back to work.
Right.
Well that's very helpful.
I appreciate the color there.
Your next question comes from the line of John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
I got a bunch of different questions.
In terms to the U.S.
CapEx increase how would you split it between say drilling and workover activities? Even or more skewed to drilling? Yes because I will tell you generally workover projects are the highest rate of return projects and we've become redundant so -- but we're looking for rate of return and workover recompletions is the highest rate of return projects you can do.
So the incremental capital is pretty much with few exceptions is all going to be on the drilling side.
Because the workovers would already be embedded in the capital.
Yes.
It would already be embedded in the capital.
Okay that's fine.
With Egypt and the Paleozoic play what's the aerial extent? Currently the extent of the play is unknown because we have this limited number of wellbores poked into it.
The initial field also need an appraisal to be drilled but it appears to be of the same size structure that we have placed our seismic interpretation that we've seen in other parts of the Faghur Basin.
It just happens to be -- it appears to be an extension of the Faghur Basin's structural trend in the Siwa concession.
Okay.
With Zola when will you plan your next delineation well? We have yet to formulate because we have just moved the rig off there 48 hours ago so we have not had an opportunity yet with our partners to develop a plan of development going forward.
It's hard to say if we'll be able to on a rig line to get the first appraisal in in 2011.
Although I'd say more likely probably in 2012.
I might interject here.
The important thing about Zola I can't -- with Wheatstone and wherever that pipeline is coming down from the Julimar-Brunello if you could look at a map and it came back down to the western edge of Australia we really have a real potential to be able to drill a lot of gas wells and take a lot of gas out of there for a long period of time now where before we got into Wheatstone we really didn't have that avenue.
So the size of the field itself or the discovery itself it's a big synergy all of that together.
Okay.
With Horn river -- thanks Steve.
With Horn River my next question given the higher likely breakeven thresholds in terms of the infrastructure you got liquefaction the pipeline et cetera would you give up an equity stake in production to the purchasers like you're seeing with other deals? Well I think what you're seeing around the world is that the LNG buyers whether it be TEPCO or KOGAS or the Chinese companies or the Malaysians all of them like to have the integration of the upstream and downstream.
And the upstream portion is much smaller than the offtake.
But in terms of actually being in it yes I would anticipate in the end that that this would have to be a wraparound in a deal like this just like it is in Wheatstone.
Okay.
With the Cook Inlet is this going to be an AVO [ph] gain? Is what? I don't believe so.
I think it's principally going to be the delineation of some very large untested structures that we currently see on some of the existing seismic.
If we look at a craning curves for reserves and this is part of our New Ventures group the information that they've put in the model when they were talking about whether should we be in the Cook Inlet if you look at what happened to the wells in the Cook Inlet they reduced significantly after Prudhoe Bay was found.
And as soon as Prudhoe Bay was found the number of wells drilled and the discoveries in Cook Inlet -- and our philosophy is because there's very very little 3D seismic sets over -- an old 3D even at that the existing fields that are there is that people started -- they looked north toward Prudhoe Bay and started looking for bigger reserves up there.
Honestly I'm very excited about it.
I mean we haven't drilled a well there yet we got 300 00 acres and we're getting ready to shoot some seismic.
But it's got some real potential.
It's a fun place to look.
Okay.
Just last one for me.
With the Granite Wash are we talking about staggered co-mingled wells in terms of the completions? It sounded like you did once then you wait a while then you did the other? Or is this something you can bring on simultaneously in terms of the co-mingling? No you complete one and draw down a little bit and then come back.
Do you mean in terms of the 2 zones together? Right exactly.
I mean you will eventually co-mingle.
I know it's just rehab now but you take a little bit of time and co-mingle and put them together.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Morrison of Global Hunter.
LLC</strong> A quick follow-up on the dual laterals in the Granite Wash do you have any specific plans to try that in the Permian this year? Probably not in the Permian this year.
The Permian is at a much less advanced stage of horizontal exploitation compared to what we see in Oklahoma and in Texas the last couple of years the Granite Wash.
There we still have a lot of vertical drilling and we're beginning to pick -- it's the start of just drilling horizontal wells in some of these conventional reservoirs.
So it's entirely possible.
The geology is not exactly the same but it could lend itself to an application in some parts of the basin in the future.
LLC</strong> And in the Permian still could you kind of rank the different plays you're chasing or talk a little bit about allocation of capital? You said you were cranking up activity in the Yeso but could you kind of work through some of the other plays that you're active in there? Well we're currently -- we have a very active horizontal drilling program on the central basin platform and it's largely some of our old water flood units like Lovelland [ph] Backalloy [ph] and Slaughter [ph] TXL-SU.
We also have a CO2 program and a Roberts unit [ph].
We have a program in Southeast New Mexico in the Munoz [ph] area in the Drikard [ph] and of course the vertical program in the Midland Basin and our Yeso program on the outside the west side of Midland Basin there the Empire/Yeso and Empire/Adlo [ph] units or attacking Adlo Yeso and Wolfbury.
And of course in the Midland Basin our Deadwood program.
So those are the principal areas we're active at the present time with our 23 rigs.
LLC</strong> I think half of those rigs run aren't they running in Deadwood? So that's probably...
Yes probably even more than half.
Just eyeballing the list.
LLC</strong> So that's a big area for us? And we'll do a play-by-play 	walkthrough on our Analyst Day on May 17.
LLC</strong> Great thanks.
Deadwood's a Wolfbury [ph] project? Yes and first tusselman [ph].
Your next question comes from the line of Tony Montana of Diversified Capital.
[Technical Difficulty] There are no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Everybody thank you very much for listening to the call.
If you have follow-up questions you know where to find us.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Apache Corporation Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Mr.
Tom Chambers Vice President of Corporate Planning and Investor Relations.
Mr.
Chambers please go ahead.
We got the old script.
This is Alfonso Leon.
I'm Vice President of Planning Strategy and Investor Relations.
So good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us for Apache Corporation's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This morning we reported second quarter 2011 net income of $1.2 billion or $3.17 per diluted share.
Adjusted earnings which exclude certain items that impact the comparability of results totaled $1.3 billion or $3.22 per diluted share.
Cash flows from operation totaled $2.6 billion.
On today's call we will have 3 speakers making prepared remarks prior to taking questions.
Steve Farris our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Roger Plank President and Chief Corporate Officer; and Tom Chambers Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Rod Eichler President and Chief Operating Officer is actually on jury duty today.
We have prepared our usual detailed supplemental data package for your use which includes the reconciliation of any non-GAAP numbers that we used such as adjusted earnings cash flow from operations or costs incurred.
The data package can be found on our website at www.apachecorp.com/financialdata.
Today's discussions may contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions and no assurances can be given that those expectations will be realized.
A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental data package on our website.
With that I will turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Alfonso.
Despite what we're seeing in the broad market today Apache very positive and proud of the quarter we turned in.
I know you probably know that we had record production of 749 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day which was up 2% sequentially.
We posted our second highest quarter of adjusted earnings ever of $1.3 billion record cash flow of $2.6 billion and actually the only quarter of earnings we've ever had better than this was in the second quarter of 2008 when the commodity prices were -- moved to $140 range.
Clearly our results in the second quarter were strong and really were driven by our portfolio's strength and the asset rate of return focus of all Apaches.
We had notable discoveries in a number of our regions during the quarter and in addition we took important steps forward in future growth projects which included Balnaves our Lucius in the Deepwater Deadwood Wheatstone LNG and Kitimat LNG.
The quarter underlines the strength of our cash flow generation.
Our $2.6 billion of cash flow was up 44% from the same period a year ago.
So if you analyze that that's probably less than this today with our share of price going down today.
If you analyze it would imply share trade price at about 4x our cash flow.
Cash flow is our fire power.
Our balance sheet has grown to -- or cash balance has grown to $1.1 billion at the end of June which puts us in a good position to take on new projects or asset investment opportunities if and when they arise.
We're very careful with our cash and staying focused on rates of return has served us well over the years and that's not going to change in the current environment.
Rod Eichler is on jury duty so I'm going to give you a little highlights from the operating side.
In the Permian region production increased 9% sequentially which was driven by the absence of weather disruption we experienced in the first quarter a very aggressive drilling program at Wolfcamp at Deadwood our horizontal drilling results in our legacy water flood units and prior period adjustments.
We operated 24 rigs during the quarter and drilled 146 wells 13 of which were horizontal.
We completed 137 wells and as we continue to ramp our frac spread capacity to catch up with our drilling activity.
Our horizontal redevelopment of the Permian legacy water flood units continues to yield very positive results.
The TXL South unit one of the 6 out of 28 water flood fields in which we have initiated horizontal redevelopment hit 3 500 barrels a day which is a 23-year record and this field has been under water flood for 43 years.
So far this year we drilled 7 horizontal wells in the unit.
A big driver in the second quarter was the TXL South unit 5210 which is a horizontal well testing at 531 barrels a day and 450 000 cubic feet of gas a day.
These wells are increasing the recovery from the field by contacting unswept reserves that would ever otherwise be left behind and the results we've seen in this field and a number of other fields gives us tremendous potential in all of our water floods in the Permian.
We ran 11 rigs and drilled 57 wells in the Deadwood field.
We're concentrating our activity this year in the Wolfcamp due to land retention requirements.
Gross oil production in Deadwood exceeded 5 000 barrels a day and 14 Mcf of gas a day at the end of June which compares with 2 000 barrels a day and 6 Mcf a day at the beginning of the year.
Our gas volumes have potentially plateaued in this area due to the midstream constraints which the recently announced across Texas JV the joint venture will address in early 2012.
We expect to drill 160 wells in Deadwood this year and at this point we have an inventory of an additional 575 vertical locations there.
During the second quarter we completed our first climb horizontal in the Deadwood area.
It tested at 77 barrels a day which was less than our expectations.
We intend to change our frac design on our second well which is currently drilling.
We continue to address and build our inventory in the Yeso the Empire Abo Southeast New Mexico Rio too plus Bravo [ph] and we have a couple of new venture plays that we're working on.
Apache has built a strong portfolio in the Permian really throughout a consistent contrarian approach over many years.
And today we have decades of attractive opportunities ahead of us.
We've already identified 7 500 drilling locations and if we stop today we'd be able to drill wells for several years in the future.
And in Central region production increased 7% sequentially which were driven primarily by increase in our oil production and notably oil production in the region has increased 60% year-to-date alone.
The region ran 10 rigs during the quarter and drilled 21 wells almost entirely horizontal.
The focus of our activity were in the Granite Wash with 10 wells 3 oil plays in the Cherokee and Cleveland and Hogshooter with 5 4 and 2 wells respectively.
Average well results across these plays continue to meet or outperform our expectations and we expect they at least maintain our current level of activity across these plays on multiyear basis.
Some individual highlights per play during the quarter included the Cherokee well that stabilized at 577 barrels of oil a day and 900 000 cubic feet of gas a day a Cleveland well that tested 717 barrels of oil per day and a Hogshooter well that flowed at about 1 150 barrels a day and 4.5 Mcf of gas a day.
Production in the Gulf of Mexico shelf region was down 2% sequentially due to the level of activity constrained by permitting issues and natural field decline.
We operated 5 rigs in the region during the quarter.
Reached TD on 6 wells with 100% commercial success and we remain on track to drill up 41 wells this year and really look forward to resuming our normal pace of 60 wells next year as we begin to exploit the upside associated with our 40% acreage expansion and underexploited [Audio Gap] all Apache Gulf of Mexico [Audio Gap] If you look at that on [Audio Gap] Throughout the region production declined about 3.5% sequentially.
[Audio Gap] quarter a successful well test was conducted in the Lucius field which is operated by Anadarko.
In addition the utilization of Lucius with adjacent acreage belonging to Exxon Hadrian partnership was finalized.
These steps positioned Lucius for an investment decision this year with first production in 2014.
The capacity of the facility is expected to be 80 000 barrels of oil a day and about 450 Mcf of gas a day.
Apache holds 11.67% interest in the enlarged Lucius complex.
We continue to progress Heidelberg and a number of other projects.
Importantly we have now received approval on 2 out of 4 exploration plans we have submitted year-to-date.
We have 110 exploration blocks in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
We're eager to get after an active exploration program to expand our position hopefully somewhat slimmer that we've done in the shallow waters.
We're the dominant player there now.
In the Gulf coast onshore production was up 10% sequentially on the back of an active drilling program and recompletion program.
We operated 4 rigs during the quarter and drilled 21 wells.
We continue to build opportunities in this area tremendous site of carbon-rich region provides an excellent fit with Apache's exploitation capabilities and contrarian philosophy.
In Canada production was down 1% sequentially mainly due to weather wildfire and pipeline disruptions in addition the normal reduction of our activity after spring break out.
We operated 3 rigs in Canada during the quarter and participated in 12 wells that reached TD.
In the third quarter we are currently projecting an approximately 1 800 barrels of oil per day and unscheduled production disruptions due to pipeline downtime and ongoing flooding in some areas.
Change gears a little bit the Kitimat LNG project which Apache operates with a 40% interest has taken important steps forward.
We're near the conclusion of the hearings for the 20-year export license and we recently announced the acquisition of an industrial site near the project's current LNG site plant site.
And this additional site has a large amount of land which hosted a paper mill and marine export facility in the past.
Due to the timing of feed work we are now targeting a final investment decision in the first quarter of 2012.
We remain committed to a target date for first production in late 2015.
Kitimat LNG is a landmark step not just for Apache but for the industry and we are very excited about leading the charge on this project that if sanctioned will generate large predictable cash flows for our shareholders for decades to come.
Moving to Egypt.
Despite what you read in the papers Apache has no interest in entering the Israeli gas markets.
I don't have any idea where that came from.
Some of our joint venture folks did meet with the Israeli minister of petroleum but that was really -- had nothing to do with investing in that country and not that we wouldn't invest there we're very happy in Egypt.
We intend to stay there for many years.
We operated 24 rigs in Egypt during the quarter drilled 53 wells with a 91% success rate.
I might say that Egypt production was -- on a gross basis was actually up slightly but was down 7% in net terms due to timing of our cost recovery and higher oil prices.
Our exploration program delivered broad-based success across the region during the quarter.
18 exploration and appraisal wells yielded 13 new discoveries.
Five of our discoveries were in the Faghur basin and we made 2 discoveries in each of them through Abu Gharadig and Shusham [ph] and Beni Suef basins.
These discoveries have also furthered some of our new plays as 2 of them encountered the Paleozoic one which was delivered stratigraphic target in the Matruh basin.
We're still testing some of them.
Each discovery potentially opens up a population of future locations for our inventory.
We should be at 26 rigs in Egypt over the coming weeks as we ramp up our activity in oil and unconventional plays in the country.
In Australia production was up 8% sequentially reflecting improved FPSO performance in Van Gogh stronger-than-forecasted performance at Pyrenees and the contribution of new wells onstream in our Stag field.
We operated 2 rigs in the region during the quarter and drilled 3 wells yielding 2 significant new discoveries at Zola and Valmy steep.
Our Halyard development commenced production in June and averaged about 45 Mcf of gas a day and 819 barrels of condensate for the month.
The Halyard explorer will continue to ramp up through 2013 with a peak production of 110 Mcf of gas a day and about 2 000 barrels of condensate as processing capacity becomes available at Varanus Island.
Apache has a 55% working interest in this project.
Van Gogh production averaged 8 700 barrels of oil per day net to Apache in the second quarter which is up from 3 800 barrels a day in the first quarter.
Production was halted on June 10 for a central maintenance program and resumed on August 2.
Frankly the downtime and unreliability of this third-party vessel remains a serious concern and we are currently working on a potentially longer-term shipyard remediation program for 2012.
We continue to progress our project pipeline in Australia.
During the second quarter we sanctioned Valmy's oil development project which is expected to deliver initial production of about 30 000 barrels a day in 2014 and Apache has 65% working interest in this project.
In addition last week we announced Wheatstone LNG execution of a major debt sales agreement with TEPCO.
This is an important milestone for our efforts to reach final investment decision this year.
Wheatstone LNG which is operated by Chevron will produce 8.9 million tons per annum starting in 2016 and Apache has a 13% interest in their overall project.
Turning to the North Sea production was up 22% sequentially driven by truly outstanding drilling results reduced pipeline downtime and the consolidation of our interest with Nelson.
We operated 2 rigs in the Forties field during the quarter and drilled 6 wells and 2 wells to highlight our first to Charlie 4 or 3 which started production at 12 567 barrels a day which is the best initial production of any well in the field since 1990.
And the second to Delta 3 and 5 commenced production at a rate of 8 781 barrels of oil per day which wasn't too shabby either.
These wells result really stand from a combination of improved 4D seismic imaging.
Our refined drilling practices we've been there a number of years now and better performance on our well completions.
Forties is the largest oil accumulation in the U.K.
North Sea with 5 billion barrels of oil in place.
We've produced about 2.5 billion of those barrels.
We expect many years of continued profitable investment opportunities in the field.
We're installing the new Bravo-Charlie production pipeline which went commissioned in September.
We'll restore the remaining 4 000 barrels of oil a day of production shut in due to the pipeline issues.
We are currently experiencing a field-wide 5-day production shutdown which we expect to end tomorrow as the operator of the Forties pipeline system removes World War II ordinances found in the area.
One last note on the North Sea is that one of our rigs is now on location at the Bacchus development project which we expect to come on stream in the fourth quarter this year.
Turning to Argentina production was up 10% sequentially driven by an increase in premium priced Gas Plus contracts.
We operated 6 rigs in Argentina during the quarter reached TD on 7 wells 5 Gas Plus and 2 vertical oil producers.
Other wells that have not reached TD yet include 4 important exploration wells and a significant horizontal oil test that could open up a number of opportunities for us.
Our natural gas realizations in Argentina increased from $2.18 in Mcf in the first quarter to $2.74 in Mcf in the second quarter.
It was driven by second quarter Gas Plus volumes of 77 million a day with an average price of about $4.93 per Mcf.
Gas Plus production is subject to a 12% royalty.
One of our Gas Plus development highlights was the first horizontal multifrac drilled in Pre-Cuyo tight sands which is flowing over 10 million a day after more than 2 months of production.
We're going to follow up this concept with additional wells later on in the year.
We have completed frac-ing the first horizontal multifrac well targeting a shale formation in Argentina.
We're currently opening up some of the fracs and recovering frac fluid.
On a final note in Argentina during the quarter we gained entry into a fourth basin in the country the Noroeste basin through a 50% interest and 516 000 acre block with both conventional and unconventional exploration opportunities.
Our partner is Gran Tierra and we expect the first well to be drilled there in 2012.
And with that I'll turn it over to Tom Chambers our Chief Financial Officer.
Thanks Steve.
Good afternoon everybody.
Apache turned in another very solid financial performance in the quarter reporting earnings of $1.24 billion or $3.17 per share for the second quarter up $125 million from the prior quarter.
Adjusted for certain items that impact the comparability of results such as foreign currency fluctuation and deferred taxes and merger acquisition and transition costs we earned $3.20 a share up 11% from the prior quarter.
Higher daily production combined with significantly higher oil prices increased cash from operations 18% over the first quarter of '11 to $2.6 billion our best quarter ever.
As Steve indicated in his remarks our portfolio continues to deliver excellent results.
Our oil and liquids volumes currently make up 49% of our total production but account for more than 3/4 of our total revenue of $4.3 billion.
This was driven by the fact that the majority of our international oil production is in indexed to Brent crude price and over half of our U.S.
oil production receives significant premiums to WTI prices.
Our average price realizations increased 7% over the first quarter and despite pressure on costs our cash and pretax margins also increased by 7%.
Cash margins rose to just under $47 of boe and pretax margin which includes DD&amp;A rose to $31.29 per barrel of oil equivalent.
You can find the details of these in the financial supplement located on our website.
We remain focused on operating cost which manifests itself in our bottom line margins.
In that regard our total cash costs for the balance of the year should remain in the range of $16.50 per boe at current strip prices.
At the end of the quarter our debt-to-capitalization ratio was under 23% down slightly from 24% at the end of last quarter.
Higher prices and production plus the sale of a small Canadian property package drove free cash flow generation enabling us to reduce debt by $380 million to $7.85 billion and increased cash on the balance sheet by $750 million to $1.1 billion.
As we indicated last quarter most of the free cash on our balance sheet is currently located outside of the United States.
Turning to taxes.
Our second quarter effective tax rate was 41% on par with our first quarter and our deferred tax percentage was 34% in line with where we expect to see our deferred rate for the year.
The previously announced U.K.
supplemental tax increase became law when it received royal signage July 19.
The 12 percentage point increase which takes our effective rate to 62% was retroactive to March 24 of this year and will result in a nonrecurring charge of approximately $230 million plus the catch-up charge of approximately $60 million for the year-to-date through June both of which will be reflected in our third quarter earnings.
Absent the impact of foreign exchange movements and the corresponding impact of our deferred tax balance our worldwide effective tax rate should average around 45% for the full year primarily driven by the U.K.
tax rate increase.
To sum up we had a very solid quarter and look to continue to build on this momentum.
Our focus remains on margins and returns as well as cost and production growth which allows us to achieve our balance sheet goals.
And with that I'll turn it over to Roger.
Okay.
Thanks Tom.
Good afternoon everyone.
I'm going to comment very briefly on our progress year-to-date as it's truly been at an exceptional first half.
After a very active 2010 in terms of capturing opportunities to strengthen our portfolio and expand our long-term growth horizons the digestion and integration process could not be going much better.
Our first half production was up 20% from the year ago and as you've heard it's driving exceptional financial returns.
South first half cash flow this year of nearly $5 billion is higher than we planned enabling us to meet our debt-reduction objectives increased our planned capital expenditures by some $600 million to $8.1 billion and build our cash balances rapidly now.
Growing our production and having instant cash flow with which to pursue opportunities for continued profitable growth really gives us a true competitive edge.
Our portfolio approach and earlier contrarian decisions are also paying off.
Tom commented on how our ample weighting of oil production is driving our financial results.
I just like to note that while our North American prices in the first half on the oil side rose $20 to $94 a barrel our international realizations claimed $32 to $107 a barrel and on just over 200 000 barrels of oil per day that internationally that generates meaningful additional cash flow.
In international gas along the line for not being exposed to North American natural gas markets is also beginning to see its day in the sun.
While North American realizations declined in the first half from a year ago our international gas prices climbed 25% to just over $3.60 per Mcf.
This direction is likely to continue and make an even greater impact in Apache's future as our international gas volumes rise along with international gas prices.
So rising production strong cash flow and a deep inventory of drilling opportunities all of that puts Apache in a very strong competitive position from which it delivered continued profitable growth.
Steve you want to wrap things up? Thank you Roger.
I'd like to conclude our prepared remarks by thanking all of you who attended our Investor Day in New York.
Actually we had more than doubled the number of people as we anticipated.
Obviously we appreciate your time and your level of engagement.
We're very conscious.
This is not easy to model the full value of Apache in a diversified growth enterprises.
We are -- we have 10 regions global regions and a broad portfolio of projects and plays.
We're making every effort to bridge that challenge.
At the Investor Day we had our current inventory of projects over the next 5 years and the full economics of all of them.
We have more opportunities today than any time in our 6 decades as a company and honestly at the end of the day it's actually putting money in the bank and making good investments and not as how good you tell a story.
We may be headed over the next 2 or 3 years and some of our best years we put back-to-back in several years.
And if you want to look at our future the best way to do that is learn our past.
Because if you look at our last 5 years for growth or 5 years before that we've had significant profitable growth over a long period of time.
We continue to be a driven company and we truly are just getting started.
And with that I think we'll turn it back over to Alfonso.
Operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
I have a couple of questions on the strong rates that you saw out of the Faghur basin in Egypt and the 2 wells in the Forties field.
I think that represents about 12 000 barrels a day in Egypt and about 20 000 plus in the North Sea.
The questions are first how many additional similarly looking opportunities do you believe have been derisked by these wells? And second should we expect to see a jump in production in these 2 areas or has that already been reflected with the quarterly results? Well it certainly -- let's start with Egypt because it's -- honestly we just not scratched surface in the Faghur Basin because each one of those wells are either the exploration well on a separate fault block or if it's not that first well it's a second appraisal well.
And we have a number of projects to do there.
Our biggest constraint for a little while is going to be -- if you recall about a year ago or year and half ago we put in some oil facilities to add the oil that we got at Phiops and also gas facilities because we were starting to get more gas in this area.
The fact of the matter is we are going to be pretty full it's starting in about September again for a while until we expand those facilities.
In terms of our sequential growth in Egypt you got to be careful watching the quarter out.
I wish we could post both our gross operated as well as our nets because just depending on what happens the close of the quarter our cost recovery.
[Audio Gap] but we expect to continue to grow our oil production in Egypt.
[Audio Gap] Brian so we have tremendous opportunities there.
And the North Sea it really has been startling.
We did finally process here I think about 8 months ago the 4D that we have shot and got final processing on our latest 4D and obviously the evolution of that technology gets better and better and we get better at it.
But there's -- I think we probably have 50 prospects but I couldn't have said that.
It's a little bit like the Granite Wash horizontal well.
We have had 50 projects for the last 3 or 4 years.
So I would expect right now we are constrained there a little bit with respect to facilities.
We are putting in a satellite platform.
I think the guys went over the gals went over it when we were at the Investor Day.
We're putting in -- I think it's going to have 18 slots that we can also not only drill water injector wells but we can also have facilities to increase our oil production and both of those have potential of increasing from where they are today.
Yes and that's both of those plays.
Thank you though.
And this as a follow-up to that and I apologize if you did already mention this.
Did you say where growth levels were in Egypt? I didn't notice that it did tick your line.
Well the slide we have but I don't have it in front of me.
I think we did 217 000 barrels a day or 1 000 barrels a day and 881 Mcf gas a day but 1 Mcf a day but I don't normally see that.
And Brian we do have that line now in our supplemental disclosure.
And then lastly on Egypt and on Argentina can you just talk about demand trends that you're seeing I guess particularly for Egypt where I know you haven't been disrupted at all but I wonder if you've seen any changes in the pace of demand growth and then in Argentina as well? In Argentina I will tell you they are -- I got to be careful now.
They need gas because they are importing gas from Bolivia and they're also supporting LNG cargoes pretty significantly prices above our current price that we're selling to them.
We've had indications that we will be able to produce into that Gas Plus market whatever we put into it and well that remains to be seen but we're taking them at their word.
We'll continue to drive the increase of Gas Plus volumes.
In Egypt frankly we have seen no downturn in demand because of the activities that have gone on over there.
They've grown their demand about 12% a year for the last 5 years and frankly they still burn about 135 000 barrels of diesel there.
So the gas price like the gas price in most parts of the world are significantly lower on a BTU equivalent in Egypt as they anywhere else in the world.
So I don't see that demand for gas abating.
Our biggest problem is takeaway again and we have now run our intelligent pig and the pipeline to the South.
It has some spots in it that have 80% line loss so we have to cut that back little bit.
But we now have enough data to be able to go in there and fix that which we intend to do and we should be able to ramp that up significantly honestly before the end of the year.
So we have potential to increase our gas production in Egypt also.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
I got a couple of quick ones.
Steve if I could just jump on to the Egyptian follow-up questions I guess given your comments there.
So just to be clear the -- how much of the 300 million a day that you currently have I guess behind pipe do you think you'll be able to release once that pipeline is fully repaired to the level of integrity you're happy with? I would think probably 67 million a day.
And that would be by the end of this year? Yes ramp it up until the end of this year.
We won't have [indiscernible] I hope I'm not getting that in front of our guys in Egypt but I think that's probably right.
I had that propensity.
Now this is typically fairly rich gas so do you get some liquids coming out of this as well? We do and I will tell you we've had -- the Abu Gharadig plant had a small fire and so we're really not being able to separate down to the liquids portion.
We're getting off the time cycle but we're able to separate the liquids.
And we haven't been able to do that for about the last 3 months.
That should be fixed this summer by the end of the summer.
Okay.
And I apologize for this one but I guess somebody's got to ask it.
Can we just get your kind of broad update as to how the political situation is the pipe's outlook and whether or not you're current on your payments in terms of your receipts I should say? Yes we're no different but with respect to our payments things haven't changed a bit.
In terms for Apache with respect to -- I will tell you I was there June 7 8.
We have the U.S.-Egyptian business council meeting there.
We had 24 major companies not just oil companies but U.S.
companies that made that trip Google Microsoft Citibank Exxon a number of companies that are much obviously much larger than us and talked to a number of people.
Obviously they have -- things have changed.
Certainly I will tell you the enthusiasm there is as great as I've seen it since we've been over there 15 years.
People are generally very positive.
Most of them are very positive about what's going on.
And they all recognize that they have -- it'll just them take awhile from an economic standpoint.
But I'm obviously I'm optimistic because we drill wells for a living.
But I don't see any real concern.
We're sensitive to it but not concerned I guess is the way I would put the words.
Got it.
And last one for me I guess I keep going awhile.
I'll let someone else jump on here.
But the last one is on Nelson.
Given the extent of the success that you're obviously having on Forties and I guess the fact that Shell's been kind of sitting on their hands for quite a while on Nelson any update you can give us in terms of progress of maybe increasing that stake or getting more involved more active in the actual redevelopment fund if there is such a thing? And I'll leave it at that to you.
No I think any place we're not operator we probably would like to get more involved.
Yes I think you asked the right question.
We're going to see whether or not it's beneficial to us.
Your next question comes from the line of David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
LLC</strong> A couple of questions.
Steve can you talk about Canada? You briefly hit it but can you talk about exploration-wise what you're most excited about? We were just up there.
We had quarterly review up there and spent a day and half.
And I tell you we had a lot -- the thing I'm most -- it's short term because I'm excited about a lot of number of things.
I think short term is when you look for either oil or liquid-rich gas you can find it which I was and our folks like in what we call the Kaybob area is we got some zone discussions real potential and some of the offset players are drilling and making dang good wells.
But we've got a huge acreage position in there and starting to drill some wells in there.
I think we have 2 or 3 but the Provost oil play I mean that's 3 000 feet but it's oil.
And we got probably 1 million acres in there although it's not going to be productive but its huge acreage position.
We've got -- the good thing about having acreage is you've got lots of chances to win and we have a huge acreage position up there and whether it is the Montney Ridgewood liquid-rich.
We've got a bunch of acreage in there.
We've got it in the Gano [ph] play.
We've picked up an awful lot of good acreage from BP that we didn't even put value on when we did it frankly.
We didn't need that value at the time.
I would say one thing is we're going to be able to find some liquids and some black oil up there and I really didn't expect the oil.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And are things back to normal in Canada yet post the weather and then the rains and everything kind of slowed things down.
Are you back? Well we're getting back.
Alfonso you might...
Yes we expect at this point for the third quarter 1 800 barrels per day net of continued disruption due to pipeline downtime and ongoing flooding.
But in terms of our activity level we're starting to put rigs back to work.
LLC</strong> Okay.
One more question.
Can you do anything with the FPSO.
You briefly mentioned but I mean what's -- just give us the current state of...
We're back on.
I don't know what the production was today.
I think it's a little over 20 000 barrels a day gross in the Van Gogh field.
We expect to -- if we it everything or is working right we hope to get it up at about 34 000 to 35 000.
We got the 52% in that.
And it's not -- let me tell you it's a beautiful permeable zone which is great and you get rates out of it but it will decline.
So not unlike any of the deepwater stuff in the world.
But it has been very hit and miss frankly.
I don't know if you follow it but we had a swivel problem we had it there at excess [ph].
We had an anchor problem.
We had haul it off from big step [ph].
So the last 45 days or thereabouts 40 days the boat owner took it off the location and did a major overhaul of a number of components and we are just now back online the last couple of days.
So we will -- it's not costing us anything other than loss production.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Is there insurance for that loss production? No.
LLC</strong> Okay.
But it sounds like as of now if this works you're content where you're at right now with that.
Yes if we can make it run we've had about 40% up time over the last 6 months and that for a field that's producing black oil and 110 well Brent's 120 there for awhile I mean that's a hell of a lot of cash flow we're missing out on.
And we do think of it as loss production but in reality it will be deferred production.
Your next question comes from the line of Pearce Hammond with Simmons.
Steve can you provide a little bit of overall outlook on the deepwater Gulf of Mexico? And when do you think it becomes a significant growth platform for the company? I tell you that's a $64 000 question.
I will tell you we're starting to see and I'm talking about not our activity level.
It's much of the industry's activity level because it's -- our expectations were by the end of this year we ought to be in pretty good shape with exploration permits et cetera.
I think it's slower than everybody expected.
I think it is becoming more clear as to what you need to submit and your time frames.
I mean basically we just had a quarter review in both on the shelf and the deepwater here about a week and a half ago for third and second quarter.
But if you look at the permitting of whether it's a well or development well whatever we just pushed the clock back 3 to 6 months from the time period it used to take which means we're going to have to do better planning not only in the deepwater but on the shelf and get our ducks in order and try to do it a little more systematically.
And we used to be able to drag a rig out there and drill well.
In terms of it being a significant driver for Apache honestly it's going to take 3 years.
I think what's happened on Lucius and Exxon's well I mean it's gorgeous but I think I'm not supposed to say that.
They announced 700-foot column but it indicates kind of things you can find in the deepwater.
And we built a staff around the Mariner folks but we're also building -- we have a technical group.
That is a strong technical group.
So I would see us over time increasing our interest and blocks that we've gotten from Mariner and also drilling some wells as the operator.
And just following up on divestitures.
Earlier this year you all had mentioned about a $1 billion I believe of divestitures maybe half in Canada half in the U.S.
I know you got some divestitures done this quarter.
If you could just catch us up on where you are in that process? Roger? Yes we got one sale done in Canada.
It was just under $200 million.
It's about -- first quarter those properties produced 25.5 Mcf a day and 500 barrels per day.
And we've got another comparable sale that we're working on and would hope to complete in early to mid-September.
And honestly what happened is is that we got more cash than thought we were.
We're not selling what we don't think we're selling cats and dogs.
And so some of the things that we were marketing we didn't get a price that we thought was the good price and so we kept them.
Along those lines we got a package in the U.S.
that we are currently marketing and we would have the same comments about that.
If we get a price that we like we'll take it.
And because we don't have pressure to sell because we've got higher cash flow and cash we don't we'll keep it.
Your next question comes from the line of John Freeman with Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> In Argentina I apologize if I missed this but what were the sales on -- the Gas Plus sales either during the quarter the most recent data and then the average price on those sales? I think it's 77 million a day at 493 or something like that.
Yes that was it.
That's the average for the year.
Fourth quarter.
Inc.</strong> And in the North Sea I know going into the quarter you all were expecting about 6 600 net barrels a day of production down for planned turnarounds.
Does any of those turnarounds carryover in the third quarter and if so the amount? No.
We are currently should be back up tomorrow but we have an unplanned event where the Forties pipeline operator and you could figure out who that is we had to shut in all of the oil behind that pipeline for 5 days because they found some ordinances along that pipeline.
And we should be back up day after tomorrow.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then last question for me you all have gotten a pretty sizable position now in the Cook Inlet in Alaska and I'm just trying to get a sense of how to think about that.
I know that the concept is kind of the lack of 3D seismic coverage so you shoot it and you get the work with it but sort of the timing on when you would shoot it when you actually start to drill up there.
We had not finite number stepping in front of our guidance again but we have led the contract on that and it's going to be a large shoot and it will be 3D.
And hopefully we will be done with that by the end of this year in terms of first pass processing and hope to drill a well in 2012.
We got -- its exploration play but the guys have wowed me enough me to believe that it's a real opportunity.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC</strong> Just only thing that your gas price in Australia has picked up a fair bit in the last couple of quarters here.
Just wanted to get a sense from you guys kind of what's caused that.
Maybe there were some legacy contracts to the lower price that it rolled off and perhaps you could just sort of address your current contracts and when some of those at lower prices may roll off in the next couple of years.
Well I don't have in front of me specifically the numbers.
I know we are putting on some gas like Halyard going in at a higher price.
But our legacy contracts really will start to roll over in 2013 and 2015.
And we're also in the midst of negotiating some contracts from Macedon which were not operator but that will come on in 2013.
The operator of BHP there but the contracts are in the 7-day dollar range.
So you're going to see not just for the last 2 quarters over the next 2 or 3 years.
You're going to see our gas price in Australia change significantly.
LLC</strong> Great okay.
And I guess speaking with Australia just wanted to get a sense of what else is on the docket this year in terms of the larger exploration wells you guys plan on drilling? Yes let me think.
Well we keep extending step.
Probably the best thing we have is a step around at Zola.
I think we're scheduled and I'm not sure it's the end of this year or first quarter of next year.
We've got play an incredible well at Zola which is going to be big gas line for us and nobody -- we can't tell -- we're going to appraise it.
But the good thing about that is if we go to FID with Wheatstone we have the potential of putting significant more volumes of gas in Wheatstone which is the whole purpose of that is not just Julimar.
The whole purpose of that is to expand our gas markets in Australia.
We drilled a dry hole at Emerson which was off of 356.
We had totally different kind of stratigraphic play off of 356 was the Julimar area or way out to the East.
And I think right now that's -- I can't think of anything in front of us this year anyway.
LLC</strong> Got you okay.
And I guess clearly you guys just announced a couple of nice discoveries there in Egypt just curious as to sort of how many other wells you have left to drill in the exploration site in Egypt this year as well? We probably got 14 more wells to drill this year on the exploration side.
I think probably -- they're actually appraised.
Let me put it that way.
Some are probably drilling right now but we haven't seen the results.
What we found is -- frankly 2 things we found that I would comment on.
One is the Faghur Basin area is the oilier and we see the Sapa oil Sapa which is really a plus for us over there because it's not the a b which is upper the upper part of the zone lower Cretaceous is great production but it declines quickly.
And what you see out of the Sapa is they've more staying power.
And the other thing I would say is that we've been pleasantly surprised with what we found on the stuff we acquired from BP because when we talk about gas being able to pull gas out of a call though we're to the point when we get that pipeline fixed.
We're not on that pulling gas out of Gharadig.
We're finding it.
We're finding it Abu Gharadig acreage that got from BP which is a real plus.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So I guess just to make sure I understood that are you saying you that you have drilled some exploration wells on the BP acreage at this point and you found more gas? Yes.
Your final question comes from the line of John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Some quick ones for me.
How encouraged are you in Egypt for the Paleozoic Steve? Honestly the jury is still out but I've always been encouraged by it frankly.
I don't have the settle of having data.
Well there's no reason why it doesn't exist out there.
What we continue to kind of step out there and do is we encourage ourselves every time we drill down through the Paleozoic and we continue to get encouraged by that.
My thought is go out there in the middle of nowhere and drill a well.
We haven't had that courage yet because I really think that you have a real shot at it.
But the last 2 wells that we drilled they definitely had pay at the Paleozoic which is good.
Okay good.
With Argentina you said you were going on conventional with shale test.
Say you're successful there going forward how hard will it be to build up infrastructure because you probably had to bring in frac tarps from all over to do it right? Well yes the infrastructure from the pipeline -- the good thing about Argentina is they got all kinds of pipelines across from that Neuquén basin.
The bad thing about Argentina is they got very little service equipment.
In fact we are bringing in a very large service company's equipment to help us with not just that play but some other horizontal oil plays also.
And it's a very large company that is not housed in the Middle East.
One thing I still have to sort of pinch myself to think about is we're not getting more for gas and Gas Plus in Argentina than we are in the United States.
So it's economically feasible to bring some of these service providers into the country.
They need a lot of gas down there.
That's for sure.
I think it's pretty encouraging.
Last one for me is the Permian.
You mentioned the horizontal wells.
How much incremental recovery are you going to get with the program below the water flood fields? And also be it Wolfcamp shale exposure and how aggressive will you be on that? Well the horizontal water flood I mean we have proven to ourselves that that really worked.
And if you put little horizontal lines on a map of all the acreage we have in water flood it would -- you're not in that 7 500 locations that I mentioned in the Permian which you could put -- punch more in there.
So we've got a long way to go with respect to the horizontal in water flood.
And it makes at all sense in the world because what most people or all of us have been doing is cycling water into permeable zones.
So if you drill a horizontal well in a less permeable but still got a lot of oil in it because we're drilling less permeable wells in the Eagle Ford and everywhere else and trying to suck oil out of there.
But for oil in rich oil places you just got to get into a little less permeable zone and frac it.
And so far it's worked very well better than our expectations there.
In terms of Deadwood and the Wolfcamp the decline I'll be real honest with you sorely disappointed in our first horizontal well there.
And I will tell we tried some gee whiz stuffs on the fracs and we need to go back to drilling it and see if we can get some rigs out of there because there's a lot of people drilling wells around us that got pretty good rigs and we got 167 000 [ph] acres there.
So not it's likely to be -- it could be a big play for us.
Do you think maybe you're too distal? I'm sorry? LLC</strong> Do you think maybe you're too distal? Yes it's possible.
I don't think so.
Yes I mean that's -- like most plays that's -- actually I don't -- in parts of our acreage I think because we got people that you and I could name the top 2 right off sentence that are making good wells.
Some of this stuff is not rocket science you know what I'm in.
I will now turn the conference back over to management for any concluding remarks.
Thank you all for your participation.
If you have any further questions you got my number and I'll be back in my office.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Apache Corporation's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This call is being recorded.
Today's presentation will be hosted by Mr.
Patrick Cassidy Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Cassidy please go ahead.
Thank you David.
Good afternoon and thanks for joining us for Apache Corporation's third quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
This morning before the market opened we reported third quarter 2011 net income of $983 million or $2.50 per diluted share.
As disclosed in the release Apache's adjusted earnings which exclude certain items that impact the comparability of results total $1.2 billion or $2.95 per diluted share.
Cash flows from operation totaled $2.7 billion.
On today's call we will have 4 speakers making prepared remarks prior to taking questions.
Steve Farris our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Rod Eichler President and Chief Operating Officer; Roger Plank President and Chief Corporate Officer; and Tom Chambers Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
We have prepared our usual detailed supplemental data package for your use which includes a reconciliation of any non-GAAP numbers that we used such as adjusted earnings cash flow from operations or costs incurred.
The data package can be found on our website at www.apachecorp.com/financialdata.
Today's discussions may contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions and no assurances can be given that those expectations will be realized.
A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental data package on our website.
With that I will now turn the call over to Steve.
[Audio Gap] And development plays around the world during the quarter.
[Technical Difficulty] And I don't think I have to say good afternoon but good afternoon everyone.
Again.
We had a great quarter and as I mentioned in the silent part of this it was -- we set a new record year.
We had record production of 752 000 barrels of oil equivalent in a day which is 50% was liquids.
The bulk of that was oil.
We had record cash flow as Patrick pointed out of $2.7 billion which on an annualized basis gets us real close to $11 billion for the year.
We reduced our debt by $650 million and we funded it our very ambitious investment program.
Rod is going to point out a little later we had an excellent drilling results across the wide portfolio of exploration and development plays around the world during the quarter.
And on the project side we had achievements of positive final divestment decision on our Australian Wheatstone LNG development a major long-term project with Chevron it was a visible value over a long period of time 20 years with no decline in its -- it's based on oil-linked revenue.
Importantly Wheatstone is really a growth platform which will provide us multiple additional phases of development that we can bring additional gas in from other discoveries in the Carnarvon Basin.
At the opposite end of the Pacific we obtained a 20-year export license for our proposed Kitimat LNG project on the West Coast of Canada which is the other long-term oil-linked project in our portfolio.
And that moves us closer to our final investment decision there which should hopefully happen first half of next year.
And on the strategic side we announced the addition of ExxonMobil North Sea business.
We added that to our North Sea portfolio which is a major legacy asset which has tremendous potential for value upside through the same things that we did at our Forties Field in exploitation capabilities and really geophysical technology.
All of that actually happened in a single quarter.
Obviously for us it's very exciting but what's ahead of us is also very exciting.
As market fluctuates the cash flow strength of our portfolio and the robustness of our balance are key strengths of our company.
We're in a position to build 2 major oil-linked projects Wheatstone and Kitimat because of the strength of our existing assets and what Apache's do every day to focus on coming up with efficiencies and economic opportunities in which to grow our production.
Every workover and recompletion in the Anadarko Basin and every discovery in Egypt or the Gulf of Mexico shelf which is quickly tied in turns into cash flow to help fund these long-term projects.
And as we have launched one of these LNG projects we're getting ready to embark upon the second one.
And it's important to underline that we continue to emphasize our core business which is bringing value out of our daily operations which really enables our shareholders to be able to invest in these long-term projects.
That in the future will provide steady visible cash stream for decades to come.
As I'm sure many of you are aware we're also stepping up our exploration activity and we have always been an exploration company.
If you look at some of the things we've done in Australia Egypt and our international shales all of those were key positions that we built through explorations.
What we're now able to do with our enlarged financial and talent resource is to spread out a bit more and take more exploration risks.
And you will to some of the elements of that strategy are already taking shape.
And we're building a serious exploration business in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
We have 110 exploration blocks.
We are now the largest acreage holder in the Cook Inlet of Alaska.
We're running a big 3D seismic shoot there as we speak.
Hopefully we'll be drilling a well there next year.
We're in the Deepwater Canyon.
We're drilling oil prospects there next year also.
We're an early mover in the unconventional oil play in New Zealand which ultimately could provide access to about 1.7 million gross acres.
All of these opportunities have the potential to be very material to our shareholders from a contribution standpoint.
If you look at our history there is nothing new to any of this.
Apache has added a new core area to its portfolio every couple of years over time and build a real business with real value in each one of them.
We intend to continue to do that and as well we continue to squeeze value out of our existing assets to recompletions workovers and efficiencies.
And with that I'd like turn it over to Rod Eichler our President Chief Operating Officer to provide operating highlights and I'd urge him to turn on his mic.
Thank you Steve.
In the Permian our production increased 3% sequentially driven by strong drilling results than prior period adjustments.
We operated 24 rigs during the third quarter with 132 new wells spud and with initial completion operations started on 171 wells.
This increased the level of completion activity has reduced our backlog of wells waiting on completion at the end of the third quarter to 71 which we will continue to work down over the next 2 quarters.
The key focus areas of our activity during the quarter continued to be the horizontal redevelopment of legacy water flood units and the multizone zone development of Mariner's Deadwood area.
We also continue to progress other plays and projects across the basin where we have about 3 million acres.
One notable example is the horizontal climb play at Deadwood where we have a very positive update.
After somewhat disappointing first test on the previous quarter our second climb horizontal well came in flowing 325 barrels of oil per day so 320 Mcf of gas per day after our 10-stage slick water frac and has produced 8 800 barrels of oil equivalent to its first 30 days.
We anticipate completing 2 additional climb horizontal wells in the fourth quarter.
Moving to the central region production increased 4% sequentially driven by higher margin in liquid drilling.
We operated 9 rigs during the quarter and drilled 18 wells including 7 Granite Wash 3 Cherokee 2 Hogshooter 2 exploratory wells in the Bivins Ranch.
For the year the region is trying to complete 34 Granite Wash 14 Cherokee 11 Hogshooter 8 Cleveland and one Marmaton well.
The region's transformation from vertical to horizontal drilling has evolved over the last 2 years and now the region is targeting the liquids-focused objectives.
Since the beginning of 2010 central gas production has increased 11% and oil production has grown over 200%.
Acquisition of a 240-square mile 3D survey is underway now across our Bivins Ranch new ventures play while we had a 75% interest in 126 000 gross acres.
And we are already seeing positive well results.
Our first well tested over 700 barrels of oil per day from 233 [indiscernible] canyon wash pay.
Two additional wells are presently drilling and we expect to be running 2 drilling rigs through the end of the year.
In 2012 we expect to drill a minimum of 6 wells on the Bivins Ranch acreage.
Gulf of Mexico shelf production was down 4% sequentially including downtime impact from tropical storms Don and Lee.
All the fields affected by the storms are put back into service by the end of the quarter.
Unrelated third-party downtime and natural field decline accounted for the remaining drop in production from the prior quarter.
We operated 5 rigs on the shelf during the quarter and reached TD of 7 wells with 100% success.
We are on track to deliver our target of 41 wells in the shelf this year and we are preparing to ramp up our activities further in this very profitable region in 2012 as the permitting process becomes more predictable.
We grew our block footprint in this region by over 40% last year to over 600 blocks and we have a deep inventory of exploitation of low-risk exploration opportunities ahead of us.
In the Deepwater Gulf region production declined 11% sequentially due to some weather downtime and this timing of new projects coming online.
We expect a full [indiscernible] decline in fourth quarter before 3 additional new projects Mandy Bushwood and Wide Berth come on stream next year.
Two of these projects were originally scheduled for fourth quarter first production but is then pushed back due to third-party operator delays.
Our large development projects in Deepwater continue to move forward.
Lucius is on track for its final investment decision before year end and drilling of appraisal well Heidelberg is currently underway.
We recently contracted a semisubmersible drilling rig and we are preparing for a deepwater exploration program in the Gulf of Mexico next year.
Gulf Coast onshore region production was up 2.5% sequentially on strong drilling results and new properties on production.
We operated 3 drilling rigs during the quarter and participated in 17 wells.
In Canada production declined 3% sequentially driven by property divestments.
We operated 8 rigs during the quarter and participated in 48 wells.
Activities focused on oil and liquids drilling plays with 28 wells in Provost 5 wells in Blue Sky 3 wells in House [ph] Mountain area 3 wells in Glauconite and one well in the Montney.
In addition we progressed our development plans for the Chinook play which will start in the fourth quarter.
And we move forward one more liquids-rich play within our enlarged acreage the Gooseberry Sparky play which alone could represent as many as 37 wells for us next year.
Natural gas production continue to be robust.
Third quarter Horn River production increased by 18% as compared to the second quarter that averaged 98 million cubic feet of gas per day net to Apache's working interest with peak leaping into production approximately 122 million cubic feet of gas per day.
Third quarter production levels don't reflect the benefit of our activity in liquid-driven plays yet.
And a significant volume of the wells we have drilled that are put in Canada year-to-date are still low on production.
The Kitimat LNG project which Apache operates with a 40% interest has made yet another important step forward with the award by the National Energy Board of Canada of a 20-year export license for a 2-train development of 10 million tons of LNG per annum.
This approved throughput double the size of our additional project scope of one train.
We continue to work toward our targeted final investment decision in 2012.
In Egypt net production increased 4% sequentially driven largely by drilling results.
Gross production also grew up 3%.
We operated 25 rigs during the quarter and drilled 57 wells with a 93% success rate including 7 successful exploration wells in the Faghur Baharia [ph] and Abu Gharadig basins.
We continue to have excellent drilling results in Egypt.
We recently achieved a record level oil rate completion since we began operations in the Western Desert in 1996.
This completion was an exploration well.
The Tayim South 1-X discovery which tested 8 200 barrels of oil per day.
This oil found play in the Cretaceous AEB Jurassic Safa and Paleozoic formations.
In the Abu Gharadig basin a development well in the former BP assets tested its 7 600 barrels of oil per day and 1.5 million cubic feet of gas per day for the lower Baharia formation.
As an update on the BP assets of Egypt we have drilled 16 wells with 100% success on the acreage acquired from BP last year.
Since becoming an operator last -- we have increased oil production by 34% to 28 000 barrels of oil per day and gas production by 64% to 70 million cubic feet of gas per day.
This incremental production has enabled us to fuel the export pipeline we acquired from BP to its current D-rated capacity of 70 million cubic feet of gas per day.
We have also completed the [indiscernible] study on this pipeline and we expect to reroute it to 135 million cubic feet of gas per day in 2012 to repair works requiring about 6 months of downtime.
This project will add a gross 65 million cubic feet of gas per day to our current export capacity and position us to significantly expand this capacity through looping further down the line.
Industry's opportunities of Egypt continue to grow with 4 million acres now being offered a new licensing round in the Western Desert the first in almost 5 years.
The contractual framework to these 15 blocks on offer is the same one under which oil and gas operations have been conducted in Egypt consistently over the years.
This is clearly a positive development for the sector and consistent with Egypt's strong lead for large continued investment by oil and gas companies to meet its energy needs.
We are currently evaluating the blocks included in this licensing round.
Turning to Australia production was up slightly from second quarter.
Van Gogh production resumed at August and averaged a net 9 700 barrels of oil per day during the third quarter up 1 000 barrels of oil per day sequentially.
It is currently producing a 29 400 barrels of oil per day or 15 500 barrels of oil per day net to Apache.
Swivel and compressor performance remain a risk to medium-term production levels and we are finalizing a solution involving a shipyard remediation program now expected to take place in 2013.
We operated one rig during the quarter to Australia and reached TD of 3 offshore wells 2 of which have been completed as successful offshore oil producers.
During the quarter we achieved a positive final investment decision to our landmark Wheatstone LNG project in which Apache will participate with a 13% interest and which is now moving going forward.
Wheatstone had monetized an estimated 2.1 Tcf and 42 million barrels of condensate from our operated Julimar and Brunello fields.
Expected investment net to Apache for the combined upstream and LNG projects is approximately USD $4 billion in aggregate through 2016.
Average net sells to Apache will be 140 million cubic feet of gas per day and LNG at prices peg crude oil indices 22 million cubic feet of gas per day of sales gas into the attractively priced West Australia domestic market and 3 300 barrels of condensate per day.
Importantly Wheatstone is a platform for our future growth for the exploration in Australia.
The project has already been environmentally approved for nearly 3x the size of this 2-train 9-million ton per annum per space of development.
During the third quarter we achieved final investment approval for yet another oil project in Australia Balnaves with gross peak initial production expected in 2014 at 30 000 barrels of oil per day through an FPSO.
Apache's interest in the project is 65%.
Finally we can see to progress our existing pipeline [indiscernible] projects.
The Reindeer Devil Creek our second domestic gas processing hub was 98% complete at the end of the third quarter and will be on stream at the end of the year.
Apache's interest in this project is 55%.
The North Sea region production increased 1% sequentially on exceptional drilling results despite some unplanned infrastructure constraints.
We continue to operate 3 rigs 2 platforms strings and one heavy duty jackup during the quarter and have drilled 15 Forties wells so far during 2011 with 87% success rate.
We plan to drill 3 more wells before year end.
Then new Bravo to Charlie pipeline was successfully installed allowing an extra 4 000 barrels a day to the export beginning in August.
During the quarter we announced the acquisition of Exxon's Mobil North Sea business which will significant expand our opportunities set in the region with the addition of the Beryl complex as a second operating area for us.
We also gained important midstream assets and an experience in talent organization that will present a terrific addition to our North Sea team.
As Steve mentioned and really the [indiscernible] of Forties has demonstrated Apache's expertise in exploitation of geophysics represents a unique fit for a maturing basin in North Sea and we are very happy to have finally secured the right assets for our expansion there.
We continue to work toward a year-end closing for this transaction.
In Argentina production increased 3% sequentially driven by growth in premium-priced gas production.
We operated 8 drilling rigs during the quarter and drilled 11 wells.
One highlight of our activity was our resource delineation in our 1.7 million acres within the shale fairway in the Neuquén basin.
During the third quarter we got our first horizontal shale well introduction that reached target depth on 3 vertical wells that will also test the shales.
Our first test the ACL X2000 1H was completed with 9 fracs on a 2 100-foot horizontal Los Mojos shale section.
Initial production is 4.5 million cubic feet of gas per day and they're selling the gas at $5.22 per Mcf under a Gas Plus contract.
That early design in the fracture stimulating program for the other [indiscernible] wells that reached target depth during the quarter.
A long and [indiscernible] data obtaining those wells have been very encouraging and our work continues as we appraise a very large resource in a market where it is very seriously needed.
Tom? Thanks Rod.
Good afternoon everyone.
As Steve indicated in his opening remarks record production set the tone for our strong financial performance in the quarter with record cash flow and very good earnings underpinned by solid margins results of a balanced portfolio and a focus on holding the line on costs.
For the third quarter Apache reported earnings of $983 million or $2.50 a share up 18% on a per share basis from the year-ago quarter that's down slightly from the sequential quarter.
Adjusting for the FX impact of deferred taxes in the previously announced charge for the tax increase in the U.K.
we earned $1.2 billion or $2.95 per share up 34% from the prior-year period.
Cash from operations before working capital items of $50.7 billion our best quarter ever was up 35% versus the year-ago quarter and up 2% over the second quarter despite lower realized prices.
Our portfolio continues to deliver excellent results with oil currently garnering around 24x the price of North American gas and our international gas portfolio exposed to rising gas prices particularly in Australia and Argentina.
Our oil and liquids volumes currently make up 50% of our total production but account for more than 3/4 of our $4.3 billion in revenue.
It's important to note that almost 92% of our liquids are crude oil which sells for almost double the price of NGLs.
Further bolstering our revenue generation ability is the fact that nearly 75% of all our oil production receives Brent index or Brent comparable index pricing.
This balance allowed us to post solid margins despite market pressure which decreased average price realizations by $2 of Boe or 3%.
Cash margins of $46.23 per Boe were down less than 2% compared to the prior quarter's $46.96 while pretax margins which include DD&amp;A were $30.26 per Boe versus $31.29 in the prior quarter.
We continue to focus on margins and holding the line on cost.
As evidenced total cash cost of $16.29 of Boe decreased $0.40 from the prior quarter and we continue to integrate the prior-year acquisitions.
As we mentioned last quarter cash cost should remain in the range of around $16.50 per Boe given current strip prices for the remainder of the year.
A detailed calculation of our margins adjusted earnings and cash from operations can be found in the financial supplement located in our website.
Turning to the balance sheet.
One of our core strategies is to maintain a strong and flexible balance sheet.
Our ability to generate excess cash flow and prudently manage our spending has served us well in this regard.
We have to date been able to increase our planned capital expenditures to $8 billion without compromising our balance sheet.
Based on current prices we forecast that not only will we have been able to increase our capital expenditures but we will be able to pay for the recently announced North Sea acquisition and still meet our debt reduction objectives all from available excess cash.
This quarter we paid down $650 million of debt bringing the balance at the end of the quarter to $7.2 billion which drove our debt-to-capitalization ratio down to 20.5% from 23% at the end of last quarter and 25% at year end.
We believe this serves as a critical foundation as we head into 2012 and ramp up our significant long-term growth projects as you heard from Steve and Rod.
A key point I need to highlight for the third quarter is our effective tax rate of 52%.
The largest impact to the rate was a nonrecurring charge of $274 million for our deferred tax balances as a result of the U.K.
tax increase.
This we told you about in our last call and wasn't active this quarter requiring this retroactive adjustment.
We recorded a total charge of $305 million in the third quarter but $274 million is truly out of period specifically $218 million of the $274 million resulted from the remeasurement of our deferred tax liabilities prior to 2011 and $56 million is related to operating results for the first and second quarters of this year.
This adjustment was partially offset by a $99 million benefit relating to the impact of foreign currency gains on our deferred taxes.
Absent any impact of foreign exchange movements which we really can't predict we would expect our go-forward effective tax rate to be in the range of 42% to 44% and our deferred tax percentage to average 40% to 45% for the year.
To wrap up we are building a [indiscernible] momentum heading into the fourth quarter and into 2012.
From a financial perspective rising production exceptional cash flow a continued focus on delivering margins and returns and a strong balance sheet give us a solid foundation from which to build future growth and shareholder wealth.
And with that I'd like to turn the call over to Roger.
Okay.
Thanks Tom.
At a time of seemingly unprecedented volatility we take solace in earning high returns netting a strong balance sheet and generating substantial excess cash flow.
I'm going to update you today briefly on some new business at Apache that improves our lot and supports our ongoing objective of consistent profitable growth.
Our North Sea acquisition from ExxonMobil is on track and slated to close at year end.
All press right periods have run their course with no exercises so we should benefit from the full complement of the incremental daily production of around 30 000 barrels of oil equivalent for all of next year.
Keep in mind that 2/3 of this production is Brent price crude currently selling at about $110 a barrel and the remainder is North Sea gas which goes for around $9.50 per thousand cubic feet.
So this is very high-margin production that will contribute meaningfully to our North Sea profits and cash flow throughout next year and beyond.
In Australia during the quarter we signed 2 new agreements to sell gas at prices substantially above our current realizations.
While confidentiality precludes us from disclosing individual specifics cumulatively this new business will add approximately 45 million cubic feet of gas per day at variable prices linked to oil and to inflation.
These agreements have built-in floor prices that are more than 2.5x our current average realizations of just under $3 per Mcf.
The majority of this production is scheduled to commence in the fourth quarter of 2012 and ramp up into 2014.
Clearly strong demands from mining projects is raising the bar for gas pricing in Western Australia.
And whilst specific timing for these lumpy demand increases is tied to completion of major projects that is difficult to predict.
We now have agreements covering -- agreements in place covering approximately 150 million cubic feet of gas per day at prices that are at multiple of current realizations.
These volumes represent some 3/4 of our current productions that will come online between January of 2012 and year-end 2015.
That makes for a nice bridge to 2016 which as you've heard is the time at which our Julimar Wheatstone gas is slated to add another 160 million cubic feet per day of production.
After years in the making the improvement in Australian gas market fundamentals is upon us with first sales of significantly higher priced gas finally hitting our coffers beginning this January and volumes rising progressively throughout the coming decade.
Consequently Apache's Australian gas margins and profitability are on track to grow rapidly from here on out.
As Steve indicated at the outset 2011 is shaping up to be a record year for Apache across the board but it is also a year that has laid a solid foundation for a strong start in 2012.
Pat? That includes our prepared remarks.
David we are now ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up on other comments you made.
Rod you just talked about higher prices starting in January 2012.
I guess that's your range to your project.
Could you give us an indication of what type of gas prices you expect to see there? Floor price is 2.5x in excess of $3 about 7.5.
So north of that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So now you'll see that on the range to your volumes.
Can you remind us kind of roughly what those volumes are net to Apache? Well there's going to be a commissioning period and it's a very difficult to predict exactly what the timing is.
But we'll probably start with about 10 million cubic feet a day in January and ultimately gross that -- that will rise to 100 million cubic feet of gas per day.
How much of that takes place next year is uncertain but probably the lion's share of it.
And we have 55% of that quantity if you will.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you guys kind of comment on the paces of permitting in the Gulf of Mexico? Just trying to get a sense of where your activity levels might be able to go next year.
I know this year obviously they were certainly hampered.
Well in the the shallow water area things have moved along now.
This year reveals [indiscernible] including well programs and we're expecting similar performance next year to go throughout the program.
The Deepwater -- things of course certainly are slower there since Macondo.
Just to give you an idea in the Deepwater areas it used to take about 45 to 60 days to get a drilling permit approved in the Deepwater.
Now using -- since Macondo using the [indiscernible] actual data it takes between 225 and 250 days to get a permit approved all in.
So that's -- it's seen some slight improvements in and out of the year but there's just more additional reorganization regulatory level and the ways to be seen but that trend will be significantly improving in 2012.
I mean we have been getting permits on our projects but it's still amazingly slow for the industry.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Question on Argentina you guys talked about your first shale well it sounded like a good result.
Just trying to get a sense of what that well cost you guys to drill there? I'd have to look that up and have Patrick get back with you and the exact cost.
I mean these early wells are test-of-concept wells.
I mean we drilled pilot holes take a lot of cores we do a lot of petrophysical work almost research side work and we understand the nature of the resource we are dealing with [indiscernible] because there are very few control points they've been targeting specifically for this shale.
That's the purpose of one of the placement of the wells the type of the work program we have.
But I'll have Patrick give you the number after the call.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
You guys talked about the Cook Inlet area you picked up a lot of acreage recently.
Can you talk about kind of what's some of your targets are next year? Is it going to be both oil and gas and just kind of give us a sense of the opportunity there? Frankly we -- hopefully by the midyear.
We're shooting our 3D as we speak actually.
Hopefully get to the first pass of some field cubes in the first quarter of next year.
But that whole play is all about oil.
I mean we're looking at all the oil plays there and if you look at a [indiscernible] curve of the amount of activities that was in the Cook Inlet before Prudhoe Bay was found and afterward it just goes flat.
So truthfully we're very excited about the potential of finding reserves with 3D seismic.
There's been very little 3D seismic shot out there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Fine.
I guess I've seen a press story somewhere.
Let's talk about you guys looking at spending about $1.5 billion next year in Egypt.
Any truth to that number? Well I happen to be the chairman of the U.S.
Egyptian Business Council and that was in D.C.
at a council meeting.
I think what I said is between $1 billion and $1.5 billion which is about -- we're going to spend $1 billion this year and next year it'll probably be the same.
We got 25 rigs running there and we continue to be very active in terms of drilling wells and increasing production.
Nothing's changed there really for us.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Bracket with Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Quick question on the Gulf Coast onshore.
Can you talk about what sort of plays your targeting? And any news from some of the Southern Louisiana deep prospects? Our programs are -- they range across the coast from South Texas development programs like at Chafford Ranch [ph] with gas plays around to the South Louisiana myosin plays.
We currently have about one well in progress there outside operating at Shalamar and we have -- recently [indiscernible] acquired properties in the quarter from Phoenix which we're beginning the planning for well exploiting exploration drilling on those at current time.
So we're cutting the early stages of our exploration out there in South Louisiana.
Now that you have been there I might just elaborate.
We'll be looking for some of that deep gas in South Louisiana.
We have a huge mineral acreage position there and we've got 3D seismic over.
So there's a number of plays that are coming through there.
I think that well that Rod mentioned is about 28 000-foot well that we are not operating in but that's going to be a future for us there also.
And then another question.
On Kitimat with Shell acquiring some land around your position have you looked at that property and said no to it and what do you think of them being in that neighborhood? Janine? Yes.
They've been in discussions that we understand for quite some time on that property.
So we did not look at that specific piece of land.
As far as being in that general area we understand they've been looking in that area for quite some time and they will probably come on the end of this decade and we'll be sometime in the middle.
So we're fine.
What we're talking about of course is the -- specifically is wharf area the landing area in the harbor with Shell's acquisition in the former [indiscernible] properties.
So we had similar land that we own by buying a similar industrial site adjacent to this.
It provides us the same type of access.
Of course the actual LNG site itself is about 15 kilometers to the West of this coast where our facility will be located.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> In the Permian when you think about the horizontal opportunities and shifting to more of a horizontal strategy do you see the Permian competing better for more capital relative to other opportunities within the company or do you just see redirecting more of the Permian's budgets towards horizontal drilling? Well I'd say a little of both.
The Permian is a premier oil play in ore 48.
It competes very effectively inside the company for its share of capital.
And likewise this year we'll probably drill about 700 wells total in the Permian of which about 40 are horizontals.
Next year I expect a similar number or perhaps more total wells and probably over 100 horizontal wells.
So our program is definitely focused on increasing the number of horizontal drilling opportunities as the basin yields a large number of opportunities that are unconventional reservoirs that's suitable for horizontal exploitation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So essentially your viewing it as more incremental as opposed to reducing verticals just adding to the budget and then doing more on the -- and adding to the horizontal? We're adding the horizontal but it's like in the Deadwood area we've drilled so many wells.
In fact we probably drilled about 200 wells there this year that we've really driven the cost down.
So we get more wells per $1 divested in our drilling program by wide margin that we cut the drilling time almost in half in the last 30 months.
Research Division</strong> And then shifting to Australia on Van Gogh what do you think the existing units can produce per day until 2013 when you begin the remediation? Right now it's just performing in the last 60 days in about typically about 30 000 and 32 000 barrels a gross production in which we probably reflective of ongoing field performance on natural -- the other field recurring basis.
So borrowing some mechanical upset dealing with compression or the swivel of beyond that expect to see a normal decline through that time period before heading to dry dock to do significant repairs to the vessel.
That time we'll be able to bring the vessel back into the field to not only produce Van Gogh but also tie into our constant field development which is adjacent to the Van Gogh field.
Your next question comes from the line of John Freeman with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up question on what Brian just asked about Van Gogh.
I just want to make sure that I understood correctly because I think in the past you talked about doing the remediation program next year and I just wanted to make sure I understood why it got pushed to 2013? Well we did lot of work on the vessel this fall.
We had a lot of downtime in 2011 in the second quarter associated -- in the first quarter associated with these repairs.
We've made good progress on those.
[indiscernible] temporary repairs.
They've got very good production levels exceeding our expectations.
Those have been performing namely for the last 60 to 90 days.
I think this kind of changed our approach.
I really [indiscernible] the project going forward to the change from 2012 to 2013.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So a sort of an increased confidence in the actual vessel? Now that's a good way to describe it yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then back on the Permian I apologize if I missed this how many rigs are currently running in the Permian is it still the 24? Yes that's correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I know that in the past at least the constraint on trying to add more rigs in that area a lot of it was on the people side.
Is that still sort of the major constraint? It's a combination of both the equipment as well as good qualified personnel our experienced personnel.
It's an industry [indiscernible] problem across the entire basin.
And a little bit of it is capital because I can't say enough -- if you recall where we were a year ago when we were talking about what 2011 was going to look like I mean we projected to pay down debt we paid $650 million down this quarter.
I think we paid $400 million down the quarter before that.
Because when we bought BP we put ourselves a goal out there to be at about $7.5 billion or thereabout the end of this year.
And I think what you're seeing is is we've been slow to ramp up that activity just because we've got other needs for cash right now.
So I think for 2012 what you'll see is is a start to increase the activity level there and then it will be subject to people and rigs.
But right now it's a capital constraint though because we're going to pay down debt first before the end of the year.
Your next question comes from Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Steve a question on Egypt.
Just from your expertise [Audio Gap] I'd love to see what you see as sort of the road paths for a formation of an elected Egyptian government.
I think we're supposed to have elections in December and then how do you see that happening? And ultimately what do you think it's going to take to give investors more confidence in the Egypt story as it's been an overhang on Apache this year? Yes I think what your going -- I think you're going to see I think they've have announced here recently what the schedule is for the parliamentary and the Shura Council which is the grand congressional oversight basically like the Senate in the U.S.
the Shura Council.
And those are going to take place over a 3-month period starting I think November 28 and they're going to stagger those across the country.
So you won't see final Shura Council elections I think until about the middle of March.
There is some question as to whether or not the Presidential election will follow immediately or will it be a little time afterward.
So you're going -- it's going to be an evolution going forward.
And I think honestly I think that is a very practical way to go about doing it because they are evolving into a true democracy and I think you see it in everything that you do and I don't think like anything it's always up and to the right because there are times when things kind of get jagged.
But in the scheme of things they've done a very good job and I don't know why that doesn't continue.
Research Division</strong> And then switching to the Gulf of Mexico Deepwater Gulf of Mexico do you think rig capacity could become an issue if Gulf of Mexico permits really start picking up? Do you think this could be an issue in '12? And how does it impact your plans? Well I'll let -- Rod mentioned a little bit about the permitting.
I think we've got our first exploration permit as Apache and we're securing a rig.
The one thing I would say is is that all of these things are connected to everything else because rigs are based on cost.
And as you see more activity you're going to see increased cost you're going to see increased term which means people are going to have to decide how in the hell they see that.
So we're going to be active in the Deepwater.
We haven't put that in our plans in terms of hard numbers because we're still trying to understand what's going on with permitting et cetera.
But over time it is going to be a query from us from an exploration standpoint and the production standpoint.
And what's happened out there really has been a benefit to us because we're learning something.
And you got to go out into -- we're settled up to some good operators with Anadarko and some other folks.
So we're very comfortable with where we are.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I'll try a couple of quick ones.
First of all jumping back to Egypt.
Rod you made some I guess some interesting remarks regarding the pipeline.
I wonder if you could just elaborate a little bit as to the downtime you anticipate on specifically I think you said there was room for looping in significant expansion.
If you could talk a little bit about what that means in terms of your 100 000 barrels a day production target in Egypt? And I've got a quick follow up please? With regard to how it fits into the 100 000 barrel they got it's on top of my head I'm not sure what that comp would be like.
But to give you an idea I mean it's certainly be a positive addition to the goal itself and we've had some really good results of the drilling side this year that will add nicely to the goal.
But the pipeline itself after you had [indiscernible] and fully evaluate the [indiscernible] results actually was a much better condition than we were expecting.
There are about 2 dozen places along the line scattered across the entire 260 kilometers when that require well loss greater than 50% that require replacement.
The total amount of pipes that needed to replace those in aggregate it's only about 4 kilometers of 24-inch pipe.
The problem is we have to dig it up in about 25 different places to be able to install it these limited sections of pipe to effect the repairs.
But we're very optimistic that can be done in 2012.
I mean we're going to stay on working through the normal bureaucracy [indiscernible] tenders and everything would procure the piping equipment to get the job done as soon as possible.
In the meantime we're looking at moving the gas around other ways we have in the basin.
Perhaps [indiscernible] flow at our [indiscernible] 18-inch gas pipeline and move it back up.
There's this plant up in the North which we have -- where we have mileage.
So there's a lot of possibilities.
Ultimately we will have the opportunity to reap the line.
There's a possibility to increase the capacity to access the trunk line that's goes to upper Egypt which is the main national Grid line a 34-inch line that goes [indiscernible].
To be able to do that we'll have to add a small amount of compression that the operated lines are sure [indiscernible] higher pressured pipeline environment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just to be clear you're running ahead of that kind of the run rate of 100 000 barrels a day currently? I'd say we're making progress toward that goal.
We've got 3 years I believe that these are ordered 45 000 barrels a day with 100 000 increment.
And another way to look at world of plans for 2011.
What our projected plan for 2011.
So we're ahead of the longer-term goals too Doug.
Research Division</strong> AlL right.
My follow up just real quick on the Permian.
I guess this year you held your CapEx   back a little bit and as you pointed out your cash flow is well ahead of what you're going to spend.
Where are you in terms of being able to step up the activity level in the BP assets that you picked up last year and I'll leave it at that.
Well we still have a significant effort on bringing the BP assets in the door and integrating the land position understanding exactly what BP owned and just what's interested the level of development.
However we're checking with plays on it [indiscernible] the way we return basis in places where we had drilling obligations of course they're the highest priority other places.
We're not really focused specifically on the BP projects.
It's really the best opportunities are to achieve the best value for the dollars we're investing.
Of course BP assets are significant part of our position in the Permian Basin and I expect that we will continue to expand on those properties as time goes by.
Right now our biggest part of our development in the Permian has been focused in the Deadwood area which is a former Mariner property.
So it's bit of very core assets of 100 000 acres that we have to exploit that area.
And then about 1/3 of our rigs are on BP properties right now.
Your next question comes from the line of John Herrlin from Societe Generale.
Argentina you had a good well result there are others to go.
What kind of a program ramp are you going to get since you're getting higher gas prices than in the U.S.? What kind of a -- I didn't hear the second part? Program ramp.
Well our program in Argentina is pretty much tied to our investment level and cash flow in that country at present time.
But most of the drilling program is focused partly on our base development of our existing properties which also includes horizontal drilling in our conventional reservoirs and where we have Gas Plus contracts.
And another half is exploration projects dealing with testing the unconventional reservoirs in the [indiscernible] and block [indiscernible] shales principally.
I expect to see additional wells horizontal wells drilled in the shales as a follow up to this year's test-of-concept program in some of these concessions we have.
And since we don't have the results of those key vertical wells yet and we won't be able to have those completions underway until probably really the first quarter next year it's still hard to say what the exact global activity would be.
I've mentioned too John that part of this Gas Plus program this clearly recent program so kind of gaining its sea legs.
Here at floor a lot of that Gas Plus has gone to quasi-government-owned type  electrical generation companies.
And now it's starting to branch out into the rest of industry.
So we're very pleased to see of late that's beginning to take hold within a broader industry within the country.
And as that continues to pick up then there'll be more and more of that Gas Plus market that we'll be able to tie our production into.
With the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico Steve you're going to have your first Apache-operated well you have some non-positions should we expect just a couple of wells a year in total for Apache overall on a going-forward basis? Well don't know in total.
Certainly you probably are going to see a couple of operated wells -- I mean a couple of operated wells out of us a year and then whatever our activity level is from our non-operated.
Your next question comes from Robert Christensen with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> On Egypt again should I read into the high level of activity there what 23 rigs almost the same as what you got in the Permian as a indicator as to your confidence that things will remain constructive and then your comments just now about the new concession not much different than previous concessions.
Should we take this all to mean that the confidence your insights are good for continue business there? From an operating standpoint it really is really it's been business as usual.
Right through the revolution the week of the revolution you can look at our production curve over the last 12 months you'd be hard pressed to point at the curve and say when you think the revolution take place.
We've had growing production as I indicated.
So the bureaucracy there is a little slower than normal I have to say because there's some confusion again on [indiscernible] [Audio Gap] following the concession agreements as they always have and the field operations continue as they have and this announcement is a good round.
We haven't had a lot of those for a long time [indiscernible] because this is very encouraging and the terms of government [indiscernible] out are consistent with a big round we've seen in the recent past including the blocks we have ourselves.
So these are all good signs.
For the financial standpoint they haven't missed a beat [indiscernible] on paying us or permitting around our exports for our contracts everything is working very nicely.
Then I must just add that one difference between Egypt and other countries around them is Egypt really uses all this product in the country that have tremendous growth and use of domestic natural gas about 12% per year for over 5 years.
They are right on the cusp of having to import crude oil they actually import products now.
So they need companies that invest in refined oil and gas and we've had a very good relationship there.
Inc.</strong> Final question if I may.
One company large E&amp;P in the United States which is yet to do a JV on its properties is indicating a JV possibility on its properties.
They're well healed you're well healed.
Has that been a consideration of Apache to accelerate your activity on such a big base of properties that you have and was augmented last year? I mean how do you think about those JVs? I don't think about it.
And I don't mean that -- I think that they have a role for some companies and in terms of the way they want to invest that's really not something that we do.
And we have more than opportunities that we can fund right now to take the Permian and what we're doing in Anadarko and what we're doing in Canada.
And the stuff that we're doing in the Deepwater we've got -- we're opportunity-rich and we've got to find what places that we really can add value and that's not looking for [indiscernible].
This concludes the question-and-answer portion of today's call.
Mr.
Cassidy do you have any closing remarks? Yes.
I want to say thank you for participating in the call today.
A replay of this webcast and a podcast of the call will be archived on Apache's website later this afternoon.
The conference call will also will be available for delayed playback by telephone for one week beginning at approximately 3:00 p.m.
today.
And that's it.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Kendra and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the 2011 Q4 and Year-End Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Patrick Cassidy.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Kendra.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us for Apache Corp.'s Full Year and Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
This morning we reported earnings of $4.5 billion or $11.47 per diluted share.
Adjusted earnings which excluded certain items that impacted comparability of results totaled $4.7 billion or $11.83 per diluted share.
Cash flow from operations totaled $10 billion.
On today's call we will have 4 speakers making prepared remarks prior to taking questions.
First we will hear from Steve Farris our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; followed by Rod Eichler President and Chief Operating Officer; and Tom Chambers Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and finally Roger Plank our President and Chief Corporate Officer.
We prepared our usual detailed supplemental data package for your use which also includes a reconciliation of any non-GAAP numbers that we discuss such as adjusted earnings cash flow from operations or pretax margin.
The data package can be found on our website at www.apachecorp.com/financial data.
Today's discussion may contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions and no assurances can be given that those expectations will be realized.
A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental data package on our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Patrick and good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.
Apache had an outstanding year in 2011.
We had strong production growth earnings and cash flow all delivered with the financial and balance sheet discipline that has characterized our company for 57 years.
Apache's global oil and gas production in 2011 was 748 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day which is 14% growth over 2010 and a new record for us.
The strong growth delivery is consistent with our performance over time compared with other companies.
Whether it's over the last 5 years or 10 years Apache gross production posted more than most of its peers and we do this in a balanced and diversified manner living within our means.
Crude oil represented 45% of our 2011 production and if you add NGL liquids represented 50% of our production.
We already have the portfolio balance that most of our peers aspire to obtain at some point in the future.
As we grow competitively we do not sacrifice our balance.
2011 earnings as Pat mentioned was $4.5 billion which was 50% up year-on-year or 36% per share.
Our cash flow from operations before working capital items in 2011 stood at $10.2 billion which was up 39% year-on-year.
The driver of this financial performance is truthfully saying we focus on rate of return and it shows.
This financial performance will continue to fuel our growth as it continues to increase our investment capacity.
Needless to say 2011 was an excellent year for Apache.
I'd like now to move to 2012 and talk a little bit about our capital program and our production growth forecast.
Our initial exploration and development capital budget for 2012 is $9.5 billion which is a 25% increase year-on-year on a cash basis and we'll continue to ramp up our activity in the Permian the Anadarko wash fairways and development projects in deepwater Gulf of Mexico and also our global exploration.
We live within our means and we do it consistently.
I would say at strip prices this initial 2012 capital program leaves us with well over $1 billion of operating cash flow surplus.
As we always do we will put our additional investment firepower to use as we go through the year.
In the Permian alone our initial budget increased from $1.1 billion in 2011 and I might add it was $500 million in 2010.
In 2012 we'll spend $1.7 billion and depending on commodity prices we expect to at least double last year's price.
We expect to grow production between 7% and 13% in 2012 which excludes operations divested in 2011.
And we delivered this competitive growth with less than half of our capital.
As Roger will outline in greater detail over half of our 2012 capital program goes to projects to grow our production starting in 2013 and beyond.
In 2012 we're also stepping up our global exploration activity and I'd like to briefly list a number of our key exploration steps for 2012.
In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico we expect to participate in 6 oil prospects with a combined potential of well over 600 million barrels of oil equivalent and we continue to grow our footprint and prospect pipeline there.
In Alaska we will grow our first wells in the Cook Inlet which is a [indiscernible] oil exploration play where we are the largest acreage holder with some over 800 000 acres.
In the onshore North America we're taking advantage of our premiere acreage positions to progress new liquids plays in which we have critical mass such as the Canyon Wash and the Texas Panhandle where we were the first movers last year and are now shifting to the development phase with 14 wells in the play.
A number of new plays in the Permian including the Wolfcamp Shale play where we're going to test our 25 000 acreage position there.
Deepwater Kenya we intend to drill our first major oil prospects in the third quarter for the potential of nearly 300 million barrels of oil equivalent and the opportunity to de-risk several additional prospects.
In New Zealand we expect to drill our first 4 wells targeting our new onshore unconventional play.
We will also continue our exploration in Australia and Egypt where we have built so much value through the exploration over the years and we will continue to add new large-scale exploration positions some of which we are not ready to announce.
We also started increasing our dividend in 2012 as you've noticed.
Steady dividend growth has been an important element of our financial strategy over time.
We put this on hold as the world went through its turmoil over recent years but we believe it is the right time to resume our dividend growth.
Apache's mission is to build long-term value for our shareholders and we remain confident that our fundamental value will be recognized.
We're going to give some assistance from our portfolio evolution and more communication about our unbooked resource potential in the coming years.
Over time the market tends to recognize fundamental performance and in the long term Apache share price has historically outperformed most of our peers which is consistent with our leading growth and return delivery.
I'd like to point out that over the last 24 months we have increased our North American proved reserves by almost 50% which includes our latest acquisition in the Anadarko Basin.
Further our 18 million acres in the heart of the Permian the Anadarko Basin Canada's resource plays in the Gulf of Mexico hold a premiere position of unbooked upside in most new plays across those areas.
And it's time we gained recognition for our North American asset base and we intend to communicate more on our resource upside during this year.
On the other hand Egypt and the Gulf of Mexico shelf have caused concern over time based on the perceived overexposure for the company.
Clearly the events in Egypt have had an impact on our share price over the last year.
However in light of our enlarged portfolio which includes our announced expansion in the Anadarko wash fairway either of these regions now represent more than 10% of our proved reserves.
Having said that we remain bullish on both of them.
We expect to continue to invest both in Egypt and Gulf of Mexico shelf for many years to come.
The fact is with our enhanced portfolio balance Apache continues to deliver strong growth without depending on any one region.
And with that I'd like to turn it over to our COO Rod Eichler.
Thanks Steve.
I'll focus my remarks on our 2012 plans based on the initial allocation of capital and what this means in terms of production for each of our regions.
The biggest drivers for our growth in exploration in the year ahead include the following: the Permian and Anadarko basins where we are going to step up our activity by close to $1 billion; the deepwater Gulf of Mexico where we are broadening our participation in high-impact prospects such as appraisal drilling at Heidelberg and moving into the development of megaprojects such as at Lucius where our first test well last year flowed at 15 000 barrels of oil per day a rate that was constrained by a surface test equipment.
In Australia we've entered full development at Wheatstone LNG Apache's first LNG project.
In our global exploration our efforts over recent years are now translating to big steps forward across a number of new portfolio positions.
During the year ahead we expect to run between 90 and 95 operated rigs worldwide on a daily basis.
This is up from the 80 rigs we averaged during 2011.
We are planning up to a 30% increase in new wells drilled which represents approximately 300 additional wells compared to the 1 100 wells drilled last year.
More than half of all planned wells will be drilled in the Permian and Anadarko basins as we exploit their liquid-rich stacked pay opportunities.
Across our portfolio a shift is underway to Apache to direct our drilling to more profitable oil and NGL opportunities.
This will be most evident in North America.
Our supplemental disclosure document posted on our website outlines Apache's 2012 capital by region.
It can be found on Page 10.
I'll move on now to discussing our recent highlights.
We continue to ramp up activity in the Permian where we have been active since 1991 and are now the second-largest player in the basin.
The increase and acceleration of activity in this region has been steep.
Until 2009 the area was managed from our Tulsa office.
We opened our Midland office in 2010 with a half dozen employees operating 5 rigs executing a $500 million capital program.
Last year we spent about $1.1 billion and increased the rig count to 25.
Today we have more than 200 employees in our regional office with 480 field staff.
We operate 30 drilling rigs and more than twice that many pulling units and plan to spend $1.7 billion in the region during 2012 as we continue the steady ramp-up of our drilling program.
We plan to drill more than 600 wells in the Permian this year and expect mid-single-digit production growth in 2012 and the true contribution of this investment will be realized in 2013.
We expect to increase our pace of activity overall in the Permian throughout the year.
The Wolfcamp play in the Deadwood area will continue to represent about half of our Permian activity in 2012.
In the past year we've cut drilling time in half further enhancing the already attractive economics of this play.
During 2012 we're going to be active in just about every play and area of the Permian basin.
I'd like to talk briefly about a couple of our catalysts in the region.
In November I mentioned the first 2 horizontal wells Apache drilled in lower Cline.
We've now drilled 4 lower-Cline horizontal wells at various locations across our 100 000-acre Deadwood leasehold.
These wells are contributing -- 3 wells are producing in this 5 500-foot lateral and a fourth is being prepared for fracture stimulation.
Results from the last 2 wells indicate initial production rates of 300 barrels of oil per day and 200 Mcf of gas per day with expected EURs of 300 000 barrels of oil equivalent per well.
Based on this early success there are potentially an additional 565 resource locations on our current leases.
We anticipate drilling up to 4 lower-Cline horizontals in 2012 and testing 2 additional shales in the Atoka Barnett and the Wolfcamp formations on this acreage.
In the Southern Midland Basin we leased 20 000 acres in the Wolfcamp shale play in Irion County which brings our total to 25 000 acres.
This is in addition to 31 000 acres in the form of BP leasehold we have in the same area.
And during 2012 we plan to drill up to 6 horizontal wells on these properties.
We currently think there's potential for up to 150 locations horizontal wells in this area.
Apache has built a 30 000-acre position in the Bone Spring and Wolfbone plays in the Delaware basin.
We currently estimate up to 130 horizontal locations and 160 vertical locations on our position.
In 2012 we plan to drill 2 or 3 wells at both the Bone Spring and Wolfbone plays in Loving and Pecos County Texas.
We're still determining the size but each of these opportunities has the potential resource of drilling backlog for extensive long-life development.
As we drill more wells and collect more data this year we'll be able to disclose more about our Permian plays.
We plan to conduct a detailed review of our Permian resource potential at our Analyst Day in midyear.
I'll move on now to the central region of Oklahoma to Texas Panhandle.
We will more than double our position at the Anadarko wash play fairway to more than 1 million acres or 487 000 net acres through the Cordillera acquisition announced last month.
Together Apache and Cordillera are currently running 17 rigs in the region and will assume operatorship of Cordillera's rigs when the deal closes which is expected in the second quarter.
By closing we expect to have up to 25 rigs operating on the combined properties.
We plan to drill up to 160 wells in the Cordillera acreage alone principally in the liquids-rich Granite Wash and the Tonkawa and Cleveland oil plays.
As a result in 2012 we expect to increase our annual production from this region by nearly 50% on our continuing operations.
This excludes East Texas which has been divested and represents about 6 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in 2011.
As announced in the news release this morning we also added 96 000 acres to our position in the Bivins Ranch area.
Our initial exploratory results in the emerging Wittenburg Basin play had been very encouraging with 3D 30-day production ranging from 107 barrels of oil and 42 Mcf of natural gas per day to more than 1 000 barrels of oil and 800 Mcf of gas per day.
We completed a 240 square mile 3D shoot on the property during 2011 which we're using to further de-risk in the 5 future drilling locations.
Our breadth and scale across these plays allows us to generate efficiencies to increase the value of our position.
In the Granite Wash alone we've been able to reduce costs $500 000 per well by optimizing our casing design reducing pump volumes and changing profit type.
Across the region we've implemented a fracture database to allow us to reduce frac size and reduce costs by more than 25%.
We will continue to pursue these kinds of improvements as we simulate Cordillera assets into Apache.
The Gulf of Mexico shale continued to fuel our investment firepower with strong free cash flow generation and attractive returns.
We manage the shale as a financial investment perhaps the best one we've ever made and that is a growth region.
Production there is expected to decline in the high-single-digit range during 2012 as we have channeled most of its cash flow to growth areas in our portfolio.
However we will increase our activity in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico in 2012.
On the development front we approved the Lucius development project in December and its first oil date is scheduled in 2014.
Heidelberg another potential 200 million barrel oil development is currently drilling an appraisal well in Green Canyon Block 903.
In the year ahead we expect to commence production from the Bushwood Mandy and Wide Berth subsea tieback developments increasing our production for this region by close to 15%.
We also have a mix of prospect types that we'll test this year including sub-salt and salt overhang targets where new seismic techniques particularly one asset's data acquisition and processing are improving our ability to manage areas that have historically been difficult to manage and interpret.
We plan to drill and participate in up to 9 wells in 2012 including appraisals at Lucius and Heidelberg.
This also includes 6 exploration prospects with more than 600 million barrels of potential resource and where Apache's working interest average is 35%.
In our Gulf Coast onshore region we grew our acreage position significantly last year.
Rates of return in this traditional hydrocarbon-rich area are robust and our willingness to seek opportunities away from the herd puts us in a position to have a double-digit production growth in this region in 2012.
We expect to run 3 rigs and drill more than 30 wells nearly all of them targeting oil reservoirs.
Turning to Canada Apache holds approximately 7.5 million gross acres in Western Canada.
And while the region was generally thought as a gas province we have a substantial multiyear inventory of oil and liquids-rich opportunities as well as dry gas.
3/4 of Apache's 170 wells planned for Canada in 2012 are currently oil- or liquids-rich reservoirs.
We plan to average a 5-rig program for the year growing production by more than 5%.
80% of our activity will be focused on oil plays the Glacier Viking and EOR oil plays and the Bluesky liquids-rich gas play.
We progressed the Glacier oil play to the development stage during the fourth quarter with 3 horizontal wells tested at an initial rate of approximately 80 barrels of oil per day.
We currently hold approximately 162 000 net acres in this shallow drilling play.
This success sets up a 37-well program for this year with EURs ranging from 80 000 to 130 000 barrels of oil equivalent per well.
We continue to expand the fairways of these plays in our portfolio as we also test additional oil and liquid plays.
Our transition in Canada is well underway but the step change will come with the Kitimat LNG project.
LNG gas sale negotiations continue to move forward as do all development preparation elements of the project.
We will announce further developments at the appropriate time as we progress towards final investment decision.
Apache's first mover steps to secure a development-ready integrated LNG project at a very low cost continues to look better and better for our shareholders.
In Australia we're going to double our investment in 2012 as we move into the heart of the construction phase with a number of major projects.
It will provide Apache with growth for many years.
The largest component of our investment in the Wheatstone LNG project which will provide us with a multi-decade visible free cash flow profile that is oil-linked provides a steady plateau profile year after year and in fact has growth potential via expansion phases.
Because of the long lead times out of our developments and the timing when all of these projects come online the production profile of Australia can be lumpy.
We expect this region's production to decline in the high single digits for 2012 which is absorbed by the rest of our portfolio as this exploration-driven region continues to develop projects that drive Apache's future growth trajectory.
Australia exploration will be active in 2012 on multiple fronts.
Most important would be our de-risking of resources to potentially support additional LNG trains and premium-priced domestic gas projects.
This includes appraisal of the Zola area a 2011 gas discovery on trend with the multi-Tcf Gorgon Field and the BHP-operated [indiscernible] exploration prospect.
In our Egypt region 2011 was a year of production growth with net oil production up 5%.
One of the more active and successful drilling areas in Egypt last year were the development leases acquired for BP.
Since November 2010 we've drilled 31 wells in our exploration program as a result of the 3 new field discoveries and 2 new field extensions.
Oil production here has increased 60% to 34 000 barrels of oil per day and gas production is 140% higher at nearly 90 million cubic feet gas per day.
One exploration well of note is the Spyglass 1x on the AG development lease that tested at a daily rate of 21 million cubic feet gas per day and more than 400 barrels of oil per day for the lower Bahariya formation.
In 2012 we plan to maintain our 2011 level of investment and growth in Egypt running 25 rigs and drilling more than 250 wells.
Up to 70 of these wells will be exploration test.
We are advancing important new exploration plays across our 11 million gross acres in Egypt.
These new plays include stratographic traps the deeper horizons in the Paleozoic and unconventional resources.
Like the Permian and Anadarko basins the Western Desert provides multiple stacked pay opportunities.
Each one of these plays has the potential to give our asset base in Egypt entire new decades of life cycle beyond the current successes.
In the North Sea we closed the ExxonMobil transaction at the end of the fourth quarter which gives us a greatly expanded asset base and talent pool going into 2012.
We expect to run 6 rigs during 2012 and build 33 wells.
The Forties Field previously our sole asset in the region represents half of our drilling capital in 2012 as we increase our opportunity set with new wells at Beryl Bacchus and an active exploration program.
These important steps will propel our North Sea production to a 60% increase or more in 2012.
The foundation for continued growth in 2013 will also be strengthened during this year as we install additional platform in 40s and acquire the first field-wide 3D seismic survey over Beryl in 15 years.
Finally in Argentina we maintain our financial discipline by living within our cash flow as we advance the appraisal of what is believed to be one of the largest shale resource basins of any country outside the United States and Apache is the leading North American company in the shale fairway.
Most importantly Argentina in 2012 we plan to conduct the first oil test in our shale play position.
Our acreage is adjacent to the recent wells drilled by YPF at Loma La Lata.
Development drilling in areas tied to premium-priced gas plus contracts is expected to drive our Argentina production growth above 5% in 2012.
That concludes the operational highlights and I'll now turn it over to Tom Chambers.
Thanks Rod and good afternoon everyone.
I'd like to reiterate what Steve mentioned earlier in that we had record results for the year across the board.
Underpinning our 2011 financial results was record production which averaged 748 000 barrels of oil a day up 14% from the prior year.
More importantly we achieved record oil production of 340 000 barrels per day allowing us to benefit from higher oil price realizations.
For the year we reported record earnings of $4.5 billion or $11.47 per diluted share our first time to break the $10 threshold.
When we remove items for comparability purposes adjusted earnings were $11.83 per share up 32% from the prior-year period.
Record production and oil prices drove cash from operations before working capital items up 39% to $10.2 billion our best year ever.
In a nutshell it was a phenomenal year in all respects.
Record cash flow enabled us to fund our largest E&amp;D capital budget acquired assets for another $2 billion in cash which provide a future platform for continued long-term profitable growth while we also paid down $925 million in debt.
So we were able to end the year and reduce our debt-to-cap 20%.
I want to highlight the importance of our portfolio's ability to consistently generate cash flow.
For 2011 our $10 billion of operating cash flow enabled us to achieve many targeted goals and set the stage for continued growth into 2012.
Without the constraint of having to pay down debt in 2012 the 2012 capital budget spending rises as Steve indicated.
However I would emphasize that our disciplined approach reduced capital on a quarterly basis to ensure we do not outspend our cash flow or if prices rise significantly to potentially allocate any excess to the best projects available.
These results speak volumes for our balanced portfolio strategy given the significant volatility seen in commodities.
We've been able to benefit substantially from our oil portfolio and the fact that oil currently sells for over 40x the price of North American gas.
Our oil balance also offers us a unique benefit when it comes to price.
Dated Brent and sweet crude from the Gulf of Mexico and the Gulf Coast onshore areas continue to be priced at a significant premium to WTI-based prices.
Approximately 75% of our total production receives Brent index or Brent comparable index pricing realizing premiums of $10 to $15 a barrel to WTI.
Our North American gas prices remain depressed.
Our international portfolio is providing access to rising gas prices particularly in Argentina and Australia as you heard Rod just mention.
Compared to the prior year our international gas price realizations were up 27%.
Higher realizations and a steady commitment to holding a line on costs allowed us to report solid cash margins of $45.60 per boe up 30% over 2010 levels.
Pretax margins which includes DD&amp;A increased 37% to $29.64 per barrel of oil equivalent.
These closely watched measures combined with our focus on returns drove our return on average capital employed to over 13% for 2011.
We are very focused on margins and continue to monitor cost trends.
Total cash costs during the year averaged $16.24 per boe up $0.86 over last year.
As with each year our goal is to keep 2011 cash costs flat with the previous year.
We ended up slightly at 6% higher influenced by the impact of rising oil prices on cost and continued market pressures in nearly all of our regions.
Absent taxes other than income which are basically production taxes linked to prices we are focused on keeping 2012 cash costs in the range of $13 to $13.50 per boe for the full year average.
Our recurring DD&amp;A was also up in 2011 from prior-year levels as you might expect with our recent acquisition activity.
Through our drilling program we added more -- we more than replaced current production by adding 342 million barrels of oil equivalent to proved reserves during 2011.
That's about 125% of what we've produced during the year.
Including acquisitions sales and revisions we replaced 113% of production.
We believe our exceptional cash flow provides a critical foundation as we head into 2012.
With the confidence of continued strong future growth prospects and financial position our Board of Directors at their last meeting increased the regular quarterly cash dividend 13% to $0.17 per share as Steve already indicated.
The board also indicated they will continue to review the dividend level annually as our progress -- as we progress further.
To wrap up we had a record year one that provided our best financial results in the company's history one that is ended with a considerable amount of momentum and one that sets the stage for continued growth and opportunity into 2012.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Roger.
Thanks Tom and good afternoon everyone.
2011 was indeed another year of growth and change for Apache and I wanted to just take a moment to reflect on how the company's evolved over the last few years.
In a deteriorating price environment for North American natural gas in the last 2 years Apache turned $7.5 billion in cash flow to $17.5 billion.
Through drilling and acquisitions we've invested $25 million expanding our production and rebalancing our portfolio in areas with considerable future growth prospects.
To manage this change and maintain focus on executing and delivering consistent profitable growth we've added hundreds of professionals and importantly 3 new growth regions: deepwater Gulf Coast onshore and the Permian Basin.
In addition recent changes in our central region including the Cordillera transaction will transform its legacy Apache region into one of our most active drilling regions focused on drilling oil and liquids production.
The changes have the affect of beefing up our portfolio in North America and today onshore North America represents 38% of our worldwide production compared to 28% just 2 years ago.
On a pro forma basis including Cordillera no single region accounts for more than 1/5 of our total production.
Although our geographic mix has shifted our production mix has not.
Half our production remains liquids in which 90% is oil.
Another aspect of Apache's portfolio evolution is the inclusion of a growing number of long lead times impactful development and infrastructure projects.
More than half of our 2012 capital goes to projects that contribute no production this year but will contribute meaningful volumes in 2013 and beyond.
In fact following additional investment we expect these projects will add hundreds of thousands of equivalent barrels to our daily production spread out over the next 5 years.
Fortunately we have the portfolio diversity and financial strength to make these significant long-term investments while still delivering near-term profitable growth.
We've also evolved our approach to global exploration.
We've established meaningful position through joint venture agreements and acreage acquisitions in frontier areas mentioned earlier Cook Inlet in Alaska New Zealand and offshore Kenya.
Each of these positions target oil and we believe hold hundreds of millions of barrels of resource potential.
While unproven at present we believe it's just a matter of time before our exploration strategy gains legs and begins to pay off.
At the end of the day we aren't too concerned whether our production comes through acquisition of drillbit but we do recognize the potential value of internally generated prospect development and active exploration.
Apache's changes come amid a rapidly changing industry and world.
The lowest North American natural gas prices in a decade are squeezing industry cash flows and capital investment.
After visiting double-digit natural gas prices the industry is finally reaching a point of capitulation where companies are beginning to pull on their horns due to lack of funding.
This process has a cleansing effect.
With industry laying down gas rigs the upward pressure on cost for drilling completions and other services is beginning to subside.
Lower cash flow and capital in the hands of the competition will also lead to more attractive opportunities to drill and acquire.
Frankly it makes for an ideal environment for well-heeled companies with strong cash flows such as Apache to excel.
In closing following a year of record financial results driven by our 31st year of production growth out of the last 33 Apache has all the ingredients to deliver standout results again in 2012.
Patrick? That concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we're ready to take questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question is from Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First on the Cline shale how does the Cline compete with other horizontal and vertical opportunities that you're pursuing in the Permian Basin? And can you talk to what your well cost expectations are there relative to the EURs that you mentioned earlier? Well honestly Brian I think it's a little early to tell how they can be.
But with our portfolio we are going to test most of the plays and the horizontal plays out there whether it be the Wolfcamp shale or the Cline.
And frankly we're looking for the highest rate of return.
I think Rod mentioned 300 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day with a cost of what Rod? Completed well cost around $6.5 million.
Yes completed well cost $6.5 million so it will compete with most shale plays.
And your next question is from Pearce Hammond of Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> You outlined your production growth for this year at 7% to 13% and you made some smart acquisitions in the course of the last year the North Sea acquisition and here recently Cordillera.
If we try to look at just the organic production growth rate without the acquisitions what do you think it might break out to be? Well honestly we don't break that out.
I will tell you probably in the high single digits.
Your next question is from John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Two quick ones.
In terms of your CapEx budget how much is actually exploration and how much is development because you just depict it as E&amp;D.
Well whether it's in the regions or new ventures group it's about $1 billion.
Okay that's fine.
Next one for me is on Egypt Steve.
Your reserves went down out a little bit year-over-year.
Were there performance issues because you had negative revisions? Normally you have positive revisions there.
And that's it for me.
Actually what we had is we had a negative revision but it all has to do with price.
John you're aware of that concession agreement.
What happens is you get more barrels for cost recovery but you also have an adjustment on the reserve side.
So that's counterintuitive.
I mean when you have more production you have less reserves.
And if you have less production you have more reserves.
I mean it really is the way the concession agreement works.
So because we got to recover our costs the higher the price per barrel the lower the reserves you get to report.
But the actual reserves performance has been just fine.
And your next question is from Bob Brackett of Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> One of your competitors has talked about a JV or a sale of kind of 1 million acres scale asset in the Permian Basin.
What's your appetite for that sort of scale transaction? Well we don't really comment on that number one.
And the other one is I think we have a pretty good acreage position as it is.
Actually we are never looking but opportunities come in a lot of different ways.
Your next question is from Leo Mariani from RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just kind of 2 quick questions here for you.
I guess first off could you maybe elaborate a little bit on your progress there on Kitimat? You guys kind of  advanced negotiations with potential buyers.
And a quick question here on the Permian.
Obviously you're stepping up the capital pretty dramatically here in 2012.
And if I heard you guys right you talked about mid-single-digit production growth in the Permian in '12.
It just seemed like a low number to me.
Is there some infrastructure issues there? Or maybe I misheard you guys.
Yes I'd answer the first one at Kitimat.
Frankly we're somewhat past the polite introductions and that kind of stuff with respect to buyers.
We are now in throes of actual negotiations.
And in terms of the Permian Basin you understand we're the second or third largest producer out there so you've got 93 000 94 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day starting off with.
So a higher single-digit growth is a pretty good number especially with the kind of capital that we're putting in there.
There's also a lot of timing involved.
We have a lot of wells that are being drilled throughout the year.
All those wells probably won't make it out to production until the early parts of 2013.
Your next question is from John Malone of Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just on Argentina can you guys give us any color on the [indiscernible] well? The indication so far is gas.
Have you seen any liquids in that? And really just overall can you give us some thoughts on trends what you're seeing in Argentina in terms of export and patriation the politics down there? Well the exploration test we drilled at [indiscernible] in 2011 was specifically targeting the shales in the gas window.
So it was a gas -- designed to be a gas test.
That's what we have been evaluating.
The subsequent wells we'll be drilling in 2012 as I mentioned will be oil tests that are in the shale oil window as we currently mapped them adjacent to the recent discoveries announced by their operators.
With respect to your question about the politics down there I think it's well to take a look at the circumstances that YPF Repsol and the government of Argentina are in.
I don't think there's any question that the Argentine government would like more money spent by YPF or Repsol in country.
Personally I think what you're seeing is a lot of discussion that really revolves around a specific issue.
So we're truthfully not concerned about the wholesale expropriation of the oil industry down there.
In fact Apache has been held up by the government in their recent press releases as one of several companies and an example of increasing the production and meeting or exceeding their production targets outlined in their concession agreements.
And your next question is from Mario from Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> It's actually Craig Shere.
Mario had to jump off but we have a quick question as a follow-up on Argentine also.
Can you remind us how large the acreage positions are and the gas fee and then the oil shale windows and if you're still looking to expand acreage in either of those? And remind us the details regarding the 2012 drilling effort in the oil shale.
Okay.
So the first part of your question we have about 1.7 million gross acres about 900 000 net acres in the shale fairway.
We do not break that out; I don't have a breakout of that by oil province or gas province in that fashion.
So it's a simple part of the Neuquén Basin.
The second part of your question was what was...
Inc.</strong> Capital.
Capital in 2011? Inc.</strong> 2012.
2012.
All right 2012.
We're looking at about $250 million as a preliminary capital allocation for our Argentina projects.
Just so you know that's not an opportunity number.
That is more of a prudency with respect to staying within our cash flow down there.
And we're really testing ideas.
If you look at any of our areas when we talk -- Brian asked a question about the Permian Basin.
We have built meaningful acreage positions in some of the best hydrocarbon basins in the world.
And what we are trying to do is build long-term value for our shareholders.
So in the Permian we're going to test a number of different shales in a number of different ways horizontal and the same we're doing in the Neuquén.
And we are a legacy owner in the Anadarko Basin.
So it's not surprising that new technology catches up with a lot of hydrocarbons.
And there are no further questions at this time.
Okay thank you Kendra for those remarks and thank you for participating in Apache's conference call this afternoon.
A webcast replay will be available on our website after 4:00 this afternoon.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Sarah and I'll be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Mr.
Cassidy you may begin your conference.
Thank you Sarah.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us for Apache's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This morning we reported earnings of $778 million or $2 per diluted share.
Adjusted earnings which exclude certain items that impact the comparability of results totaled $1.2 billion or $3 per diluted share.
Cash flow from operations totaled $2.6 billion for the quarter.
On today's call we will have 3 speakers making prepared remarks prior to taking questions.
First we will hear from Steve Farris our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; followed by Rod Eichler President and Chief Operating Officer; and finally Tom Chambers Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
We prepared our quarterly supplemental data package for your use which also includes a reconciliation of any non-GAAP numbers that we discuss such as adjusted earnings cash flow from operations or pretax margins.
This data package can be found on our website at www.apachecorp.com/financialdata.
Today's discussion may contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions and no assurances can be given that those expectations will be realized.
A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental data package on our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Steve.
Thanks Patrick and good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.
The first quarter of 2012 continued Apache's strong growth in production earnings and cash flow.
Our daily production during the quarter was up 7% from the first quarter last year adjusted for divestitures.
And I want to point out that this growth came despite having about over 10 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day off during the quarter due to production disruptions and Rod Eichler will get into more detail a little later in the presentation.
Our corporate production growth expectations for the year remains strong between 7% and 13% over 2011 with a capital program that I might add that lives within our cash flow.
We are continuing to build production momentum and I'd like to mention just a few of the highlights of the quarter before I turn it over to Rod who'll give you a more detailed operational report.
In the Permian Basin we entered the quarter with 26 rigs running.
We now have 31 rigs running going to 34.
We have had good results in the Wolfcamp horizontal and the lower Cline plays and we continue to accelerate as we get after a Permian drilling and resource portfolio that is really second to none.
In the Mid-Continent liquids play we entered the first quarter with 6 rigs running and currently operate 22.
We continue to have attractive and consistent results across a number of liquids plays from the Granite Wash the Tonkawa the Cleveland the Marmaton Cherokee and the Canyon Wash.
Our drilling inventory in the Mid-Continent is very comparable to that in the Permian and we are more than tripling our activity in order to translate that activity into production and cash flow today.
Importantly we have the asset strength to do this while still living within our cash flow in our Central region.
We intend to unveil our Permian and Mid-Continent resource potential at our June 14 Analyst Day in Houston.
In Canada we're quickly transitioning our activity into an oil and liquids play focus.
In our drilling during the first quarter we've concentrated almost entirely on the Viking the Bluesky Montney Glacier Chinook and Beaverhill Lake plays which have real running room across 6 million acres in that region.
While this transformation unfolds our current production in the region is still 83% gas and our Canadian gas realizations continue to decline for the quarter which contributed to a noncash write-down of the carrying value of our proved Canadian properties.
And Tom Chambers will discuss this in greater detail in a few moments.
Oil and liquid plays we are locking on our Canadian acreage rival those in the Permian and the Mid-Continent and the fact that gas prices are low is not unique to Canada.
Our longer-term gas solution is exporting to BTUs where they are valued and that's why we're pursuing the Kitimat LNG project which continues to progress toward FID.
One change in our capital plans for the year in Argentina where our technical work has delineated about 650 000 acres in the oil window position in the Vaca Muerta shale.
Most of it is either adjacent to or in the vicinity of the recent wells that have generated so much excitement down there and our first test results have been very encouraging.
And we have increased our region's capital program by 20% to accelerate our drilling and recompletion activity in this potentially very large oil resource play.
And with that I'd like to turn it over to Rod Eichler.
Thank you Steve.
We had another solid quarter of growth and we're really just getting started.
I'll begin with international as the bulk of our new volumes in the quarter came from the North Sea where we completed the acquisition of Mobil North Sea Limited's Beryl and other fields at the end of last year.
Production is up 67% year-over-year and 41% sequentially with plans in motion for continued growth.
Apache assumed operatorship on December 31 including taking onboard 184 staff members from the previous organization to bring with them a wealth of experience and ideas for adding value.
These fields had largely been in decline due in part to minimal investment from the prior operator who focused primarily on maintenance and compliance.
As we did at Forties we expect to reverse the direction of the production curve by acquiring and processing new seismic data drilling wells and continuing workovers and other value-adding activities.
Overall the general infrastructure and platforms are in good shape although we're dealing with obsolescence in certain areas which isn't unusual for mature offshore assets.
We recently drilled a new well from the Beryl Bravo platform known as the BBP prospect that we're currently completing and should have online later this month.
Our team in Aberdeen is very excited about this one because we found virgin reservoir pressure in 2 of 3 zones containing more than 300 feet of net true vertical pay.
This should be a very robust well and opens up further development opportunities.
A 1 500 square kilometer 3D seismic survey is scheduled to commence during the third quarter and we expect this program will significantly supplement the backlog of drillable locations on these newly acquired assets.
This will be the first 3D acquired over the Beryl area licenses since 1997 and we are expecting a step change in the ability to image and interpret the very large and geologically complex structures in this area.
Forties Field was off approximately 6 000 barrels a day during the quarter due to plant turnaround ESP failures at 2 wells and the fact that no new wells came onstream to offset these disruptions.
This is deferred production and we expect to recover these volumes later this year.
Also during the quarter we completed our subsea development work at Bacchus.
And the first horizontal development well commenced production last week producing at an initial rate of 6 000 barrels of oil per day.
A second well was spud and is drilling ahead for Jurassic objectives in the central and western parts of the Bacchus geologic structure.
In Egypt overall we're producing to plan.
Our quarterly gross BOE volumes are up 1% sequentially.
But under the terms of our production sharing contracts as oil prices increased our net production is reduced as fewer barrels are required for cost recovery.
Due to these terms our net daily production in the first quarter was reduced by approximately 4 000 barrels oil equivalent per day primarily from the 16% increased oil price realizations averaging nearly $124 per barrel compared with $107 a barrel at the preceding period.
Operationally we have more rigs running 26 currently than a year ago and more wells planned this year 280 versus 262.
Importantly we're getting more development leases approved.
So we're able to convert exploration success to production at a faster pace than last year.
And we continue to have good results with drill bit.
In our Qarun joint venture 2 exploration successes at the Heba field commenced production at a combined rate of 1 300 barrels of oil per day.
In total 22 new producers came online during the quarter contributing 5 600 barrels of oil per day.
In our Khalda area concession we made several significant discoveries.
The Qasr-1X exploration well in the West Kalbasha Station [ph] tested at the daily rate of 5 billion cubic feet of gas per day and 4 800 barrels of 43-grade API of oil per day.
In the Kronos field the discovery well tested 22 million cubic feet of gas and 700 barrels of condensate per day on a 460-acre structure.
At Karman [ph] a test of the lower Sapa yielded 1 100 barrels of oil per day.
And in Khalda field an exploration well proved up stack base in the lower Sapa and A and B sections testing 1 700 barrels of oil per day.
Lastly exploration of the lower Baharia and Mirakar-1X [ph] in the AG development lease which has been acquired from BP it counted 198 feet of pay.
After fracture stimulation the well produced 28 million cubic feet of gas per day and 600 barrels of condensate per day.
We continue to progress the development of our assets in Egypt.
Despite ongoing struggles in the quest for democracy our operations have continued uninterrupted and are supported by our government partners as evidenced by the issuance of new development leases drilling permits and the ongoing process of the first [indiscernible] in 6 years.
We're really optimistic for Apache's future in Egypt.
Turning to Australia.
We commenced 2 new contract sales at our Devil Creek gas plant on January 1.
New contracts significantly boosted our average gas price for our region up 58% from the prior quarter to $4.18 per Mcf.
Two cycles resulted in deferred production of 4 000 boe per day during the period but there was no lasting damage.
Van Gogh production averaged 10 800 barrels of oil per day and we continue to realize good uptime and reservoir performance.
Pyrenees field average 14 400 barrels of oil per day in the quarter below plan due to Cyclones Heidi and Iggy.
Reindeer averaged 44 million cubic feet of gas per day for the quarter and we have 2 additional Reindeer gas contracts coming on in 2013.
One of the highlights from our drilling campaign is the BHP Billiton-operated Tallaganda gas discovery in which Apache has a 25% working interest.
This well accounted approximately 160 feet of net pay in the objective Mungaroo sandstones.
We are currently evaluating the data and looking with our partners to determine the next steps.
At the Coniston oil development project long lead items have been ordered and subsea packages are being manufactured.
Work is on schedule for start-up in the second half of 2013.
The [indiscernible] development is also progressing with its first oil anticipated in the front half of 2014.
Finally in Argentina production was up from the prior year's first quarter but down from the preceding quarter due to higher gas reinjection and shale [indiscernible] which is typical during the southern hemisphere summer months of January through March.
Our price realizations were up substantially from year ago.
Approximately 84 million cubic feet of gas per day of our production was sold under the Gas Plus program at an average price of $4.95 per Mcf during the quarter.
Overall our gas realization was up 37% to $2.98 per Mcf from a year ago.
Oil realizations were also up averaging $83 per barrel a 38% increase.
We've had no impact from the recent events involving the Argentine government and YPF.
Our team in the country continues to have positive discussions with both federal and provincial authorities to identify and remove constraints toward developing new reserves and production.
We continue to focus our exploration and development activities in Neuquén Basin where we hold 1.7 million acres in the prospective Vaca Muerta shale per weight of which 650 000 net acres are in the oil play.
On the Huacalera block we see the well last year as primary objective of the Vaca Muerta shale.
The secondary objective is in the [indiscernible] formations.
We saw significant gas shales in all 3 formations as well as El Contico [ph].
During the first quarter we fracture-stimulated the well with testing beginning at the end of March.
We will study those wells for the next couple of months to collect more vital data and determine steps for development.
On the Quarta Vara block a well we TD-ed last August to test the Vaca Muerta El Contico [ph] formations was also fracture-stimulated in the first quarter.
We will soon place this well in a 90-day flow test before shutting it in to collect pressure data.
We plan up to 8 rig completions in the Vaca Muerta formation this year with plans to permit up to 5 new drill locations both vertical and horizontal in the oil fairway.
We expect to initiate this drilling in the third quarter.
Now moving on to North America.
We continue to ramp up activity in the Permian where we are the second-largest operator in the basin.
First quarter production averaged nearly 99 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
70% of the production was liquids and 82% of that was black oil.
This is a 3% increase in per day production from the preceding quarter and includes about 2 800 barrels of oil per day related to prior period adjustments mostly associated with BP and non-operated true-ups.
We averaged 28 operated drill rigs for the period up 3 from the fourth quarter drilling 147 vertical wells and 17 horizontals.
We currently operate 31 rigs in the region including 6 horizontals.
We are running a 14-unit drilling program in the Deadwood area and continue to see positive results.
In February we commenced Phase 1 operations from the Deadwood gas plant a joint venture with Crosstex Energy immediately re-commit the facilities in the 90 million cubic feet of gas capacity.
Phase 2 is expected come online this quarter and will be fully operational later this year.
The plant capacity will be 50 million cubic feet of gas per day.
We expect to drill third [ph] wells in Deadwood this year.
Exploration drilling in the Cline Wolfcamp play is also underway.
It's too soon to talk about results here right now but we plan to provide more disclosure of our progress next month at our June 14 Investor Day.
I'll move now to our Central region of Oklahoma and Texas Panhandle.
We have more than doubled our position in the Anadarko Basin wash play fairway to nearly 550 000 net acres with the completion of the Cordillera acquisition on Monday.
With it we've increased Apache's exposure to the prolific Granite Wash Tonkawa Cleveland and Marmaton gas condensate oil plays.
We now operate 22 drilling rigs in Anadarko Basin and are contracting for another 2.
A number of notable horizontal wells were completed during the first quarter.
On Apache's legacy acreage we drilled 3 Cleveland wells and averaged 400 barrels of oil per day and 850 Mcf of gas for the first month.
Two Marmaton wells averaged 340 barrels of oil and 7.5 million cubic feet of gas per day and 3 Granite Wash wells which averaged a daily rate of 475 barrels of oil and 5.6 million cubic feet of gas per day.
We also continued the successful Cherokee program drilling and completing 2 wells that produced an average of 250 barrels of oil and 350 Mcf per day for the first month.
On the newly acquired properties 24 wells were drilled and completed during the quarter.
Among them were the Cleveland well which averaged 375 barrels of oil and 400 Mcf per day; 2 Tonkawa wells that averaged 475 barrels of oil and 1.1 million cubic feet of gas per day; and 5 Granite Wash wells that averaged daily rates of 240 barrels of oil and 8 million cubic feet of gas.
We also had a very impressive Marmaton well coming on with a 30-day rate of 11 million cubic feet of gas per day and 800 barrels of oil per day.
Offsets to this well are currently being completed.
In April net productions from the Cordillera assets averaged approximately 21 900 barrels of oil equivalent per day up 22% from January.
As with the Permian region we will have more detailed disclosure of our Central region assets and opportunities on June 14.
Sequentially our lower first quarter daily production reflects our low fourth quarter rig count and asset divestments of approximately 40 million cubic feet of gas per day and 200 barrels of oil per day from our former East Texas properties.
This will certainly be reversed in the second quarter with the addition of Cordillera and overall accelerated drilling program.
Turning now to the Gulf of Mexico shelf.
We drilled 10 wells during the quarter with a 90% success rate.
Our production for the region overall and for oil is ahead of plan of approximately 1 900 barrels of oil equivalent per day and 3 800 barrels of oil respectively.
Like other operators we are dealing with third-party platform and pipeline issues which offset higher volumes for property we acquired in 2010.
New pipelines are being laid in the Ship Shoal South Marsh Island Vermillion and Matagorda Island areas which should help to address past pipelines shut-ins.
We are seeing some settling down in the regulatory environment.
The Bureau of Safety and Economic and -- Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement or BSEE is spreading the processing of drilling permits around other district offices which is helping to alleviate the backlog built up since Macondo.
I'm proud to point out that Apache was the first Gulf of Mexico operator to submit and receive Safety and Environmental Management System or SEMS audit plan approval.
Implementation of that plan officially kicked off on Monday April 30.
Notable activity during the quarter included the commissioning of a new platform of Main Pass 308.
We drilled 3 wells which combined are producing 900 barrels of oil and 5 million cubic feet of gas per day.
A fourth well is drilled and we're testing -- we're currently testing it and we're prepared to drill ahead on a fifth.
We anticipate drilling 8 wells total and reaching up to 3 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day of production by the end of this year.
Following a routine inspection Apache detected corrosion at Grand Island 43 Complex [ph].
Approximately 5 500 barrels of oil per day and 11.5 million cubic feet of gas per day gross will be shut in while we undergo repairs which are expected to take about 90 days.
In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico we advanced the development on 3 subsea tiebacks Wide Berth Mandy and Bushwood.
Wide Berth came onstream last week producing at gross daily rates of 35 million cubic feet of gas per day and the 3 200 barrels of condensate per day.
We continue to clean up with 4 more [ph] expected in a couple of weeks and 50 million cubic feet of gas per day and 4 000 barrels of condensate per day.
Development continues at Lucius with spar and topsides construction in progress a successful appraisal well of Heidelberg extended the oil accumulation of approximately 1 500 acres.
A pre-FEED study has been commissioned to determine the development plans.
We're currently participating in exploration test at Spartacus in the Lucius Hadrian play fairway at Walker Ridge Block 793.
We're also waiting on the release of a rig and commence drilling of our Parmer prospect a subsalt middle Miocene oil prospect that is expected to spud later this quarter.
In our Gulf Coast Onshore region we drilled 7 wells during the quarter with a 100% success rate.
This includes a horizontal well in Grindes County [ph] where we're testing Woodbine sands a 16-stage frac simulation job over a 4 100-foot lateral is scheduled to commence this month.
We also TD-ed our spar sale prospect at St.
Mary Parish.
This is a deep lower Miocene exploration test that we're scheduling for completion in the third quarter to coincide with upgrades under way to Atchafalaya Bay infrastructure.
In Canada the transition to oil- and liquids-rich drilling is fully under way.
Sequentially quarterly oil production is up 5% and gas volumes increased 22% -- gas liquid volumes increased 22%.
We averaged 7 rigs during the quarter drilling 58 wells with approximately 60% of these targeting oil reservoirs and 1/3 targeting rich gas.
The remainder were service wells.
Among the region's highlights were the reactivation of Kaybob a Duke well which tested 1 800 barrels of oil equivalent per day and is currently producing at 1 200 barrels of liquids per day and 2.6 million cubic feet of gas per day.
This is the fifth-highest liquid-producing well in Western Canada and is Apache's highest liquid producer in the region.
In our House Mountain focus area a Beaverhill lake test came in at 700 barrels per day.
We also drilled 10 horizontal wells as part of our House Mountain waterflood project completing the well's multistage asset fracs.
Initial results are encouraging with IPs up to 1 100 barrels per day and 9 day rigs averaging 510 barrels per day during flowback.
During the second quarter the region is focusing on Midale and Brownfield oil drilling programs in Southern Alberta and Saskatchewan.
In summary our momentum continues.
We had several one-off production disruptions during the quarter 6 000 barrels per day in the North Sea 1 500 barrels in Central due to plant turnarounds and 4 000 barrels per day off in Australia due to cyclones.
Otherwise we could have reported more than 780 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Apache has a variety of opportunities across its diverse portfolio.
In Onshore U.S.
alone we are ramping up our rig count from 32 in January to 52 today and to 60 by year end.
Our accelerated activity will translate into visible future production and ultimately more value for our shareholders.
We have scheduled a 2012 Analyst Day for June 14 in Houston and plan to highlight our North American resource plays in greater detail.
That concludes the operational highlights and I'll now be happy to turn it over to Tom Chambers.
Thanks Rod.
Good afternoon everyone.
As you've seen by now we reported earnings of just under $780 million and $2 per diluted share.
These numbers tend to mask our underlying financial performance which continues to provide a platform for long-term profitable growth across our region.
I'd like to emphasize what was mentioned previously both by Rod and Steve in that we continue to grow our business achieving record levels of production this quarter averaging 769 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day.
Coupled with record oil prices our revenues were the best ever at just under $4.5 billion for the quarter with oil revenues costing $3.5 billion accounting for 79% of the total.
More importantly these factors resulted in continued strong cash flow with cash from operations before working capital items of $2.6 billion up 18% from the prior year quarter and in line with last quarter.
Our continued ability to generate significant amounts of cash flow from our asset base has enabled us to fund our robust E&amp;D capital program across the globe.
And getting after our capital program is critical in realizing the opportunities we have gained through our recent acquisition activity.
We've been able to sustain this cash flow despite increasing pressure on North American gas prices particularly in Canada.
As in past quarters our balanced portfolio has allowed us to benefit substantially from our oil position and the fact that oil currently sells for about 43x the price of North American natural gas.
In addition our international gas portfolio has also provided balance helping to mitigate a 22% decline in North American natural gas prices from the year-ago period.
First quarter 2012 international gas realizations were 17% higher than a year ago and 7% higher than the last quarter driven by our new sales contracts in both Australia and Argentina.
Our acquisition of Mobil North Sea Limited at the end of last year also bolstered our international gas position by adding 65 million cubic feet a day at prices near $8.
Our product mix with oil-related growth has helped preserve our financial strength despite significantly low natural gas prices here in North America.
Natural gas prices are at levels not seen in over a decade and are straining many producers that are highly leveraged to this commodity.
Our Canadian region is the most GAAP-leveraged region in our portfolio and current period earnings reflect this.
First quarter earnings were impacted by a $390 million noncash after-tax write-down for our Canadian oil and gas property balance.
Just to reiterate what most of you are familiar with full cost accounting requires us to calculate the 10% discounted after-tax value of our proved reserves using period-end comps a 12-month average for commodity prices in effect at the first day of the month.
If the discounted value is less than our net book value in a given country the excess is written off.
Adjusting for this noncash write-off and foreign exchange impacts earnings were $3 per share up $0.10 from the prior year period and $0.06 sequentially.
Higher cash margins of $47.94 per barrel of oil equivalent underpinned our healthy earnings and cash flow.
Cash margins were up 9% and 6% versus the year-ago period and the sequential quarter.
Our consistent focus on margins and cost trends continues to pay off.
Total cash cost excluding taxes other than income averaged $13.19 of BOE in line with our $13 to $13.50 target range for the year.
A detailed calculation of our margins adjusted earnings and cash from operations can be found in the financial supplement located on the website.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Our ability to consistently generate record cash flows has provided the opportunity for us to meet our planned capital expenditures and continue reaching into the acquisition market.
In February of this year we closed on the 49% share of Burrup Holdings ammonia fertilizer plant for $439 million which allows us to realize additional price upside on one of our largest Australian gas contracts.
And just this week we closed on the $3.1 billion Cordillera Energy Partners acquisition in the liquids-rich fairway of the Anadarko Basin.
To fund these transactions and refinance some maturing notes we successfully issued $3 billion of new debt in early April 5- 10- and long 30-year tranches at very attractive rates.
Our balance sheet remains strong with almost $3 billion of available liquidity at the end of March and a debt to cap at only 21%.
A key point I need to highlight for the first quarter is our effective tax rate of 49%.
Higher than our typical 42% to 44% rate that you've seen.
This rate was impacted by the Canadian adjustment mentioned earlier as well as the higher taxed foreign earnings contributing more of our overall net income during the quarter.
Absent the Canadian adjustment our effective tax rate would have been a more typical 43%.
Similarly these adjustments impacted our percentage of deferred taxes in the quarter.
However we would expect the deferred rate to move towards the 20% to 25% range for the year.
To wrap up despite the lowest North American gas prices in a decade Apache achieved its highest quarterly revenue ever.
Our fundamentals are strong and we continue to build a great deal of momentum with each passing quarter.
With rising production strong cash flow a continued focus on delivering strong margin and an inventory of cost mix greater than any time in our history we are poised to deliver continued growth and value for our shareholders.
And with that I'd like to turn the call back over to Patrick.
We will now open the call to questions.
Operator? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Yes I wanted to talk firstly just trying to set the baseline where guidance is set on the production side.
I know you had some asset sales late in the year that maybe impacted Q1 in terms of growth.
But I just wanted to better understand what the baseline of the 7% to 13% growth is based on.
It's the beginning of the year trend [ph] sale basically.
So I think you heard it pretty much throughout the presentation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we're basically just taking your 2011 growth backing off the...
About 11 000 barrels of oil yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
That's fair.
And Steve I just wanted to see if you could talk about your confidence perhaps in the middle part of the range.
You are starting off a little bit of a lower starting point.
Just give us a sense of your confidence to reach perhaps the middle point of that range.
Well let me put it this way.
I feel very comfortable we're going to be ahead at the low end of that range.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what do you think would you have to see to get to that middle part of the range in terms of your overall portfolio? Well the results that we're going to have in the second quarter are going to be important obviously.
As you move out the wells you drill in the first 2 quarters are really what sets the stage for your overall production growth.
So I'm hopeful we show some added growth in the second quarter and certainly in the first part of the third quarter.
We've got a very active drilling program going on right now most active we've been in some time in North America.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
One quick question in terms of Egypt.
The gas price I just wanted to get a little bit of color around the decline of the gas prices.
I do know next year contractually the gas price goes down just because of an expiration of a contract.
But I just wondered if you can talk about that quarterly swing and the dips in gas prices.
This quarter we had an adjustment in the gas price.
There was some gas that was booked at that old gas price that wasn't that.
So you saw a reduction in the gas price to make up for that error last quarter.
It was a onetime quarter deal.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> If I could try a quick follow-up on the Gulf question.
Steve when you say year-over-year you've obviously had the Beryl acquisition and the Cordillera acquisition.
So is the growth target organic growth target or total growth target? It's a total growth target.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just wanted to clarify that.
Getting into the details a little bit can we talk about the outlook for Australia this year? Because obviously with Coniston scheduled to come onstream I guess in a year or so time there's still I guess some debate over what you're going to do with the FPSO down there.
So could you give us an idea as to what the expected downtime will be.
Yes Rod? Well we have a combined Coniston Ningaloo Vision which is the name of the FPSO rectification project which is sort of working both a subsea development in tandem with the repairs and modification.
These are making them both.
So the -- excuse me [indiscernible] significant servicing work in early part of 2013.
I forget the exact amount of days or weeks that it will be out of service before returning to the field later that year to be able to commence production for the combined Coniston and Van Gogh.
I'm sure Patrick can get back with you with that number after the call.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the downtime is next year not 2012? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Second one for me Steve again just I want to get back to you just again.
Unfortunately it still comes up as an issue an overhang in terms of the uncertainty over there.
One issue I wanted to get some clarity on is the risk of devaluation of the Egyptian currency.
How does that affect your business? And I'll leave it at that.
Well Rod might wanted to jump in there too.
In terms of -- we get paid in U.S.
dollars.
In fact we export the biggest bulk of our crude production and that's based on dollars.
And the gas sales to Egypt you see are based on U.S.
dollar equivalent.
So we really shouldn't have any impact based on the dollar side other than maybe a little higher op costs just because they're paid in Egyptian pounds.
Egyptian workers are paid in Egyptian pounds.
Your next question comes from the line of John Freeman with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Focusing on sort of the weakness we've seen on NGL pricing especially sort of in the Mid-Con region.
I believe you've got like a pricing contract that's coming up pretty soon that's due on the technical side.
Just sort of how you are thinking about it maybe various options that you're considering to maybe address what's going on in the NGL pricing.
Well actually there's an awful lot of work going on in the industry around that in terms of pipelines and we're not excluded from that concept.
And this is a little longer-term view of life.
And it's quarter-to-quarter but a little bit like we're facing in the Permian Basin.
With the resource potential both in the Anadarko Basin and the Permian Basin the easiest thing to pick is infrastructure frankly.
I mean it's an industry we're facing that in the Permian and it's -- those things are going to get built.
It might be a quarter late and everybody wants to project in their numbers.
And I don't have any specifics associated with it.
I'm just talking a little bit like Crosstex and our step there.
In all truthfulness I don't worry about infrastructure if the wells are good enough.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I just shift over to the Permian.
Of the 31 rigs you got at the moment you mentioned 6 right now are focused on horizontal.
I'm trying to get a sense of around the end of the year what you would envision that split looking like in terms of horizontal versus vertical.
Well it's an interesting situation in the Permian.
Actually it's unlike what's happening in the Anadarko Basin.
We've got 22 rigs running in the Anadarko Basin.
21 of them are horizontal.
In the Permian that's a much lower number than the industry.
In 2010 the number of horizontal wells in the Permian Basin was less than 10%.
In 2011 it was a little bit more than that which you're going to see in the Permian Basin.
The same thing is happening in the Anadarko Basin and the majority of them are going to be horizontal as we get into the future.
Right now I think we're projecting something like 700 wells of which about 100 of them will be horizontal this year.
A little over 100 of them will be horizontal.
And that number is actually weighted heavily on the Deadwood side because over 300 of those wells that are in Deadwood this year and those are almost all vertical wells structural reservoir targets deeper.
And we've got a couple of Cline horizontal wells in there and we will drill more of Cline horizontal wells in the future.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a final question for me.
On New Zealand I believe the first of the 4 wells that you all had planned there was going to spud during the second quarter.
Is that still the case? Yes it's either the second quarter or the first part of the third quarter.
We just -- Rod and I just reviewed that.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hall with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just curious as you kind of step back and kind of look at Canada and the opportunity there kind of in unconventional liquids in particular I guess how would you characterize that and its lifecycle relative to the U.S.
And sorry if I missed it but did you identify kind of how many let's say horizontal unconventional liquids targets you have up there this quarter? Well the first question I will tell you it's in infancy.
What some of the things we're doing on our acreage in the Provost in that area actually we've got a huge acreage position there that we're just now beginning to exploit.
And that's shallow oil.
That's 3 500 to 4 000 feet.
And actually we've had very good success there.
Some of the other stuff that you -- the Cadomin and that kind of stuff over to the West that's a little further along.
In fact what happens in Canada is it's late in coming.
I mean I'll be real honest with you.
If you look what happened to gas prices.
Everybody was a gas player in Canada until we saw what's happened over the last 18 months on gas prices.
So we're not the only ones making that switch.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Okay.
And then just on the interruptions that we're seeing during the quarter if I heard that right I think about 10 000 barrels a day offline.
Did those come fully back on in the second quarter? Well the ESP work part of it will be -- we had the turnaround at -- I think it's Bravo on Forties.
The ESPs we've got a rig that we're going to try to pull out there and do some recompletions and pull those pumps on the ESPs.
Those may not all be done this year -- I mean this quarter.
But we also have a couple of other good things happening.
That Beryl well that Rod mentioned is maybe the best well drilled in Beryl in the last 20 years.
And I'd say that we haven't gotten the test on it yet.
So the best thing about it is we haven't tested it yet.
It looks fantastic on the logs.
I mean it's virgin pressure.
It could be the best well in the Beryl field in the last 20 years.
This is Roger.
Then there was 1 500 barrels a day in the Central region which from a plant downtime assuming another plant doesn't go down that would be back online.
And then typically it isn't cyclone season.
We're done with the cyclone season now.
We're out of it as of this weekend.
So that's 4 000 barrels a day.
So most of it ought to be back online.
Your next question comes from the line of David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have to ask Egypt can you just give us an update on anything since your last update as far as progress there and the new government and kind of where we stand on that? Yes and then again Rod probably has some comments too.
I will -- Rod and I were in Egypt about 1.5 months ago.
I think what you...
Because of the very large concession because we have a sizable resource.
Likewise the 8 recompletions I referenced and the 5 new drills those will be focused for the first time our drilling will be focused in the oil window portion in areas that were very similar and adjacent to like VF and other companies' activities that have had press releases.
And we're very encouraged by that outcome.
They're on our core concession areas.
We had some of our principal productions in the Neuquén Basin and it's -- we'll have probably more to say about that on our June 14 meeting.
Yes I think it's safe to say we've gotten some cores.
We've done some recompletions down in the oil window which gives us very good encouragement to drill at least 5 or 6 horizontal wells in the Vaca Muerta shale oil.
That shale is much shallower in those areas compared to the 2 concessions I referenced.
LLC Research Division</strong> Excellent.
Excellent I appreciate that color and very quickly on the North Sea looks like you guys -- the activity's paying off there.
How sustainable do you see the rates there for this year that we're seeing out of the North Sea for you? Well I think it's early times.
I will tell you the Forties will we will get that back and that will be pretty steady.
The good thing about the well that we just drilled is we really anticipate having more resource potential there than we thought we did going into it frankly.
I mean in all honesty this well found pay but it found much more pay than we thought it would.
So it gives us added hope that that resource potential there is bigger than what we had evaluated.
Your next question comes from the line of Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> Your U.S.
gas volumes quarter-to-quarter down about 48 million a day.
Is that because of the divestitures? Well you bet.
It was actually the divestitures were a little more than that.
So that...
50-plus.
I think it was almost 50 million a day.
So you're looking at numbers that are comparable to last year.
Research Division</strong> And Steve have you seen your gas volumes start to level off in the U.S.
or actually decline? Or are they still growing? Well if you look at whether it's us or anybody else when we talk about all of these liquid-rich plays the Marmaton well that Rod mentioned is making over 800 barrels of oil a day.
It's also making 10.5 million cubic feet of gas per day.
And we've got 90% of that well.
We've got a -- the Marmaton is going to be a good play.
We've got -- it's not nearly as continuous as all those plays but we've got we've picked up a very big acreage provision from Cordillera in that play and that's the second or third well drilled in the Marmaton only second or third well drilled so so far that's -- but you're going to see a lot of gas besides the liquid side of it.
If I might comment we've got 60 rigs running in America now and 58 are targeting liquids-rich and oil.
So to the extent -- we're a lot like everybody else dry gas we're just not drilling for.
The other thing that might have gotten lost in the numbers is our gas production was up 3% sequentially.
Well it's because even though we're down in North America by about 40 million a day with the property sales we're up 110 million abroad which is as Steve pointed out we've got $4.02 during the quarter.
It rose $0.27 from the prior quarter.
Internationally it's the first quarter where we're seeing our international prices higher than our North American prices.
So our revenues are climbing internationally on the gas side.
Research Division</strong> Great point.
Great point.
And then just one follow-up.
If you could provide an update on Kenya.
Kenya should spud in the latter part of July.
We've secured a rig.
In fact Rod and I reviewed that a couple of days ago.
We should spud that well in the latter part of July.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Portillo with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick follow-up questions for me.
Along the same vein on the U.S.
gas production could you provide any additional color on potentially how that could trend over the year if you're expecting kind of a steady increase or at some point we'll see that leveling out? And then within Canada as there has been historically a little bit more gas-focused should we be thinking about those volumes declining and any potential risk on shut-ins? We just quickly looked at our outlook.
I would suspect if our outlook is correct our gas from the U.S.
is pretty well flat maybe a little up.
In terms of -- what was -- the other one was about Canada? Yes shutting in production is if it covers operating costs there's no economic reality to it.
And I don't anticipate us in any of our gas deals to get to the point where we shut in gas because the operating costs are higher than the price we're receiving.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow-up on that I guess within Canada and this might be an unfair assumption but I'm assuming there's a little bit less liquids-rich drilling activity at the moment from you guys.
Should we think directionally your Canadian volumes should start to decline at some point this year on the gas side? Well you'd presume that that would be the case with virtually no wells targeting dry gas up there.
I wanted to clarify one thing on Steve's point.
When he said flat he's really I think thinking from this day forward with Cordillera built in because we're of course picking up quite a bit of gas there.
So we ought to be able to have U.S.
volumes flat to rising somewhat through the balance of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the LNG side we've seen a number of LNG contracts signed for U.S.
LNG here year-to-date.
Can you give us an update on how you see the strength of the market particularly the Asian market? And then given your advantageous geographic position at Kitimat to serve the Asian market can you refresh us on what the key constraints are to an announcement on Kitimat? Is it the FID that gives you confidence in the greenfield costs or some other reason? Well we -- and Rod again could do this a lot more in detail.
But we are pretty much done with the FEED.
I mean I can't tell you enough that the real bottom line for Kitimat or any of these projects what's happening in the U.S.
is an anomaly.
It's not a greenfield development.
So what you're looking at whether it's us or Shell I read this morning that Imperial's thinking about getting in the business all of those contracts are going to have to be oil-based contracts.
And we truthfully are in the throes of negotiations for a very very -- a tenant that could underpin that development.
But we're not there until we're there.
So we're continuing to negotiate.
We're also continuing to declare right-of-way for the pipeline and we're working towards the construction of the LNG facility.
It's not a cost as much as it is -- of course they're like anything cost and price are synonymous.
I mean it's -- but we haven't seen great increases on the cost side as we move through FEED.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my follow-up is can you just refresh us post-Cordillera acquisition what we should expect to see your corporate CapEx run rate to be as we go through the rest of the year? Yes we're going to stay within our cash flow.
I don't know where our capital budget was for this first -- I mean I know but round numbers...
9.5 is what we said.
Yes and it's 9.5 to 10 honestly.
We're going to have cash flow usable cash or spendable cash around $10 billion for the year.
And that's -- whatever we have is going to go on the ground.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But no other changes beyond I think a slight point you made on Argentina? No no I mean we're going -- we increased it $50 million to drill those Vaca Muerta shale wells.
So it's not a huge bump.
The way we look at that you heard about the increases in the rig count in the Mid-Continent or Central region Anadarko Basin also in the Permian.
And if cash flow holds up then we'll just keep that many rigs or more running.
And if cash -- if prices come down then we might cut that back later.
So that's kind of how we jigger it to live within cash flow.
Your next question comes from the line of Leon (sic) [Leo] Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just looking for a little bit more clarity there on Kitimat.
Do you guys still think you'll make a decision to potentially build over the project by the middle of the year? I can't -- I don't think I can be more -- we're going to make a decision when we have all of the Is dotted and Ts crossed and the most important I dotted and the T crossed is to have an MOU that is good enough in order to -- on the sales side in order to take this project forward in an economic basis.
And if that comes in the middle of the year it will be middle of the year.
If it comes in the third quarter it will be in the third quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right.
Can you guys comment on the big onetime D&amp;A expense this quarter? Again Leo? LLC Research Division</strong> You had a big onetime D&amp;A expense this quarter like $520 million.
Can you...
Yes that was the Canadian write-off.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got you...
That was total in cash.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
And can we get some more color on the discovery you made in Australia you talked about earlier? Well Tallaganda is a project that's about 100 kilometers southwest of our DeSoto discovery from 2011.
As I indicated in my remarks it covers about 190 160 feet per day [ph].
But the well is operated by BHP.
We really have to defer our comments to the operator.
Right now we're evaluating the results of the well to see the forward path on future development.
But we have to follow BHP's lead.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
And do you think that's oil or gas? Well I think I'd defer to the operator.
I hope based on whatever press releases they've had out there which is I don't think they've had much the way it's...
Your next question comes from the line of John Malone with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> On Australia it looks like CapEx was down a bit quarter-on-quarter.
Is that just the general lumpiness of projects? [indiscernible] a trend there? And also on that when do you start to see LNG spending really start to kick in? Well yes quarter-on-quarter they may be just a little bit behind but I fully expect them to achieve their targeted CapEx amount for the year.
We've reviewed this on a monthly basis on our call just 2 days ago.
As far as the LNG we have some of the initial LNG-related.
Some expenses are beginning late last year and throughout 2012.
But the really big spike in those expenses will come in late 2013 and 2014 when the subsea is opened.
It gets in place in fabrication and the central processing plant form and the gas plant begin in earnest.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just going over to Egypt for a second I think you mentioned it before but what was the gross production would have been without the PSE effects? Growth production was up 1% on a BOE basis and our gas oil prices were up 16% which is basically on a PSE basis we get less product in order to get the same cash back.
So our oil was down about 4 500 barrels a day on a net basis.
But it's -- on an overall gross uptick basis it was up.
So you'll see that turn around again next quarter.
My simple way of describing that is if you got $100 of costs to recover and oil is selling at $100 then you've got 1 barrel.
And if you have $50 oil then you get 2 barrels.
So when prices go up it works the opposite of that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on Egypt you were talking about the politics just I know you can't extrapolate as to what you think Egyptian politics are going to do but how do you think it affects your gas prices if subsidies were eliminated or curtailed? Well they've been talking about curtailing subsidies for at least a decade.
I guess the good news in that is they actually made it a very transparent part of their budget about 7 or 8 years ago that we actually see the big elephant that is in the room.
The subsidies or energy budget gas and oil refined products is probably going to run 115 billion Egyptian pounds in the coming budget year from what I read which is significantly a lot lower than it was a few years ago which is about 70 something-billion pounds about $10 billion.
I don't think that the subsidy issue is going to be resolved anytime soon.
I mean we may see some effects on the refined products like gasoline.
But to give you an idea of just how extreme that subsidy is 92 octane gasoline I just read this morning the subsidy sells at the equivalent price of $1.09 U.S.
per gallon.
The people who burn 92 octane are people with nice cars not poor people or farmers with tractors and use lower octane fuels.
So that's a pretty healthy subsidy for people who could afford to pay a regular price.
I think the near term what we're going to be faced with at least for the next 5 years I would expect to see the same contractual gas price on our gas sales agreements which is tied $2.65 per million BTU.
Unfortunately we have very rich gas that we get more than that $3 to $4 per Mcf basis and oil price of course we receive the world price based on our export volumes on the Brent market.
At this time there are no further questions.
Presenters do you have any closing remarks? Yes Sarah I do.
Thank you for participating in our first quarter earnings call.
I do want to acknowledge that we've been just made aware of some technical difficulties with the sound.
So I want to apologize to those who were listening or will be listening to the playback.
We will have the playback on our website within 1 hour.
And thank you again for your participation.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Apache Corporation Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Patrick Cassidy Director of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Regina.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us for Apache Corporation's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This morning we reported earnings of $337 million or $0.86 per diluted share.
Adjusted earnings which excludes certain items that impact the comparability of results totaled $821 million or $2.07 per diluted share.
Cash flow from operations totaled $2.4 billion for the quarter.
On today's call we will have 3 speakers making prepared remarks prior to taking questions.
First we will hear from Steve Farris our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; followed by Rod Eichler President and Chief Operating Officer; and finally Tom Chambers Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
We prepared our quarterly supplemental data package for your use which also includes a reconciliation of any non-GAAP numbers that we discuss such as adjusted earnings cash flow from operations or pretax margins.
This data package can be found on our website at www.apachecorp.com/financialdata.
Today's discussions may contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions and no assurances can be given that those expectations will be realized.
A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental data package on our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Patrick and good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.
I'm sure all of you have seen that in our recent Investor Day we outlined our extensive oil and liquids drilling inventory in the onshore U.S.
We have over 67 000 future drilling locations that have been technically assessed and we also have 9 billion barrels of oil equivalent net unbooked inventory that is available to drive our growth in the years to come.
And this inventory is already beginning to deliver meaningful results in our onshore.
During the second quarter our Permian and Central regions grew net production at annualized base of 23% and 18% respectively and this was before the contribution of Cordillera assets that we acquired at the end of April.
Obviously not every quarter's going to be as good but we're firmly on track to deliver the double-digit growth in these regions for the years to come as we outlined in our Investor Day.
Moreover if you count the land drilling rigs operating in the United States from the Rockies to East Coast Apache has 62 rigs running which is the second most active operator out of all the independents and majors and that's only behind Chesapeake which really has a different focus and business model.
I might point out that not a single 1 of the 62 rigs is drilling a gas target.
We said we were going to step up our U.S.
drilling activity to exploit our enlarged portfolio and we're doing just that.
Our total reported production in the second quarter was reduced by a 16 -- which is the difference between a hit and a miss on our production growth.
We had offline about 16 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day.
This includes 4 800 barrels a day due to unscheduled downtime at our third-party operated SemCAMS plant in Kaybob in Canada.
We had 2 000 barrels of oil a day down in the Gulf Coast Onshore due to a third-party pipeline outage in the Lake Paige Field 3 200 barrels of downtime due to unscheduled facility repairs at Grand Isle 43 which is the complex in the Gulf of Mexico and 6 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day out of service due to ESP failures at the Forties Field.
Most of the 16 000 barrels a day is already back on stream or is expected to be back before the end of the year.
I know downtime happens it's part of our business.
The important thing is that we have a robust portfolio.
So it really doesn't impact us over the longer term with the performance of the company.
We remain on track to deliver our production growth guidance in 2012 without any need to significantly increase our capital program for the year.
We have a very active exploration program through the rest of the year and we expect to further accelerate our exploration activities in next year and beyond.
I'm sure most of you have read in the Gulf of Mexico we have expanded our exploration block portfolio by 40%.
We were the most active bidder in the Central Gulf of Mexico Lease Sale held in June.
We picked up 90 blocks 61 on the shelf and 29 in the deepwater.
We're excited about the prospects we've identified on the blocks that we've won and expect to ramp up our exploration activity in the Gulf of Mexico significantly over the coming quarters.
We've already secured one new build semisubmersible deepwater rig which will be dedicated it is separate and it should be delivered in the middle of 2013.
In Kenya our offshore Mbawa well prospect is expected to spud in about 10 days.
We should have results by our earnings call in November.
We're -- this month we're deploying one rig in the Mississippian Lime where we've built [ph] 580 000 net acres.
We're also deploying one rig in the Williston Basin where we have secured a new exploration position of about 300 000 acres.
Both of these we're expected to drill 4 to 6 wells at each one of these 2 exploration plays over the next 6 months.
We also plan to spud our first Alaska Cook Inlet well in October.
So we're very enthusiastic about Apache's enlarged portfolio what we're delivering and what's ahead of us.
We've already become one of the most active U.S.
onshore drillers among our peers in the majors and we're pursuing an exciting portfolio of global exploration opportunities.
We're doing this all while maintaining our rate of return focus and the financial discipline that are defining characteristics of Apache.
I'd like to turn the call over to Rod Eichler.
Thank you Steve.
I'll begin with onshore North America as it was the focus of our recent Investor Day conference and is the area where we are currently most active.
In the Permian we reached a company milestone in the second quarter with production surpassing 100 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day marker for the full 3-month period.
During the second quarter of 2012 net production was up 5.3% over the previous quarter at 104 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day of which 72% was liquid and more than 3/4 of that was crude oil.
Also included in total volumes are nearly 2 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day of positive prior period adjustments the majority of which are attributed to non-operated fields.
Drilling at Deadwood in the Midland Basin and the Glasscock County continues to be a large contributor to growth with horizontal drilling in the Wolfcamp emerging as a new development area.
For the quarter Permian averaged 32 drilling rigs up 4 from the previous quarter on the base properties adding 187 wells of which 167 were vertical and 20 were horizontal.
We are currently running 36 rigs.
Other than 2 weeks of working inventory we have almost no backlog of stimulation jobs.
In the Deadwood vertical play we are targeting Wolfwood that is the Wolfwood through the Wolfcamp reservoirs and Fusselman vertical wells.
We've had several notable test results with wells flowing in excess of 300 to 400 barrels of oil per day for intervals covering the Wolfwood reservoirs.
We also have a number of locations where we'll initially complete only the deeper Fusselman formation and recompleted later at Wolfwood formations at hole [ph].
Our Amberjack well is a Fusselman-only completion and tested at a rate of 285 barrels of oil per day plus 180 Mcf per day.
These add volumes at a very low cost boosting the well's EUR and rate of return.
We estimate that 1 out of 5 Deadwood wells can produce from the Fusselman.
We're currently drilling primarily in 40-acre spacing at Deadwood testing some 20 for down-spacing.
This program is expected to remain active through 2012 drilling more than 300 wells in the second half of the year.
In our Wolfcamp Shale play in Irion County our 4 Wolfcamp horizontals have produced more than 190 000 barrels of oil equivalent since March 19.
These are outstanding wells all upper Wolfcamp producers nothing in the liminal [ph] zones.
This appears to be a very thick very brittle shale and breaks nicely with fracture stimulation.
We currently have 3 rigs running in the play and have already drilled 5 additional wells which are currently being completed or expected to be completed soon.
Turning now to our Central region in Oklahoma and the Texas Panhandle.
Second quarter production averaged 55 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day a 47% increase over the preceding period.
Nearly 30% of that production was liquids as the region continues its transition to oil and liquid-rich plays.
A total of 28 wells were completed in the period with 12 in the Granite Wash formation averaging a 30-day IP rate of 1 625 barrels of oil equivalent per day of which 54% is liquids.
We also completed 10 Tonkawa wells with an average 30-day IP rate of 310 barrels of oil equivalent per day and these are 80% liquid producers.
I continue to be impressed with our Bivins Ranch development in the Texas Panhandle.
Apache holds a 74% working interest in 124 000 contiguous acres at Oldham Hartley and Potter counties.
We have completed 8 out of our first 9 Canyon Wash tests.
6 wells averaged more than 400 barrels of oil per day for the first 30 days.
Our 2 newest wells completed in the last couple of weeks are currently testing just under 700 barrels and roughly 1 000 barrels of oil per day.
We have just completed installation of a 10-inch pipeline and gathering system and are now selling 3 300 barrels of oil equivalent per day from Bivins Ranch.
Look for even more results in the future as a second rig is scheduled to arrive in Bivins Ranch in mid-September.
Assimilation of the Cordillera operations is fully underway.
We started the period with 10 rigs averaged 19 for the quarter and exited with 22 and we're currently at 24.
Before moving to the Gulf of Mexico I want to comment briefly about onshore cost and takeaway capacity.
We're seeing some softening for service cost across the board.
Historically we've seen cost come down on a lower commodity price environment.
Our activity level and growth plans provide us with the flexibility to adjust our operations as circumstances change.
Our drilling program is based on our rate of return not on commodity prices.
If trends continue we expect to maintain or even increase our activity into these market conditions.
We also have not had any material issues involving NGLs but as -- Apache has been very proactive in securing market-sourced liquids where possible.
For example we've headed into a joint venture to build a new gas processing plant and to rail NGLs to the Gulf Coast.
We have continued to work with other Permian Basin midstream players that control Apache NGLs to secure unconventional means to avoid product curtailments due to NGL constraints.
Turning to the Gulf of Mexico shelf.
We TD'd 7 wells during the quarter and operated 5 rigs with 83% success rate.
Our production for the second quarter of 98 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day was down 7% over the previous quarter.
Downtime at the Grand Isle 43 complex for repairs and maintenance impacted our production during the period.
Third-party pipeline and host facility downtime during Tropical Storm Debbie also deferred volumes.
These shut-ins were partially offset by new pipeline installations at Vermillion 380 and Ship Shoal 91 and new wells at both Eugene Island 330 and Main Pass 308.
Grand Isle 43AA facilities began ramping back up last week and is expected to be at the full rate over 7 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day net later this month.
Notable drilling activities during the quarter including a well at Main Pass 308 which IP'd at more than 900 barrels of oil per day.
We have 4 additional locations drilled there.
We also successfully drilled 2 wells at the Main Pass 311 and 314 area finding 120 feet and 39 [ph] feet of pay respectively and are in process of completing there.
On the regulatory front 17 of 61 blocks where we were the high bidder of the June lease sale had been awarded so far.
The permitting environment continues to be improve both for drilling and exploration plans.
In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico production increased 13% from the previous quarter to 15 700 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
The Mandy subsea tie-back project in Mississippi Canyon 199 came online producing 5 000 barrels of oil per day and 3.5 million cubic feet of gas per day gross.
We hold a 50% working interest in 2 wells in this field and a 15% override in a third.
Our Geauxpher well Garden Banks 462 continues to produce holding up the start of our Bushwood development in the adjacent block Garden Banks 463.
We are ready to commence production once the Geauxpher well is completed Bushwood is expected to IP at about 50 million cubic feet of gas per day and we hold a 50% working interest.
Development continues at Lucius and Keathley Canyon 875 with spar and topside construction in progress and major service and equipment contracts awarded.
We expect development drilling to commence in the second half of the year with initial production still expected by year-end 2014.
Our Deepwater team is also very active in the Central Gulf of Mexico lease sale bidding on 43 blocks 19 with partners.
We were the -- high bidder on 29 blocks and 3 have been awarded to date.
We have identified 20 new prospects on these blocks 17 of which will be Apache-operated.
In our Gulf Coast Onshore region production in the second quarter was 25 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day down 11% sequentially due primarily to third-party pipeline issues to Lake Paige Field in Terrebonne Parish Louisiana.
We anticipate Lake Paige being brought back online by mid-August according to latest reports from the pipeline operator.
During the quarter we ran 3 operated rigs drilling a total of 18 wells with an 89% success rate.
One well to highlight is our Chaplin [ph] Ranch in Oasis County Texas which came on at 9 million a day and 1 020 barrels of oil per day.
Turning to Canada.
The region's drilling program continues to focus on oil and liquids-rich gas plays.
The second quarter coincides with traditional spring breakup season which impacts our drilling activity.
So we saw our production declined 3.8% to 123 100 barrels oil equivalent per day as we drilled only 5 wells during the period.
Our drilling is ramping back up in the third quarter targeting oil and liquids-rich gas.
We plan to drill 20 Viking horizontals and 39 wells in Consort.
In Midale we expect to drill 4 additional horizontals.
Moving on to the international areas.
In the North Sea production was up 36% over the prior year quarter as we continued to assimilate the Beryl properties.
We are following up on the Beryl Bravo B72 well with the B73.
As you may recall B72 tested in excess of 11 600 barrels of oil per day and 15 [ph] million cubic feet of gas.
The B73 accounted 358 feet of net pay TBD in 4 zones and it is planned to come onstream during the third quarter.
Looking forward to new prospects the Beryl 3D seismic campaign will begin in early August and continue through until mid-October.
The Bacchus Field commenced production during the second quarter.
This is the first subsea tie-back to the Forties Field.
The second horizontal well Bacchus West penetrated Jurassic-aged Fulmar reservoir sandstones and logged 889 feet measured depth of net pay of 3 Fulmar sections.
Both Bacchus wells are now online flowing at a combined gross rate of nearly 13 000 barrels of oil per day.
Following completion operations at Bacchus the rig will move to appraise the Aviat shallow gas accumulation.
Turning now to Egypt.
We are operating a record number of rigs 28 in the Western Desert.
During the second quarter we drilled 68 wells including 16 exploratory wells with 13 successes.
Second quarter production declined from the preceding period primarily due to planned shutdowns at our Salam gas plant where preventative maintenance was undertaken on trains 1 and 2 resulting in the 13 days of downtime.
Among the drilling highlights were an exploration well on our West Kalabsha Concession at Faghur Basin that tested 1 600 barrels of oil and 730 Mcf of gas per day from the Jurassic Upper Safa.
At our Khalda area concessions we drilled our first Jurassic discovery at Alamein Basin identifying 5 hydrocarbon-bearing passages in the Upper and Lower Safa.
We're currently planning to test this well but it requires high-pressure equipment as it is the deepest well drilled to date by Khalda Petroleum Company.
An exploratory well the Hot 1-x [ph] was drilled in WD 30 development lease at the Abu Gharadiq Basin testing nearly 3 000 barrels of oil per day.
This success high-grades numerous nearby oil-prone prospects.
Also in this basin of the WD 30 development lease Shadow 1X encountered 62 feet of gas and oil pay testing an initial daily rate of 1 200 barrels of oil and 6.5 million cubic feet of gas per day.
In the Khalda Offset Concession we conducted production tests from the first 2 producer wells in the Utis [ph] field during the quarter with each producing in excess of 2 000 barrels of oil per day.
This is a traditional core KPC property and we have 12 more wells approved for the field.
We are seeing a shift to more complex drilling agent particularly at Khalda.
This includes record-setting drilling depths new frac records with parts at deeper zones and high pressures at our first horizontal well which we plan to frac and test in the third quarter.
During the quarter we continued to make progress on a number of commercial issues.
This includes the signing of 5 new gas sales agreements at Highford [ph] Utis [ph] Sultan Alpha and Chelsea which should allow us for the debottlenecking of gas production in those concessions.
And our Hydra [ph] development lease was signed commercializing this 200-plus Bcf gas and condensate discovery.
Hydra [ph] is expected to come on stream by year-end 2013 producing at an expected rate of 11 800 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
In Australia the second quarter net production was 66 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day down 3% from the first quarter largely due to forecasted declines in major oil producers Pyrenees and Van Gogh and seasonal reductions in gas purchases by industrial customers.
Van Gogh production averaged 10 700 barrels of oil per day during the period.
Uptime has been excellent and the facility produced continuously throughout the quarter.
On July 5 2012 Apache achieved a milestone when it took over operatorship of the Ningaloo Vision FPSO from the previous contract operator.
We purchased this FPSO vessel earlier this year.
Looking ahead to the third quarter production from the new Pyrenees Stickle 8H well commenced on July 14 and added an incremental 11 000 barrels of oil per day or 3 135 barrels of oil per day net to Apache to the total field production.
Gas sale volumes in Australia will be reduced in late September when the Yara Pilbara fertilizer plant shuts down for maintenance.
It is expected to be offline for approximately 3 weeks.
Yara Pilbara  normally takes 75 million to 80 million cubic feet of gas per day Apache's share being 80%.
Finally in Argentina net production in the second quarter was 50 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day a 5% increase over the Q1 2012.
Our gas price realizations in Argentina continue to be supported by the Gas Plus Program.
Our second quarter gas realizations where $2.76 per Mcf.
And in June we sold 97 million cubic feet of gas per day at an average of $4.96 per Mcf under the Gas Plus program.
In Tierra del Fuego the elimination of an existing provincial tax benefit reduced our average oil price realizations in the region by 30% contributing to a reduction in the overall Argentina oil price realization to $72.69 per barrel.
On the exploration front seismic sequence mapping petrophysical modeling core [ph] descriptions and mud log analysis have helped to high-grade recompletion candidates and identifying sweet spots within the Vaca Muerta as we look to identify horizontal drilling locations.
We plan to drill 4 horizontal and 2 vertical exploration wells and to conduct 6 vertical rig completions with 10 fracs in 2012.
The first horizontal well was spud within a week and is expected to be completed in September.
We are hoping to have more well results to disclose in the first quarter of 2013 Exploration work continues on the Huacalera and Cortadera blocks to identify additional intervals to the Vaca Muerta we're testing at Huacalera X1.
In conclusion across our portfolio we have no shortage of opportunities and the ramp-up of our drilling program is well underway.
Our major prospects are progressing and on schedule.
With results of our accelerated drilling activity beginning to take hold we anticipate most of our 2012 growth to be in the second half of the year.
That concludes the operational highlights and I'll now turn it over to Tom Chambers.
Thanks Rod and good afternoon everyone.
As you've read previously in our press release and heard earlier on the call we are rapidly building a significant inventory of drilling opportunities and have established a robust platform for long-term growth across all of our regions.
We achieved solid production level this quarter averaging 774 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day despite some significant third-party challenges.
This is the ninth consecutive quarter of production growth and we exit the quarter with continued upward momentum.
For the second quarter we reported earnings of $337 million or $0.86 per diluted share and adjusted earnings of $821 million or $2.07 per share and we adjust for certain items that affect the comparability of results such as the noncash property write-down in Canada and foreign currency fluctuations.
Our bottom line results were impacted by lower commodity prices yet we were still able to generate revenues of almost $4 billion.
This translates directly into significant cash flow from operations $2.4 billion this quarter.
Year-to-date our cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital was 3% higher than the prior year-to-date period.
On the quarter our cash flow from operations was down 10% over the previous quarter primarily driven by lower oil and gas price realizations which were down 12% and 8% respectively.
International gas prices helped mitigate the decline in earnings and cash flow with realizations up slightly from the previous quarter and 29% higher than North American average realizations.
For the past 2 quarters we have realized over $4 per Mcf on our international production a sharp contrast to the North American prices which averaged well below $3 per Mcf over the same timeframe without the benefit of hedges.
Year-over-year we produced 100 million cubic feet a day of additional international gas.
And in the second quarter it represented 37% of our worldwide gas production.
As economic uncertainties continue to weigh on commodity prices in the global economy we remain optimistic given our ability to consistently generate cash from operations.
Our position is supported by the strength of our portfolio which has enabled us to benefit substantially from our oil position and the fact that oil currently sells for nearly 30x the price of North American natural gas.
Our efforts to expand our North American liquids portfolio was also evident this quarter as we closed the Cordillera acquisition in April for approximately $2.6 billion in cash and approximately 6.3 million common shares.
This significantly increased our Central region's liquids production 60% over the first quarter and added over 300 000 net acres to our prolific Granite Wash play in the surrounding areas.
We were also able to secure a significant number of offshore blocks in the deepwater and shelf regions through the Gulf of Mexico offshore lease sale in June.
This provides more growth potential in these regions where we received some of our highest liquids prices in America.
In fact over 40% of our North American oil production comes from our Gulf Coast regions where average crude price realizations currently reflect over a 20% premium to West Texas Intermediate pricing.
Our focus on oil and liquids will continue given the general weakness in North American gas markets.
As a result we again had a noncash write-down of our Canadian oil and gas properties.
Our Canadian region is the most gas levered of our portfolio and we recognized a $480 million after-tax write-down of the property balance during the quarter.
As a reminder full cost accounting rules require us to discount our proved reserve value at 10% using prices in effect for the past 12 months.
The amount of our recorded book value over this discounted value is written off.
This is a noncash event that will continue to impact us until North American gas prices no longer decline compared to the prior year.
Excluding the write-down our margins for the second quarter remain strong.
At $39.72 per boe we're still realizing robust cash margins despite the 12% decline in average price realizations.
You can find a detailed calculation of our margins adjusted earnings and cash from operations in the financial supplement located on our website.
For the second quarter you'll specifically notice an increase in our debt.
Our strong balance sheet enabled us to reach into the debt market to fund significant acquisition activity.
In April we issued $3 billion of debt in 3 separate tranches at very attractive rates to fund the cash portion of the Cordillera acquisition and repay $400 million of higher interest rate notes that came due in April.
We finished the quarter with a debt-to-cap of 25% cash on the balance sheet of $360 million which is $116 million higher than the prior quarter; and available borrowing capacity of nearly $3 billion.
So we remain to have a flexible balance sheet.
Turning to taxes.
The second quarter effective tax rate of 56% reflects the Canadian ceiling test adjustment as well as higher-taxed foreign earnings.
Absent the Canadian write-down and the impact of foreign exchange movements our effective tax rate would have been a more typical 43%.
Similarly these adjustments impacted our percentage of deferred taxes in the quarter.
However we would expect a deferred rate of 20% to 25% for the year absent these adjustments.
As we head into the third quarter our income taxes will be impacted by the U.K.
government provision to decrease tax relief attributable to decommissioning expenditures on the North Sea oil and gas facilities from 62% to a maximum of 50%.
The legislation was enacted in July of 2012.
And as a result we will record a deferred tax charge in the third quarter of 2012 estimated at approximately $40 million.
To wrap up we had another quarter of solid production and cash flow.
Apache is not immune to the current commodity price pressures faced by the industry but we are optimistic about the second half of 2012 given our ability to deliver strong cash margins with a rising inventory of drilling prospects.
We are actively increasing our activity across a board -- a broad portfolio of opportunities and are confident our results will reflect continued growth and value to our shareholders over the longer term.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Patrick.
Thank you Tom.
We will now open the call to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from the line of Arun Jayaram with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering Steve or Rod if you could give us a little bit of a road map relative to the near-term production picture.
The guidance is 6% to 9%.
I know that's adjusted for asset sales but the way I'm thinking about it is you produced about 748 000 barrels last year.
If you back out 11 000 from asset sales and then you apply the 6% to 9% range so that would put you in the 781 000 to 803 000 [ph] kind of range in terms of thousand barrels a day is that how you're thinking about 2012? We'd better hit that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay.
And obviously Steve you highlighted you had quite a bit of production 16 000 barrels come online and you said most of that's come back.
I don't know if you could give us a little bit of specificity around when that came back and just so we can kind of fine-tune our third quarter and Q4 numbers.
Yes Rod -- I'll mention a couple of them and then Rod will obviously give some more detail.
But SemCAMS plant in Calgary went on in Canada went on on July 6.
So we should get all of that back.
Now that's -- you've got all kinds of things going on in terms of it but we -- that plant is back on.
That was about 70 million a day.
It was a big hit.
We should have Lake Paige on about the middle of August.
Grand Isle -- I mean West Camp 43 is ramping back up.
In fact it should be back up right as we speak.
It started ramping up about the fourth of July and that was very unexpected downtime.
Lake Paige was totally unexpected.
We had a confluence of things that hit us all in one quarter which you usually get over the whole year.
In terms of the North Sea we're doing 2 things.
One is we're going in and replacing ESPs or pulling ESPs on the Forties.
But we also got as Rod pointed out we just had the Bacchus well come on.
And also our Beryl well hopefully will come on Rod in the middle of this month? Yes yes.
And we're expecting great things out of it.
So.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
It sounds like you got a lot -- most of that coming back on track this quarter.
My follow-up is obviously you talked quite a bit at the Analyst Meeting about the Permian and the Cline Shale and the horizontal Wolfcamp that results looked pretty positive.
As you think about next year I know it's early but I was just wondering how you're thinking about activity in each of those plays and broadly into the Permian into 2013? Well we're running 36 rigs in the Permian Basin right now and honestly you're going to see -- I mean it's not a lack of inventory.
So you're going to see that ramp up and I think right now I think Alfonso's plan had it at 40 rigs next year.
That's probably conservative.
In terms of the Anadarko Basin we're running 26 rigs right now.
And frankly that's higher than we had in our outlook for the Investor Day.
So we're -- I think in the Investor Day we showed that the Permian would grow on an annualized rate over a 5-year period of about 13% and the Central region if you don't include the Cordillera our 5-year growth would be about 23%.
And we're very comfortable with those 2 numbers.
Your next question will come from the line of John Freeman with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on the last question again on the downtime.
I didn't quite hear the 6 000 that's offline on the Forties.
Just a ballpark idea of when that returns.
That Forties production is we have 9 ESPs that are principally off the Beryl -- I'm sorry off the Forties Bravo platform.
Those are being restored in sequence that we've fired up the platform drilling rig here on the late part of the second quarter.
So we're swapping in the ESP replacements with new well -- new drilled wells.
Whichever has the highest rate of return to us gets the favored treatment.
So we're probably seeing those ESPs return in production through the rest of this year and perhaps even in the first quarter intermixed with normal drilling activity on the same platform.
I should note that the ESP run life out there is typically about 680 days and that gives you an idea that about 2 years ago most of those ESPs replaced in the last cycle and so they all start falling about the same time.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> That helps.
Of the incremental rigs that you added in the Permian going from 31 to 36 the 5 that were added are they being focused mainly horizontal or can you give me maybe the current mix? One of them is in Wolfcamp and then 2 of them are in Deadwood and I don't know where the other 2 are off the top of my head.
Just a second.
I'll look it up for you.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And while you're all looking for that just the last question I had while you're looking at that.
The well in Kenya that I believe was supposed to be spudded at the end of July has that well been spud? No.
In fact I think it's going to be spud on August 15.
Your next question will come from...
We currently have 6 horizontal wells operating in the Permian they're scattered at the moment among the leased properties.
So we have 2 rigs operating in the Wolfcamp Shale which is a new area of expansion for us south of Deadwood and we see that to be a continuing area of increasing drilling focus in the coming year.
Your next question will come from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to try a couple as well if I may.
I guess on the first question that was asked about production.
I wonder if I can just push you a little bit on that because clearly if you get the target to stay within target this year it looks at least on our numbers that you'd get on to a fairly big step-up in the second half.
Can you give us an idea of what the portfolio is doing currently? And would you be prepared to give us a trajectory through the back end of this year because obviously we're -- I guess marking this issue [ph] with a bit of line of sight here.
Yes with respect to direction we've got half a year and you've got 2 quarters of production.
I think it's pretty easy to calculate what it's going to take to get to 6% to 9%.
In terms of -- I'm sorry I didn't catch your other question.
Research Division</strong> I'm just trying -- where is the portfolio right now Steve? Well we don't -- I've got to tell you it's higher.
I will tell you we don't give month-to-month production.
I will tell you it is higher than what our average was and we went -- each month went up.
So July is higher than our average for the first -- the 3 months of the second quarter.
Research Division</strong> All right.
I won't push that one too much.
So just one other one from me then.
Egypt it was -- production obviously was kind of flattish despite the decline in the oil price while realizations were -- seemed to have dropped off relative to your kind of historical capture relative to Brent.
Anything unusual going on there and what should we expect going forward? I'll leave it at that.
Douglas that price -- adjustment of the price that you see in Egypt which is lower than what you typically release -- the timings of the liftings and it's more pronounced this quarter because of the volatility in the prices.
We had a bigger drop in prices this quarter.
But the key thing to note is there is no change in the underlying pricing of our oil in Egypt.
Research Division</strong> And the volumes Tom? The volumes...
We're -- on a gross basis we had 13 days of production downtime at the Salam gas plant.
That's 200 million a day downtime for 13 days and the associated condensate production without that gas.
That was probably the biggest impact for our overall volumes in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay and I guess generally operationally you're still pretty happy with how things are progressing there? No different.
Everything is proceeding per normal operational program.
Your next question will come from the line of Michael Hall with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I guess first on my end just curious if you might elaborate a little bit on the comment you made regarding the potential interest in accelerating given the improving cost environment.
Are there any particular areas that are more compelling? Just looking for maybe a little additional color there.
Well I'd say obviously and I don't think we're the only company in the industry that is experiencing it.
We're seeing some significant reductions in frac cost and we're also starting to see some softening in rig costs.
Year-over-year frac costs are down 25%.
So we're beginning to see some impact of rigs coming out of other -- especially the gas areas and going to the more oily areas.
Research Division</strong> Okay appreciate that.
And then I guess as a follow-up on the downtime expected in Australia can you quantify how long that's expected to be down? That will be at the end of September but that's the ammonia plant going down or the fertilizer plant going down.
It's about 3 weeks.
3 weeks.
Your next question will come from the line of Bob Brackett with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I had a question that follows on your pretty active lease round in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico.
What's your overall exploration strategy there given you've such a deep inventory are you going to swing for the fence a little on the deepwater? Well certainly all of those blocks are exploration plays and the good thing about the deepwater is you get the blocks for 10 years.
So we're going to -- we're going to -- we plan on drilling 4 to 5 wells a year and obviously they're going to be the best projects that we can find.
We do have a backlog of prospects and we're -- the ones that are the best will come to that.
But they're not small.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> But when you say best is it -- are you going to keep high working interest? Are you going to go for highest risk volumes? Or are you going for things that are more likely to work? Well honestly it's going to be -- we're not going to have 100% of any well we drill in the Gulf of Mexico deepwater.
That's a number one premise.
Number two we're going to balance the risk against the size.
So some of them will be lower risk but they're also going to be lower-sized.
But in terms of -- we're going to run that program like we do the rest of the company and that's going to be on a portfolio basis.
Your next question will come from the line of Pearce Hammond with Simmons.
Research Division</strong> The FPSO the Ningaloo Vision seems like operations are running very smoothly.
Is that vessel still supposed to have shipyard time next year or is that maybe delayed? No that's correct.
It's still on schedule for shipyard time to do some modifications and you're correct in your assessment about the uptime.
In the transition period we began actually operating the vessel with the contractors' ownership back in February and subsequent to our involvement with the day-to-day operation we experienced 95% uptime for the last 6 months.
We're very pleased with the vessel's performance.
Yet we still have to do the same kind of modifications that we intended to bring the Coniston and Van Gogh projects together in 2013.
Research Division</strong> And then if you could compare your rates of return on the Gulf of Mexico shelf versus the Central region it would seem like in the current NGL price environment and gas price environment that the shelf should be a better competitor for activity and for capital than it actually is.
Well it really has to do with balanced portfolio and risk and reward.
Certainly anything that has liquids with it in the Gulf of Mexico given the rate has a leg up on anything that you drill horizontal frankly just because of the profile.
But in terms of risk versus reward the predictability in shales is probably 99.9%.
The question is what's the rate? So we try to balance both of those.
And if you look at both of those programs honestly the Gulf of Mexico was always the highest rate of return projects we can do.
I mean we just got to find good ones to do.
Your next question will come from the line of John Malone with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on the Mississippian Lime can you just give us some sense of how things are progressing there and what are the near-term steps? Well we're going to drag in -- a rig in there here next week and we're going to drill our first Mississippian Lime horizontal well.
And we've honestly -- if you're watching that play there are some people that have had very good success up there and we -- honestly I don't expect anything different than that.
We have a good position and it's a question of how long it will it take us to ramp it up.
LLC Research Division</strong> So no notion on how many you'll drill this year? We're going to -- I'm sorry.
We're going to drill 4 to 6 wells this year.
Both there and also in the Bakken.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second question in Argentina.
Any comments you can make on this new legislation they're talking about the submitting of budgets to the government for approval? We haven't -- other than what we've read in the press we've interpret the preliminary decree information.
We've not had meetings with the government yet.
We're currently scheduled to have our first round of meetings with the government per that new decree by the end of September in which case we'll introduce our financial and investment plans for 2013.
Now we've in the past we have annually produced an investment plan of similar format to the provincial governments.
That's been standard procedure.
This will be the first time having to do that as a requirement of the federal government.
So yes we don't know exactly what form it's going to take.
We don't have the details from them yet on specifically what they want to have us prepare or disclose at the meeting.
But that's coming up end of September and they will have an answer for us within 60 days with regard to the nature of our investment plan and any comments they might have.
That's our understanding of where it stands presently.
Historically we have -- and one of our philosophies down there is to spend our cash flow and I think in terms of Argentina that is what they're looking for because they have a number of companies down there one of which has been in the news forever and that is they didn't spend anywhere near their cash flow.
And I think honestly that's what they're looking for -- who's not spending their Argentine cash flow in Argentina.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one quick follow-up on -- just on Egypt on the realizations asked previously.
So can we see that those realizations climb back towards parity with Brent just subject to liftings times? Yes.
Yes.
Your next question will come from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
LLC Research Division</strong> Looking for an update on the Kitimat LNG process.
Yes Janine's here Janine McArdle who's our Gas Monetization Vice President.
Yes things are progressing on the Kitimat project.
We are still working with our contractor to finalize speed.
We're doing a few things to optimize both the design cost and schedule.
We're continuing to work with the government on both provincial and federal on some final permitting that we would like to have before we make any decisions.
And we're working with again multiple buyers in terms of a very long term 20 to 25-year contracts and that's going quite well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay I guess you guys still expect to wrap something up by the end of the year? So we'll be when we have all those things I just listed completed.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay.
Just going over to Australia quickly.
What's sort of the plans there on the exploration front for the rest of the year and next year? Because I haven't heard too much about that from you guys lately.
We expect to maintain a 2-rig program pretty much throughout the next 18 to 24 months drilling combination of exploratory wells some development or exploitation wells as well as the key development wells at Julimar-Brunello for the support of the Wheatstone LNG project as well as the development drilling at our Coniston oil project that is tied to Van Gogh that goes with the Ningaloo Vision FPSO that we just mentioned in a earlier question.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you and it sounds like your rigs in North America you've got like 62 of them.
You're not drilling any gas.
What gas price do you need to see before you start drilling some of the gas targets a little more? Higher than today.
Your next question will come from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A question on the Tonkawa.
You mentioned I think it's about a 10-well it's at about 310 Mboe or 310 boe IP.
I think at your Analyst Meeting you had a number of wells you talked about and a type curve that was higher than that.
And maybe it's apples and oranges but I just wonder if you could put into context the rates that you're seeing now you talked about in the Tonkawa relative to your expectations.
Well I think it was over 400 barrels a day as I recall Rod's comments.
The other one is that's a 30-day average and that's actually that makes tremendous economics and you've got a lot of mix of wells in there.
At the Analyst Day the type curve we showed for Tonkawa we're expecting a typical well come on for about 300 [ph] barrels of oil per day.
We've exceeded that typically by 10%.
We're very pleased with the results of our 30-day average IP basis and we have a significant inventory of Tonkawa location to be drilled right in the heart of play.
Research Division</strong> Great and then when you think about the CapEx required for some of the unconventional NGL transport options such as the rail one that you mentioned.
Is that factored into your budget or is that kind of incremental spending to get the better realizations? That's part of our budget and it is also part of the full cycle development economics for hitting the fields which are involved.
Your next question will come from the line of David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Any update on Liard Basin? I know you talked about it at the Analyst Day but is that well still holding up? And I think that was a well from last year.
But is that well still holding up and if so what's the go-forward plan up there? Actually that well is still holding up.
We're drilling it -- we're drilling an additional well as we speak.
And we're going to drill enough wells 10-year [ph] wells in order to hold all our acreage the vast majority of our acreage.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so we should just expect one rig running up there over the next year or so.
Is that 6 to 12 months? Is that the right we think about it? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay moving down to some of the recent acquisitions.
I don't -- as far as impairment charges go is there -- was there any impact from NGLs in the Mid-Continent like Cordillera acquisition or any other write-downs related to NGLs in the Mid-Continent? No.
I'm not sure what you're alluding to but that's...
LLC Research Division</strong> Obviously gas prices impacted impairment charges.
I'm just trying to figure out what the impact of NGLs was as far as...
The impairment charge was all Canada.
All Canada right.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So nothing -- okay.
So you have a cushion left in the U.S.? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Obviously some cushion but how much cushion? Well we have 30% of our production in the Central region is oil and majority of that is black oil.
So we're in pretty good shape there.
I mean you can never say never but it depends on what happens to oil price there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
All right.
And then the final question.
I know you said gas prices have to be higher.
Let me ask the question in a different way.
Whatever number you have in the back of your head for gas prices how long would they have to get to that level and stay there? Are you looking at a 12-month strip like 24-month strip before you make the decision? I'm just trying to get the thought process as to when people start looking back toward gases.
Do they have to stick there for 3 months or 6 months? Can you just talk a little bit about how you think about that? Well number one I think gas in this country -- most gas wells are going to be challenged and the reason is if you see prices increase there are so many locations that people can drill gas wells.
But what you're going to see is an influx of rigs and people drilling gas wells and you're going to have -- you're going to run into the same problem.
There are some things we could do right now to earn gas price but we've got a limited amount of capital.
And as Tom Chambers pointed out price differential's about 30 to 1 and it doesn't take rocket scientist to figure out you'll drill an oil well if you got the opportunity.
So that as much as what the actual gas price ought to be is really driving what everybody's doing.
I mean it's your economics.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Actually going back to the Mississippian and the Williston plays.
I heard --I got your point that you've got one rig running in each of those and you think you'll have 4 to 6 wells this year.
Is there a time line you have in mind on when you will share your results in those plays? Is there like a certain number of wells you think you have to get down before you can come to a conclusion you want to share? Well I think we've got to be satisfied with what the conclusion we reach on both of those.
I would expect us to make some results known by the end of the year.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And what would a rig ramp -- a rig count ramp look like in those plays in the success case? Well that is going to have to compete what we've got in the Central region and the Permian region.
Certainly with our acreage position we own a significant interest 100% most of the Bakken's stuff and large interest in the stuff we have with the Mississippian Lime.
So it gives us real opportunity to ramp that up if it works.
And certainly the Mississippian Lime is going to work.
It's going to have to compete with capital in terms of rates of return with some of the other things we're doing.
But Mississippian Lime is -- we're going to drill good wells.
It's going to be whether or not -- what the economics are.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And one other kind of obvious question.
Is there anything to add on the political situation in Egypt? I mean it seems that it has been relatively news-free at least by those standards and so that seems welcome.
But I wonder if you could add your impressions there? No as Rod pointed out we haven't -- we have continued to deal with the petroleum ministry the Minister of Petroleum and since have continued to deal with the Chairman of the EGPC.
I think Rod mentioned we have 7 new gas contracts that we've just signed.
If anything frankly what we're seeing is is that their need for hydrocarbons is such that it may have gotten a little bit better than has been the status quo just because of the urgency nature of bringing production on.
There have been some significant political developments for them they announced a new Prime Minister.
And he has subsequently appointed new cabinet as of yesterday and I believe they took their oaths of office today.
So we do have a new Petroleum Minister as of today Osama Kamal on the petroleum chemical -- petrochemical sector.
So there may be some other changes associated with those ministerial changes.
I will now turn the conference back over to Patrick closing remarks.
Thank you Regina.
Thank you for participating in our second quarter conference call.
The webcast replay will be archived on Apache's website.
The conference call also will be available for delayed playback by telephone for 1 week beginning at approximately 4:00 p.m.
Central Standard Time today.
That ends our call this afternoon.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you all for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Apache Corporation Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Brady Parish Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Regina.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us for Apache Corporation's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
For all of you who have been impacted by Hurricane Sandy we wanted to let you know that our thoughts are with you and your loved ones.
This morning we reported earnings of $161 million or $0.41 per diluted share.
Adjusted earnings which excludes certain items that impact the comparability of results totaled $861 million or $2.16 per diluted share.
Cash flow from operations totaled $2.4 billion for the quarter.
On today's call we will have 3 speakers making prepared remarks prior to taking questions.
First we will hear from Steve Farris our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; followed by Rod Eichler President and Chief Operating Officer; and finally Tom Chambers Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
We prepared our quarterly supplemental data package for your use which also includes the reconciliation of any non-GAAP numbers that we discuss such as adjusted earnings cash flow from operations or pretax margins.
This data package can be found on our website at www.apachecorp.com/financialdata.
Today's discussion will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
However a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental data package on our website.
With that I'll turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Brady.
And good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us today.
As I'm sure you've all read in our release this morning during the third quarter we accelerated our drilling momentum.
Across our portfolio we've got excellent results.
In the U.S.
we continued to step up our play activity and now run 63 rigs 50% more than we did at the beginning -- had at the beginning of the year.
And Rod is going to go on a lot more detail but we've got outstanding well results in a number of plays including the Cline Wolfcamp and Wichita Albany and the Canyon Wash and the Permian Basin and also the Granite Wash and the Anadarko Basin.
During the quarter our growing drillbit momentum was also notable on the international front.
In the North Sea after consolidating our expanded portfolio early in the year we're having very good drilling results with excellent flow rates from all discoveries across our fields.
And the value of Apache as operator I think has just been endorsed by a major with Shell last week announcing their purchase of half this [ph] position and many of the Apache-operated fields in the region.
In Argentina we completed our first Vaca Muerta horizontal well which was a relatively short lateral.
It was about 1 900 feet with only 7 fracs.
It's early days but the well results have been very encouraging.
We continue to set the economics of the play.
We have 4 additional horizontal tests that's planned over the next few months.
We have 450 000 net acres in this play and it has enormous resource potential.
After a very successful portfolio expansion phase over the last 2.5 years we really focused -- refocused back to the drillbit.
We hold a leading position in some of the most attractive basins and plays around the world and we intend to actively exploit this resource potential for the benefit of our shareholders.
As we disclosed by our press release last month our third quarter reported production reflects approximately 25 000 barrels of oil a day of production downtime which were due primarily to hurricane disruptions in the Gulf of Mexico and the scheduled North Sea platform turnarounds.
Our third quarter production averaged about 771 000 barrels a day.
And if you put 25 000 barrels on top of that which is all back on right now we're -- we've -- we're producing today approximately 800 000 barrels a day.
The important thing is we remain on track to deliver our production growth guidance for the year and we're going to stay within our $10 billion exploration and development budget.
One final note.
And as we continue to build and execute our global pipeline of exploration activity we're testing 2 wells 1 in the Williston Basin -- both which we have large acreage positions; and the Mississippian Lime.
The good news is we've had good oil shows from the logs and the formations that we were targeting.
We're currently completion -- in the completion phase of our initial wells in each of these plays and we'll be experimenting with our frac designs to give us optimal results.
We secured a number of blocks in the recent Gulf of Mexico lease sale.
We have captured a highly sought-after deepwater block in Suriname which is on trend with recent play opening and discoveries.
You should expect our drillbit momentum to continue.
We have built the foundation of this portfolio over the several years and this is personally the most exciting time for me over the last 25 years.
We have the asset depth financial strength and delivery expertise to stand out in this sector and that's exactly what we intend to do.
Now I'll turn it over to Rodney.
Thank you Steve.
Our total reported net production for the third quarter was approximately 771 000 boe per day.
Hurricane Isaac in the Gulf of Mexico and outages in the North Sea due to scheduled maintenance activities reduced production by 13 000 boe per day and 12 000 boe per day respectively.
Currently all of this production is back online and we have entered the fourth quarter with record worldwide net production.
During the third quarter we continued the conversion of our extensive onshore oil and hydrocarbon liquids-rich inventory into production and cash flow.
We rank among the most active drillers in North America having operated an average of 66 drilling rigs in our U.S.
regions during the quarter including 35 in our Permian region and 24 in our Central region with outstanding results.
Our Permian and Central region averaged combined net production of approximately 184 000 boe per day during the third quarter nearly 1/4 of our total worldwide net production.
Moreover this represents an increase of 15% over the second quarter averaged net production of 160 000 boe per day and an increase of 30% over third quarter 2011 net boe production of 141 000 boe per day.
With the inventory of over 67 000 locations in these 2 regions alone we remain on track to deliver double-digit growth in the oil and liquids-rich Permian and Central regions for years to come.
In addition we are continuing our very active new venture exploration program.
Steve already elaborated on our encouraging results in the Mississippi Lime and Williston Basin and Vaca Muerta shale so I'll not address these plays here.
In Alaska we are on track to spud our first well in the Cook Inlet during the fourth quarter.
Finally in October we signed a new production shoring agreement to explore a high-potential area in Block 53 offshore Suriname in the equatorial margin fairway.
We were awarded 100% interest in this block and expect to commence a 3D seismic program during 2013.
Now turning to more detail in our regions.
The Permian had another outstanding quarter as we continue to grow through drillbit.
Third quarter production averaged nearly 112 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day a 7% increase over the second quarter with part of the increase resulting from additional NGL processing at the Deadwood plant as it became fully operational.
Our substantial acreage position continues to provide Apache the flexibility and optionality to test new plays and concepts.
During the quarter we added 230 000 gross acreage to our overall acreage position the majority of which was in the Midland Basin and the Wolfcamp play.
We now hold over 3.7 million gross acres across the hydrocarbon-rich Permian Basin.
We are now the most active driller in the basin and during the quarter averaged 35 rigs drilling 201 wells of which 26 were horizontal.
We expect to continue our shift to more horizontal drilling in the fourth quarter and into 2013 when we anticipate nearly half of our drilling rigs will be horizontal.
Drilling at Deadwood and Yeso continue to be a large contributor to growth while Irion County Wolfcamp horizontal activity and potential continues to expand.
At Deadwood where we are targeting the Wolfwood and Fusselman with vertical wells we averaged a 15-rig program for the quarter.
Earlier in the year we acquired additional 3D seismic data with the first migrated data arriving earlier in third quarter.
This new seismic information greatly enhanced our ability to target the prolific Fusselman accumulations and new locations are continuing to be identified.
A couple of our most recent Fusselman successes are the Squire 9 #5 well which flowed at 339 barrels of oil per day and 677 Mcf per day; and the Reilly [ph] 37 #8 which produced at a rate of 166 barrels of oil per day and 256 Mcf per day.
Drilling in the Deadwood area will complete the main active throughout 2012 and into 2013.
We operate 2 horizontal rigs in the Deadwood area targeting the shale of the Wolfcamp Atoka/Barnett and the Lower Cline formations.
The latest Cline well in Deadwood is Apache's best well to date.
The [indiscernible] 45-2H was drilled on the Southeast edge of our Deadwood acreage.
The well was drilled to a TD of 13 350 feet measured depth with a 1 300-foot lateral and after an 11-stage frac the well obtained a peak rate of 810 boe per day.
The well has averaged 623 boe per day in its initial 30 days production and has produced nearly 26 000 barrels of oil equivalent to date with a preliminary EUR of about 600 000 barrels.
The average EUR of the last 5 Cline wells is now 452 000 [ph] barrels.
Also in Deadwood a lower Wolfcamp Deadwood shale lateral was drilled 1 300 feet to a TD of 12 900 feet measured depth and tested at peak rate of over 200 barrels of oil per day and 200 Mcf per day.
Additional appraisal wells are planned for the Wolfcamp and Cline shale plays in 2013 and commercialization of these shales could add hundreds of potential locations to the 560 locations already identified in the Cline shale.
We have additional -- also drilled a horizontal well in the Barnett Shale.
And after a 14-stage frac the peak rate exceeded 380 barrels of oil per day and 613 Mcf per day.
In the Barnhart Wolfcamp play Apache has drilled 13 wells 8 producing and the remainder either in drilling or frac-ing or flow-back stages.
Since March 2012 these 8 wells have produced 234 000 barrels of oil and 509 million cubic feet of gas or 319 000 boe from the upper Wolfcamp Shales only.
Current Wolfcamp production is 2 150 boe per day.
Two middle camp -- two middle Wolfcamp wells are currently drilling and a Cline horizontal well on Ketchum Mountain will spud soon.
In the other Midland Basin and eastern shale properties we have had some notable results in the Wilshire area such as the well at McElroy Ranch that tested as high as 289 barrels of oil per day and 735 mcf a day from the Spraberry through 10 [ph] intervals on a submersible pump.
In the Yeso area of New Mexico we ended the quarter running 4 vertical rigs.
27 vertical wells were spud during the third quarter and 22 wells are completed and producing.
Notable wells from the quarter include the Lee Federal #59 which averaged 168 barrels of oil per day and 403 Mcf per day during September; and the Tony Federal #39 whose 30-day well test averaged 119 barrels of oil per day and 287 Mcf per day.
Our fourth rig recently transitioned from drilling vertical wells to commencing our multiyear Shear [ph] Lake horizontal drilling program.
We continue to have good results from the Central Basin Platform where we are applying horizontal drilling to historically conventional fields and reservoirs with outstanding results.
In the Three Bar shallow unit we have tested the Wichita Albany an interval characterized by air bed [ph] limestones and dolomite frosty zones at measured depths of 7 000 feet.
Results from the first 2 wells include the 10-1H with a 30-day average production of 848 barrels of oil per day and 465 Mcf per day and the 105-H with an 18-day average production of 620 barrels of oil per day and 754 Mcf per day.
We plan to run one rig in the unit during the fourth quarter.
As we drill more we learn more and we are able to improve the efficiency of our exploration and operations activities as evidenced by these widespread encouraging results.
We continue to be excited about the abundant opportunities and growth prospects of our Permian Basin position.
In our Central region we are also seeing excellent results in new ramp up activity across our nearly 2 million gross acres.
Production was 72 300 boe per day up 31% from the second quarter.
Adjusting for acquired Cordillera production growth was 24% quarter-over-quarter as we realized the benefits of our active oil and liquids-rich drilling program.
The growth was driven by a 42% increase in oil production and a 20% increase in gas production.
Our opportunities in the region continue to expand following our May acquisition of over 312 000 net acres and subsequent 18 000 additional acres in the heart of the Anadarko Basin.
During the third quarter this region operated an average of 24 drilling rigs 23 of which were horizontal and drilled 40 wells with 100% success.
During the same period we completed 26 new wells for an average daily rate of 485 barrels of oil per day and 2 700 Mcf of gas per day.
We continue to work numerous plays across our acreage position.
Notable highlights in the quarter include strong results in the oily Tonkawa Marmaton and Cottage Grove a new horizontal play we're testing on our Stiles Ranch and other properties.
In the Tonkawa for example our Karen 1-25H averaged 525 barrels of oil per day at 1.8 million cubic feet gas per day for the first 30 days of production and the Steward 1-20H averaged 654 barrels of oil per day and 758 Mcf per day.
In the Marmaton we also had positive results including the Standing [ph] Eagle 1-16H which averaged 514 barrels of oil per day and 5.8 million cubic feet of gas per day and the Maddole [ph] 1-18H which averaged 1 116 barrels of oil per day at 8.9 million cubic feet of gas per day.
The Cottage Grove also provide strong results with the Stiles 24 68H averaging 893 barrels of oil per day and 1.2 million cubic feet of gas and the Stiles 12-1H averaging 1 652 barrels of oil per day at 1.6 million cubic feet of gas per day.
The Granite Wash continues to be a significant focus of our drilling program and during the quarter we tested the Weatherlee [ph] 6-1H which averaged 672 barrels of oil per day and 5.7 million cubic feet of gas per day.
In general we were finding enough oil in the Granite Wash that remains economic despite low NGL prices.
In the Texas Panhandle drilling success continues in the Canyon Wash on our 200 square-mile Bivins Ranch acreage.
During the quarter we completed our 9th and 10th successful wells which tested 1 050 barrels of oil per day and 950 Mcf per day and 1 447 barrels of oil per day and 1 199 Mcf per day.
This is an encouraging validation of Apache's play concept.
Keep in mind these 1 000-plus barrel a day wells are for vertical wells.
To debottleneck our growing production we completed a 9-mile pipeline in transport stranded natural gas during the quarter thereby securing our takeaway from the area which has grown from 0 to over 5 000 barrels of oil per day in 14 months.
The line is currently selling 3.3 million cubic feet of gas per day of 1 450 BTU gas with NGL recoveries.
Additionally we added a second rig in the Bivins Ranch area.
During the third quarter low ethane prices at Conway resulted in ethane rejections for the region.
The ethane rejection was limited to the month of July and August as ethane prices at Conway dropped to record lows in early July.
At that time Conway ethane was trading at approximately at 90% discount to Mont Belvieu.
In the end of the third quarter this discount was reduced to approximately 42% to Mont Belvieu.
Currently Conway ethane is discounted 44% to Mont Belvieu.
Turning to the Gulf of Mexico Shelf.
Quarterly production was down 8% to 90 000 boe per day as a result of approximately 10 000 boe per day of curtailments due to Hurricane Isaac.
This was due primarily to the storm's impact on third-party facilities as Apache's infrastructure was relatively unharmed.
With shut-ins behind us we are currently running 8 rigs 2 of which are focused on P&amp;A work year-to-date we have TD-ed 21 operated wells offsetting some of the downtime experience during the quarter with positive well results with our shelf drilling program.
For example the Main Pass 315 well came online at 634 barrels of oil per day and Eugene Island the 118 B#1 sidetrack penetrated 45 feet of gas and a few [ph] sand.
At Ship Shoal the 126 B well came online at 522 barrels of oil per day and 3.8 million cubic feet of gas to date.
And 2 new wells at Main Pass 308 came online for a combined rate of 1 555 barrels of oil per day.
The total platform rate is currently 2 596 barrels of oil per day but production is being curtailed due to facility restrictions.
Modifications are currently being designed to remedy the situation.
We've now been awarded 60 -- 61 blocks from the June 20 federal lease sale adding to our inventory of opportunities in the Gulf.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter we plan to increase our rig count by 1 when a rig finishes the 7-month shipyard project.
By the end of the quarter we plan to complete the Main Pass 308 drilling program.
The last location is drilling and one recompletion is remaining.
Our Eugene Island 330 drilling program will also continue through the end of 2012 with 2 additional locations to be drilled.
In the deep Gulf third quarter production was relatively flat as a full 3 months of production from our Wide Berth and Mandy fields was offset by Hurricane Isaac downtime.
We anticipate bringing our Bushwood field near future as capacity is freed up from [indiscernible] depletion.
This will add approximately 4 500 net boe per day to the region's production.
During the second quarter we announced our participation in the June 20 Central Gulf of Mexico lease sale.
The awards have now been completed and we received 28 blocks.
During 2013 we are taking delivery of 2 rigs to begin exploring these prospects.
In our Gulf Coast Onshore region average production was up 8% over the second quarter to 27 000 boe per day as additional takeaway capacity was installed at our Atchafalaya Bay field and production was reestablished in the Lake Paige Field.
These additions coupled with new production volumes and continued drilling success at our Chapman Ranch in South Texas and Golden Meadow Fields onshore Louisiana helped to offset production deferrals due to Hurricane Isaac.
A notable highlight from this region was the Scottsdale [ph] #1 well in South Louisiana which tested 20.2 million cubic feet of gas per day and 199 barrels of oil per day at 47-degree API gravity oil.
We plan to complete the installation of a 4-mile 8-inch flowline connecting the well to our Atchafalaya Bay production facility before year-end.
Apache's Gulf Coast Onshore region initiated production this morning to a newly installed 12-inch pipeline connecting our Atchafalaya Bay production facility to TransCanada or ANR's 30-inch pipeline 5 miles away.
We are currently ramping up production to 50 million cubic feet of gas gross per day with plans to increase production to 75 million cubic feet of gas gross per day over the next few days.
This marks the completion of Phase 1 of our Atchafalaya Bay infrastructure project.
Phase 2 is anticipated to be complete during the second quarter of next year which will bring gross production from our Atchafalaya Bay wells up to 220 million cubic feet of gas per day an increase in current producing rates by an incremental 170 million cubic feet of gas per day.
Apache has a working [ph] interest of approximately 48% to 50% in these wells.
Looking ahead we intend to have 6 operated rigs running during the fourth quarter as we focus our efforts on oil opportunities in Southeastern Texas Southern Louisiana and Southern Mississippi.
Heading north to Canada.
Production in the third quarter was steady as the region continued to transition to more oil and liquids-rich production.
Drilling has focused on several plays across our extensive acreage position such as Dunvegan Bluesky and Sparky.
Well highlights from these areas include the first 3 of 4 operated Dunvegan horizontal oil wells in the Kaybob area with 1 well already in production.
Initial oil rates range from 159 to 320 barrels of oil per day.
Drilling of the fourth well and production start-up of all wells will occur in the fourth quarter.
In the liquids-rich Bluesky area we continued our horizontal program completing 3 wells during the quarter.
Very strong results received particularly in the third well which tested at 11.7 million cubic feet of gas per day and 600 boe per day of liquids.
Lastly the Sparky program in the Consort area continues to play a significant role in our program.
And during the quarter we operated 3 rigs and drilled 24 wells.
Oil production in Consort increased from 1 250 barrels of oil per day to 1 792 barrels of oil per day in the third quarter of which Sparky program provided 300 barrels of oil per day with 1/3 of the third quarter drills tied in and proving up.
Production start-up of the remaining wells will occur in the fourth quarter.
Moving outside North America in the North Sea.
Third quarter production average 67 800 barrels of oil equivalent per day was down quarter-over-quarter due to turnarounds and continued challenges with ESP failures as previously disclosed resulting in deferrals of approximately 12 000 boe per day.
All operated Forties platforms are back to full production as are Scott and Telford.
Nelson is scheduled to return to production in mid-November.
During the quarter the region operated 4 rigs and drilled in the produced 6 gross wells with 2 further wells in progress.
Well highlights for the region included Bacchus West the second-successful horizontal development well in the Bacchus Field.
The well encountered 889 feet of net pay in the Jurassic Fulmar sandstone reservoir.
It was completed in late July with initial production of 8 500 barrels of oil per day gross.
Apache is the operator in the field with a 50% working interest.
The Bacchus Field commenced production in May of this year and is currently producing around 10 000 barrels of oil per day 5 000 barrels a day net through the subsea tie-back to Apache's Forties Alpha platform.
Looking to Forties.
We also brought on 3 new wells with average IP of 1 633 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We made continued progress on the installation of the Forties Alpha Satellite platform.
The jacket was installed successfully west of the Forties Alpha platform on September 8.
The platform topside will be lifted into place in the second quarter of 2013 followed soon thereafter by development drilling through its 18 well slots.
We continue also to have drilling success in our Beryl field where during the quarter Apache's Beryl Bravo's B73-Y [ph] development well tested at 8 161 barrels of oil per day and 5.9 million cubic feet of gas per day from a Jurassic Manson [ph] reservoir containing 71 feet of net oil pay.
The well began producing at the end of August.
The well also encountered 245 feet of net pay in 3 additional zones that will be produced in a later date.
We have a 50% interest in the well.
The U.K.
Department of Energy and Climate Change announced this month the award of 11 new North Sea licenses to Apache the highest of any operator participating in the 27th Seaward Licensing Round.
These awards covered 19 full or partial blocks 613 000 gross acres or 2 482 square kilometers.
Included in these blocks is all the available acreage around our Beryl field plus 2 key licenses near Forties.
Apache also was awarded an interest in another non-operated license.
The economic prospectivity of these areas was enhanced by recent improvements in the U.K.
tax allowance mechanism involving small fields in high-pressure high-temperature formations.
Looking to the fourth quarter we plan to drill wells on Forties Charlie and Forties Echo as well as reinstating wells on Forties Bravo and Forties Delta.
The Beryl Bravo platform will be down for a planned par [ph] which started 26 October returning to full production on 22nd of November in order to perform routine maintenance.
Turning to Egypt.
Our operations continued unabated.
We averaged 26 rigs operating and reported quarterly averaged net production of 153 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Because of the terms of our PSC to provide for lower nets with higher oil prices we reported a 4% decrease in the preceding quarter.
On a gross basis however we essentially held production flat.
In addition during the quarter we saw record turnarounds on development lease approvals after seeing delays of 9 months or more during 2011.
The most recent approvals for development leases took just 34 days a positive sign that the new leadership at petroleum ministry EGPC is finally finding its footing.
In Khalda we had several discoveries of note this quarter including the Samaha North 1X [ph] which drilled to a TD of 17 362 feet in the Lower Safa.
The well encountered pay intervals in 4 zones and a test is pending.
The earlier discovery Samaha 1X [ph] tested at a rate of 20.8 million cubic feet of gas per day and 913 barrel of condensate per day from the Lower Safa and 23 million cubic feet of gas per day and 1 997 barrels of condensate per day for the Upper Safa.
And the Samaha East 1X [ph] tested at a rate of 28 million a day and 711 barrels of condensate for Lower Safa and 14.5 million cubic feet of gas per day and 1 110 barrels condensate for the Upper Safa.
KPC or Khalda Petroleum Company's current oilfields also saw a high level of activity.
During the quarter a total of 13 wells were drilled or are currently being drilled in these properties.
In the Eunice field 7 wells were drilled including 3 injectors.
And recent initial tests of the Unis 2 Upper Bahariya reservoir resulted in 1 800 barrels of oil per day.
The Eunice field started production this year and as of October is already producing in excess of 5 500 barrels of oil per day gross.
Looking to Australia.
We continue to make significant progress toward development of our large infrastructure projects in the region.
The BHP-operated Macedon project is reported to be over 70% complete and on schedule for first gas in mid-2013 which will add approximately 45 million cubic feet of gas of net production when 2 new contracts come on in 2013 and 2014.
All contracts have been executed on schedule for our Balnaves project with the Armada Claire FPSO currently in the shipyard undergoing refurbishment and replacement construction preparing for Balnaves 2014 [indiscernible].
Our Julimar gas development in support of the Wheatstone LNG project is progressing on schedule with recent contract awards announced for various subsea project components.
Third quarter net production was 64 000 boe per day or 3% down from the previous quarter  likely [ph] due to anticipated decline at the Van Gogh field.
Looking ahead in the fourth quarter 2 new wells both commenced at Stag in late October while Van Gogh and Pyrenees are forecast to continue declining slowly through the remainder of the year.
The first Stag well the Stag 44H came online this week and is currently producing 1 800 barrels of oil per day adding to the Stag 45H production that came on the week before at around 1 500 barrels of oil per day.
A planned turnaround of the Yara fertilizer plant that began in late September has experienced delays to an unexpected equipment failure.
It is anticipated by our partner the operator of the plant to be offline until late November.
Offsetting these deferred volumes at Yara are recently signed commercial gas contracts for additional Reindeer and John Brookes volumes in the fourth quarter.
Finally in Argentina production during the quarter averaged 48 000 boe -- 48 500 boe per day a 3% decline quarter-over-quarter.
During the quarter our total Gas Plus production averaged 111 million cubic feet of gas per day out of 214 million cubic feet of gas per day of total net production with 98 million cubic feet of gas per day or 88% of the volume sold at Gas Plus prices which averaged $4.97 per Mcf.
In the Neuquén Basin we drilled and completed successfully the NL 62 well at 2.5 million a day from the pre-Cuyo formation.
The well has been approved at Gas Plus and we are currently selling gas at $5.47 per Mcf.
In total the Neuquén Basin 7 wells reached TD in the third quarter under Gas Plus and a total of 8 wells were initially completed delivering a combined growth rate of 17.1 million cubic feet of gas per day and 1 595 barrels of oil per day which is 4 445 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
As Steve already mentioned the encouraging initial results for our Vaca Muerta exploration program I won't elaborate further here.
That concludes our many operational highlights.
And I'll now turn it over to Tom Chambers.
Thanks Rod.
And good afternoon everyone.
As Steve and Rod mentioned we are actively focused on our significant inventory of drilling opportunities and realizing the potential we've built through these acquisitions.
Record rig counts continue to increase in our Permian and Central regions and significant infrastructure investments in all the regions has set the groundwork for a positive momentum adding into year-end.
Underpinning this activity is our ability to generate strong consistent revenues and cash flow.
For the third quarter we reported earnings of $161 million or $0.41 per diluted share and adjusted earnings of $861 million or $2.16 per share when we adjust for certain items that affect the comparability of results.
Third quarter adjustments totaled $700 million and include a noncash property write-down in Canada a change in tax rate on decommissioning expenditures for North Sea oil and gas facilities a foreign currency fluctuation adjustment and some small merger acquisition and transition costs.
The noncash after-tax write-down of our Canadian oil and gas properties totaled $539 million which brings the year-to-date amount to $1.4 billion.
Our Canadian regions reserves were over 77% natural gas at year-end 2011 and a decline in natural gas prices over the prior year continues to impact us under full-cost accounting rules.
The other large noncash item impacting earnings was the $118 million charge related to decommissioning facilities in the North Sea.
As you'll recall in 2011 the U.K.
increased the corporate income tax rate on North Sea oil and gas profits from 50s -- 50% to 62% and at that time also proposed that the tax relief attributable to decommissioning expenditures remain at 50%.
The decommissioning-related legislation was not formally enacted but was included in the finance bill introduced in 2012 and enacted in July of this year necessitating the change in the quarter.
Production drove results in this quarter and fueled our -- fueled by our extensive drilling program.
Production averaged 771 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day a strong performance despite downtime in the Gulf of Mexico associated with Hurricane Isaac and maintenance downtime in the North Sea.
Higher oil prices contributed to the total revenue of $4.1 billion for the quarter and a record $12.6 billion on a year-to-date basis.
This compares to $4 billion in the previous quarter and $12.5 billion year-to-date in 2011.
Our revenues and ultimately our ability to maintain operating margins translates into cash from operations which totals $2.4 billion for the quarter.
Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital was 2% higher than the previous quarter.
Year-to-date our cash flow from operations was down only 2% over the prior year-to-date period despite lower worldwide price realizations with natural gas and NGL prices down 16% and 27% respectively and oil prices up only 2%.
International price realizations helped to mitigate the decline in the quarter in earnings and cash flow with oil price realizations up 10% sequentially and 3% from the prior year quarter.
Additionally with Brent currently trading at over a $20 premium to WTI we will continue to reap the benefits of our global oil position.
International natural gas prices were up 3% from the prior quarter and 13% from the third quarter 2011.
For the past 3 quarters we have realized over $4 per Mcf on our international gas production a significant premium to North American prices which average well below $3 per Mcf over the same time frame when we exclude the impact of hedges.
International regions represent just over 1/3 of our worldwide gas production.
A key point I'd like to emphasize is that both international oil and gas price realizations were 20% higher than North American average realizations a true testament to our global portfolio of balance and reach.
Our cash margins for the third quarter remained strong.
At $41.54 per boe our cash margins increased 5% from the sequential quarter but decreased almost 10% from the prior year period.
Our cash costs were slightly higher than we would have liked to see this quarter particularly lifting cost which were primarily impacted by an increase in nonrecurring repairs and maintenance costs tied to corrosion repairs at our Grand Isle facilities and plant turnarounds in Canada and the North Sea.
We also increased workover [ph] activity in nearly every region.
Besides providing very good rate-of-return projects they supported our base production.
Coupled with the continued growth in our onshore North American operations our labor costs have increased accordingly.
As production rises in the fourth quarter and into next year our rates should fall back accordingly.
Rest assured we will remain focused on optimizing our margins and managing our costs while not compromising safety.
You can find a detailed calculation of our margins adjusted earnings and cash from operations in the financial supplement located on our website.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We have continued to maintain a strong and flexible balance sheet with a debt-to-cap ratio of 27%.
We ended the quarter with $318 million in cash and a total debt of $11.6 billion.
Moving on to taxes.
As I mentioned on the prior call our earnings would be impacted this quarter by a change in U.K.
tax law which it was and I detailed earlier in my comments.
The third quarter effective tax rate of 79% was impacted by this charge in the Canadian ceiling test adjustment as well.
Absent these adjustments and foreign exchange movements our effective tax rate would have been a more typical 45%.
We would expect a deferred tax percentage of approximately 20% for the year absent these adjustments.
In closing we had another solid quarter of production revenues and cash flow driven by our drilling program.
And with that I'll turn the call back over to Brady.
All right.
Thank you Tom.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I do want to apologize to the listeners on the call if you hear any background noise.
But I'll turn it over to the operator now and we're ready for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Steve we've seen some pretty interesting announcements regarding majors including Exxon I think some pretty high valuations for Canadian gas acreage.
I just wanted to see if you could maybe comment on some of the potential implications for Apache.
Are there opportunities for you to monetize some of your acreage in places where you're not spending capital? And does this have any implications? Could you partner with Exxon regarding Kitimat where the market is concerned about? Two different questions.
I'll take the first one about the acreage.
Interestingly -- and I think the number is correct because I asked our guys and gals in Canada.
We have about 300 000 acres in that same play that just traded.
And in fact we're starting to drill some wells there at the end of this year and in the first of next year.
How we actually exploit all of that acreage? We got 6.5 million acres in Canada and we just went through the same process that we've done in the Anadarko Basin and the Permian Basin in the -- in our Canadian region in terms of resource potential and we're going to be rolling that out here in the coming months.
But the potential for liquids and liquids-rich gas in Canada are actually much stronger than I thought they were.
In terms of partnering with Exxon I can't comment on that.
But despite some of the things you hear in the press we're -- Kitimat is still going forward and we have -- we're very positive about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'll leave it at that.
Obviously Steve this year you've had some production disruptions.
It sounds like those are in the rearview mirror.
How comfortable are you Steve with your 6% to 9% target for 2013? And I just wanted to also see if we could get a little bit more color on the next couple of quarters for the North Sea given -- with the ESP issues back online things like that.
So some more color on the North Sea.
Yes.
In terms of -- there's nothing -- honestly if you -- and I -- this is an excuse and I don't like to give excuses but if you were to adjust our production which you can't do because we didn't get the cash and we didn't get the production but if you were to adjust it we would have been right on our -- for the hurricane which you can't do a damn thing about and the events in the North Sea would be right on our production forecast.
And I know that sounds like an excuse but as we move to the drillbit those kind of things we've got to get over.
We've got to get past those kind of things.
So far I will tell you from an outlook for the fourth quarter we're very positive about it.
And there's nothing changed with respect to our forecast for 2013 6% to 9%.
I mean I think we have the inventory and we have the asset base in order to do that.
Your next question will come from the line of Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> A question on Beryl.
If anybody knows what the value of Beryl is it's you folks.
You saw Shell take out Hess' interest.
What's the sense there? Why didn't you either match or beat the bid? And is that a sign that you got too many things to do and you don't want to do more bolt-on acquisitions? I really can't comment on that at the present time.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay I'll try again moving to a different country.
Can you -- a bit more color on the Vaca Muerta then? Yes I will.
We're a -- it's a little early to give rates.
I will tell you we were pleasantly surprised by the initial rates that we got out of that well.
We've been -- we've had it on now almost a month.
I will tell you it's still making 300 barrels a day.
And for a well that's been frac-ed 7 times in only 1 900 feet of lateral it's -- we're very satisfied with it.
Your next question will come from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I -- a couple for me please if I may.
Steve it's obviously pretty nice to start seeing the momentum picking up in the Lower 48.
Can you tell us where you see the rig count going in terms of relative capital allocation between I guess international and U.S.
particular Lower 48 in particular 63 [ph] now.
Where do you think that tops out? Or are you at a level now where you think you're -- you've got enough to say grace over? Well I think -- as I said in my prepared remarks I think you're going to see that momentum build.
Certainly from an opportunity standpoint we have the opportunity to -- and I'm going to be redundant.
But if you remember in 2010 we spent $500 million in the Permian then we went to about $1 billion.
This year we're going to spend a little over $2 billion and in next year we're going to spend more than that.
We'll probably run 40 rigs next year in the Permian.
And the Anadarko Basin our results there actually better than we expected.
So we're going to -- you're going to see an increase in the Anadarko Basin also which speaks to the allocation of capital.
Certainly we haven't allocated our capital for 2013 yet.
We're going to do that in December.
But it's certainly -- we're going to put it into best projects wherever those projects are.
Research Division</strong> And then Steve this might be a dumb question as a follow-up but I'm going to have a go anyway.
Your stock prices when you did the BP deal last time your share equity was above where the share price is now.
You obviously -- you've done Analyst Day you've given us insight to everything that's going on and you spent a lot of money buying assets.
As you say you've got a very deep portfolio.
One could argue that you could buy back reserves cheaper by buying back your own stock.
I'm just curious as to how that plays into how you're thinking about trying to address some of the recent performance in the share price which seems to contrast with the tremendous portfolio you've built up.
Yes and I -- we've had this discussion before.
I think in terms of the rates that we're getting for the investment dollars that we have in our portfolio -- it's -- other than perception would be rates of return which would be cost of capital to buying our stock back.
We're not -- at the present time we're not considering diverting capital from the base program to buy our stock back.
Research Division</strong> So what do you think it is the market is missing here? Because I'm just really going to take your perspective as to how patient you're going to be on this.
Well I -- the -- I -- obviously we're disappointed that we had the down time.
I'm optimistic that we'll have a good quarter in the fourth quarter and I think we got to continue to post quarters.
Your next question will come from the line of Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> I was just curious just thinking broadly about 2013 CapEx spending.
Is it roughly fair to think in terms of it mirroring the growth in cash flow year-over-year that it might move up in lockstep with that? Yes we're going to -- we have the opportunity base.
It's -- we're going to spend our cash flow in the E&amp;P business.
Research Division</strong> And then a second question is to follow up if you can kind of broadly compare and contrast the economics and opportunities of LNG projects in Australia versus those in Canada.
Well for different reasons they're very similar actually.
I mean obviously -- let's assume that the pricing of the LNG is exactly the same in Australia versus they are in Canada.
I will tell you a -- the add-ons of trains in Canada would be much more lucrative than they would be in Australia just because of the cost.
So that project really is a long-term project.
And there's tremendous amount of gas in the United States and/or in British Columbia right now.
Your next question will come from the line of John Freeman with Freeman James (sic) [Raymond James].
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I didn't know that I took over the company.
The -- on the North Sea the 12 000 that was offline the -- specifically just to the ongoing pump issues how much of the 12 000 was related to just the pump issues? It's only about 2 000 or 3 000 barrels of oil per day specifically attributed to the pumps.
We had 9 ESPs that were off and those are being cycled into the drilling scheduled to be replaced along with new drills that we do that -- based on economics so that -- we haven't got all of those 9 replaced yet but they probably will be by the -- in the second quarter of 2013.
But the real down -- production off was the -- was our turnaround at Alpha.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And I think you all mentioned that Nelson returns in November.
How much of a production impact is that? That's 1 900 barrels of oil a day net.
And that's been down for about almost 100 days.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then last question for me it's still on the North Sea.
Did the 3D seismic killer [ph] you're shooting on Beryl did that get completed last month? It's only partially completed.
We have about -- 30% of it was acquired in the current shooting weather window this last summer.
The balance of it we  acquire in 2013.
But the 40% is we're currently processing.
Right.
Your next question will come from the line of John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Just some quick ones for me.
With Suriname will you shoot the seismic and then bring someone out to promote [ph] ? Yes well let me put it this way.
We're not that -- we wouldn't go drill that well 100%.
And we -- and -- but frankly John we've already had a lot of interest.
That's a very good block frankly.
Yes I would assume so.
Yes Atlantic margin turbidites are in.
What about services cost Steve? We're seeing -- or hearing on a lot of the other conference calls that prices for rigs and frac-ing are coming down.
What are you seeing? Oh yes they're -- actually frac-ing costs came down really in the third quarter in a big way and you're starting to see rigs come down.
If you look at the rig count in the Permian Basin over the last 2 months I mean we're -- it's the historic or the continuous ebb and flow of prices service costs and capital.
And what you're seeing right now is we were on the back end of all those service costs going up we're on the front end of it now because we -- I think they'll continue to go down.
Okay.
Last one for me.
Would you consider ever doing not a stock buyback but a more competitive common stock dividend? You've got a great balance sheet you're very diversified and you're suffering benign neglect.
I -- we did that many years ago actually.
And I mean honestly we consider pretty much all avenues of what -- how to reward our shareholders frankly from a cash dividend to a stock dividend to stock buybacks.
And frankly when you look at our portfolio all we have to do now is deliver honestly.
Our -- as I told our planning meeting group we have 280 people in Dallas and we have nobody to look at but ourselves.
We just need to perform because we've got the asset base and we've got the people so...
Okay last one for me.
Steve would Mississippi Lime be a good water disposal access? I'm sorry.
What John? Would the Mississippi Lime be a good water disposal access wells being wells.
Yes you're going to -- I mean you're going to get -- yes it would.
I mean that -- if you've looked at not just us but all the operators out there that's a good oil play but you've got to move a lot of water which we anticipated.
Your next question will come from the line of Matt Portillo with Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick questions for me.
Firstly on the CapEx side.
Looking at Q3 it looks like the run rate CapEx spend is about $2.7 billion for drilling and then also gathering.
Is that a reasonable rate that we should think about going forward? And then as we head into 2013 kind of can you talk a little bit about the rig count that you're currently employing by basin and then -- and how that may change over time? I think you mentioned the Permian will increase to about 50% horizontal rig.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of how those rigs are shifting around.
I think we've got 34 rigs.
I mean I might be off one but I think we have 34 rigs in the Permian.
We've got 24 or 25 in the Anadarko Basin.
I think we're up to 7 in Canada and we've got 8 offshore Gulf of Mexico.
That's not exact but that's pretty close.
Your next question will come from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you refresh us on Australia on production trajectory and your latest thoughts on Van Gogh platform remediation and just what we should expect production trajectory-wise over the next 4 to 7 quarters? Yes.
I mean Van Gogh has been very good.
It's paid out 9 months.
We're still producing I think about 16 000 17 000 barrels a day there.
We have a turnaround on our FPSO coming in about the middle of -- I mean middle of 2013.
And the real reason that's important is we're going to -- when we bring it back.
In the meantime we're going to be drilling Coniston wells which is a sister field to the north of Van Gogh that will start ramping up our oil production going through that FPSO.
But frankly we've seen the peaks of the production at both Van Gogh and Pyrenees.
And the way we replace that is we've got Balnaves which is about a 20-million-barrel oil field we should have on broad win [ph] 2014.
2014.
2014.
We also got Macedon which is gas but it's not like North American gas.
It is -- that contract is north of $7.
So we've got Macedon coming on in the third quarter of 2013.
So we've got -- we're going to see a little dip in Australia and then we're going to see a big ramp-up again.
Research Division</strong> And I guess when we think about that ramp-up on the oil side does that ramp-up just kind of get back to the levels that you've been producing which has been relatively consistent for this year in the 28 000 to 30 000 barrels a day range? Or does it step up beyond that? Well I don't have that.
I can't answer that question.
I just -- and it's not that I wouldn't I just don't have it in front of me.
I don't know what our profile looks like.
Research Division</strong> And lastly in Egypt.
Can you just talk to any discussions with the government you've had since your last update? And any thoughts on royalty rates and overall government take? Yes I had.
And in fact both Rod and I spent a week in September in Egypt.
I happen to be the Head of the U.S.-Egyptian Business Council.
And we had 48 U.S.
companies there some of the largest companies in the world.
We met with the president the prime minister.
I think we had government officials with us from the U.S.
Quite frankly we've been very pleased and very positive about not only that trip but our relationship with the government.
Rod alluded to that we have a new Petroleum Minister who is frankly a breath of fresh air.
We've got more things done in the last 90 days than we got done in the last 2 years in terms of development leases approved issues that we needed to get solved a new gas contract at Hydra so -- and honestly I'm very positive about their direction at least for our sector.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question will come from the line of Eliot Javanmardi with Capital One Southcoast.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes guys just wanted to see if you could speak to the increase in LOE for this quarter.
I noticed a significant amount of it was related to repair and maintenance and just wanted to see if that would essentially roll off for next quarter and come back down? That will roll off next quarter.
We had -- we talked about the Grand Isle 43 corrosion issue that we had.
That production was off in the second quarter.
That cost hit us in the third quarter that's a onetime cost.
And then we had the North Sea tire cost and some of the Canada SemCAMS plant downtime cost turnaround costs in there as well.
So those are all one-period type costs.
So you should see that coming down.
And with the production back up the per boe should drop as well.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Very good.
And also then in regards to exploration in Gulf of Mexico what wells could we see just expecting to come forward then -- as far as results are concerned? Is there any left this year? Or is it in 2013? Do you have some 1Q '13? No it's going to be -- it'll be 2013.
We don't pick up our rate until I think the first quarter of 2013 for our drilling our first prospects.
In the deepwater.
In the deepwater.
We have a well going right now at Heidelberg a development well by Anadarko -- I'm sorry Lucius that Anadarko is drilling but that's development drilling.
So you won't see any real impact from our drilling activity in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico until next year.
And we're actively drilling shelf well Gulf of Mexico shelf wells as we speak.
Your next question will come from the line of David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Back to the Permian Basin.
It -- kind of the Midland parts of the [ph] I guess I'll call it the Deadwood area.
What would you characterize as your best part of the basin? Well I'll tell you it's hard to tell.
I mean we thought the stuff we were doing down in the -- hang on one second.
I've got -- now he's going to give me a chart here.
Well actually the best results we've had so far in the individual wells is the Wolfcamp Shale but I don't know that if you caught -- if we drilled a well on the Central Basin platform in the Wichita Albany those wells came on 900 barrels a day still making about 8 -- over 600 barrels a day both of them.
And we have about 23 locations to drill in there.
So the one thing I would say about the Permian Basin and the reason we started getting in there in 1991 and made a number of acquisitions before we made BP is exactly where we are today: We've got a tremendous acreage position.
It is the oiliest place in North America oiliest place in the world outside of Russia.
So it has a lot potential for horizontal drilling.
And I think Rod mentioned we're going from -- I don't -- we're going to drill 123 wells this year horizontal.
Next year we're -- it's going to be more like half of our wells.
We're just on the cusp.
Not just us everybody is in terms of understanding the Permian Basin and the kind of oil that's out there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a follow-up.
You guys talked about -- at the Analyst Day talked about some similar basin drilling you're doing it was 15 to 20 wells you're going to drill out there.
Any comment -- and maybe I missed it in the prepared remarks but any comment on kind of overall the results from that program and what you're seeing over there? As I said in my prepared remarks in the Delaware the Yeso in particularly [indiscernible] is our principal area outside the Central Basin Platform in the Midland Basin.
The program there has been vertical up to this point but will be turning horizontal soon.
It certainly met our expectations per drill.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
So you're just -- you got nothing from the Avalon and Bone Spring.
No it's -- the main part of the Delaware is the Bone Spring for you.
It's a modest part of our portfolio compared to the other drilling we've been doing out in the basin.
Your next question will come from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I was curious is there an update you can share with us on the Mbawa well offshore Kenya and if you have any results or indication there what the implications might be for the [indiscernible]? I think we've talked about it at the last conference I mean call.
But we found gas.
It had a real chance of finding gas.
We thought we'd find an oil leg.
We drilled on big structure we found some gas.
That's not what we were looking for.
We're now reevaluating that block.
We got 1 million acres there.
So we're reevaluating that block.
I happened to see we're too low just drilled another oil well onshore Kenya.
But we're -- this -- what we were looking for is not in the same horizon that Tullow is drilling onshore.
And I think they're in the Cretaceous.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> My apologies if I missed that.
And the follow-up question going back to the Permian Basin.
Are -- you mentioned there are -- you guys mentioned in your prepared remarks some good Cline results I thought.
And I wondered if you could offer your thoughts on the relevant maturity and attractiveness of the Cline horizontal play versus the Wolfcamp horizontal play.
I think Rod pointed out that well is making 600 barrels a day.
So it tested -- first 30 days I think 600 barrels a day.
And I -- and if you look at our acreage position and what we showed at the resource potential and what we're looking at now I mean it's different.
It's bigger because what we found is just -- we drilled the Barnett Shale well in the Deadwood area.
We didn't drill it that far horizontal it's made 300 barrels a day.
I'll go back to my statement from a question earlier and that is we -- as an industry we haven't yet fully evaluated the most important plays in the Permian Basins.
And I'll go back to the Wichita Albany.
I mean I'm shocked that the Wichita Albany is making 900 barrels a day.
Your next question will come from the line of Mario Barraza with Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</strong> Just had a question more on the -- was it the cottage? I'm sorry.
Cottage Grove? Hello? Inc.</strong> The activity for this level in the Granite Wash? Well we drilled a couple of Cottage Grove wells.
Actually more than that I think we drilled 4.
It's a very good play.
The Anadarko Basin has sands from the Tonkawa all the way down to the Atoka and as you get deeper it gets gassier.
But that's another area that we've just scratched the surface as an industry and finding things like Hogshooter.
I mean we go down there and drill a couple of Hogshooter wells and 2 or 3 of them make 4 000 barrels a day.
And I can't emphasize enough you want to be in basins that have a lot of thickness and a lot of hydrocarbons and we're in 2 of the best.
And I will tell you one of these days the western sedimentary basin of Canada is going to look like this.
They're just way -- they're a lot further back in terms of their learning curve and exploiting it.
Your next question will come from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Wanted to dig into each of the [indiscernible] a little bit more here.
So if I'm looking at  the numbers right your gross oil production on a gross basis in Egypt has kind of dropped for it looks like the past 4 quarters here.
That had been an area that you had grown for years and years and it's kind of reversed trend.
Has that been kind of a slowdown with the transition government you talked about? Maybe getting more traction here with the new energy minister? How should we expect gross Egyptian oil production to sort of change gears [ph] again into '13? Yes and we're going to have to put on a little presentation.
It's -- or maybe put something out.
Actually our gross production gross operated production in Egypt is higher than it was at the beginning of the year.
And our gross operated gas is higher than it was.
What happens is is that you get -- because of the way that the concession agreement works if -- the price of crude oil has an awful lot to do with what you report for net production.
So we need to start putting out our gross production and our net production because it's -- Egypt is still very good and going to continue to be good.
And we're going to continue to see bumps in our net production based on oil prices.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay I guess I was looking at some of those numbers in your supplement and I guess maybe I was looking at them wrong.
But I saw you did 211 000 gross barrels a day this quarter.
And I saw like...
No that’s about right.
And what do we do in the quarter before 216? LLC Research Division</strong> I saw 215 in the first quarter of '12 and it was like 220 in the third quarter of '11.
So it's kind of been slowly coming down.
So I wasn't sure if that was sort of a Permian issue or bottlenecks or you guys just weren't...
Yes there's -- some of that is.
I will tell you.
Yes we had a plant turnaround at Terric [ph] for the third quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
And you mentioned getting good traction in last 90 days with the new Petroleum Minister over there.
I guess do you expect that to really kind of change things as we get into 2013 in Egypt for you? Right.
I -- we've got 26 rigs running.
We -- it still gives us the highest rate of return in the company.
And I don't -- that's probably what we're going to run all of next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess looking at your gas production in Egypt the other thing I noticed was that it looked like your net take in the third quarter was a fair bit lower I'm seeing about 36% of the gas versus the gross.
And previously it had always kind of been 40% or higher.
Is there anything in particular that happened in the third quarter? Should we expect it to stay at that kind of a 36% level going forward or is that going to rebound? How should we think about that? There's been no material change in the gross gas production except for the turnaround we just mentioned.
Some of this is PSC related and which Steve just mentioned.
But I should point out that the value of the gas all that gas we produce in Egypt is only about 18% on a revenue basis compared to the value of the oil.
So all the value in Egypt is coming from the oil and condensate we produce.
Our final question will come from the line of Robert Christensen with Buckingham Research.
A little bit more on the Williston Basin if you might.
Just you've got I think 3 permits maybe 1 well drilled and testing.
And just a little more color on that that's question one.
Question two I've heard you've been actively leasing up there even more land.
And question three have there been any other well results by other companies that have been encouraging to you? We are in the process actually of frac-ing our first well up there and we're drilling our second well.
I think yesterday we were at 2 700 feet.
So we're going to have 2 wells down by the end of the year.
We're not picking up big amounts of acreage before filling into the land block that we've put together which is -- I think is about 300 000 acres or so.
And there have been some other operators it's not right next door that have announced pretty good results.
I mean the play is moving that way so hopefully it moves all our way.
We're going to find out here pretty quick.
I would now turn the conference back over to Brady Parish for any closing remarks.
We just wanted to thank everybody for participating today.
And have a great remaining week.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for joining.
And you may now disconnect.
Good afternoon my name is Ally and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Apache Corporation Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instruction) in order to make sure that everyone has a chance to ask a question we ask that you limit yourself to one question and one follow-up question (Operator Instruction).
At this time I would like to introduce your presenter for today Mr.
Brady Parish Vice President of Investor Relation.
Mr.
Parish you may begin your conference.
Thank you Ally good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for Apache Corporation's full year and fourth quarter 2012 earning conference call.
This morning we reported 2012 earnings of $1.9 billion or $4.92 per diluted share adjusted earnings which excludes certain items that impact the comparability of results totaled $3.8 billion or $9.48 per diluted share.
Cash flow from operations totaled $10.2 million.
On today’s call we will have three speakers making prepared remarks prior to taking questions.
First we will hear from Steve Farris our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; followed by Rod Eichler President and Chief Operating Officer; and finally Tom Chambers Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
We've prepared our quarterly financial supplemental data package for your use which also includes the reconciliation of any non-GAAP numbers that we discuss such as adjusted earnings cash flow from operations or pre-tax margins.
In addition new for this quarter we have prepared an operations supplement to summarize our activities across the various Apache regions.
These can both be found on our website at www apachecorp.com/financialdata.
Today’s discussions will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
However a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
A further disclaimer is located with the supplemental data package on our website.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Brady and good afternoon everyone and thank all of you for joining us.
Apache achieved some new milestones in 2012 and first of all despite significant downtime we grew our average annual production to 779 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day almost 5.5% above 2011 if you adjust for dispositions which is a new record for Apache.
And as a matter of information and I assure you not an excuse I would like to point out had we not experienced the unplanned downtime in the North Sea and Hurricane Isaac in the Gulf of Mexico during just the third quarter.
Our production growth would have been 6.3%.
More importantly during the fourth quarter we averaged 800 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day the first time in our company's history which establishes a strong base as we enter 2013.
And despite as Brady pointed out despite much weaker North American natural gas prices our balanced portfolio enabled us generate $10.2 billion of cash flow consistent with 2011.
I'd also like to point out driving this impressive cash flow were our liquids revenues which constituted 81% of our overall $17 billion in revenues for the year and North American natural gas accounted for only 11%.
By the end of the year we had fully integrated our Midcontinent North Sea portfolio expansions and we really hit our stride in our large Permian position.
As a result we built operational momentum heading into 2013.
We have become the most active Permian basin player with 38 operated rigs and we plan to increase our horizontal rig fleet to half of our total operated rigs during the year.
We've also become a leader in the Midcontinent liquids and oil plays increasing our horizontal drilling activity from six rigs at the beginning of 2012 to 25 today.
At the end of the year we advanced the Kitimat LNG project by increasing our interest to 50% and expanding our strategic relationship with Chevron so we believe this is the financial and technical LNG wherewithal to complement on our upstream strength and it should help us accelerate our plants to monetize the over 50 Tcf of natural gas that we have in Liard and Horn River importantly at the oil-linked prices.
I am sure all of you have noted in our earnings release this morning during 2012 we replaced 156% of our production before revisions.
Excluding property acquisitions this replacement ratio would be 131%.
Low prices in Canada for natural gas during the year was a predominant driver of the negative revision of 299 million barrels of oil equivalent in fact it’s over 90% of that number.
With this transition behind us we’re going to move into 2013 with our initial capital budget set at $10.5 billion which is essentially flat with a 2% year-over-year from 2012.
Our capital allocation for 2013 really reflects our choice to deliver competitive near-term performance while building balanced long-term value for our shareholders.
Approximately $4 billion of our capital would be invested in Onshore U.S.
but we expect production to grow in excess of 20% 2013 driven primarily by our Permian and Central Region drilling programs.
We also project our North American oil productions to grow by 14% in 2013 which was up from 12% in 2012.
Furthermore our 2013 planned costs for $2.2 billion investments in ten long year infrastructure projects which represents nearly 21% of our total 2013 capital.
As a result of this capital allocation choice and taking into consideration production declines in certain of our regions we expect total production to grow by 3% to 5% in 2013.
Just for comparison purposes and using our budgeted economics if we instead use this long-term capital investment to fund additional drilling in the Onshore U.S.
our projected 2013 growth rate would be in excess of 6%.
Based on our current ownership of these long-term projects these projects are expected to contribute 150 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day over the next five years and over 200 000 barrels of oil equivalent by the end of the decade.
As a result of our two major LNG projects production for our development pipeline is expected to continue to increase over 200 000 of oil a day before settling into a zero decline multi-decade plateau.
We have built this company by focusing on returns balance and long-term value.
Over the last three years we have deepened and strengthened our portfolio.
We now have over 9 billion barrels of oil equivalent unbooked resource in our Permian and Mid-Continent positions.
That is second to none.
We have a robust project pipeline in motion that will provide a stable base of free cash flow for decades and we have broad exposure to quality resource and exploration opportunities around the world.
On a broader and deeper footprint provides us the opportunity to optimize our portfolio.
And as such we are in the process of identifying approximately $2 billion of asset rationalizations to be completed during 2013.
We're not in a position to get into specific details at this time but having acquired $16 billion of assets over the past three years and strengthening our asset base we have been in the process of reviewing our overall portfolio.
We are here for one purpose and that is to generate long-term profitable growth for our shareholders.
And we truly believe we can continue on that mission.
Finally another important item of note is that last week our Board approved increasing our common dividend by 18% from 17% to $0.20 per share.
This follows our increase from 2012 of 13%.
We remain confident in Apache's ability to continue growing profitably and see dividend growth as an important component of shareholder returns.
So with that I’ll hand it over to Rod Eichler our COO.
Thank you Steve.
Good afternoon.
As Brady previously mentioned we have compiled an operations supplement for your use which highlights our activities by region during the fourth quarter.
We have put this together in an effort to be responsive to feedback we have received and hope you find it useful.
In this supplement we have provided detailed operational information for the fourth quarter.
We also like to highlight some of our most notable achievements during 2012.
Firstly with our growth in the U.S.
onshore sea drilling.
Combined our Permian and Central regions grew production nearly 24% year-over-year and represent 25% of Apache's total global production by the fourth quarter and 197 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
As impressive as these results are the reality is we're just in the early stages of our growth as each region evolves in a full-scale development.
In the Permian Central alone we have identified over 9 billion barrels of oil equivalent of resource potential to further fuel our liquids-rich gas and oil production growth to unfold.
In addition we are in the process of completing our resource assessment in Canada for liquids-rich gas and oil opportunities with approximately 7 million gross acres in the Western Canadian Sedimentary Basin.
We anticipate identifying thereby in several thousand economic wells in our various plays which should allow us to add another North American onshore growth region as we ramp up activity over the next couple of years.
We also successfully integrated the barrel properties into our North Sea region.
We have spent the last year preparing for drilling campaign that will test new opportunities based on the first 3D seismic acquired over these fields since 1998.
Finally we replaced over 130% of our production through drill bit and approximately 156% when you include the acquisitions; this obviously excludes the impact of later revisions which primarily resulted from weak North American natural gas prices during 2012 versus 2011.
Looking ahead I want to focus the remainder of my remarks on our plans for this coming year.
Our plans are based upon our initial $10.5 billion allocation of capital which Steve has mentioned; includes $2.2 billion for the long-term projects not expected to generate production till 2014 and beyond.
In 2013 we expect our U.S.
onshore regions to grow production in excess of 20% predominantly consisting of liquids growth.
We also expect our investment to increase production in North Sea and our drilling program in Egypt to increase our gross production in that region.
However we expect moderate production declines in Canada and Argentina double-digit declines in Australia and deepwater due to the future timings of our next development projects coming on line and a double-digit decline in the Gulf of Mexico shale due to natural fuel declines.
We're currently running 122 rigs worldwide and expect to average a similar amount over the course of the year.
We plan to drill more wells in 2013 than 2012 in an estimated total of nearly 1 600 wells.
Almost two-thirds of all planned wells will be drilled in the Permian and Anadarko basins of the U.S.
and are expected to generate fully loaded after-tax rates of return in excess of 20% at planned commodity prices.
Our financial supplement posted on our website out lines Apache's 2013 initial exploration and development capital allocation by region on Page 10.
Now turning to our region highlights; the Permian region produced nearly 118 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the fourth quarter with 74% liquids constituting nearly 15% of our total production.
In addition we replaced over 260% of our production in the Permian through drilling activities during 2012 excluding price realizations and ended the year with 800 million barrels of proved reserves.
In 2013 we'll further exploit our vast 3.8 billion barrels of oil equivalent net resource position with plans to drill over 700 wells running on average of 34 rigs and investing nearly $2.4 billion of capital.
We will significantly ramp up our horizontally activity in the basin.
We are currently running 13 horizontal rigs at a total of 38 rigs and anticipate increasing our horizontal rig count to 17 by the end of the first quarter.
As such nearly 180 of the 2013 wells will be horizontal versus 104 horizontal wells in 2012.
We will build upon our successful horizontal program in 2012 by increasing our Wolfcamp shale and Cline shale developments and will be focused on driving down drilling and completion costs as we move towards development mode to further optimize our returns.
We have already successfully donated 10 horizontal plays across the region.
This year we will target and test an additional 20 horizons.
In the Midland basin we will continue our successful vertical program in the Fusselman Wolfwood and Wolfberry plays within Deadwood and other areas.
On the Central Basin platform we plan to drill additional Grayburg Clear Fork and Wichita-Albany all those horizontal wells and to test Strawn and Mississippian zones.
For the Yeso play in Southeast New Mexico we will continue to drill vertical wells once again our first horizontal program in the Cedar Lake area.
And in the Delaware Basin while we already have successfully drilled the second Bone Spring horizontal we plan to test in the first quarter and also drill a horizontal well in the Wolfcamp.
We will be actively testing the vertical Wolfbone within this emerging area for us.
Finally since we see the number of questions regarding our Permian realizations I wanted to mention that we successfully negotiated a five-year contract to sell crude that is then transported to the Gulf Coast via pipeline.
Terms of this contract are confidential that should allow us to receive favorable placing for this oil.
These volumes will ramp up over the next several quarters and at a full capacity we will sell up to 20 000 barrels of oil per day into the Gulf Coast.
Turning to the Central region the region produced approximately 79 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the fourth quarter.
This is a 9.6% increase over third quarter of 2012 production over 38% on an annualized basis.
Just as significantly we increased our oil production by 24% in the fourth quarter versus third quarter to 21 000 barrels of oil per day which represents 27% of total region production.
Total liquids production increased by 24% to 31 000 barrels of oil per day or approximately 39% of total region production.
Further we replaced over 340% of our production in the Central region through drilling activities during 2012 excluding price revisions and nearly 645% when you include the acquisitions.
For 2013 we will continue to accelerate activity as we plan to ramp up our drilling across our extensive acreage position in the Anadarko and Whittenburg Basins.
We will further explore our vast 5.4 billion barrels of oil equivalent in that resource position with plans to drill nearly 300 wells up from 192 wells in 2012 while running in average of 29 rigs of which 28 are horizontal and investing nearly $1.4 billion in capital.
About a third of our program will target the prolific liquids-rich Granite Wash with another quarter targeting the oilier Tonkawa rigs will also work the Cleveland Marmaton Cottage Grove and Canyon Wash.
Apache has 11 lower Marmaton tests planned in 2013 with a total of 90 resource locations identified.
17 vertical Canyon Wash wells are currently planned for 2013 with expectations that we will commence water flooding in the Wash and begin a horizontal program in the Canyon line later in the year.
After integrating our Cordillera acquisitions and further donating our acreage over the past year we expect that it will drive down drilling and completion plans and costs as we optimize our development program.
In our Gulf Coast onshore region we intend to average three operated and one non-operated drilling rigs during 2013 anticipating we will drill 39 wells.
At Atchafalaya Bay we anticipate our drilling activity will increase gross production from the field to 155 million cubic feet of gas per day from 140.
Phase II of this facility expansion from the Atchafalaya Bay Field to [Belvieu] will be completed during the first quarter and startup of Phase III will commence which should be completed late in the second quarter bringing the capacity of the Atchafalaya Bay system to 220 million cubic feet of gas per day from 155.
In the Gulf of Mexico shale we plan to drill over 30 wells as we exploit low-risk liquids-rich prospects.
We will also work to expand our inventory at permanent drill prospects and acquire additional wide-azimuth 3D seismic as we apply deepwater technology to the shale to enhance subsalt imaging and identify previously overlooked prospects.
In the deepwater Gulf of Mexico we have drilled our position to 166 blocks and approximately 900 000 acres and have identified dozens of prospects to sustain an active exploration program for many years.
In 2013 we plan to drill three operated exploration wells and four non-op development wells.
We have two rigs under contract under drill prospects San Marcos and Mississippi Canyon 983 Starlight Green Canyon 230 274 and Guadeloupe in Mississippi Canyon 554 555.
We are moving forward with the partner-operated projects Lucius and Heidelberg and expect to invest $200 million of our share of four wells in these two developments during 2013.
In Canada our 2013 program includes over 150 wells with a focus of oil and liquids-rich gas opportunities and horizontal exploitation of Sparky Bluesky Beaverhill Lake Dunvegan and Viking oil plays.
We also intend to test the Montney and Duvernay within our substantial acreage positions in these plays.
Our 2013 plan in Australia totals nearly $1.9 billion includes drilling 16 wells six of which are for exploration.
Mid-year the partner-operated Macedon gas project will be complete and will add approximately 35 million cubic feet of gas per day of net production.
But the real focus in Australia continues to be the long-term growth we will realize from the pipeline of development projects we have lined up over the next several years.
This includes the Julimar-Wheatstone LNG development project the Coniston and Balnaves oil projects the Moondyne and Upper Pyrenees projects and the Varanus Gas Compression project.
Total capital allocated to these projects in 2013 exceeds $1.5 billion.
With respect to the Coniston oil development in order to repair the Ningaloo Vision FPSO for its increased throughput capacity Apache has reviewed all requirements for planned maintenance and as scheduled the vessel to go offline to the shipyard in the first quarter of 2014.
This time we will take advantage of the 2014 cyclone season window should we normally see some weather-related downtime thus optimizing production for 2013.
Turn to Egypt our operations continue uninterrupted.
This asset remains a highly profitable piece of Apache portfolio and as such we plan to make a similar investment in 2013 as we did in 2012.
This will allow us to drill over 270 wells including over 60 exploration wells.
Our drilling program will focus on Bahariya Abu Roash Jurassic and AEB targets.
So we are also looking to further test these horizontals in the region.
These with our level of investment combined with the Heathrow field now online we expect the gross production in Egypt to be slightly higher in 2014.
In the North Sea we plan to drill 27 wells of which 24 will be operated including 11 new wells at Forties and at least six at Beryl.
We also plan to drill a third well at Bacchus field during the first quarter.
In 2013 we will install a commission with pass top side and commits drilling operations.
Two wells will be drilled and test in 2013.
Apache will acquire a 307 square kilometer of 4D seismic survey of Forties and Bacchus fields commencing in July and complete the acquisition of the Beryl 3D seismic survey which we gave in the summer of 2012.
In Argentina our investment level will be consistent with recent years as we aim to invest within the region's cash flow.
We plan to drill additional 20 wells during the year 16 of which will be Apache operated focusing on gas plus wells as well as continued Vaca Muerta exploration activities.
Finally with respect to our venture activates we continue to evaluate the well data we have collected from our Bakken and Mississippian Lime exploration wells and we'll provide further detail in the future with respect to our path forward in these areas in including any development plans.
In Alaska we are in the final stages of drilling our first onshore well and expect to complete it in the second quarter.
In Suriname we have signed a 3D seismic acquisition contract for 2 100 square kilometer survey over our Block 53 and expect to commence seismic operations in the second quarter.
One last item of note before I turn the call over to Tom Chambers due to Cyclone Narelle in offshore Australia and other weather events in Australia unplanned facility downtime in the Gulf thus far this year we expect first quarter 2013 production to be down versus fourth quarter 2012.
However we have already incorporated this downtime into our 2013 production guidance.
That concludes the operational highlights and I'll turn it over to Tom Chambers.
Thanks Rod and good afternoon everyone.
While 2012 provided plenty of challenges we finished the fourth quarter strong averaging 800 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day boosting us to record production for the year and fueling record oil and gas revenues in our second best cash flow year ever.
Production which averaged 779 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day was up 4% from the prior year and up almost 5.5% adjusted for dispositions as Steve indicated.
More importantly record oil production of 352 000 barrels per day combined with record oil price realizations drove cash from operations before working capital items to $10.2 billion for the year and a record $2.8 billion for the quarter.
Oil and gas revenues of $16.9 billion were slightly higher than 2011 and we achieved a new record in spite of average North American natural gas prices falling over 30%.
We continue to benefit from our portfolio with WTI crude prices currently over 28 times the price of North American gas.
Having 72% of our oil production priced at Brent or Brent-comparable indexes which continues to realize substantial premiums to WTI also enhances our results.
Our international natural gas portfolio continues to have a positive revenue impact by providing increasing volumes to markets with gas prices significantly higher than North America particularly Argentina Australia and the UK grid.
For the fourth consecutive quarter international gas price realizations outpaced those of North America.
In 2012 international gas price realizations increased 13% compared to the prior year and at $4.15 they were 47% higher than those realized in North America excluding hedging.
Turning to earnings for 2012 as you heard we reported earnings of $1.9 billion or $4.92 per share despite the impact of several key non-recurring items.
Our results include prior quarter non-cash property write-downs in Canada totaling $1.4 billion aftertax directly related to collapsing Canadian natural gas prices.
We had a number of other charges that impacted our results for the year including $226 million of deferred tax charges $118 million tax adjustment in the UK related to decommissioning discussed in the third quarter $51 million charge for derivative mark-to-market and $19 million merger and acquisition charges.
When we remove these items for comparability purposes we earned $3.8 billion or $9.48 per share down from 2011’s $4.7 billion and $11.83 a share.
The detailed breakout of all of our financials including adjusted earnings and cash flow from operations can be found in the financial supplement located on our website.
The bottom line though is margins.
We’ve been able to sustain strong cash margins at $42.86 per barrel of oil equivalent down just 6% from 2011.
Margins were impacted by a 3% reduction in commodity price realization and a rise in our lease operating expenses.
Current year repairs maintenance and plant turnarounds directly impacted our LOE by almost $0.40 per BOE predominantly related to the Grand Isle 43 corrosion repair and Canadian plant turnarounds.
In addition we have continued growth in our onshore North American operations our labor costs have increased as well.
Our operating costs generally trend with commodity prices and are also impacted by the location of our properties.
Oil properties are inherently more expensive than natural gas properties to operate as our offshore properties.
The 51% of our 2012 production oil and liquids and approximately one-third of our production located in offshore areas our costs run higher than many of our competitors.
Total cash costs during the year averaged $17.06 per barrel of oil equivalent up $0.82 over last year.
For 2013 cash costs absent price dependent production tax are projected in the $14 to $16 per barrel of oil equivalent range.
We remain focused on cash margins and continue to monitor our cost trends in all areas in addition to reviewing our capital spending to ensure we focus on the highest rate of return projects.
Our ability to sustain margins allows us to generate a robust $10 billion of operating cash flow that’s funded our largest E&amp;P capital budget ever.
In addition to our organic cash flow generation we were able to successfully issue $5 billion of new debt this year at all in cost of 3.6%.
$3 billion in April of five 10 and 30 year tranches used to fund the cash portion of the Cordillera purchase price and repay maturing debt and additional $2 billion in December of 10 and 31 year notes with record low coupons allowing us to take advantage of continuing low rates to term up floating rate debt and increase our overall liquidity.
Our successful E&amp;P capital program with its focus on U.S.
drilling added 372 million barrels of oil equivalent to proved reserves during 2012 that’s over 130% of what we produced during the year at a finding cost of a little over $24 per barrel.
At first blush that might seem high but I’d like to point out that our 2012 spending included over $500 million of facilities capital plus nearly $1.5 billion for leasehold and seismic purchases that while in the cost side do not immediately result in reserve additions.
Excluding this spending finding cost would have been very competitive.
While the seismic and leasehold purchases were very large last year we do not see that trend continuing in 2013.
However these expenditures while seemingly a drag on finding cost now will provide a large benefit in the future setting the foundation for future growth.
Reserve ads through acquisition totaled 73 million barrels of oil equivalent bringing total ads to 156% of 2012 production.
Unfortunately low North American gas prices were primarily responsible for negative price revisions totaling 299 million barrels of oil equivalent a majority in Canada.
I would point out that with gas prices rebounding somewhat in the second half of the year the negative revisions were halted after the third quarter and virtually all of those reserves remain in the ground available to be produced if and when prices and economic conditions warrant.
Turning to income taxes for a moment; the adjusting items mentioned earlier also impacted our 2012 effective tax rate moving it up to 59%.
If you adjust for these one-time charges our tax rate would have been a more typical 44%.
As mentioned earlier 2013 will be another active drilling year and balancing our capital allocation and ensuring capital availability are key because our cash flows are heavily influenced by oil realizations we have recently entered into financial derivative contracts on 125 000 barrels a day of oil for calendar year 2013 using a combination of WTI and Brent swaps representing about one-third of our worldwide oil production based on our fourth quarter of 2012 volumes.
Our average combined hedge price is approximately 98 000 per barrel.
We’ve not entered into any new gas hedges and our international gas portfolio exposure helps mitigate our North American price risk.
In closing we had a solid year of production revenues cash flows resulting from our active drilling program.
We have built a very strong foundation for cash flow generation and support both for our ongoing drilling program and our inventory of longer-term development projects as we head into 2013.
And with that I’d like to turn the call back over to Brady.
Thank you Tom.
Allie we are now ready to open the line for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Arun Jayaram from Credit Suisse.
Can you hear me? Fairly.
Fairly okay.
That’s fair.
Steve I wanted to talk to you a little bit about the overall production.
I mean in October you guys updated the market and you’re about 800 000 barrels a day in overall production.
So there next quarter despite some pretty strong gains in the U.S.
onshore and you’re guiding down now for Q1.
So the sense is you're losing a little bit of operating momentum outside of the U.S.
So I was wondering if you could just comment on that and just the overall shift to a little bit of a lower growth rate in 2013 notwithstanding the changes in capital allocation.
To be real frank holding 800 000 barrels a day for quarter we were very proud of that frankly because we’ve never hit that from where we were.
In terms of going into 2013 the first quarter we’re affected by Hurricane; I mean a cyclone in Australia.
I will tell you though we put that downtime in our 3% to 5% growth projection.
There is no doubt that we have some properties that are declining but we’re going to more than make up for it in the Permian and the Anadarko Basin this year.
And we’re pretty confident about the long-term value of our Canadian assets also.
Okay.
And just I was wondering if you could comment.
Has there been any change in the way you’re thinking about? I know guidance is relatively new to Apache thinking about the long-term.
Are you all changing your approach you may be trying to guide to like P90 type of case versus maybe P50 differently.
So just trying to see if there has been any change in the way you’re thinking about guidance I guess? We are new to this.
I have to be real honest with you.
One thing that we don’t want to do is miss our guidance.
We’re going to spend quite a bit of money intentionally in a few remember what Rod said $1.5 billion of that $2.2 billion is going to Australia.
The biggest chunk of that is Julimar Brunello and the Wheatstone LNG facility which is now over 80% contracted.
And those are tied to oil linked prices so when that comes on we’re going to see about over 25 000 barrels a day for the next 25 years.
Your next question comes from Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Co.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Steve I just wanted to get a little color.
You mentioned about the possibility of maybe divesting around $2 billion worth of assets for that 3% to 5% production growth guidance for 2013.
Is that guidance already includes the potential sale of those assets if there’s production or would the guidance potentially need to be adjusted after the sale? The guidance would be adjusted after the sale.
Thank you.
And my follow-up would be on service costs specifically in the Permian and then in your Central region.
Just curious as you look at 2013 and compare it to 2012 how do you see service costs trending? Do you think that prices are bottoming and are there any areas of services right now whether they’re a little bit tightening in one of those regions? Rod you… The service costs in both areas are flat and declining and we see that specifically we see that in the Permian they have been very large increases in the frac stimulation companies.
as a result that’s provided simply downward pressure on the pricing of that.
We’ve seen a 30% drop in frac spread costs compared to 2012 as well as we might expect to see even more decline in our side from using more self-sourcing of same in chemicals in 2013 which will allow us to further reduce those stimulation costs.
Same thing on rig rates.
Spud rates are much more favorable than they were.
We’ve seen about a 5% to 7% decline in rig rates.
For the mechanical rigs 2 000 horsepower rigs we used to build the vertical wells at Deadwood that’s an example and we expect to see continued downward pressure on those as well.
Pearce it’s Roger.
Just one a little bit of comment on the sales.
We’re going to identify exactly what it is we’re going to sell but not everything necessarily would have current production for example the assets that we sold to Chevron I guess last week we collected $400 million and there is no production associated with that.
Great thank you for the color Roger.
Your next question comes from John Herrlin with Société Générale.
LLC</strong> Regarding the Permian you said in your ops report that you spud 22 horizontal wells with 463 frac stages.
Are you going to be increasing the frac densities at all because it averages about 20 wells.
I was just curious.
It depends a lot on what's lower or unconventional target that we are after in terms of the optimal frac concentration and we have a lot of efforts underway right now.
They are various areas specific to try to optimize the amount of frac stages.
And large numbers not necessarily the optimal number and we're trying to find out the certain areas.
So we expect to see overall improvements in both the cost and efficiency of our frac treatment programs in both the Permian and Central as we go forward in 2013 based on a lot of the benchmarking we are doing to become a best-in-class operator in these areas we're drilling horizontal completions.
LLC</strong> Okay thanks Rod.
Next one from me is on the Central; are those lateral lengths listed really the lateral length of the horizontals or is that kind of a type of? My guess is that we'll have that.
I will go with the numbers John.
LLC</strong> Or you're going from 12 000 to 16 000 feet 18 000 feet Steve.
Is that lateral? That's the full measured dip.
That's the vertical and horizontal.
LLC</strong> Okay thanks.
Your next question comes from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Good afternoon everybody.
A couple of things the PSC contracts you said you just – and then you said I guess bid round you got a lease and you're going to have a revised PSC contract.
Can you talk about that and should we read into that is that's where the government is headed going forward? Could you repeat that question? It was very broken up.
This now better.
Little bit.
Okay sorry I’ve trouble here with the phone.
But In Egypt if you talk about winning in the recent round of bidding you won a couple of leases and there's going to be a new PSC contract.
So I'm just wondering if we should read anything into that.
Is that the direction that we should expect the contracts to go in Egypt? Well the one thing I would say is they have continual posting of leases in Egypt concessions in Egypt that people bid on.
The most significant thing about the latest bid round were they were very similar to all of the other concessions that we've got in the Western Desert.
So there weren't any term changes in terms of what they had asked for in the latest bid round.
Okay so your expectation for this contract is that they're going to look just like the last year? There's always a – the cost recovery goes from 35% to 40% but in terms of directionally it's pretty much the same as all our concessions across the Western Desert.
Okay.
New Zealand can you talk a little bit about what's happened there? Did you say New Zealand? New Zealand yeah.
Well I think what we – in terms of the long-term potential there is definitely a tremendous amount of hydrocarbon service.
Being able to do that and the magnitude that it takes over the timeframe that it takes we've decided that that wasn't in our best interest and you're going to see that when we talk about our asset sales.
We now have some long-term projects that have some significant durability and significant potential and so we're going to have to balance off our long-term and our short-term in terms of being able to grow both long-term – but also be able to grow short-term.
Your next question comes from Bob Brackett with Sanford Bernstein.
Hi good afternoon I had a question.
What do you expect to do with the proceeds from the divestments of $2 billion? Well originally we're going to pay down debt but when we get there we'll have to make a decision as to what we do with the proceeds but the first call on it is going to be pay down debt.
And then a question I thought I heard you say you're going to start water flooding in the Granite Wash.
What's the concept there? Is it true the horizontals that have been fraced? No the reference to the water flooding was to the Canyon Wash which is in our Bivins Ranch field which is a vertical convention development (inaudible).
Thanks.
Yeah.
Your next question comes from Joe Magner with Macquarie.
Good afternoon.
Just a few questions on the divestitures while some will not be productive anywhere to ballpark how much is associated how much I guess current production is associated what is the? I think when we get there we will announce what – we've got a number of different banks that we're looking at.
Okay.
Then one of the comments you mentioned that 72% I believe of your oil is linked to Brent or Brent equivalents.
Can you provide any perspective on how you see price differences playing out between Brent and WTI Brent and LLS and then also Midland Cushing going forward? Well I think Brent if the world price.
And when you look at 5% of the well is traded at WTI prices and so what you have is that you have a bottleneck in certain areas certainly West Texas is one of them there is an awful lot of people trying to solve that problem.
I think Tom or Rod pointed out that we have an equity interest or a throughput interest in the pipeline that we're going to start and there are going to be more and more of those.
My personal opinion is that I think those numbers will come and it's not going to be in the next 18 months but over time they're going to – that spread is going to shallow.
I mean I just think that's not attainable forever.
By spread you mean Brent TI spread or…? Yes.
Okay.
Are there any other than pipelines in the Permian I guess as you think about just routing crude from and where you're producing onshore to where it needs to be.
Any other significant plans or infrastructure projects that could create bottlenecks or constraints on being able to achieve your plan for this year? Not really not to achieve that plan.
We certainly and the Permian basin as you know and I'm sure you know that there is a number of areas that are getting built or projected to be built but it's not going to affect our 2013 plan.
Your next question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everybody.
I hope you can hear me okay.
I've got a couple of questions if I may.
Steve clearly this is a bit of a change from what you told us at the Analyst Day last year.
Can you help us understand is this move away from the growth target in 2013 a move away from the long-term growth target as well.
In other words are you abandoning now the 6% to 12% target you laid out and just so if you could help us understand what's changed? No in fact it's not.
If you look at our asset base it really is based on what our capital allocation is this year.
If you look at the – if the amount of production that we are developing it should help us in terms of obtaining that – actually we are at 6% to 9% if you don't include gas.
We see gas go up we can drill more gas wells but right now 6% to 9% we are still looking at that from a long-term basis.
I think you had kind of signaled that you tempered gas so that would be the number so I appreciate that.
My follow-up is really on the asset sales.
Forgive me if I'm wrong here but it sounds like you haven't quite identified what the assets are or have you? Is it a bottom-up process or are you seeing $2 billion as a number and then trying to make that fit? In my [meeting] going to this is how big ultimately does that disposal process get as clearly they're extremely asset-rich and you're obviously not getting a lot of credit on the share price and I'll leave it at that? Thanks.
Doug I didn't.
Well in terms of – certainly we have considered assets that we may sell.
In terms of specifics and our pricing I mean we've also scoped the order of magnitude of the pricing.
But we're really not in a position at the present time to talk about which one of those asset bases that be.
All of them will not include current production.
I'd like to go back to your question about are we abandoning in the long-term.
Really just think about what Rod said in these long-term projects we're spending over $2 billion on this year.
They're going to add 150 000 barrels a day and then later 200 000 barrels a day.
So those are big needle moving projects where we've got to put capital over a number of years.
We don't get near-term production growth but when they come on you see a real stair step in our growth.
And so when Steve was talking about LNG projects for example those are very big stair steps that will bring our average rate over the long-term back to the kind of range that we were talking about earlier.
But in the short-term those are dollars that aren't adding production in 2013.
The rate of return is great but when you bring them online especially those LNG projects they don't deplete.
So they are very enticing.
Your next question comes from Matthew Portillo with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Just two quick questions for me with limited capital investments in Canada around your gas assets could you give us a little bit of color on how we should think about volume decline and then a similar question for the U.S.? Yeah the capital allocation I think represents $600 million in Canada which will be directed.
Now what we have done just for information we now have a Kitimat upstream business and we have our base Canadian operations business and we have two different organizations just recently set up; one to do nothing but the Horn River and Liard.
In terms of the base business in terms of our – we are really directing that more towards liquids-rich and in terms of what’s the decline curve is I don’t know.
I don’t have it.
We should see a slight decline but it’s not real significant.
Okay great.
And then just a second question for me.
In terms of the Permian and the Midland Basin could you provide a little color on how your Cline results have performed to-date? How those look against your type curves and then how we should think about current well costs? Thank you.
Rod you might.
Yeah.
In the Cline we’ve really had some good progress on the Cline and we’ve managed to cut six days of the amount of time it takes to do a Cline horizontal from the Deadwood area.
When that translates to an average split rate is about $60 000 a day savings which translates into about $360 000 wells that’s very significant.
And then generally speaking we gave you some information at the Analyst Day last June that it cost us about $7.6 million and as a result of some of these efficiency improvements and overall cost reductions that I mentioned that we should be under $7 million in total well cost in that particular formation and I think the Cline the well results have been posted in the supplement.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice and Company LLC.
Hello everyone.
If you don't mind too much I'm going to take one more step at the guidance question because I think the other question maybe got us a little bit we have a – you've laid out the 3% to 5% overall BOE guidance but it's maybe not that – it's not meaningful.
It's not apples-to-apples to replace – when you're replacing oil volumes with gas volumes or vice versa as you guys are.
So if you have it in your mind and can share it do you have an idea of the four pieces of your product mix that North American liquids North American gas international liquids international gas what the individual growth rates on those four would be? Or maybe you might not have it but I just thought it.
Everybody is scrambling for information here give us a second.
Well you can come back to that and another thing I greatly appreciate all the data in the operations supplement you have.
Just two of those – just two things on that if I could ask; one I saw you guys drilled another really good horizontal on the Central Basin platform in the Permian and I think you're really the only operator who's been doing that.
So I'm curious if you're planning on doing a lot of much more event and then the last kind of obscure question that comes from the operations release is I noticed in the Gulf Coast region you said you're drilling in Lamar County Mississippi and I'm wondering if that's the smack-over target or if you're ready to talk about that? Rod? Well the answer to your first question I believe you might be referring to our drilling program in our Three Bar Shallow Unit which is the Wichita Albany play.
I think we mentioned that at our last quarter's call.
We've continued to drill.
We have five wells drilled and producing there.
It’s one of our best plays and take in terms of the estimated ultimate recovery for horizontal wells and we have about a couple of wells that are waiting on completion and we have additional 12 wells yet to drill in that program a lot of which would be drilled in 2013.
Your second question dealt with what are we doing in Lamar County Mississippi? That’s right.
Well we’re drilling an exploration test and that’s in progress.
That’s all we want to say about it right now.
Got it okay.
Thank you very much and if you have those other growth rates I’m going to stay on the call and queue up whenever you guys are ready.
North American Oil is supposed to grow at 14% for 2013.
That’s what we’re projecting.
Your next question comes from Leo Mariani with RBC Capital.
Hi guys.
You talked about some exploration plans in 2013.
I think you guys said three deepwater Gulf wells and then six wells in Australia.
Could you give us some more information about what type of targets those are and what some of the associated growth potential maybe on some of those? In Australia the wells are mostly in the Olympus-Bianchi the general quadrant going south just north of Exmouth Basin area.
They’re targeting the typical Mungaroo Triassic reservoir objectives which we have in other producing areas out there.
We have successful exploration tests at Zola back two years ago and we’re following up on that.
In the Gulf of Mexico deepwater as I recall that those specific targets or those prospects I mentioned will probably be [Midland Basin].
Okay thanks.
And I guess additionally another question on the asset sales.
Traditionally Apache has been obviously an acquirer of a lot of assets over the years.
Is there any sort of shift in philosophy that you guys are seeing here now that you have announced these asset sales somewhat I guess prior to specifically identifying it.
I mean you guys trying to maybe strengthen the balance sheet in response to maybe some capital expenditures coming up on the LNG side in the next couple of years? How are you guys kind of thinking about it if there is any just philosophical change just curious on that? Well from a philosophical standpoint if you look at where we have come from over the last three years and if you look at the assets that we’ve acquired and it's not just here in the last week but over the last month or two we’ve been looking at our asset base and saying okay now which one of these asset bases do we want to take forward into the future.
And we have to make some tough choices – we can't be all things to all people.
So we go to make some choices as to which one of these that we can actually exploit or could somebody else exploit them better.
So we're still going to be a net buyer.
If you think about $16 billion and $2 billion but in terms of just transitioning our asset base that's what the effort's about.
Your next question comes from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Thanks good afternoon.
Just picking up on the growth in the asset sales and the acquisitions together.
It's interesting to know that the areas that you have that are growing rapidly the Permian and the Midcontinent are where you have focused your acquisitions over the last couple of years.
And then so I guess in your interest in achieving your 6% to 9% guidance longer-term there are various ways you could do you could acquire more assets in growth areas you could sell assets and producing areas that have little growth or you could just wait it out as kind of Roger described and wait till some of these long lead time projects come online.
Is it fair to say that it's more of the latter strategy there just kind of wait things out until the long lead projects come online that you've kind of decided on.
And then in that case should 2014 be another year of relatively low growth? Yeah.
We haven't reported our 2014 plan.
It really depends on how we allocate that capital Brian and also what our asset base looks like.
We certainly want to further those long-term projects but we also have to balance this.
What I was suggesting is we have to balance short-term growth with long-term growth.
So I guess would you consider acquiring any areas that have become more core to you or as for the rest or are kind of acquisitions completely off the table here? Well for the present time we are going to drill wells.
So that doesn't mean we won't pick up an acre or two around some place but in terms of making major acquisitions in our existing core areas or new core areas that's not something that's part of our strategy right now.
On a project side we do have three or four projects which will mature to first production in 2014.
These are in Egypt and in Australia and that could add approximately in the range of 25 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Great thanks.
And then just to clarify on the asset sale decision have you definitive call that you're going to sell the $2 billion of assets or are you considering asset sales up to $2 billion? Obviously price has something to do with it but we certainly are dedicated to selling $2 billion worth of assets.
Your next question comes from Kevin Cashman with Assurant.
Hi and thanks for taking the question.
Just kind of following up on the asset sales in the – you mentioned some of your refinancing last year with the two 2013 maturities coming up.
I'm just wondering you mentioned debt reduction would that be a plan to reduce those ultimately with the debt proceeds or payment? Yes I mean that's a consideration.
Once we get depending on the timing of when we get these assets sold and what else is on our plate that is definitely a consideration to pay down that debt.
Have you guys had your annual meeting with the rating agencies for this point already? No.
When is that coming up? Shortly.
Okay thank you very much.
Your next question comes from Michael Howe with Robert W.
Baird.
Inc.</strong> I guess my point has been addressed but I'll jump back on the production outlook topic commented through the question in another way.
As you look at just your mix of natural gas oil liquids do you see that shifting materially as we make our way through 2013 you've seen a nice...
You're going to see our oil production as a percentage continue to grow up.
Inc.</strong> All right.
Because we are predominantly drilling oil wells or liquid rich gas wells.
Inc.</strong> Can you quantify any of the changes directionally? What we have said and I don't have the numbers in front of me Brady is looking at them.
What we say is we're going to grow our North American oil by 14% so.
And your final question comes from Joe Magner with Macquarie.
Yeah just one quick follow-up I wondered if you had any update on some of the new exploration ventures that were detailed fall of last year in the Cook Inlet Montana Mississippi in particular.
We are almost down on our Alaska well.
We were 11 400 feet; we're going to 11 800 feet.
Then obviously we'll have to test it and run pipe and all that stuff.
And in the Bakken in Montana and in the Mississippi Lime we've drilled few wells bulk of those we're really concentrating our efforts right now on the United States on the Permian and the Anadarko Basin.
And then we just picked up a block as Rod pointed out we picked up a block in Suriname which is a very good block and we're getting ready to shoot 3D seismic on it.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the conference back over to the hosts for any closing remarks.
Thank you very much for attending our conference today.
We appreciate it and if you have any additional questions obviously reach out to the IR team and we will get back to you as soon as we can.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Apache Corporation first quarter 2013 earnings release conference call.
[Operator instructions.] At this time I would like to introduce your presenter for today Mr.
Brady Parish vice president of investor relations.
Mr.
Parish you may begin your conference.
Thank you operator.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us for Apache Corporation's first quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
On today’s call we will have four speakers making prepared remarks prior to taking questions.
I will start by giving a brief summary of the first quarter results and then we will hear from Steve Farris our chairman and chief executive officer; followed by Rod Eichler president and chief operating officer; and finally Tom Chambers executive vice president and chief financial officer.
We've prepared our quarterly financial supplemental data package for your use which also includes the reconciliation of any non-GAAP numbers that we discuss such as adjusted earnings cash flow from operations or pre-tax margins.
In addition we have prepared an operations supplement to summarize our activities across the various Apache operating regions.
These can both be found on our website at www apachecorp.com/financialdata.
Today’s discussions will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
However a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
A further disclaimer is located with the supplemental data package on our website.
This morning we reported first quarter 2013 earnings of $698 million or $1.76 per diluted share.
Adjusted earnings which exclude certain items that impact the comparability of results totaled $806 million or $2.02 per diluted share.
Cash flow from operations totaled $2.4 billion.
In the first quarter total net daily production averaged approximately 782 000 BOE per day with liquids production comprising 53% of the total.
This represents an increase from the 769 000 BOE per day reported in the first quarter of 2012 and a decrease from the fourth quarter as we had guided on our year-end earnings call.
Production in the first quarter was negatively impacted by 8 000 BOE per day of deferred production due predominantly to three cyclones which impacted production in Australia and third-party gas plant downtime in Canada.
This downtime was expected and incorporated within our full year guidance.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Brady and thank all of you for joining us this morning.
Apache did report solid financial results for the quarter.
We generated over $800 million of adjusted earnings and $2.4 billion of cash flow from operations.
I think of particular note we generated outstanding production growth in our North American onshore regions at very attractive rates of return.
Our onshore North American liquids production averaged 165 000 barrels of oil per day which constitutes 21% of our total worldwide production and is an increase of 6% quarter over quarter and nearly 45% versus the first quarter of 2012.
In addition our U.S.
onshore asset base which we bolstered over the last three year continues to deliver sector-leading performance.
Apache is currently the second most active U.S.
onshore driller.
During the first quarter we averaged 206 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day from the Permian and central regions alone or 26% of our worldwide production.
This represents a 50% increase over the first quarter of 2012 and a 40% increase if you adjust for the Cordillera acquisition.
In addition our central region in the Anadarko Basin grew production almost 9% from the fourth quarter of 2012 to the first quarter or nearly 36% on an annualized basis and increased liquids production over 28%.
We’re currently running 42 rigs in the Permian Basin 28 rigs in the Anadarko Basin and so we expect this level to continue.
Our exceptional onshore liquids growth was offset primarily by the deferred production that Brady mentioned in his opening remarks a decrease of 5% in North American natural gas production as we chose not to drill any dry gas wells during the first quarter and some natural declines in fields in some of our international regions.
As Brady pointed out we’ve already incorporated these deferrals and declines into our plans and we remain on track to achieve our full year guidance of 3% to 5%.
I’d like to move now from our first quarter results and provide more detail on the portfolio review that I mentioned in our year-end conference call.
Just over three years ago we set out to expand our portfolio in areas that we believed could generate profitable growth.
With this goal in mind we significantly strengthened our onshore North American asset base through acquisitions in the Permian Anadarko and Western Canadian sedimentary basin.
We also entered the deep water Gulf of Mexico and added tactical extensions to our Gulf of Mexico shelf North Sea and Egyptian asset base.
Importantly during this timeframe we significantly grew our production by almost 200 000 barrels a day with 162 000 barrels a day about 198 82% coming from North American onshore.
Now that we’ve reached the end of this three-year effort we’ve spent the last several months evaluating our expanded portfolio to determine which assets to keep and which assets might be more highly valued by others.
Having been in the oil and gas business for 50-plus years this is not the first time Apache has gone through this process.
The sole purpose of this review was to determine which assets make the most strategic sense for us to go forward with in order to continue to do what Apache has always done best: exploit our best inventory of opportunities rigorously allocate capital to generate attractive returns profitably grow our production create long term value for our shareholders.
With this single focus in mind we developed a fairly robust list of potential asset sales and monetizations that we believe will achieve our goal and expect the initial phase of this process to generate about $4 billion of proceeds.
Over the last four months we’ve been actively engaged in a divestiture and monetization process for certain of these identified assets.
Our goal is to complete this initial phase during 2013 and we intend to announce transactions as agreements are in place.
As we finalize transactions our priorities will be with respect to the proceeds first to pay down $2 billion of debt then allocate proceeds received above $2 billion to repurchase shares.
Given the current level of our stock price our board has authorized Apache management to repurchase up to 30 million shares or approximately $2 billion of stock based on today’s share price.
This share repurchase combined with recent increases in our dividend demonstrate our continued commitment to deliver value to our shareholders and reflects confidence in our long term strategy and underlying value of our company.
Given the highly confidential and sensitive nature of these transactions we’re not going to provide any specifics at this time.
Please keep in mind all of these transactions and the use of proceeds received are subject to market conditions.
However we are confident that given the number of items that we have on our list and assuming commodity prices hold we should be able to deliver on this plan.
I’d like to note that we have not incorporated any material adjustments from dispositions in our annual production guidance for 2013.
Some of the assets we are considering have limited production while some have a meaningful amount of production.
So it would be premature to modify our guidance until we gain more clarity on the results of the various processes.
Finally I want to reiterate something that I’ve said many times.
We’ve build this company by focusing on returns balance and long term profitable growth and value creation.
We are cognizant of the frustration our investors feel regarding our stock price performance and current value.
We are shareholders too.
Rest assured we are focused on optimizing our portfolio and emerging from this process an even stronger company than we are today one that can continue to do what we do best: exploit our asset base to generate profitable production growth and increase shareholder value over time.
Now I’ll turn the call over to Rod Eichler our COO.
Thank you Steve and good morning.
For the second straight quarter we have compiled an operations supplement for your use which highlights our activities by region during the first quarter.
We received a very positive reaction to our first report and we have incorporated many of the comments we received in an effort to further improve it and we hope you find it useful.
As Steve mentioned we had an outstanding quarter drilling and completing wells in particular in our North American onshore liquid plays.
During the quarter we averaged 119 rigs operating worldwide and drilled 412 total gross wells of which 402 were development wells with 355 of these wells or nearly 90% located onshore in North America.
These wells were drilled with a success rate of 99%.
In the Permian and Central regions alone we drilled 263 gross development wells or 65% of our total.
Our production growth in North American onshore liquids of 6% during the quarter was driven predominantly by our Permian and Central regions.
Combined these two regions grew liquid production 10 000 barrels per day quarter over quarter or 9% to 129 000 barrels per day which represented nearly 31% of total worldwide liquids production.
Combined production from these regions was nearly 206 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day or over 26% of total company production for the quarter.
We have truly hit our stride in these two liquids-rich regions.
In the Permian region we produced 119 400 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the first quarter 74% liquids constituting over 15% of our total production.
This represents more than 20% production growth over the first quarter of 2012.
We further exploited our 3.8 billion barrels of oil equivalent in net resource potential by running an average of 37 rigs and drilling 187 gross wells 36 horizontal with 100% success rate.
We continue to have great results in our vertical drilling program and in many cases our well performance is better than expected especially in plays such as our Midland Basin Fusselman play in which recent 30-day [IP] rates for several wells have averaged over 300 BOE per day 83% liquids with only a $1.6 million drilling and complete cost.
We are currently running 17 horizontal rigs out of a total of 42.
As such we are still on track to drill 180 horizontal wells during 2013.
We have built upon our successful horizontal drilling programs of 2012 and ramped up activity in our Wolfcamp shale and Cline shale developments.
We are currently running seven rigs in the Barnhart Wolfcamp shale play in Irion County and four rigs in the Deadwood Cline shale play in Glasscock County with excellent results.
During the first quarter of 2013 we drilled 17 Wolfcamp wells in our Barnhart area; eight wells are currently on production while the remaining wells are in the process of being completed.
The expected 30-day IP rate per well is more than 500 BOE per day or 86% liquids.
In the Deadwood Cline shale play nine wells were drilled during the first quarter three wells are currently on production while the remaining wells are in the process of being completed.
The expected 30-day initial production rate per well is over 400 BOE per day 72% oil.
We have moved into full development mode in our Barnhart and Deadwood programs and have successfully driven down drilling and completion costs by more than $1 million per well in an effort to further optimize our returns.
We’ll achieve this by reducing our drilling days primarily by optimizing bit selections and mud programs among other improvements and applying best practices on the completion side by substantially reducing our frack costs to self-sourcing optimizing frack designs and taking advantage of synergies from pad drilling and frack bonds.
These achievements will have a substantial economic impact when spread across thousands of horizontal locations in our inventory.
We expect to further reduce these costs as we continue to optimize our operations.
In the central region we produced 86 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the first quarter.
This is a 7 000 BOE per day or nearly 9% increase over fourth quarter of 2012 production.
Just as significantly we increased our liquids production by 28% quarter over quarter to 40 000 barrels per day.
Liquids now represent over 46% of total region production versus 27% in the first quarter of 2012.
During the first quarter we accelerated our activity in the Anadarko and Whittenburg basins.
We’ve further exploited our 5.4 billion barrels of oil equivalent net resource potential by running an average of 25 rigs 24 of which are horizontal and drilling 78 gross wells.
We are currently running 20 rigs in the region and remain on track to drill 300 wells during 2013.
About a third of our program will target the prolific liquids-rich Granite Wash with another third targeting the oilier Tonkawa.
Rigs will also continue to work the Cleveland Marmaton Cottage Grove and Canyon Wash plays.
In our liquids-rich Granite Wash play our wells continue to exceed expectations.
The first six wells that were drilled on production for at least 30 days in 2013 averaged IP rates of nearly 1 500 BOE per day consisting of 760 barrels of liquids of which 291 barrels are oil and 4.4 million cubic feet of gas.
We still have over 22 800 identified well locations in our resource inventory awaiting exploitation.
In addition our oily Tonkawa play also had outstanding results.
Our first seven Tonkawa wells drilled and on production for at least 30 days in 2013 averaged IP rates of 662 BOE per day which included 420 barrels of oil 103 barrels of NGLs or 80% total liquids.
These production rates have substantially exceeded our original expectations.
We still have nearly 2 800 identified well locations in our resource inventory.
Finally we have expanded our Cottage Grove oil play with our recent Beckham County Oklahoma Simmons 3-30H well achieving a 30-day IP rate over 1 900 barrels of oil per day and 1.8 million cubic feet of gas per day.
We plan to drill over 20 Cottage Grove wells during 2013 and we are in the process of quantifying our resource potential in this prolific oil play.
Similar to the Permian we are beginning to realize the benefits of scale development in this region.
We have been able to drive down drilling and completion costs substantially as we accelerate activity.
By implementing new drilling techniques and completion designs we’ve been able to drive down Granite Wash costs by $1.3 million to $2.0 million per well.
And Tonkawa costs by $1.5 million per well versus last year.
By continuing to apply best practices we expect to further reduce costs by applying these techniques to our other plays in the region.
Finally I wanted to briefly comment on operations in the North Sea.
Having successfully integrated the barrel operations into our North Sea region we are beginning to bear the fruit of our increased activity.
During the first quarter production from the North Sea increased 79 100 barrels of oil equivalent per day 87% oil 85 000 BOE per day increase over the fourth quarter of 2012.
We remain on track for mid to high single digit annual production growth for 2013.
In addition we are still on plan to install and commission the [fast] topside and complete acquisition of our 3D seismic survey [unintelligible] and drill a total of 27 wells in the North Sea during 2013.
Of particular note we just announced our first well in the satellite Tonto field about 2 km east of the Forties Bravo platform.
The Tonto-1 well came online at an initial production rate of over 10 300 barrels per day from the [unintelligible] the result of successfully applying our recent seismic conversion process and by our geoscience team to delineate the field.
This is the third new oilfield brought on in the Forties area within the last three years.
That concludes the operational highlights and I’ll now turn the call over to Tom Chambers.
Thanks Rod and good morning everyone.
I’ll repeat one more time this morning we reported earnings of $698 million or $1.76 per diluted share.
Overall our bottom line results reflected another solid quarter of production revenues and cash flows.
Our production this quarter averaged 782 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day our second-highest quarter ever.
Oil and gas revenues totaled $4.1 billion for the quarter of which nearly $3.3 billion or 79% of the total was oil revenue.
Strong first quarter oil prices enabled us to generate $2.4 billion of cash from operations before working capital items.
We’ve been able to routinely generate these cash flow levels given the fact that over 53% of our production base is oil and liquids and that oil currently sells for over 20 times the price of North American non-GAAP.
Our focused drilling program produced a 45% increase in liquids production in North America onshore properties from the prior year quarter primarily driven by outstanding results in the Permian and Anadarko basins as you just heard Rod indicate.
Worldwide liquids production for the quarter averaged 416 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day an increase of 9% from the comparative 2012 quarter.
A key point worth emphasizing is that not all liquids are created equal a fact that was driven home with the significant fall in NGL prices from year ago levels.
For Apache our liquids growth and drilling opportunities are primarily focused on crude oil.
Over 85% of our first quarter liquids production is crude oil.
In addition our international gas portfolio has continued to bolster our realizations as natural gas prices in North America trailed our international realizations by 11% in the first quarter.
For the fifth consecutive quarter international gas price realizations outpaced those in North America.
Although realizations in Egypt were down after the loss of a legacy Egyptian oil linked contract that expired at the end of 2012 Australia and Argentina realizations continued to increase reflecting the impact of new sales contracts.
Our production efforts directly translated into a pre-tax margin that continues to exceed 30% on a BOE basis.
Our operating costs while higher than we’d like are a derivative of our product mix with oil and offshore properties generally more expensive to operate than natural gas properties.
With 53% of our first quarter production oil and liquids and approximately one-third of our production located in offshore areas our costs per BOE run higher than many of our competitors.
I also wanted to note that the first quarter earnings were impacted by a $31 million after-tax unrealized loss on derivative instruments as well as a $42 million noncash after-tax writedown of our Argentina oil and gas property balance.
This was the result of two concessions expiring in the next two to four years both of which we are currently in discussions with the government to extend.
Adjusting for these noncash writeoffs FX impacts and deferred tax adjustments we earned $806 million or $2.02 per share down $0.98 from the first quarter of 2012 a period where we saw record oil prices and down $0.20 on a sequential quarter.
These adjustments also impacted our effective tax rate for the quarter which was 46%.
If you adjust for items mentioned above that impact the comparability of results our tax rate would have been a more typical 43%.
Detailed calculations for margins adjusted earnings adjusted tax rate cash from operations can be found in the financial supplement located on our website.
Turning to the balance sheet our ability to generate consistent operating cash flows continues to support our robust drilling program and other planned capital expenditures.
This quarter our total debt balance remained relatively unchanged and at the end of the quarter our debt-to-capitalization ratio was 28% the same as last quarter.
However as Steve mentioned earlier we’re working to rebalance our portfolio by actively pursuing asset sales to be completed in 2013.
The proceeds of some of these sales would be used to reduce our debt including the $900 million of notes that mature this year.
The first of these sales was completed in February.
As you are aware we completed a transaction with Chevron Canada to jointly build the Kitimat LNG facilities and develop the shale gas resources in the Liard and Horn River basins of British Columbia.
The net proceeds to Apache from the transaction were $405 million.
The results of our efforts to rebalance our portfolio will enhance our debt maturity profile preserve our balance sheet flexibility to fund operations and growth and enhance shareholder value.
Finally one last important item to highlight this quarter.
In February of this year we announced that our board of directors increased the regular quarterly cash dividend 18% to $0.20 per share which demonstrates our confidence in our ability to continue to deliver future growth and shareholder value over the longer term.
This increase follows the 13% increase in 2012.
That concludes my remarks and I’d like to turn the call back over to Brady.
Thank you Tom.
That concludes our prepared remarks.
I will now turn the call over to the operator.
Operator we are ready to open the line to questions.
[Operator instructions.]  Your first question comes from the line of Pearce Hammond with Simmons.
I guess my first question is you mentioned joint ventures.
Is that separate from the $4 billion?  Or is that included in that $4 billion worth of divestitures? That would be included but the proceeds have to be cashed if you understand what I’m saying.
So it is included? Yes.
Then you mentioned the $4 billion of the initial phase does that imply that there’s a second phase beyond the $4 billion? Well what I can say is the asset list that we have generated at today’s prices and what our market expectations are would exceed that $4 billion.
Then my last question is I think the share buyback plan is a great idea especially given how cheap the stock is.
I guess I wondered why not use the full $4 billion to buy back the stock rather than pay down the debt because you have a very good balance sheet? Two things.
One is we want to make sure we retain our flexibility and our A rating.
The other one is that it also gives us financial flexibility to invest that money in our ongoing business.
Your next question comes from the line of Harry Mateer with Barclays.
You just touched on it but perhaps if you could just highlight for us again the importance of single-A ratings and [unintelligible] S&amp;P for your long term vision for the company.
And then second the $2 billion of debt reduction as you mentioned you have $9 million of short term debt.
Where does the other $1.1 billion of debt reduction come from? The other debt reduction comes from we’re going to pay off some commercial paper.
And what was that commercial paper number at the end of the first quarter? End of the first quarter it was $619 million.
And then on the single-A ratings?  That is of importance to you guys longer term? We’ve historically tried to be finally fiscal and we want to continue that.
It’s given us great flexibility over the years and we continue to think it will give us flexibility in the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Amir Avif with Stifel Nicolaus.
A clarification on the repurchasing of shares.
Will that only begin after you have the first $2 billion of asset sales done or will you start doing that again at the current share price given where it is? Our first priority is to pay down debt.
And we would have a goal to get that done this year the $4 billion.
Okay so only after you have the first $2 billion then we’ll start buybacks?  That’s fair? Yeah we want to give ourselves a little flexibility.
And then a follow up question on Egypt.
The free cash flow you’re generating in Egypt are there any restrictions on moving that money back to the U.S.
outside of repatriation tax? No.
We move it in all of our international regions.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
Following up on theses asset sales is Kitimat included in part of that $4 billion target or is that already done and finished? It’s not in the target.
Obviously we’re going to have to size Kitimat as we go forward.
Right now we are in a position to have taken something from raw materials to wholesale and there will be a time when it will be retail.
And then I understand you don’t want to talk about the specifics of what potentially is for sale but can you lay it out in terms of you prefer international versus domestic sales?  Is it gas versus oil?  Is it production versus acreage? I think what we said in our release is that our goal is to come out of this with assets that we think have the potential to grow long term or short term and that we also have assets that have great generating power to fund those programs.
Not sure that answers the question.
Is it looking for assets that are mispriced by the market where you keep the stuff that’s undervalued and you trim the stuff that’s potentially overvalued by the global market? No we have an asset base that are growth generators and we have assets that are cash generators.
We want to balance our cash generators with our growth generators.
Your next question comes from the line of John Freeman with Raymond James.
Sorry to keep beating the same dead horse here but just to clarify on the last question when he asked if the $400 million you got from the Kitimat transaction that’s not included in the planned asset sales that you’ve got?  So you’ll be doing $4 billion above and beyond the $400 million you got from Kitimat? That’s correct.
And then just a follow up on a question that Pearce asked earlier on the JV front.
So when you view things in terms of it would have to be cash does that mean if you did any JV that had a drilling carry that joint carry would not count towards your asset goal? That’s correct.
Okay and then on Alaska are you all still on schedule to complete that first onshore well in the second quarter? I’ve got to check when the timing is.
I don’t know when the timing of that is.
Your next question comes from the line of John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
How tax-efficient will the sales process be?  Have you thought about that? We have.
And it all depends on what the assets are that we sell.
In terms of a strategic change does this mean you’ll be reducing your expiration exposure at all? Well certainly if you look at our portfolio today we’re still going to have a joint venture group that has an exploration bent.
But in terms of the amount of funding that they get for the next two or three years it’s going to be less than they’ve gotten in the past.
Your next question comes from the line of Eliot Javanmardi with Capital One.
I apologize for splitting hairs here but just want to make sure I’m clear.
Are these share buybacks if things go well do you expect to have it completed this year in 2013?  Or could we expect it to kind of start in the second half and then perhaps just lead into ’14? Well the share buybacks will be obviously opportunistic.
We have a goal to have asset sales of $4 billion by the end of this year and the first $2 billion are going to pay down debt and the next $2 billion are going to buy back stock.
What the timing of the stock buyback is based on how soon we get the transactions done and closed and have the cash available.
You talked about your composition and how it helps you right now.
What are you guys targeting do you think as far as maybe after you go through this process initially and perhaps in another phase where do you like to be portfolio-wise on your composition mix? I’m not following the question sorry.
What will the company look like?  What will the assets look like? The production [unintelligible] oil and gas mix kind of what would you be targeting still close to a balance of 50-50? Yeah we intend the portfolio balance to stay relatively the same.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Looking at the region-by-region production in your earnings supplement I noticed that one thing that stands out to me is Egypt oil volumes were down about 12 000 barrels quarter over quarter.
And I’m curious if you could characterize what that is.
Is that natural decline?  Or was that some facilities related downtime?  And give some guideline on what you expect for the rest of the year there.
We’re going to try to do a better job of our guidance on Egypt going forward.
If you look at the numbers our gross production was down 2%.
And the most important thing to look at in Egypt is cash flow frankly.
But what we’re going to try to do in the future and I don’t want to confuse everybody on the line is we’re going to start showing basically net of tax.
Because Apache is not responsible for the tax in Egypt and we basically gross up the volumes for the effective tax rate.
And it adjusts numbers.
If we had done it on a net basis it would have been down about 5 000 barrels a day or 6 000 barrels a day rather than 12 000 barrels a day.
So we’re going to try to clean that up going forward.
In terms of the actual production decline the 2% on the gross that’s more timing than anything.
That’s great clarity.
I think I understand you.
That just kind of introduces some noise that’s not really there.
On the flipside of that I’m also looking at the NGL production you had in your central region in the U.S.
and that almost doubled up 10 000 barrels a day quarter over quarter.
And I’m curious is that just well performance?  Or is that also some midstream issues and perhaps ethane rejection that was going on in Q4?  Those ethane volumes coming back in Q1? No that’s just well performance.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Magner with Macquarie.
I’ll take another stab at the thoughts or the framework around the asset sale program.
With the goal of repaying assets [unintelligible] to drive the near term and long term growth what should we think about in terms of the growth potential of what could be retained relative to the current five-year 6-9% growth objective.
Is it going to be higher?  Lower?  Willing to comment? It’s premature.
We have an asset list that exceeds our target.
And how we approach that going forward in the next few months or six months will really determine what comes out of the back of it.
I’d be premature to answer that question right now.
Our whole goal is to be more profitable and more predictable growth.
And on Kitimat could you provide us the updates on the [offtake] agreement discussions?  And then also whether there’s a plan in place to exercise the pipeline right away that’s outstanding? Well with respect to to the market obviously we are in the market.
We’re in the market now with our new partner Chevron who is leading that charge.
Before we got into the current relationship it was pretty strong then and I would venture to say with Chevron as part of the partnership it is stronger today.
In terms of the pipeline right of way we’re proceeding forward on all those issues.
Your next question comes from the line of Joseph Allman with JPMorgan.
In terms of the asset sales when you made the list of non-core assets that made up that robust list what are the parameters that defined for you the non-core assets? Whether they had long term growth potential short term or long term growth potential or do they generate significant excess cash.
That’s it.
Was rate of return one of the parameters?  Lower relative rate of return? Well yeah.
I think if you look at those raw definitions of which ones are on either side rate of return is our primary focus.
So it would fit those categories.
And then when you guys sit around and think about the stock’s underperformance relative to the group to what would you attribute the reason for the underperformance? I think two things.
I think we haven’t done what we said we were going to do in 2012.
And I think that as we get further into the process with Egypt in terms of the continuity of Egypt I think that will help.
We’ve got 26 rigs running in Egypt.
We continue to get paid every day.
It generates a tremendous amount of cash.
And I think over time people will get more comfortable with that.
And when you look at the underperformance of the stock are you focused mostly on over the past year or so are you focused on underperformance over a longer period of time? No if you look at our stock performance truthfully through 2010 it’s been very competitive with any of our peer companies.
If you look at 2011 and 2012 we’ve really digressed.
Is a lot of the problem just concerns about Egypt do you think?  The market’s perception with the headline risk about Egypt?  Do you think that’s the reason for the underperformance? Well I think you can make your own assessments.
We think that has some impact on our stock price.
And then lastly just the process have you opened data rooms yet in the asset sales process?  And why not define the assets at this point?  What is it about the process that makes you just want to keep the assets you want to sell confidential or secret? Well we have a pretty broad asset list number one.
Number two we started the process about four months ago and I think the best thing we can do is do it and then announce it as opposed to advertising what we’re doing as we go forward both from a competitive stand and from a market standpoint.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Steve you’ve never been shy about opportunistically acquiring assets from the majors or others.
Are you as interested as you have been in acquisitions that can improve predictability of growth?  And does the resulting stronger balance sheet open up that opportunity?  Or are you going to be more focused on the assets that you have? We’ve had this discussion before.
I think companies people go through lifecycles and right now our lifecycle is to give us a portfolio that we can grow organically.
We certainly have been very successful in the acquisition market.
That’s not one of our focuses at the present time.
And we’ve seen volatility in Apache’s production which has been in part a function of a number of items weather other disruptions.
Yet you mentioned earlier you’re interested in having more predictable growth.
Would the assets that you’re planning to sell have reduced the volatility that we’ve seen in production say in the first quarter of 2013 or in 2012? Long term what we want to do is have a more predictable growth profile.
And I guess if you look back on let’s say the last quarter and the last year and the assets that you’re looking to sell if we would have sold those a year ago year and a half ago would that have made that more predictable less volatile? When we announce what we are going to sell then we can have this discussion.
And then lastly just a single asset question.
In your Permian Basin update you mentioned a couple of strong Wichita Albany wells that had some pretty good rates.
I just was wondering if that’s an area that you see running room in what the production mix is between oil and gas and natural gas liquids.
Yeah Wichita Albany is largely oil.
We do have some running room in that area.
Those wells have been like a lot of the wells in the Tonkawa in Oklahoma those Wichita Albany wells have far exceeded our expectations.
We’ve got wells that make 900 barrels a day and are still making 800 barrels a day.
It’s been a very good play for us.
And we do have running room in that play.
[Operator instructions.]  Your next question comes from the line of [Kyle Rose] with RBC.
How should we think about Egyptian gas prices for the rest of the year? I think Egyptian gas prices that number will be the same number going forward really forever.
That is our gas price now.
And the reason is and I’m sure you’ve heard this before we had a gas contract that rolled off at the end of 2012 that was one of our higher-priced gas contracts in Egypt.
That’s the last one of those kind.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
I apologize I was a little late getting on the call so I hope none of these have been asked.
My first question I guess on the portfolio high-grading or the asset sales I guess you could call it there’s been a lot of chatter about the Gulf of Mexico discoveries being in that package or in that process.
And I guess my question isn’t so much about is that true or not but it’s really more about your philosophy on exploration and bringing longer-dated projects… You know you make a discovery it’s a five year out to development type of situation is your decision to go down a more aggressive asset sales route impacting your view of exploration as a kind of core strategy for the company? I think if you look at our portfolio today from where it was in 2010 we have now invested in the [Wheatstone] project which is a long term project that is basically oil-related.
It will come on in late 2016 and effectively be 35 000 barrels of oil a day for 20 years.
That’s about 270 million barrels of oil production.
So if you look at our long term projects that we have we’ve got 50 Bcf in Liard that is associated with our Kitimat project.
Those are long-lead items that take capital that also provide steady future revenues for years to come.
So in terms of what we look at selling are the things that have high cost right now that have lumpy production in the future.
Are you happy with the balance? Because obviously these up front long term large projects are dilutive to your core goal which is I guess return on capital.
So are you happy that you’ve got the right balance of short term and long term currently?  Or do you see that as… We do right now because Wheatstone we have 13% we’ve got one more year of capital associated with it and frankly with Wheatstone we’ll just have to see how that goes.
We haven’t reached FID yet with Kitimat and we’ll have to make that decision when we get there.
And I guess my follow up Steve and I know this comes up a lot and I apologize in advance but Egypt I think they just had their credit rating downgraded by a third party earlier this morning.
It doesn’t seem to be getting any better.
And I guess when you think about discount rates applied to your cash flow which obviously operationally things are going well but the value doesn’t seem to be [unintelligible].
Is there any updated thought as to how you address the exposure issue?  Is it just getting too big a part of the portfolio given the escalating risk profile?  Or are you still happy to hold things as they stand currently? Well I think you’ve got to look at the results.
They have gone through a number of quarters now and almost two years and we continue to be very profitable there.
We continue to think that that will level out over time.
My opinion is Egyptians are Egyptian-first and then that part of the world.
We were just there a month and a half ago and I feel very good about the forward plan in Egypt.
How we convince our U.S.
investor base that that is the way it is another matter.
Should we think about Argentina as being been a long term part of the portfolio? Truthfully Argentina’s got a lot of great resources.
Right now they’re troubled politically.
How that fits in our program long term we’ll just have to see.
Your next question comes from the line of Amir Avif with Stifel Nicolaus.
A follow up question on the Permian sequential growth.
It was a little slower this quarter.
Is that just due to the facility downtime?  And can you just [inaudible] you might be running into there’s in the Permian as you start wrapping up activity? Yeah we had some facility downtime but we also had some capacity constraints.
As we’ve been ramping up our drilling activity and associated production volumes we’ll be out in front of the ability to hook up the wells and move products out of there.
There’s about a 2.5% on the first quarter.
And that should be alleviated by Q2? That will be an ongoing challenge throughout the year.
And a follow up question if you could give us an update on your drilling of your acreage in the Miss Lime and the Bakken? We have not drilled any wells in the Bakken nor the Miss Lime in this last quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Harry Mateer with Barclays.
A follow up on my earlier questions about the debt reduction.
You mentioned $900 million of short term debt and then $600 million change of [CP] but that gets you to a little over $1.5 billion.
So if I could just ask a minor point on how we get to the $2 billion is it because you think you’re going to be slightly free cash flow negative through this year so you’ll add some debt?  And then that will be paid down?  Or is there something else that I’m missing? Typically what happens in the first half of the year is when we get off to a quick start which we have this year in all of our regions we usually run a little cash flow negative for the first half and that’s our plan.
We’re actually tracking on that now so we’ll be able to pay down some debt [unintelligible] will come from that.
So relative to first quarter debt balances debt reduction is not going to be quite $2 billion it will be less than that?  Is that fair?  Because it’s going to go up a little bit next quarter? Yeah based on balance that’s correct.
Your last question comes from the line of Nathan Churchill of Societe Generale  Just back on the asset adjustments wondering if there are any particular constraints that you have in the portfolio as far as investing some of this additional cash that you have coming in.
I know your share price has been a little bit depressed and I think the buyback makes sense but just wondering how you think about weighing the buyback versus maybe increasing capex and also if you’ve considered maybe an MLP of the assets if they’re high cash-generative and low growth.
I will tell you in terms of the share buyback I think from a board standpoint and from a management standpoint we find ourselves in a unique position because we have relatively high commodity prices at least on the oil side and our stock has got a lot of upside in it.
So I consider stock buyback [an event] but this is a very good event to buy your stock back.
I can assure you we have over the last several months looked at a number of combinations of an asset base that we want to come out of this going forward.
On the buyback it wasn’t really explicitly said but are these shares cancellation? We have no one in here that answers that question.
[laughter] Okay maybe switch gears for a second.
Can you give us some insight as to what you’re seeing on the service cost side?  Has it hit an inflection point as service costs started to bottom domestically that is? I think as we all learn not just Apache but I think as our industry learns ways to reduce cost I think service costs will continue to come down for a while.
I don’t think we’ve hit the bottom yet for all kinds of reasons because of the different ways you’re sourcing things now and the different services major service companies provide versus what they used to provide.
That’s all changing as I’m sure you’re aware.
Of course.
And there is the learning curve benefit and then there’s the actual price of the curve so I was just trying to tease out how I should think about the moving pieces there.
Well drilling rates in the Permian Basin for example have been increasing since 2008.
However the curve is flattening.
If you look at the day rate increases the increased from 2012 to what we’re seeing in 2013 it’s only about a 5% increase on average for the 42 rigs we’re running out there.
So we’re starting to see that curve starting to turn over.
Rig availability is not an issue.
As I mentioned in my remarks we have a large number of programs in place to reduce costs in all elements of drilling and completion.
In fact some of the cost reductions have been rather dramatic that we’ve experienced in the last 12 months through these efforts.
And at this time presenters there are no further questions.
Do you have any closing remarks? No I think that’s it.
Thanks everyone Good afternoon.
My name is Rachel and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the 2Q Earnings 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speaker’s remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Brady Parish Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Rachel.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us for Apache Corporation’s second quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
On today’s call we will have three speakers making prepared remarks prior to taking questions.
I will start by giving a brief summary of the second quarter results and then we will hear from Steve Farris our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; followed by Rod Eichler President and Chief Operating Officer; and finally our CFO Tom Chambers is out today so he has asked me to pinch it for him with respect to his remarks.
We've prepared our quarterly financial supplemental data package for your use which also includes the reconciliation of any non-GAAP numbers that we discuss such as adjusted earnings cash flow from operations or pre-tax margins.
In addition we have prepared an operations supplement to summarize our activities across the various Apache operating regions.
These can both be found on our website at www apachecorp.com/financialinfo.
Today's discussions will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
However a number of factors could cause actual results to defer materially from what we discuss today.
A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental data package on our website.
This morning we reported second quarter 2013 earnings of $1 billion or $2.54 per diluted share.
Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital totaled $2.6 billion.
Adjusted earnings which exclude certain items that impact the comparability of results totaled $801 million or $2.01 per diluted share.
In the second quarter total net production averaged approximately 790 000 boe per day with liquids production constituting 54% of the total.
This represents an increase from the 782 000 boe per day reported in the first quarter and the 774 000 boe per day reported in the second quarter of 2013 was negatively impacted by a decrease in North Sea production of 6000 boe per day from the first quarter partially due to deferred production as a result of unplanned facility maintenance at the Forties Field as well as natural fuel decline in some of our other international regions.
One final item of note before I turn the call over to Steve.
An effort to further provide transparency with respect to our disclosure of oil and gas production we’ve included within our quarterly financial and operation supplements say more detailed breakout of net production for our Egypt region.
As you can see on the bottom of pages five through seven of the financial supplement.
We have provided three separate line items for Egypt production.
Gross production net production with tax which is gap and net production without tax.
For the terms of our production sharing contracts the state owned petroleum company EGPC pays our Egyptian income taxes on our behalf using the share of it's profit oil.
As a result for accounting purposes we record income tax with an equal and offsetting increase in our oil and gas revenues.
As you can see this accounting treatment is both earnings and cash flow neutral.
However it does result in Apache recording additional production volumes what we call tax barrels because the recording of the tax barrels is both earnings and cash flow neutral we’re disclosing Egypt net production with tax barrels which is GAAP and without tax barrels for completeness.
If you were to exclude tax barrels from total reported production our second quarter 2013 net production would have been 751 000 boe per day versus 727 000 boe per day excluding tax barrels in the second quarter of 2012 which is a 3.3% increase.
This compares to the 2% increase based upon our reported net production which includes tax barrels.
We have included an illustration of our Apache’s production breakdown on page four of the operational supplement for your review because Egypt tax barrels introduce additional variability in our reported net production.
We have included this additional disclosure in an effort to assist you and estimating production on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
We will be posting a presentation at a later date that includes a detailed illustrative example of the mechanisms and accounting for a typical EPSC to help further enhance transparency.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Brady and good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us.
As Brady said Apache reported a strong results for the quarter we generated over a $1 billion of earnings and more importantly $2.6 billion of cash flow from operations.
I think the most important thing about the last quarter is we are transitioned towards more North American onshore growth was evidenced again this quarter with each of our four onshore North American regions significantly increasing liquids production both year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter which are at attractive rates of return.
As a result our onshore North American liquids production increased to 175 000 barrels of oil per day and that constitutes 41% of our total worldwide liquids production and over 22% of our total overall production.
This represents an increase of over 6% quarter-to-quarter and nearly 42% from second quarter of 2012.
In addition our onshore North American crude oil production increased to nearly 120 000 barrels a day an increase of 26% versus second quarter of 2012 and now it comprises over 15% of our total production.
Digging more our U.S.
onshore resource base continues to deliver sector leading performance.
Apache is the most active U.S.
onshore driller with 81 rigs currently running.
During the second quarter we averaged to combine production of 214 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day from our Permian and Central regions alone or 27% of our total production.
This represents more than a 34% increase over second quarter of 2012 and a 28% increase after adjusting for the Cordillera acquisition which we closed on April 30 2012.
In the Permian we are currently running 45 rigs.
In the Anadarko Basin we are running 35 rigs.
And as a result of this drilling activity we remain on track to achieve our guidance of greater than 25% North American onshore liquids growth during 2013.
I would like to turn to Egypt right now.
During the second quarter and throughout the recent political unrest our operations have remained uninterrupted.
In fact I traveled to Cairo last Thursday night I was in Cairo Friday through Tuesday of turning our quarterly operational review at an opportunity meet with the new minister of petroleum in a number of new administrations who have reiterated the importance of Apache’s investment in Egypt.
Frankly it was business as usual.
We are currently running 26 rigs in Egypt.
This morning we announced several impressive discoveries across our vast position in Western Desert.
These discoveries continued to highlight the prospectivity of our $9.7 million gross acreage position.
Now moving from the second quarter results I would like to provide a brief update with respect to our portfolio review process.
I mentioned in our first quarter earnings call after significantly both during our onshore North American asset base over last 3.5 years.
Last fall we embarked on a strategic preview of our portfolio with the ultimate goal of keeping the right mix of assets that generates strong returns drive a more predictable production growth and create shareholder value.
Since the beginning of this year we have begun executing on multiple processes with respect to a robust list of priority divestiture candidates.
On July 18th we announced our first divestiture when we sign an agreement to sell our Gulf of Mexico shelf operations to Fieldwood Energy for $3.75 billion on cash net of $1.5 billion of P&amp;A liability.
We also retained 50% interest in deeper rights including what we consider exciting subsalt plays.
We are moving forward on our other processes and we will keep you at price of our progress.
We hope to have additional transactions announced before year end.
Given the highly confidential and sensitive nature of these potential transactions we are not going to provide any further details at this time but we will update you as progress unfolds.
At the end we intend to use the net proceeds to be received from the disposition of these priority assets to reduce depth and repurchase shares under our 30 million share authorization from our Board.
And through the end of the second quarter we have repurchased 2.9 million shares.
The share repurchase program combined with our recent increase in our dividends I hope demonstrates our continued commitment to deliver value to our shareholders and reflects confidence in the underlying value of our business.
Please keep in mind all of these potential transactions and the use of the proceeds received or subject to market conditions and I want to rest assure we’re dead eye serious about rebalancing our portfolio and emerging from this process is even stronger company than we’re today.
We want to continue to do what we think we do best which is export our vast inventory of opportunities rigorously allocate capital to generate great attractive rates of return and profitably and more predictably grow our production and create long term value for our shareholders.
I would now like to turn the call over to Rod Eichler.
Thank you Steve and good afternoon.
We have once again compiled an operation supplement detailing our activities across all 10 of our regions.
I would like to take a moment to highlight some of our activities in the Permian and Central region and in Egypt.
As Steve mentioned we had an outstanding quarter drilling and completing wells across the globe and we continue to ratchet up production on our North America onshore liquid plays.
During the second quarter we averaged a 116 rigs worldwide and completed 343 total gross wells with a 99% success rate 248 of these wells or 72% were located onshore at North America.
At our Permian and Central Regions alone we completed 215 gross wells or 63% of our total.
Our production in North America onshore liquids grew 42% over the prior year to a 175 000 barrels per day and was predominantly by our Permian and Central regions.
Combined these two regions grew liquids production approximately 8000 barrels per day quarter-over-quarter or 6% to a 136 000 barrels per day which represented nearly 32% of total worldwide liquids production.
Combined production of these regions was 214 000 boe per day representing 27% of total company production for the quarter.
In the Permian region we averaged a 123 000 boe per day 74% liquids constituting nearly 16% of our total production.
This represents 18% production growth over the second quarter of 2012.
We continue to be the most active driller in the basin holding a record 41 rigs for the quarter.
We spot 214 gross wells of which 58 were horizontal and completed a 128 gross wells during the quarter.
Along with Deadwood drilling at Barnhart is down leading the region in production growth along with three bar (ph) and a Yeso Play in New Mexico.
We continue to add strong results in our vertical drilling program and Deadwood and area acquired in the 2010 transaction we now have over 600 operating wells for this year in the field.
Second quarter drilling activity at Deadwood focused on the vertical (inaudible) play maintain a six rig vertical Wolfwood (ph) campaign and our Lower Cline Shale Development Program.
The region continued it's successful (inaudible) program on four recent vertical wells in the play averaging IPs of approximately 300 barrels of oil per day 70% oil.
The Lower Cline Shale program continues to increase inventory and results.
Our 2013 11 wells have been drilled and there are 28 wells remaining for the year.
Our 30 day average IP for 2013 Cline wells online through second quarter is 311 boe per day 81% oil.
Currently our lower Cline inventory is spread over more than nine sections.
Well spacing for (inaudible) and for 3D seismic conversion interpretations are all being evaluated to optimize the development program.
Also during the quarter the Barnhart area was extremely active with key two production growing 32% on the second quarter of 2012 and averaging 4700 barrels oil per day and 13.5 million cubic feet of gas per day.
We continue to run six horizontal rigs toward the upper and little Wolfcamp shale.
By the end of the second quarter we had drilled 37 wells with a total 83 expected by year end.
We now have a total of 26 Apache operated horizontal Wolfcamp wells producing in the field with average 30 day IP in excess of 600 boe per day.
With respect to cost reductions one of our focus areas has been the conservation of water resources as frac operations have employed the use of 1.2 million barrels of recycled flow back water.
After initial drill out of frac wells all flow back and produce water from the horizontal development is recycled for us in the future frac jobs thereby conserving the non-potable groundwater available in the area and reducing our overall water cost.
During the second quarter we also added two rigs to our Three Bar Shallow Unit with selling and development of the Wichita Albany reservoir.
A total of 7 wells spud another successful horizontal completion was added to that field.
One well of note was the Three Bar Shallow Unit 113H drilled to a measured depth of 13 200 feet with a 6 000 foot lateral section.
After a 16-stage frac the well began production on May 9 and recently tested at rates of 795 barrels of oil per day and 1.3 million cubic feet of gas per day.
Six additional wells are in various stages of completions flow back and tie-in.
Two vertical and one horizontal rig continue to develop the Yeso play of New Mexico.
For the second quarter 27 new Yeso wells all verticals were brought on production.
Gross production for the 2013 Yeso drilling program doubled from 1 500 barrels of oil per day and 3.2 million cubic feet of gas per day to about 3 000 barrels of oil per day and 6.3 million cubic feet of gas per day during the second quarter.
Completion activity on 8 horizontal wells drilled to-date should commence later in the third quarter.
Looking ahead to the third quarter of 2013 Permian expects to maintain an active rig count of 45 drilling rigs of which 20 will be horizontal.
Moving now to Anadarko Basin we are in our central region we averaged 91 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in the second quarter.
This is approximately 4 700 barrel of oil equivalent per day or 5% increase over first quarter 2013 production and notably 100% of the quarterly growth came from oil and natural gas liquids.
Our liquids production rose 12% quarter-over-quarter to 45 000 barrels per day.
Liquids now represent nearly half of our total region production versus 29% in the second quarter of 2012.
During the quarter we accelerated activity in the Anadarko and Whittenburg basins.
We further exploited our vast resource potential by running an average of 28 rigs of which 27 were horizontal and completed 87 gross wells.
We are currently running 35 rigs in that region and remain on track to drill 300 wells during 2013.
About a third of our program will target prolific liquids-rich Granite Wash with another third targeting the oilier Tonkawa.
Rigs will also continue to work the Cleveland Marmaton Cottage Grove and Canyon Wash plays.
In our liquids-rich Granite Wash play our wells continue to come on strong.
Two recent well result highlights include the Ramp 26 #7H with an IP of 199 barrels of oil per day and 7.5 million cubic feet of gas per day the Ramp 27 #7H with an IP of 139 barrels of oil per day and 7.4 million cubic feet of gas per day.
We still have many years of well locations and our resource inventory awaiting exploitation.
In the oily Tonkawa play we had strong results in Roger Mills County with our three largest completions averaging over 500 barrels of oil per day and approximately 600 Mcf per day.
Again Apache has identified years of viable well locations in our resource inventory.
In Ochiltree County Texas we have a successful Cleveland program underway with our most recent four completions coming on with an average IP of 540 barrels of oil per day and 630 Mcf per day.
The Marmaton formation is also showing strong results with recent completions averaging 400 barrels of oil per day and 4.9 million cubic feet of gas per day.
We are also having tremendous success in our Cottage Grove play development and the Stiles #23-3H well came online at 790 barrels of oil equivalent per day 82% oil.
In our Canyon Wash play in the Texas Panhandle we brought on several strong vertical wells including the (indiscernible) with an IP of 1 237 barrels of oil per day and 1 million cubic feet of gas per day and the Boys Ranch 116 #10 at 984 barrels a day and 101.3 million cubic feet of gas per day.
In addition our two most recent wells are flowing back after frac at a combined rate in excess of 3 000 barrels of oil per day.
We are also continuing to drive down drilling and completion cost through detailed analysis of even smallest operations.
In May we reported $5 million of drilled and completed Tonkawa well.
Thanks to the efforts of a number of Apache engineers petrophysicists and geologists.
We have lowered that number by nearly $1.5 million with production results equal to or better than before.
During the second quarter we also concentrated heavily in our Tonkawa bit motor torque and drag combinations.
Half of the 25 Tonkawa wells drilled in the quarter had significant rate of penetration increases with our last two wells drilled in under two weeks versus four weeks six months ago.
We mentioned on our last earnings call that we have lowered our average Granite Wash completing well cost by $1.3 million to $2 million per well.
The same team that reduced our Tonkawa cost by nearly half is now focused on the Granite Wash so we anticipate additional future cost savings by continuing to apply best practices we expect to reduce cost further and apply these technicians to our other plays.
As Steve mentioned our operations in Egypt remain uninterrupted and we continue to find new oil and gas discoveries in the prolific Western Desert.
In fact this morning we reported seven oil and gas discoveries across four basins at six concessions.
Our continued success highlights a geologic and geographic diversity across the company’s 9.7 million gross acres in Egypt’s Western Desert.
The discoveries include the Riviera South West-1X on the Southern Plank of the Abu Gharadig Basin which test flowed 1500 barrels of oil per day and 2.8 million cubic feet gas per day for the Lower Bahariya sand.
And the Faghur basin we had four new discoveries including the Narmer-1X which encountered 85 feet of net pay in the middle of Jurassic Safa sand.
The wells have flowed 1166 barrels of oil per day and 400 mcf of gas per day.
Despite downtime in the North Sea we did have some positive news recently at our Bacchus field.
Last month we completed our third successful development well Bacchus B1 which mobbed 257 feet of net oil pay along our horizontal wellbore and high quality Jurassic Fulmar sandstone.
Production commenced from the B1 during the fourth week of July adding 9400 barrels of oil per day of new rate taking the field to 17 600 barrels of oil per day with plants to further optimize the rates and operating conditions of the subsea infrastructure.
During the third quarter we planned to acquire a new treaty seismic survey over Bacchus in order to identify further development opportunities.
That concludes the operational highlights.
I’ll now turn the call back over to Brady.
Thanks Rod.
This morning we reported earnings of 1 billion or 254 per diluted share.
Overall our bottomline results reflect an another solid quarter of financial performance driven by increased production.
Our production this quarter averaged 790 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Oil and gas revenues totaled $4.1 billion for the quarter flat with the first quarter; oil revenue was lower as higher production volumes were offset somewhat by a drop in the oil prices.
Gas revenue was slightly higher than the first quarter as higher prices offset a slight decline in production.
Oil accounted for 78% of total revenue.
Including the impact at hedging second quarter oil prices averaged $97 and $0.93 per barrel down $3.79 from the first quarter our gas prices averaged to $3.87 up $0.15 per mcf for the first quarter.
As a result we generated 2.6 billion of cash from operations before working capital items.
We were able to consistently generate these cash flow levels given the fact that over 45% of our total production on a boe basis is oil which continues to sell for well over 20 times the price of North American natural gas.
In addition our international gas portfolio is continued to bolster our realizations as our international realizations exceeded those in North America for the sixth consecutive quarter.
We head the portion of our 2014 production to secure prices in cash flows that will support our continued growth through our very active drilling program.
We hedge 62 500 barrels per day at WTI crude oil at almost $91 per barrel and 62 500 at Brent crude at just over a $100 per barrel.
When you look at our income statement this quarter you will notice a new line item titled derivative instrument gains losses net.
This line item represents the mark to market impact of our oil and gas commodity price financial derivatives and was segregated due to the magnitude of the amount of $247 million gain in the quarter.
This line item will continue to appear each quarter as long as we have financial derivatives and be one of the components utilized to calculate adjusted earnings.
Our focused drilling program produced a 42% increase in liquids production in North America onshore properties from the prior quarter and 6% increase for the first quarter.
This is primarily driven by continued strong results in the Permian and Anadarko Basins although as noted earlier each of our four North American onshore regions increased their liquids production from second quarter a year ago and sequentially versus the first quarter.
Worldwide liquids production for the quarter averaged 426 000 boe per day an increase of 10% from the comparative 2012 quarter and 2% sequentially.
For Apache our liquids growth and drilling opportunities are primarily focused on crude oil.
Over 84% of our second quarter liquids production is crude oil.
Our production efforts directly translated into a pretax margin that exceeded 35%.
Our operating costs for the quarter were up 5% sequentially driven by increased repair and maintenance and power and fuel costs.
Typically repair and maintenance cost run higher in the second and third quarters each year as we compress this work into the favorable weather window.
I also wanted to note that second quarter earnings were impacted by $59 million deferred tax expense for foreign currency fluctuations in addition to the after-tax commodity derivative mark-to-market gain of $156 million both of which are non-cash adjustments.
Adjusting for these non-cash items we were near $801 million or $2.01 per share versus $2.07 a year ago and $2.02 in the first quarter of 2013.
Turning to taxes the second quarter effective tax rate of 37% primarily reflects the impact of foreign currency fluctuations on deferred taxes just mentioned.
Absent this foreign exchange movement for the quarter our effective tax rate would have been a more typical 40%.
Similarly this adjustment impact in our percentage of deferred taxes in the quarter.
We would expect the deferred rate of approximately 25% for the year absent the adjustment.
Detailed calculations for margins adjusted earnings adjusted tax rate and cash from operations can be found in the financial supplement located on our website.
Looking at the balance sheet our ability to generate consistent operating cash flows continues to support our robust drilling program and other planned capital expenditures.
This quarter our total debt balance increased slightly but at the end of the quarter our debt to capitalization ratio was 28% the same as last quarter.
However as Steve mentioned earlier we are working to rebalance our portfolio by actively pursuing asset sales to be completed in 2013.
Proceeds from the first of these the Gulf shelf sale for $3.75 billion will be used to reduce our debt including commercial paper balances and $400 million of debt maturing in September and we purchased Apache common shares under a 30 million share repurchase program authorized by the board earlier this year.
At the end of the second quarter we took the opportunity to initiate the share repurchase program and buyback 2.9 million shares.
The results of our efforts to rebalance our portfolio will enhance our debt maturity profile preserve our balance sheet flexibility to fund operations and growth and enhance shareholder value.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Operator we are now ready to open the line for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of Arun Jayaram.
Good afternoon gentlemen.
Good afternoon.
And Steve understanding that you are not probably going to provide a lot of details but I do want to maybe see if you could give us maybe some broad thoughts as you look to rebalance the portfolio obviously you announced the Shell but from here will the portfolio look pretty similar to what you have today? I mean are you thinking of more smaller types of transactions down the road or could we see something pretty meaningful where you really reduced the size of the organization to increase your leverage to the U.S.
onshore properties which are growing pretty sharply? So just trying to get your thoughts on from here what the scale of the asset sales could look like?  Well I – thank you for the question.
I think we said during our first quarter earnings call we had a robust list of assets that we were in the process of marketing which we still do.
We have multiple processes going on at the same time.
The end results of this and I have said it before but the end results of this is we want assets that can grow or we want assets that can generate cash to fund that growth.
And if you think about where that portfolio would lead you it would lead you more towards North American onshore.
The other thing we have said and I made a comment about being in Egypt and it was business as usual I drove around Cairo for three days and it was very quiet and business as usual but we also recognize that we need to find a way to validate the value of Egypt for our shareholders and we continue to work on that also.
And Steve just a follow-up maybe on the North Sea you commented about you had a little of maintenance related downtime can you give us maybe some thoughts on how the back half of the year could like in terms of production.
I know that the third quarter you generally see some turnarounds and things like that but just maybe some comments on the North Sea.
The North Sea does go through we had some unplanned downtime in the second quarter we had some planned downtime in the third quarter.
We have a turnaround schedule our production will be down a little bit from the second quarter and then our expectation for the fourth quarter is to be considerably stronger than the rest of the quarters of the year.
And your next question comes from the line of Pearce Hammond.
Steve how should we think about total company production growth for on the divestiture the Gulf of Mexico Shelf in the past we’ve talked about kind of total company production growth of 3% to 5% then of course that included the shelf.
So how should we think about that moving forward?  And that’s a very good question and it really when we come out of the other side of this when depending on how much we get done this year we still have the a large portfolio or a pretty robust portfolio things we would like to divest up.
When we get through with that what we will see is by it's nature that our North American onshore will become a bigger part of our portfolio so we would expect our future growth to be stronger than our 3% to 5%.
And then my follow-up is just a little bit how do you feel like you’re progressing right now on the Wolfcamp currently and do you think there is an upward bias to the 350 million boe resource potential figure that you put out last year at the Analyst Day because it looks like you got some attractive acreage shelf over in Upton County and a little bit Midland County and Martin County as well where some other operators have had some good wells.
I’m going to let Rod talk about the detail.
So one thing I would say and for the most part we had a presentation back in June of 2012 where we did some tight curve.
For the most part we have exceeded those tight curves in the Wolfcamp in the Deadwood area and the Cline et cetera.
But as Rod pointed out we have six rigs running we continue to be very active there.
We have 45 rigs currently operating as a Permian we have about 20 of those rigs were operating in the southern half of the Midland basin.
Big concentration in Deadwood and Barnhart where we have a strong acreage concentration which I talked about but we have a lot of other blocks of acreage in Midland County area and I have some other operations I mentioned some results just in the last day or two we have acreage in the cities in fact we have two wells are currently drilling and testing offsetting some of those results that were just recently announced and we have great expectations we continue to the success on the Wolfcamp.
We’re targeting two different landing zones in the middle Wolfcamp across the area.
I think to answer your question in broad terms you will probably see our resource potential in the Wolfcamp from what we put on June of 2012 we’re going to have an analyst day later this year probably in the fourth quarter but I think you will see those resource potentials in the Wolfcamp go up from where it was.
And your next question comes from the line of Bob Morris.
Steve you last quarter mentioned a full year budget of $10.5 billion that you’ve increased activity in both the central region and the Permian.
What has been the impact on the budget apples-to-apples.
I know there was some associated with the couple of Mexico shale but on an apples-to-apples basis what is the impact on that $10.5 billion from the increased activity seen on sort of North America.
Well at the present time we’re running at a pace would outpace that a little bit but we intend to gauge our capital program with our sales proceeds and also our cash flow.
We are also ahead a little bit on our cash flow.
So that $10.5 billion apples-to-apples maybe goes up couple of hundred million or $500 million for the increased activity source it elsewhere and (indiscernible).
Honestly probably the higher number.
Okay alright.
And I will tell you honestly I mean we are talking about we are at the end of July.
So we still got five months of activity level yet so…  Alright thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Herrlin.
Yes hi.
Quick one for you Steve in terms of the reconstituted Apache conceivably could you be more like 70% on conventional and the rest conventional given the added North American focus?  That’s a pretty strong number.
I would say this Canada has to be a part of our portfolio going forward.
We are in the Permian.
We are in the Anadarko Basin.
We are re-looking and doing a resource assessment in our Canadian region.
We should start seeing some results of that in the next couple of weeks internally and we’ll make that presentation in the fourth quarter or at the Analyst day but what we would like to have is three areas in North America that is predominantly unconventional.
I doubt if we ever get to the 70% range but it certainly will be a bigger part of our portfolio.
Okay that’s fair.
Next one from me and last one is your Permian well reserves you are giving 30 days what would the IPs be because it looked like in the Central region you were giving shorter-term IPs and not 30 days.
So I was just wondering how these wells started?  I believe that we use 30 day IPs across the board unless we say otherwise.
That goes in the Central region as well as the Permian.
Obviously Rod yes the initial 24-hour test would be I don’t want to say significant it would be certainly quite a bit larger than what our 30-day IPs are.
Okay thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Brackett.
Hi good afternoon.
Any update on Kitimat and we still in some of the LNG projects?  Wheatstone continues to move forward.
We are finally getting in a range where the end of 2016 isn’t that far off.
So one thing I would say is is that based on our models and our partner’s models when that comes on it will pay out in 4.5 years of all our costs and it will generate about over $1 billion a year net to Apache.
So as we get closer to that time it becomes more and more interesting.
The Kitimat project frankly is we are going through a supplemental FEED with Chevron.
Chevron has now taken over the operations of the downstream.
We are operating the upstream.
We had a meeting with our Chevron counterparts last week and went through a number of things.
The predominant one was marketing and although I can’t talk specifically about it they are high and behind the marketing side.
Obviously marketing is going to drive this program.
Great thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Freeman.
Good afternoon.
On the Central region you announced a group of pretty solid Canyon Wash wells and I know that Rod you mentioned that you are still sticking with the same game plan of third-year rigs on the Granite Wash a third at Tonkawa and a third in these other areas and I am just curious if maybe not this year but next year if Canyon Wash just based on the fact it appears to be pretty strong results a lot oiler than some of these other plays if that might start to get some incremental rigs as its in the least developed of your central region properties?  Of course it’s a new property for us having just started this discovery about two years ago.
We have about 35 rigs operating in that region by year end.
Well probably one or two rigs continue to operate in the Bivins Ranch area.
It’s a vertical program.
We drill the wells relatively quickly.
We anticipate drilling into a water flood opportunity that exists in that (inaudible) field in the very near future.
But we’re very pleased with the results we have seen to-date.
Yeah we have about 130 000 acres there and I think they are actually going to drill a horizontal well in there fourth quarter this year.
Number of operators on either side that are experimenting with horizontal wells.
And just one follow-up from me in the Permian another pretty good Wichita Albany well can you remind me I know you’re adding rigs there what sort of the running room is there.
Is that present across majority of your central basin platform acres is it isolated into one area?  In the three bar unit area we have probably about two dozen locations that we’re currently exploring.
It's been a very robust program to-date and we’re just now been able to step out in other blocks of acreage we have in the same county to see if that same kind of high potential exists on those other acreages we have.
I think the most interesting thing about a number of other operators and ourselves is that the future of the Permian is still an emphasize because it is a tremendous amount of oil in place there and you see quarterly and including ourselves trying new ideas and going horizontal in new plays and you really have a real tremendous potential continuous to be in the Permian basin that is untouched.
People haven't even thought about it yet.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate.
I’ve got two one is on Egypt and the another one is maybe a little bit off the wall but the way things to Permian but.
On Egypt Rod there has obviously been another stream of tremendous success over there it's obviously not getting any purchase at the market currently given the situation but can you just tell us today as things stand how do you see the running room the scope for additional growth and following your conversation Steve what is the risk that you see any changes the tax regime or anything has really threatened your operation as thing stand today.
And I’ve got a follow-up.
All that Rod talk about the what our running room is in terms of our operational position and then on my comment on our view of what’s happening in there from a political standpoint.
Yeah Dough we’re clearly running 26 27 rigs in Western Desert.
We anticipate drilling a similar program in 2013 probably about 2075 wells as we had 2012 so the program level of activity is continued to pace for the previous years pre-revolution.
Our gas production as an example is it's record levels.
In fact we have some facility constraints our gross operating production is running about 920 million cubic feet of gas per day and in the second quarter we managed to finally put on the 24 inch pipeline from Abu Gharadig to Dashur which we have been working to restore to it's original operating parameters when it was held by BP and we now have half that line half of the capacity being put into service.
So we anticipate to continue the same kind of program with a good prospect inventory and the every year we show this at Analyst Day presentation as the inventory both drilling and then completion opportunities as well as work over opportunities it seems to be no change in the actual amount of the inventory grown going from year-to-year even though we continue to grow 300 wells and do well over 1 000 work overs and rig completion opportunities every year.
And I'm going to prep with this with the comments that we've recognized the uncertainty and how our shareholders view Egypt and we're working on how to validate that.
Having said that I will say this and I have said it many many times.
Egyptians are Egyptian first and Arab second and I think if you see what's going on currently you get a pretty good picture of that.
I mean they want stability in terms of our position in Egypt we met with the Minister of Petroleum we met with the Minister of Investment we also met with the Minister of Industry and Trade and met with a number of business people over there that I have met over a period of years with the US-Egyptian Business Council.
The importance to Egypt of Apache or the importance of Apache being in Egypt it is very big.
We are the most active driller.
We drill more wells than everybody else combined in the Western Desert.
And I say this and it’s a factual statement and I understand the uncertainty but from the way we see it would it be very difficult for Egypt to change our tax regime or change our position because we are their oil growth in Egypt going forward.
I appreciate the answers frankly my kind of off the wall follow-up so today one of your competitors I guess smaller competitor Pioneer announced another stream of strong well results in the Permian stocks up significantly.
I am just curious as to whether you would ever consider separating your Permian business as part of your broader portfolio if you are given the value that’s not been recognized in your portfolio that has been recognized elsewhere? And I’ll leave it that.
Thanks.
Like I say it’s a bit off the wall.
Yeah truthfully I think we are getting good value for our Permian assets.
I think it needs the Permian and the Anadarko and some of the other things we are doing needs to be a bigger part of that portfolio and that’s what we set out to do.
And honestly we are (indiscernible) serious of doing that.
Alright.
Okay fine.
I will leave you there.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Joseph Allman.
So Steve your comment about validating the value of Egypt that seems to imply some kind of monetization could you just give us some color on that?  Well there – obviously I have said those words a number of times and I have answered that question a number of times.
There is a number of ways I think to validate the value of Egypt.
Obviously one of which is monetization one of which is if you look at the gamut you could spin it out you could list part of it you could sell part of it you could sell all of it.
The most important thing about Egypt is it generates a tremendous amount of cash flow.
And we just need to figure out a way to validate that value without giving up that value.
Got you.
Do you think if you sold a small slice of Egypt would that cause investors to value the whole asset using the same metrics based on selling a small slice?  Well I think that would be beauty would be in the eyes of the beholder honestly.
And in terms of the option of selling the whole thing I mean is that really an option? I mean could you sell it or do you think there would be buyers out there with the government budget?  Well we are getting in an awful lot of detail but one thing I would say is that in fact I went to Europe with Brady the first part of June.
The rest of the world has a different view of the events in Egypt than folks in the United States.
Europeans and other parts of the world have a different view of Egypt.
They see truthfully a little less risk there than U.S.
investors but not saying the right or wrong or the U.S.
investor is right or wrong that’s just – that’s a perception.
Got you.
And then on other area so the media seem to get it right in terms of the shelf I think the media reported that you are going to sell a minority interest in the shelf and you end up selling the whole thing.
The media also reported that you are going to sell the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and those reports came out even earlier.
So how do you view that deepwater Gulf of Mexico it’s a newer asset for you how do you view that in the context of the overall portfolio in terms of returns and predictable growth and your ability to add shareholder value?  Well we have said we have a robust list of assets that we might think are more valuable in somebody else’s hands than our own.
And we also want to get more predictable and consistent growth.
We also have a number of large capital items weed stone being one and kitimat being another.
I mean obviously we need to look at that and see how it fits in our portfolio.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Meade.
Going back to the Permian in Mid-Continental areas do you have a sense of how much you might be able to ramp your activity there from current levels before you started to run into above ground issues or organizational issues?  Well it depends on which one you bid.
Certainly the Central region right now we're 10 rigs behind the Permian and we could continue to ramp up there.
We can continue to ramp up in the Permian Basin.
It's a little and I use the analogy it's like when you have to add a new foreman an appeal I mean you get 16 pumpers in a field and then you got to add a new foreman.
So I am not sure where that line is in terms of what it takes from an organizational standpoint to make a step change to add another foreman if you understand my analog.
I think I do.
But certainly we could ramp up from here.
Got it.
Okay in both those areas in both the Permian and Mid-Continent?  Yes.
Okay great.
That's exactly what I was looking for.
And then if I could also just try to follow-up a bit on the questions that Joe Allman was asking do you have a preference on the assets sales that you are pursuing? Do you have a preference for a complete exit from an area or an asset versus a sell down of selling the percentage of what you hold?  No different assets in a different way.
So there may be some that we have partners and there may be some that we have a complete access.
Got it.
So not an across the board preference but it is asset-by-asset?  Right.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani.
Just yet another follow-up on the asset sales.
Obviously it looks like you're going to be able to pay down all of your short-term debt with the shelf sale and you're clearly buying back a lot of stock as well.
If there are large incremental asset sales where should we expect the proceeds to be directed here? Would it be even more stock buyback or potentially accelerating drilling in the areas like Permian and Central area?  I think it's important to note that the more assets that we sell whatever in terms of that are cash flow generating assets.
It requires us to pay down more debt in order to keep our A rated and we intend to keep our A rated.
So you may see more debt but you'll have more proceeds.
And then that will either depending on our as we look in the future it will either buyback additional shares or reinvest it in the business.
Okay.
And I guess in terms of some of your other kind of more fledging areas exploration stuff.
Any update on Inland or Alaska or shale’s in Argentina?  Yeah.
The Cook Inlet in Alaska.
In fact we’re getting ready to do some work 3D seismic.
Frankly we were disappointed in the well results that we have there.
We drilled the well and actually got too close to a fault (ph) so we really didn't evaluate that well.
I am personally still very positive about the Cook Inlet.
Obviously we're directing cash to different things right now.
So we've slowed down that activity but in terms of its prospectivity I still think it has good value.
What was the other question? I am sorry.
We have drilled or participated in four or five Bakken mode of (ph) wells.
We drilled a couple of horizontal wells ourselves that were very short laterals.
That area is politically challenged right now.
What we have decided to do is spend our cash flow that we generate there.
And so we are pretty slow in actually continuing to evaluate the (indiscernible).
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Hi Brian.
I wanted to follow-up on the running room topics on Egypt and the North Sea because I think one of the challenges unrelated to political risk is assessing the impact on production growth of the discoveries that you regularly announced.
If you look at production in both areas itself sequentially and I think in the update you highlighted in part declines in Egypt from new and legacy wells.
So I think the question specifically on Egypt since you touched on the North Sea earlier is what should we expect for oil production trajectory over the next few quarters? And can the discoveries that you have announced here drive growth or just reverse the declines that we have seen on a gross basis in the last couple of quarters?  Yes I think it’s – and Brady went through that the makeup of our production there.
And it’s very important to start being able to articulate that because under GAAP what we have to do is report tax barrels but tax barrels is just a gross up of the revenue line and a gross up of the expense line on the tax side.
In order to really look at our growth because what we do in our plan for the year is we just use last year’s percentages and try to roll them into this year’s plan because you don’t have any other data to go by.
And it plays havoc with really talking about what our percentage growth is which is why we have worked hard over the last couple of quarters.
And that leads into my next point.
If you look at our gross operated production which is where you start in Egypt our gross operated operation is basically flat for the year.
If you look at our net because of the differences in the tax barrels our production has been down which is why we are trying to make sure we articulate what is happening in Egypt.
Right now we are spending enough money to grow slightly our gross operated production.
And it truly is a function of how much capital you want to spend because with the opportunity set is still very robust.
And what we have done right now is we are spending capital enough that we think we can grow gross operated production slightly for the year.
Got it.
And is that going to be maintaining an equal mix of oil and natural gas or do you expect a further shift to more towards natural gas here?  Yes we are about most of the things that we are drilling right now are oil.
Great thanks.
And then on a follow-up on the Cline shale you talked about your 30-day IP rates can you just put into context how the Cline competes in your portfolio relative to the Wolfcamp shale and the Mid-Continent?  In terms of rate of return Brian?  Exactly.
And in terms of rate of return how you think about where the next dollar of capital goes in the U.S.
onshore?  Well probably the Cline shale right now because we are still – if you are talking about horizontal wells vertical Clines are very economic.
Horizontal wells are 20% – honestly 20% rates of return.
If you look at the things we are doing in the Anadarko Basin especially with any kind of oil at all the rate of returns are in the 30% because we are ahead of the game in terms of reducing our cost against our benchmarks in the Anadarko Basin than we are in the Permian Basin.
We are still on the learning curve in the Permian Basin Brian but the Wolfcamp shale is its 30% rates of return.
Our Wolfcamp development is also 18 months further developed in the Cline.
And just in terms of share numbers and the things that we are doing out there we are still learning a lot in the Cline.
Our results are very good but we are not as mature there as we are of our knowledge or the understanding of Wolfcamp shale in the same area.
And In fact I said on the European Roadshow I mean throw us in that broader patch I mean I can't name another company that can get cost down and production up like this outfit can and this is perfectly example of doing that.
If you look at our Tonkawa wells we were last year we were making about an 18% rate of return and we were $1.5 million more.
This year you take out a $1.5 out of that cost side it's over 40% rates of return in Tonkawa.
So it's purely a margin game and I think we can play that game very well.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hall.
I just want to make sure I’m thinking about the kind of go forward 2013 production outlook correctly let’s get in the moving pieces.
If I have to just hold the U.S.
Gulf the shelf assets let's say flat from the second quarter levels.
Will that be with the 3% to 5% growth target that you spoke about previously this year still be a fair target?  Well I think in the Gulf of Mexico flat it's probably not a good assumption frankly.
If you look at on a pro forma basis where you would to take the Gulf of Mexico shelf operations out of the forecast for '13 and then do the same thing for '12.
We projected that we would have a double-digit decline in the Gulf of Mexico shelf so therefore the 3% to 5% would obviously have been a higher number if you did on a pro forma basis.
I think that's probably the right way to think about it.
I guess I am trying to understand the go forward pieces and how those are progressing well for the prior plan which maybe you will be able to walk through maybe through the key areas.
It sounds like North Sea is down third quarter coming back up until fourth Egypt we just walked through maybe it's around through some of the other?  Yeah I think when you look at the third quarter we’re not going to give specific guidance but if you look at the onshore North American plays that we’re doing I would suspect that the third quarter growth would be fairly consistent with what we experienced in the second quarter with the goal obviously the guidance we've reiterated at 25% greater than 25% North American onshore liquids growth.
When you look at the offshore Gulf of Mexico including the deep water and you also look at Australia we had guided earlier in the year that they would be down roughly double-digits.
So I think that's the right way still to think about them even though the shelf hopefully will close by September 30<sup>th</sup> we won’t have them in the fourth quarter.
And then I think with the North Sea Steve had already mentioned that we expected to be down in the third quarter a little bit because of the turnaround.
You are going to have offsets because of wells coming on production some of which we announced recently including the Bacchus well today.
But you know that turnaround at the 40 field turnaround on average for the quarter we expect it to be down 10 000 to 12 000 boe per day even though it will happen in the month of August; the average would be about 10 000 to 12 000 boe per day down.
As a result of the turnaround but that's what we've already got built into our plan.
That’s helpful and then if I could just follow-up in terms of Canada what you're doing of those assets perhaps just a little additional color kind of maybe what the underlying decline of the legacy activity looks like and how quickly you think you could turn that into a growth program with any of these new targets you kind of alluded to?  Well I think we have two things going on in Canada.
One is we have got our transition into more of an unconventional play up there.
And then we got to look at our legacy assets and decide what to do with them.
And we're in the process of doing that frankly.
We would like that region to come out is in a position to be able for 2014 being in a able position to be able to grow and adding a meaningful growth area for us in North America onshore.
Your next question comes from the line of (inaudible).
Steve just a couple of questions regarding the deep shale for the subsalt in the Gulf of Mexico I note that you retained half your interest there what are the near-term drilling plans related to the subsalt play?  Actually we have two wells that we are drilling as we speak and it will be a continuing part of our portfolio.
If you think about it in terms of reserve size to cost we also have an agreement that we have a facility right on the current HBP acreage that we sold to Fieldwood so that we can take them through those platforms.
The two prospects that we are drilling right now I think the un-risk predicted or expected reserves on one is 104 million barrels and the other one is 136 million barrels.
And we are not down on either one of them but that’s – so when you think about what the infrastructure costs that you are foregoing and the reserve size that you are looking at you have a real potential across that shelf to make that subsalt play.
Okay.
And if I remember correctly you are involved with a 3D shoot in the Central Gulf of Mexico is that still ongoing?  It is.
We have a wide seismic shoot going on and that we won’t have the results to the latter part of this year actually the end of this year the actual process data but we are continuing to shoot.
Alright thanks very much.
Hey Richard we do provide a little bit of detail on Main Pass 295 which is one of the wells that Steve is alluding to within our ops report.
Okay.
As we go into the Gulf of Mexico shelf there is a little paragraph on it.
I appreciate that.
Thank you.
And I am showing that we have no further questions at this time.
Okay excellent.
Well thank you very much for participating in the call and again if you have any additional questions don’t be shy reach out to us and we’ll be happy to help.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Rachel and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter Earnings -- 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Brady Parish Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you Rachel.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us for Apache Corporation’s third quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
On today’s call we will have three speakers making prepared remarks prior to taking questions.
I will start by giving a brief summary of the third quarter results and then we will hear from Steve Farris our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer followed by Tom Chambers our Chief Financial Officer.
In addition joining us for the question and answer session which will follow the prepared remarks are Roger Plank President and Chief Corporate Officer; Rod Eichler President and Chief Operating Officer; Tom Voytovich Executive Vice President for International Operations and John Christmann Region Vice President for our Permian region.
We prepared our quarterly financial supplemental data package for your use which also includes the reconciliation of any non-GAAP numbers that we discuss such as adjusted earnings cash flow from operations pre-tax margins or cash margins.
In addition we have prepared an operations supplement which summarizes our activities includes detailed well highlights across the various Apache operating regions.
These can both be found on our website at www.apachecorp.com/financialinformation or financial info.
Today’s discussion will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
However a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental data package on our website.
This morning we reported third quarter 2013 earnings of $300 million or $0.75 per diluted share cash flow from operations before changes in working capital totaled over $2.7 billion.
Adjusted earnings which excludes certain items that impact the comparability of results totaled $932 million or $2.32 per diluted share.
During the third quarter total net production averaged approximately 784 000 boe per day with liquids production constituting 54% of the total.
This represents an increase over the 771 000 boe per day reported in the third quarter of 2012 and a decrease from the 790 000 boe per day reported in the second quarter of 2013.
Production in the third quarter of 2013 was negatively impacted by a decrease in North Sea production 6 100 boe per day predominantly due to a planned turnaround at 40s as well as natural field declines in the offshore Gulf of Mexico and Australia all of which we guided to on our second quarter earnings call.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Brady and good afternoon everyone.
And thank you everybody for joining us.
As Brady mentioned we’re delighted to have Tom Voytovich and John Christmann join Roger and Rod and Tom Chambers and me on the call.
And although Tom and John are not officially assuming their new Co-COO positions until the beginning of 2014 in typical Apache fashion they’re burning the candle at both ends rapidly getting up to speed with respect to their new responsibilities.
As Brady pointed out Apache reported another solid quarter generating $932 million of adjusted earnings and $2.7 billion of cash flow from operations before changes in working capital.
On the operational results I’d highlight one number Apache’s North America onshore liquids production grew by 49 000 barrels of oil a day or 35% from the third quarter of 2012 reaching nearly 190 000 barrels.
Our North American onshore oil production grew by 26% during the same period to 129 000 barrels a day.
During this time those regions made no acquisitions so this is a 100% drill bit generated growth and it puts Apache in the top-tier of North America onshore liquids growth generators among all our peers.
Apache continued to be most active US onshore driller in the third quarter running an average of 77 rigs and completing 306 gross wells.
Importantly we coupled our production growth with a relentless focus on operation and cost efficiency to ensure that our wells are not only increasing production but doing so at attractive returns.
In all our onshore regions we continue to drive down drilling and completion costs.
And I’ll give you a couple of examples.
Year-to-date we reduced our drilling and completions costs by $1.5 million per well in Tonkawa play in the Anadarko Basin and over $1 million per well in the Wolfcamp and Cline Shale plays in the Permian Basin.
And we expect to further reduce these well costs as we optimize our development activities in these plays.
You can read more details about our operational performance this quarter in our quarterly operation supplement which has been posted in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Commensurate with building a deep asset base in North America onshore and delivering leading liquids growth performance we set about restructuring our portfolio to focus more around this North American onshore resource base.
We’ve successfully completed the lion share of that portfolio review.
We’ve already announced in excess of $7 billion of divestitures aimed at rebalancing our portfolio to include the right mix of assets capable of generating strong returns driving more predictable growth and enhancing shareholder value.
As a result of these efforts North American onshore production was 56% of our production in the third quarter pro forma for the transactions we have announced year to date.
That’s up from less than a third in 2019 the year before we embarked on our strategy to substantially bolster our North American onshore resource base.
This was achieved through a number of key steps during the third quarter.
We exited our production operations in the Gulf of Mexico Shelf.
This transaction closed on September 30 and generated $3.6 billion in cash proceeds.
We expect another $200 million of cash from prep [ph] properties to be received in the fourth quarter.
In addition with this transaction we removed $1.5 billion of P&amp;A obligations and given the maturity of the Gulf of Mexico Shelf this step strengthens the production growth profile and reserve life visibility of our portfolio.
It also goes a long way in eliminating a significant historical volatility factor in our production profile hurricanes and other Gulf of Mexico offshore weather events.
Those of you who have followed us for many years will understand that this was a big step for Apache but it was a right time for us because of our expanded visible and profitable opportunity base in North American onshore.
We have retained half of the deep rights exploration across our divested properties.
So while we have exited that production we are still very much exposed to the value of the upside in hydrocarbon rich region especially in the sub-salt play.
The other thing that it’s done for us is it’s given us an opportunity to grow without the significant declines we have seen on the shale or the P&amp;A liability.
The second major step in the quarter was our partnership with Sinopec in Egypt.
We are taking a one-third interest in our Egypt business in exchange for $3.1 billion in cash.
We are on track to close this transaction in the fourth quarter.
As we indicated for some time we have been looking for a way to validate the value of our business in Egypt and I think we delivered on that.
The transaction allows us to continue grow at attractive rates of return in Egypt without Egypt being excessively largely component of our portfolio.
<u></u> In joining forces with Sinopec we’ve gained a very well suited partner who will add value to our operations and positioning in Egypt and we expect to pursue a number of future growth projects jointly in different geographies around the world.
A third component of our portfolio of focusing steps in the third quarter was high grading our Canada properties.
We have divested in excess of $300 million of properties there primarily consisting of maturing gas properties.
Having captured a very large resource base there we are turning Canada into our horizontal drilling growth region that we can expect or we do expect to compete with the Permian and the Anadarko basin and rationalizing some of our legacy assets has been an important step in that process.
With these strategic steps we are now positioned to drive more predictable growth through our enlarged North America onshore resource base and we also have the financial strength to fund that growth from our international free cash flow the diversity of opportunities to complement it with very profitable international projects.
We are still actively pursuing additional divestitures.
We continue to be disciplined in our approach and we will only execute transactions that contribute to our overall strategic and financial goals.
With respect to capital allocation on prior calls we stated we would use proceeds that we receive from these divestitures to reduce debt and repurchase shares under our 30 million share authorization from our board.
Using a portion of the sales proceeds received we paid down almost $2 billion of debt during the third quarter and have repurchased approximately $700 million of stock putting us well on our way of achieving our stated use of proceeds objectives.
Regarding the remaining proceeds from the Gulf of Mexico Shelf and the expected proceeds to be received from the Egypt partnership we have been evaluating the most tax efficient way to fund international capital investment pay down additional debt repurchase shares and fund capital investments in our onshore U.S.
regions.
We are currently running an accelerated pace in our Permian and Central regions.
At our current pace we will drill over 800 wells in the Permian versus 700 originally planned and over 375 wells in the Central versus the 300 that were originally planned there.
This will increase our capital investment in those two regions by a combined $700 million to $800 million this year.
Based upon this increased drilling activity we would expect onshore North American liquids to grow nearly 35% during 2013 versus the 25% growth rate we previously guided.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Tom Chambers.
Thanks Steve.
This morning we reported third quarter earnings of $300 million or $0.75 per share adjusted earnings of $932 million or $2.32 per share.
784 000 barrels of equivalent of net daily production and over $2.7 billion of cash flow from operations before working capital items.
Overall our bottom-line results reflect another solid financial performance for this quarter.
Oil and gas revenues totaled $4.4 billion a $300 million increase over the second quarter driven primarily by higher oil prices with oil comprising 80% of total revenues despite only accounting for 46% of our total production on a boe basis.
Including the impact of hedging third quarter oil prices averaged $107.50 per barrel up $9.57 per barrel from the second quarter while gas prices averaged $3.49 per mcf down $0.38 from the second quarter.
For the quarter oil continued to sell for more than 30 times the price of North American natural gas.
Our total cash operating expenses were down slightly for the quarter to $17.53 per barrel of oil equivalent primarily as a result of lower lifting cost and G&amp;A expenses as we continue to focus on reducing costs.
As a result of our commodity mix and reduced cash operating costs Apache’s cash margin increased by over 7% versus the second quarter to a healthy $42.74 per boe.
Turning to earnings we had several adjustments which impacted our results.
Earnings for the quarter were negatively impacted by $478 million after-tax adjustment for non-cash property write-downs including one in the US predominantly related to our restructuring efforts one in Argentina relating to expiring concessions and one in Kenya following our decision to exit the country.
These were offset somewhat by $28 million deferred tax benefit for foreign currency fluctuations and other deferred tax benefits totaling $31 million.
In addition we recorded an unrealized non-cash after-tax commodity derivative mark-to-market loss of $213 million primarily related to our 2014 oil hedges.
We hedged 62 500 barrels per day of WTI accrued at almost $91 per barrel and 62 500 barrels a day of Brent crude at just over $100 per barrel versus realizations which were roughly $5 and $3 per barrel higher for WTI and Brent respectively as of the end of the third quarter.
When we remove these non-cash items for comparability purposes we earn $932 million or $2.32 per share for the third quarter versus $2.16 a year ago and $2.01 in the second quarter of this year.
In the third quarter Apache generated $2.7 billion of cash flow from operations before working capital items demonstrating our ability to generate consistent operating cash flows to support our robust drilling program and other planned capital expenditures.
Turning to taxes the third quarter effective tax rate primarily reflects the impact of the adjustments just mentioned excluding these items our effective tax rate would have been 42%.
Similarly these adjustments impacted our percentage of deferred taxes in the quarter.
We would expect the deferred rate of approximately 28% for the year after these adjustments.
I would like to emphasize as Steve just mentioned we utilized a portion of the cash proceeds from the Gulf of Mexico Shelf sale and our first Canadian asset sale to reduce debt by $1.85 billion from the second quarter of this year.
This decreased our debt-to-capitalization ratio to 25% at the end of the quarter from 28% at the end of the second quarter.
We also utilized these proceeds to repurchase an additional $450 million of stock in October bringing the repurchased total to $700 million to date and nearly eight million shares.
Also as Steve mentioned regarding the remaining proceeds from the Gulf of Mexico Shelf sale and the expected proceeds to be received from the Egypt partnership we are evaluating the most tax efficient way to fund international capital investments pay down additional debt repurchase shares and fund capital investments in our onshore US regions.
Utilizing these proceeds will allow us to further enhance our debt maturity profile preserve our balance sheet flexibility to fund operations and growth and enhance shareholder value.
This now concludes our prepared remarks and I will turn the call back over to Brady.
Thanks Tom.
Operator we are now ready to open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And your first question comes from the line of Arun Jayaram [Credit Suisse].
Steve I wanted to get your comments around international.
I think in the press release you talked about how going forward these regions will primarily be a source of excess cash flows and I assume that the incremental cash flows would be reinvested in North America.
But how should we think about international growth going forward? Well we would like to be able to at least keep it flat – that regions that we keep we would like to be able to either keep flat or grow a little bit.
For sure we’d also like them to be able to generate significant cash flow with our capital program for the year.
For Egypt for example I think generated about $900 million of cash flow in the first three quarters.
So – and it has – and basically stayed flat.
But Steve by this comment essentially you are communicating that relative to maybe Apache a year ago that you’re going to be investing more of your cash flows in North America versus internationally? Is that fair? You bet.
When ‘13 ends you will see that in 2013 and certainly 2014 – a much stronger than that.
And my second question is for Tom.
You produced 784 000 barrels for this quarter your pro forma run rate that you show on page four of the supplement is that 625 which is – with all the asset sales gone.
So my question as we think about the fourth quarter it would just reflect I assume for the fourth quarter just the Gulf of Mexico Shelf and Canadian assets and then going forward as we think about the first quarter of ’14 that’s when we start thinking about 625 and maybe some growth on top of that as that being kind of what you do next year; is that fair Tom? That’s fair.
That’s exactly right.
Go ahead.
And can you just quantify -- overall I know you have done several transactions in Canada what the impact will be in terms of the fourth quarter? Depending on we still have some pending transactions it should be around 22 000 barrels a day or thereabout equivalent a day predominantly gas.
<u></u> <u></u> And your next question comes from the line of Pearce Hammond [Simmons &amp; Co.] <u></u> <u></u> Steve in your prepared remarks you were talking about Canada and the ability to maybe have that asset compete with the Anadarko basin and the Permian basin assets for capital.
Are you referring to your Duvernay and Montney assets and is this a foreshadow in that we should see an increased amount of CapEx for this region next year? Duvernay Montney also we have Bluesky and also some of our Viking stuff that we are doing all of it going horizontal I think we will have by the end of November we should have 12 rigs running out there all 12 will be sideways.
We will spud our first Duvernay well.
We’ve got an acreage position right in the heart of the play.
So we will spud our first Duvernay well this winter.
The rocks looks very similar to what they look like in the Anadarko basin there they are called something different but that whole – western sedimentary basin looks an awful lot like the Anadarko basin.
Do you think the economics could compete because of the – it seems like with the differentials being a little wider up there it might make a disadvantage? Well I would tell you North American capital is going to have to compete with each other so our program up there is going to have to compete with the Permian and Anadarko Basin in order to get funding.
Great.
And then my follow-up question is when you look back at the BP transaction from a few years ago where you bought some assets in the Permian and Canada and Egypt but specifically in Permian sort of an after-action review on that particular acquisition.
What do you feel like you picked up and how has it helped your asset base and especially in light of all the de-risking that’s going on in the Permian right now how does that transaction look a couple of years on? Well I’ll give you a broad overview.
I mean honestly it’s been a home run but John Christmann is sitting here who runs our Permian and is getting ready to run all our North American onshore.
So John do you want to comment? I mean I think when you look at – there is really two transactions you can’t just talk about you know BP without talking about Mariner both those transactions really help change our whole program I mean you now look we’ve got over 1.1 million acres in the Midland Basin you know we’ve been in a transition out there really an evolution into – in fact in this quarter we now have you know across we’ve got more horizontal rigs running than vertical rigs and we’ve got a lot of acreage contributed from both BP and Mariner.
So I think it’s really helped the region put it where it is today.
And your next question comes from the line of John Herrlin.
Yeah.
Hi.
Steve you mentioned that you had well cost savings.
How much of it was hedge related and how much of it was well completion onshore? How much is what now John.
You mentioned that you hedge for wells so just wondering – Yeah the Tonkawa is really not been too affected by pad drilling right now because we’re just not going to that frankly.
The biggest cost savings in Tonkawa is number of days drilled and the completion cost.
And the completion cost because we’re self-sourcing all our chemicals all our sand and our horsepower now.
Okay.
And didn’t you also mention that Permian as well or was it just the Tonkawa? No I also mentioned the Cline.
It’s many of the same thing.
That is pad drilling.
Certainly in the Wolfcamp in our Barnhart area.
It also is associated with self-sourcing all our services.
Okay.
Next one for me is in the Permian you built a very large organization quickly.
How automated are you going to make your operations just given the fact that infrastructure is so critical? John do you want to – Yeah I mean I would say we have you know in a matter of three years we’ve now got over 330 folks in Midland and I would stack that organization up against any.
I think the thing we’ve got with the mid-40 44 rigs running right now when we are – you know as I mentioned we’ve now got more horizontals than verticals the beauty that we’ve got is we’ve got multiple plays and that we’ve got the ability to kind of time these where we can work around our infrastructure both on the processing side as well as having facilities built for water handling you know the pads built and the sourcing for the fracs.
So I think it actually puts us in a position where we’ve got the ability to plan.
We’ve been working on getting further ahead so we can do an even better job doing that.
But I think that’s why you see such strong performance from the Permian in the third quarter and it looks good going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of John Freeman.
Good afternoon.
Have you all made a decision yet on when you do get those Egyptian proceeds whether or not you’re going to lead it offshore versus you lead in places like Wheatstone next year or if you bring it back and try to use your inner wells to kind of shield your tax hit? Well you’ve pretty well outlined the alternative.
Certainly we are looking at it you know we’ve made some commitments to pay down debt and to buy shares back which we expect.
One of the things that I said – I think I said on the last call is is that we have so more producing assets than the $4 billion which means we’re going to have to pay down the debt than the $2 billion that we paid down so far.
And we also have repurchased 8 million shares which we intend to continue.
And then my other question – looking at Australia in Australia if I am looking at this rate the current production there that is at is 56 million a day which is about 60% higher than what you all said you thought the net daily production was going to be last quarter I was just wondering if you could add any color.
This is Tom Voytovich.
I think that we are pushing more gas through Macedon earlier than we thought we did and it’s a nameplate gas plant of 200 million we are up to around 225 million.
So arithmetic I think is fairly self-explanatory.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Meade [Johnson Rice].
I recognize that that if you are all ready to give guidance and talk about 2014 volume growth you would have come out and done that.
But I was wondering if I could get you to talk a little bit more about how you are internally thinking about what 2014 would look like this year.
Doing some of the same math that Arun did earlier it looks like to me that you have been having kind of year-over-year growth of around 2% and just the denominator effect from the sold volumes will get you more like 2.5%.
But I think there will also be some effect from the fact that the Gulf of Mexico Shelf was declining and that might add a bit more to your growth.
So is there any discussions or thoughts that you have had internally that you can share? Yes I can’t quite – depending on how you calculate the math the way that we look at 2014 is 2013 based on a pro forma we should be able to increase our production growth rate for 2014.
We’ve got a lot of moving parts in 2013; to peg a number it’s pretty difficult right now other than looking at it on a pro forma basis.
And is there a pro forma number that you have in mind Steve? No we are going to have analyst day in February and we will come out with a 2014 production growth and capital plans for 2014.
That will be great.
I can wait till then.
And then if I could follow up on the Permian I notice that I have asked about this horizontal on the Central Basin platform you guys a few times.
It seems like you are the only operator that’s really doing it.
And when I look at your operations report if I am interpreting correctly I think you’ve got a few more in there horizontal Wichita Albany and horizontal Australia I think it was.
And so those are quite impressive wells and they look like they have had great economics.
And am I right in that and how does this stack up with some of the more industry wide plays that are happening in the Midland basin? I would say you are exactly right and those are three of our wells right now are some of the best economics we’ve got in the region for sure.
The beauty we’ve got is having a big position on the Central basin platform we’ve got a lot of assets we’ve got areas where we can go in and target and use horizontal drilling and we’ve done it quite successfully.
And we have been doing that since 2010 in the Grayburg Squire 4 [ph] [indiscernible] and obviously Wichita Albany has been a big story for us this year.
So I think the beauty of it there is you’ve got your areas where you come off of main units you’ve got on the flanks you’ve had units performed on paycuts and parameters that were little better than what you are drilling horizontally and it makes for really really economic wells.
But the big deal is you’ve got to have the assets in the acreage and positions in those deals and the infrastructure to drill.
They are very good economics.
Your next question is from the line of David Tameron [Wells Fargo Securities].
Hi just back to the Permian.
Can you give us a breakdown – you have -- I think it’s 45 operated rigs running can you just ballpark that for Central Midland and Delaware? We’ve got roughly 3 in the Mexico handful of them in Central basin platform.
If you look at the Wolfcamp alone right now we’ve got about 9 horizontal wells running in the Wolfcamp I have got another 3 or 4 in other plays down in the central – or in the Midland basin.
So you’ve got over half of the rigs indefinitely in the Midland Basin and that over half of the rigs are horizontals.
We’ve got a couple down in the Delaware and they’ve kind of scattered out in some other areas.
Okay.
John.
And if we think about just a year ago or year-and-a-half ago when you guys had your Analyst Day you kind of rolled out what your plans were for the Permian and what you knew at that time.
Looking back any areas you’re more excited about less excited about kind of what’s changed I know there’s been a lot going on the last year-and-a-half but kind of what’s changed in the last year-and-a-half that you could summarize that for us.
Well I mean I think you know now the – obviously there’s a lot of momentum you’re seeing a lot of these plays are real.
They’re getting more legs underneath.
If you look back at what we guided to it was kind of 13% growth I think with where we’ve been the last two years we’ve well exceeded that.
So I think we’re very excited about what’s in front of us.
I think you’re seeing the cost come down significantly as we alluded to you know with the use of pad drilling and the completion side and starting to go that direction you’re seeing multiple landing zones so there’s more to be excited about today as we see that it’s starting to really prove out and we’re being able to deliver on what we said we’ll do to you back in June of 2012.
And your next question is from the line of Matt Portillo.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Just two quick questions for me.
The first in regards to the Permian.
I know that you guys have really focused a lot of your drilling activity initially around the Barnhart area for the Wolfcamp but you do have a very big footprint in Reagan and [indiscernible] and Upton in Midland County.
And I was curious as we think about the program progressing forward especially given some industry results we’ve seen in all the various areas how should we think about the expansion of your Wolfcamp program in the Midland Basin.
And I guess alongside that I did see that you had a very good Wolfcamp well Loving and I was curious how you guys are thinking about the Wolfcamp drilling program in the Delaware Basin? Well you got you know three different areas we’re talking about there.
You know we’re running six rigs in the Barnhart area which is Irion County.
You know I think one of the legs up we’ve got on industry right now is we’ve probably drilled more concentrated wells in an area.
So we’re probably further ahead in terms of understanding spacing lateral lengths and really moving into development mode.
So we’ve been working hard there to understand that and actually doing a lot of field test to help us optimize wells.
So we’re excited about Barnhart I think you’ll see us run a similar number of rigs as we start the plan for next year in that area.
The one thing we’ve done this year is we’ve picked up two rigs now we’ve got three rigs actually in Reagan and Upton.
We’ve got two wells here the Miller that are in the ops report that both are very strong wells.
You know I think an early look EURs will be north of our type curve that we put out in June of last year.
And I think as you see us going into next year that will be an area where we will expand the rigs going forward as we get into those areas.
The other area you allude to is in the Delaware that actually is a third Bone Springs well a horizontal but it’s really close to the Wolfcamp which is why we tagged it that way.
Very very good well you know we’ve got some room to drill some more over there as we just kind of start to understand our Delaware position.
The big difference in the Delaware and the Midland is you’ve got higher pressure you’ve got little more water volumes to deal with over in the Delaware but right now all three programs look very very compelling.
Okay.
And your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani.
Hey guys just wanted to follow-up on a comment you made regarding asset sales.
It sounds like there could be some more coming from you folks just wanted to get a sense I mean do you think there is anything really large are we kind of talking about small pieces of portfolio to clean up? Well I think we’ve done the lion’s share.
I think I said in my prepared remarks we’ve done the lion’s share.
We do have some other assets that we’re looking at as part of our review.
And I think it’s important to note that if we can’t get good value from at this point that we probably won’t sell them but we are actively pursuing some of those.
Alright.
I guess in terms of cost you guys obviously talked about a concentrated effort to reduce LOE and G&amp;A certainly showed up in the numbers this quarter.
You know any sense of continued improvement any kind of magnets that you can give us I mean could we see another 5% to 10% per boe come at a cost going forward and how should we think about that.
Well I think certainly that if you look at our operating costs on the shelf our fourth quarter operating costs are going to go down because if you put in that much production at $21 a barrel and average that over the rest of our property base your operating costs are going to come down.
Certainly on the G&amp;A side obviously we’ve gone down quite a bit on the product side and also – mentioned that when we talk about our sales in Canada that’s about 52% of our well count up there.
So it wasn’t just about getting rid of the dry gas it’s also getting rid of well count.
So overall our G&amp;A ought to continue to come down also.
Your next question is from the line of Jeffrey Campbell [Tuohy Brothers Investment Research].
I noticed in your operations supplement that you mentioned that drilling fewer wells per section is 18 to better find well performing I was wondering if you could provide some updated spacing for acre and will this be continued throughout your Cline areas? Well I mean one thing about these shales is they are homogenous.
So different areas you got to attack them different ways but we have found in the class especially in Glassglow [ph] we are right now kind of looking at four wells per section we are seeing better results so it’s all a function of within that area but as you move into other areas it changes.
But I think that’s one of the advantages we’ve got as getting into some areas where we have got in the pads and drilling more laterals and get more wells down we are going to have more data we can understand how to optimize this.
On a broader scale one thing I think that – and not just for Apache I mean truthfully with the number of zones and the amount of oil in place in the Permian basin we just scratched the surface.
I mean I truly believe that.
I think the Permian is going to have years of surprises in it most of them are going to be good.
Kind of follow up on that if you take the Wolfcamp down and Barnett we have tested four different zones in there we’ve now placed two in the upper some would call the Wolfcamp but we’ve got a buffer the lower portion of the upper are an upper.
So there’s going to be more laterals stack in all these fields.
So they will walk in on just how many per section for sure.
Let me ask one further question regarding the inherent risk of all exploration wells maybe it’s too early but I was just wondering having gotten to a 100 feet pace that’s efficient to commercialize the well your announcement of the follow up drill kind of on the hill it’s very positive.
Right I think you can presume that we reached total depth on that well and we are about waiting selection options or evaluating options to conduction some appraisal drilling so I think that will happen before the end of the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hall [Heikkinen Energy Advisors].
I guess circle back on few things number one on the international production front trying to little bit better understand that commentary about holding things flat would that be from kind of current and or 2013 exit rate levels or should we think about that more as a flat year on year average? I think it’s important that we articulate that plant – Egypt we made that transaction for a number of reasons.
Obviously validate the value of it.
But the other thing it also gives us an opportunity to grow that region because it won’t be as big as part of our portfolio.
So we can – it truly still have tremendous upside we are drilling our first horizontal actually we are going to drill seven horizontal wells this year but our first one is just about completed.
And in the North Sea that is a matter of how much capital and how much cash you want to take out.
In terms of our profile for 2014 versus 2013 more like an exit rate of 2013 than it is at average for the year.
And I guess the other from my end is on the spending side I am just trying to think about – what in the current let’s say quarterly spending rate would be non-recurring if you will or should we – you know why would though you do not think about just taking the roughly $3 billion spent this quarter and kind of annualizing that next year? Oh you mean your capital – annualizing capital I’m sorry I didn’t quite.
Yeah.
You know we haven’t allocated capital for 2014 yet.
Certainly we’re very active in the Permian the Anadarko right now but I think we got to be careful about just annualizing the third quarter’s capital numbers that’s probably a little strong.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate.
Thanks and good afternoon everybody.
So you guys gave us a pro forma production number for the quarter I’m just trying to think in light of the strength of your balance sheet with the disposals coming in can you give us a pro forma cash flow and CapEx number for the quarter? And maybe opine a little bit as to whether you expect to start out spending cash flow given that you’re going to have basically $6 billion of cash in your balance sheet when all disposals are done? And I’ve got a follow-up please.
Brady you – Well I don’t think – I think it would be premature to put out a pro forma cash flow and CapEx number for the quarter.
You know we did breakdown capital by region within the financial supplement.
Obviously you know the two major items that we've sold which is really the source of the pro forma number that we have in the operation supplement.
So you can assume even though ultimately we're going to – we’ll record 100% of Egypt on a non-controlling interest for the third that we don't own as the way we’ll account for it but if you assumed a third of the capital for Egypt is not ours we’re spinning two-thirds there and if you assume the Shelf obviously is not in those numbers that would give you a sense for what our capital reduction would have been for the quarter.
As far as cash flow you know Egypt is pretty easy to figure out what our cash flow is when you look at historical financials you get a good sense for what kind of cash flow we generate there even on a quarterly basis.
And with respect to the Shelf the one guidance we had given around the date of the divestiture when it was announced is that we were roughly going to get about $500 million of excess cash flow out of the Shelf with about $900 million of capital so that obviously implies about $1.4 billion per year at least for 2013 that we thought we might do this year.
So that’s helpful Brady.
Thanks.
I guess what I’m really trying to figure out is you guys have got enormous opportunities there obviously in the Permian.
And I know you don't want to talk about 2014 guidance but historically Steve you’ve always talked about Apache will spend its cash flow but that was before you had potentially $6 billion on the balance sheet.
So I’m just wondering should we anticipate some of those disposal proceeds accelerating some of that value? And I'll leave it at that thank you.
Well I think a little bit you’re seeing that this year.
We're going to make the best capital decisions we can.
And certainly we would like to have a growth profile for 2014 that’s stronger than 2013.
Your next question is from the line of Richard Powest [ph].
Hey good afternoon everyone.
Steve just going back to the sub-salt play on the Gulf of Mexico shelf with the success at the Heron well do you have a reserve estimate on that well at this point and well cost? You know we've got one well down.
So it's a little premature to talk about reserves.
In terms of – the one thing I will say about that is it is probably the next big play that’s going to come on the shelf.
I mean all you're doing is taking that same rock and coming up on the shelf and looking for the same things you were looking in Deepwater the only difference is we've got infrastructure across the Gulf because of our relationship our negotiations with Fieldwood we have rights to go through platforms on all those wells we drilled including Main Pass 295.
So you should expect us to drill quite a few sub-salt wells exploration wells next year.
And I think it has tremendous room.
Are you currently drilling any additional sub-salt wells? There are two additional rigs that are running on the shelf right now.
And we will continue program at that pace probably.
Your next question is from the line of Joe Magner [Macquarie Research].
I was wondering if you could provide us with an updated production number for the Barnhart area.it looks like you added 10 more wells from the last update that was provided a couple of months ago and just kind of curious what the trajectory looks like there? We have not come out on with anything external yet but we continue to run on active program out there.
We were well above 8000 oil and gas has gone up nicely as well too.
So I mean I think you will see more of that in February of next year when we walk through the analyst stuff.
Just I wondered if you could give us an update on I think the length of the well being drilled up there has moved around a little bit just current economics and costs and well performance.
I think we are pretty all in line with type curves that we disclosed back in June of ’12.
We have drilled some longer laterals as long as 9300 feet where it makes sense with the land we seem to be – drill a mile and half so we’re just kind of setting that up right now.
Our well costs have come down significantly as Steve alluded to.
We are well under $7 million the mid to high 6s right now.
And so – and that’s for the 7500 foot laterals.
Your next question is from the line of John Malone [Global Hunter Securities].
I’ve just two quick questions about BC any update you can give us on status of Kitimat and then on Liard basin you talked about these 10 new wells can you give us some idea of what the production capacity of those Liard wells are? So for Kitimat things are progressing on a number of fronts there.
From the regulatory standpoint we are currently working with BC government to work out their desire for their LNG tax scheme.
We are moving forward on the environmental approvements in areas that are concerning our pipeline occurrence right away.
Of course the downstream portion is operated by Chevron in the upstream area we are completing our conceptual engineering for the placement of facilities that will support the rental drilling program.
As far as the second part of your question on the yard the one well that we have which is a premier well which is outlined is the D-34-K well which we think is one of the most productive shale gas wells drilled to date in North America if not the world that well probably may cost 20 Bcf it’s been in production now for over year and a half it’s the current – exactly as we forecasted at the analyst day last year.
The number of fracs are slight compared to what we will do on a development plan.
Exactly that particular well we only had six frac stages applied to at a very limited lateral compared to the design fracs for the wells going forward with the development plan which will be much longer laterals at a many frac stages we apply at it in Permian and Anadarko area.
The 10-year program itself beginning in 2010 as we will mention more detail in February at our analyst day is principally to hold acreage and less sulphur production only a few of those wells like to see production in 2014 and 2014.
(Operator Instructions) There are no further questions at this time.
Okay thank you Rachel.
Thank you everyone for participating on the call.
We obviously greatly appreciate your interest in Apache.
If you have any additional questions please reach out to the IR department and will be happy to help you out.
Thank you.
Have a great day.
<u></u> Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is [Tammy] and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Apache Corporation Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Brady Parish Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir please go ahead.
Thank you Tammy.
Good afternoon everyone.
And thank you for joining us for Apache Corporation’s full year and fourth quarter 2013 earnings conference call.
On today’s call we will have three speakers making prepared remarks prior to taking questions.
I will start by giving a brief summary of results and then we will hear from Steve Farris our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; followed by Tom Chambers our Chief Financial Officer.
In addition joining us for the question-and-answer session which will follow the prepared remarks are Roger Plank President and Chief Corporate Officer; John Christmann Executive Vice President and COO of North America; and Tom Voytovich Executive Vice President COO of International.
We prepared our quarterly financial supplemental data package for your use which also includes the reconciliation of any non-GAAP numbers that we discuss such as adjusted earnings cash flow from operations pre-tax margins or cash margins.
In addition we have prepared an operations supplement which summarizes our activities and includes detailed well highlights across the various Apache operating regions.
These can both be found on our website at www.apachecorp.com/financialinformation.
Today’s discussion will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
However a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental data package on our website.
This morning we reported 2013 earnings of $2.2 billion or $5.50 per diluted share.
Adjusted earnings which excludes certain items that impact the comparability of results totaled $3.2 million or $7.92 per diluted share.
Cash flow from operating activities totaled $9.8 billion for the year.
During the fourth quarter total net production averaged approximately 688 000 boe per day with liquids production constituting 55% of the total.
Total net production excluding the noncontrolling interest in Egypt totaled 661 500 boe per day.
In addition to the sales of the noncontrolling interest which closed on November 14th production during the fourth quarter was impacted by the sale of our Gulf of Mexico Shelf operations which closed on September 30th the sales of selected Canadian assets which closed in September and October and the impact of severe weather on our Permian and Central region operations all which we previously disclosed.
As a final note I want to remind everyone about our upcoming Investor Day which will be held the morning of February 26th at Houston.
Among other things we will be providing 2014 capital and production guidance as well as a longer term view of our high graded portfolio is capable of achieving.
We look forward to see you there.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Brady.
And excuse me good afternoon everyone and thanks all of you for joining us.
As Brady pointed out despite the uncertainty surrounding our fourth quarter results associated with divestitures Apache reported another year of strong financial results.
We generated $3.2 billion of adjusted earnings and $9.8 billion cash flow from operations.
And our performance is in large part due to the success of our strategy to rebalance our portfolio to drive returns by achieving the right mix of predictable production growth from North American onshore assets combined with substantial free cash flow generation from our International operations.
During the past year we successfully executed our strategy in three important areas.
Rebalancing our portfolio by divesting of assets that’s no longer fit our ideal growth for cash flow return profile but the end results being a higher growth more predictable and profitable portfolio.
Maintaining our relentless focus on being best-in-class in operational execution which frankly has been a long time core of Apache over the years.
Taking a discipline approach to capital allocation that enables us to grow production reduce operating costs and enhance return to shareholders.
First with the Argentina sales which we have announced yesterday after the market close we have largely accomplished what we have set out to do in 2010.
To make our North American onshore regions a center piece of our growth strategy going forward.
This latest transaction is on the heels of completing over $7 billion of divestitures in 2013 needed high grading our portfolio to include the right mix of assets capable of generating strong returns driving more predictable production growth and enhancing shareholder value.
We still have a couple of small packages we are marketing one in South Texas and one in Canada but we should get done in the first half this year but in all we expect the heavy lifting is certainly behind us.
Pro forma for 2013 completed transaction plus Argentina.
Our North American onshore production represents nearly 60% of our total production during the fourth quarter of 2013.
That’s up from 70% during 2009 the year before we embarked on our strategy to substantial bolster our North American resource base.
In addition our North American asset base which contains 1.81 billion barrels of oil equivalent approved reserve now represent 71% of our total year end reserves with the pro forma of Argentina and even a larger percentage of our total resource base.
Second with regard to operational execution we demonstrated the effectiveness of our transition for North American onshore liquids growth in 2013 with all four of our onshore North American regions increase in liquids production at attractive rates of return.
You can read more details about our operational performance in our operational supplement.
But I am going to mention a few highlights.
Our North American onshore liquids production increased nearly 46 000 barrels per day or 34% full year 2013 versus 2012.
During the fourth quarter we averaged 187 000 barrels per day represents nearly 50% of our total worldwide liquids production and 27% of our overall production.
Just as impressively our 2013 onshore North America crude oil production grew nearly 23 000 barrels a day which is an increase of 23% versus 2012.
Our fourth quarter North American oil production averaged 134 000 barrels per day representing nearly 19% of our total worldwide production.
Both of these exceptional production growth rates place us in the top of our large peer group.
Furthermore our U.S.
onshore resource base continues to deliver sector leading performance.
During 2013 Apache was the most active onshore U.S.
driller running an average of 71 rigs and completing 1 150 gross wells.
During the fourth quarter we averaged a combined production of 227 000 barrels equivalent per day from our Permian and Central Regions alone.
We are nearly one-third of our total production.
In addition for the first time we treated 100 000 barrels a day of combined crude oil production from these two regions.
Importantly we have combined our production growth with a relentless focus on operational execution and cost efficiency.
In all of our onshore regions we continue to do what Apache does best and that’s reduce costs increase production driving returns.
During the fourth quarter we lowered our lease operating by 11% to nearly $10 per boe.
Finally as I mentioned in our press release we replaced 140% of our worldwide production to our exploration and development activities.
We also grew our proved reserve base by nearly 4% on a pro forma basis.
Excluding acquisitions divestments and revisions this was predominantly driven by our outstanding results from our onshore North American drilling activities from which we replaced over 200% of production.
The Permian had exceptional performance replacing nearly 325% of production and drilling reserves by nearly 14% from 800 million barrels of oil equivalent to 910 million barrels of oil equivalent which now comprises over 34% of our year end proved reserves.
This is best-in-class versus Permian Basin operators in our weight class.
Similarly Central replaced nearly 200% of its production and grew its reserve by nearly 14% to 304 million barrels of oil equivalent which constituted nearly 12% of our proved reserves.
Third with respect to capital allocation on prior calls we stated we will primarily use the net proceeds received from these divestitures to reduce debt and repurchase shares under our 30 million share authorization from our Board.
Using a portion of the sales proceeds received during 2013 we reduced our debt by $2.6 billion to $9.7 billion and repurchase $1 billion of stocks at year end.
In addition we have repurchased $100 million of stocks so far this year bringing the total number of shares to 12.4 million.
We continue to believe our stock is a compelling investment at current price levels.
Finally we announced last week that our Board increased our 2014 quarterly dividend by 25% to $0.25 per share.
This follows increases of 18% in 2013 and 13% in 2012.
The significant increases are direct reflection of the confidence we have executing our future growth plans.
As Brady mentioned we are going to provide our 2014 capital and production guidance at our Investor Day on February 26th as well as provide a longer term view of what we believe our high graded portfolio is capable of achieving.
I think you are going to be pleased with what you see.
As a final comment we firmly believe that the strides we have made in our efforts to rebalance our portfolio have enabled us to emerge from this process a stronger company.
One that can continue to do what we do best.
Exploit our inventory of opportunities allocate capital to generate attractive returns profitably and predictably grow our production and in the end create long-term value to our shareholders.
So with that I would like to turn the call over to Tom Chambers.
Thanks Steve and good afternoon everyone.
Fourth quarter like the rest of the year was a busy one in terms of activities to reposition the portfolio.
This was the first quarter without the shelf production.
We completed two additional property sales in Canada and closed on the sale of one-third non-controlling interest in our Egypt business to Sinopec.
We also bought back additional $750 million of Apache shares during the quarter bringing the buyback to total of $1 billion in 2013 and in addition paid down debt.
Consequently the quarter’s financial results were not fully reflective of Apache going forward in 2014.
One key element I want to highlight before we go any further is the change you will notice in our financial reporting as a result of sale to Sinopec up to one-third minority stake in our Egypt operations.
Since we retained a controlling interest in the assets under the accounting standards we continue to consolidate the entire region to reflect Sinopec's non-controlling interest separately in our financial statements.
For instance on our income statement we back out Sinopec’s interest in the new line item called net income attributable to non-controlling interest.
Similarly production and reserves are also reported on a fully consolidated basis and the amount attributable to the non-controlling interest is indicated in footnotes of the tables.
As a result all of our comparable metrics remain the same.
All data to which I refer is based on the GAAP numbers.
The financial supplement also on our website provides additional details showing the impact to Apache on a net basis.
Turning to the results we finished the fourth quarter with production averaging nearly 690 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day lower than the previous quarter as expected primarily impacted by the Shelf and Canadian property sales.
More importantly though we created a strong foundation on which to move forward.
During the year we were able to shift our production mix to 54% liquids up from 51% in the prior year.
Also North American onshore liquids production increased over 34% from 2012.
Oil price realizations averaged approximately $102 per barrel for the year down 1% from 2012.
For the quarter oil realizations were 6% lower than third quarter at a $100.59 per barrel.
Bear in mind for the quarter and going forward with the divestiture of our Shelf assets less of our oil production is receiving Brent like prices which directly reduces our overall realizations.
We are now seeing about 60% of our oil production priced at Brent or Brent comparable indexes down from 64% in the third quarter.
Gas prices for the year averaged $3.70 a $0.10 per mcf decrease from last year as our prior year hedges rolls off.
For the quarter bit of a cold weather propped up prices to $3.71 in mcf 6% higher than the sequential quarter.
Heading into 2014 we have hedged 62 500 barrels per day of each Brent and WTI oil at a $100 and $91 per barrel respectively.
On the gas side we’ve hedged 100 million cubic feet a day of gas commencing in February rising to 150 million cubic feet per day in March through December at an average price of $4.29.
All hedges are financial and not cash flow hedges.
Despite a year with a lot of moving parts we are able to report solid earnings of $2.2 billion or $5.50 per share up $0.14 -- 14% from 2012 despite the impact of several key non-recurring items.
Our results included $659 million in after-tax non-cash property write-downs primarily related to full cost ceiling impairments in the U.S.
North Sea and Argentina.
We also distributed $643 million in cash proceeds received from our strategic partnership with Sinopec in Egypt back to the U.S.
which resulted in a deferred tax charge of approximately $225 million.
In current year net operating loss will be utilized to offset any current tax otherwise due on this repatriation.
We had unrealized after-tax derivative losses of $142 million and the $65 million benefit in other deferred taxes associated with foreign currency fluctuations and valuation allowances.
When we remove all these non-cash items for comparability purposes we earn $3.2 billion or $7.92 per share for 2013 versus $3.8 billion a year ago.
Operating cash flows remain strong given the performance of our North America onshore base.
We generated $9.8 billion cash flow from operations before working capital items and $2.1 billion in the fourth quarter.
Total cash operating expenses were $17.32 per barrel of oil equivalent for the quarter and $17.62 for the full year.
The lower rate in the fourth quarter reflects some of the benefits of exiting the higher cost Shelf properties the lease operating expenses which we have done over $1 per boe from sequential quarter.
Apache’s cash margins decreased by 5% versus the third quarter to $40.50 per boe and 5% versus the prior year to $40.99 per boe primarily driven by lower oil prices and realized derivative losses.
Our product mix and shift to geographic emphasis has also impacted our tax rate for the quarter.
Our effective tax rate after adjusting for non-recurring items was 44% higher than historical.
This was the result of loss of Shelf revenue which skewed our total revenue to our higher tax rate international regions.
This higher tax rate plus the lower realizations discussed earlier could be two of the main differences between reported and consensus estimates.
Likewise our effective tax rate for the full year 2013 was 46%.
Adjusting for non-recurring items mentioned earlier the effective tax rate would have been a more typical 42%.
The $7 billion in cash proceeds from our Egypt Shelf and Canadian transactions we were able to effectively deploy the cash to increase drilling in 2013 enhance our [audio gap] and commence our share buyback program.
We increased our U.S.
onshore drilling program by $700 million over our original budget paid down debt by $2.6 billion to $9.7 billion at year end and bought back share in 2013 totaling $1 billion.
We purchased an additional $100 million of stock in January bringing the total buyback since inception to $1.1 billion and 12.4 million shares bringing the outstanding share count as of end of January at 394.7 million shares.
Just as important we exited the year with a debt to capitalization ratio of 22% no commercial paper outstanding and $1.9 billion in cash which adds flexibility to our balance sheet and is a nice position to have as we head into 2014.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
I will now turn call back over to Brady? Thank you Tom.
Operator we are now ready to open the lines for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Co.
As highlighted in your operations of data I noticed in the Permian a change in some of your net acreage positions have you done some recent land work or is it just a new assessment of prospectivity for the different zones in the Permian? Pearce it’s really something we continually do as we look at this and some areas we picked up some acreage some areas we have let it little bit go.
So I think that’s the dynamics of what we are doing.
Also in the plays we’re chasing we’ll be acquiring.
So it’s a little bit of everything and I think we will outline that in great detail in a couple of weeks at the Analyst Day.
Great.
And then a follow-up it was the big industry-wide ramp in activity in the Permian how are service costs trending there right now and what have you done not relating yourself from any surface cost creep or service availability issues? We continue to the business as we build critical math and we’re in the low 40 rig count the Permian for mid part of last year.
So I think it’s something we got people in place we got relationships in place we’ve kept frac crews and drilling rigs busy.
So that’s been very good.
I think in general we see cost trending now and they are flat right now in terms of service.
A lot of that at this point is going to be driven by efficiencies.
Producing days are just getting better and the exploits we continue to do every day.
Great.
And then the last one for me I know it’s the gathering transmission and processing facility capital spending last year was a big enough to think about 1.3 million up from nearly 800 million year before.
Is that something is that little more one-off or you would expect it to be at these elevated levels for a while? Again we looked at the detail of the chart I would assume that it’s one of our Wheatstone project and also we built the plant in (inaudible) it’s a best plant in (inaudible) it’s probably the uptick.
The vast majority of it would be associated with our Wheatstone LNG in Australia.
Thank you very much Steve Your next question comes from the line of Bob Brackett with Bernstein.
Okay.
Following up on the comment on the heavy lifting behind us in terms of asset sales how does that drive with the notion of the Sinopec deal being part of a strategic partnership? When I was talking about its repositioning we are probably out.
In terms of what we set out to do several years ago actually is North America went to work is centerpiece of our growth because we have over 3 million acres in the Permian we have over 2 million acres in the Anadarko Basin and we have some plays in South Texas we have some plays in Canada.
And that’s going to attract most of the capital but it really taking about is the base in terms of either having assets that can grow or assets that provide cash flow and if they can’t do either that’s not going to be part of the portfolio.
And then on the other question if I look at sort of the implied price at which you were repurchasing your equity.
It’s probably closed to the high 80s almost touching 90 and we’re sitting here today at a much more attractive entry point.
How does that drive your thinking about the share repurchases? No.
I think I said in my prepared remarks we view our stock as a good investment price now.
I think our average price was probably around 85 bucks or little.
I don’t have that in front of me.
Well thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Hi.
Good morning.
Can I just talk about the ramp? I guess good afternoon.
Sorry.
Could I just talk about the ramps and the vertical to the horizontal and in the Permian.
How should we think about that over the next whatever -- next four quarters next six quarters I’m just trying to figure out with you guys what that looks like? David I think where we ended the fourth quarter was about 50-50 on the terms of what you see out there.
We did start dropping some vertical rigs in the third quarter as we transitioned and picked up some verticals.
Right now we’re running slightly more horizontals and verticals and I would anticipate that trend moving forward.
We’ll get into the details at the Analyst Day as we start looking forward.
Okay.
And then if I just -- I hate to ask a detailed question.
If I could just ask about the weather impact in both the Permian and Central.
Did you guys have -- I’m just trying to figure out what the true run rate is for what those region ex weather impact.
Can you give us… In Permian it was about 3 000 BOE a day net in terms of the fourth quarter.
Most of that was from the November storm that hit pretty hard.
Central was a smaller number and it was not as impacted as we were in Permian.
Okay.
And all the weather impacts behind for now? You will see several numbers in Central as you look going into January and February and a little bit Permian as well.
Okay.
I’ll let somebody else chip in.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from John Malone with Mizuho Securities.
Two questions is enough.
Good afternoon.
One just can you give us an update on Kitimat the marketing process here I’m going to talk now about Asian companies looking at gas and (inaudible) anything you can comment on that and how things are going there? Well I will tell you with Chevron as our Partner and Chevron is leading that effort.
The downstream and the pipeline is now operated by Chevron really part of the marketing.
We have a dual marketing agreement but certainly Chevron with their knowledge and history in the market is leading that.
I can tell you we continue to talk to people more than just slightly.
I think what we said I know I said it in Goldman this -- this year is a year.
We got to rightsize the size of Kitimat in our portfolio and that could come several different ways.
One is with a Sinopec buyer taking an interest across the board.
But I happen to read John Watson’s comment in Chevron’s year end conference call.
Certainly it is a big asset for them and it is a big asset for us.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Thanks.
There is a question for Tom.
It looks like there was an uptick if I’m reading correctly and the additional portion is of DD&amp;A.
Can you just tell me what was behind that? There was a lot of DD&amp;A and I kind of went through a number of those on the call.
We had write-offs.
We had charge for bringing cash back to certain charge of $225 million to bring cash back.
So when you add all that in that picked up DD&amp;A.
Okay.
So all that you mentioned now gets piled into that that additional DD&amp;A number? Yes.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Hi Brian.
In Permian you highlighted in the ops update you are buying hard area and the Reagan County as the key component of the Wolfcamp program.
Can you put into context your views on the rest of your Midland and Wolfcamp acreage the differences and similarities you see in the upper versus the middle zone wells and whether you plan to test any of the shallower zones horizontally? At this point Brian (inaudible) lot of wells.
We ramped six rigs versus last year.
We currently got five in there right now.
As there we got and it really work hard to try to understand.
I think as we all know as you move back to the lower to the west and Midland Basin we’ve had good results.
Clearly we got I think seven rigs running in those other areas.
So it’s area we will start to shift to take our learnings from Barnhart and that’s something we will walk through in two weeks as we outline in our Analyst Day.
But there is also multiple other zones that we’re looking at there.
And so not just in the Wolfcamp.
Got it.
Now you’re seeing some of the results so far from the Upper from the Middle and the Barnhart? I would say good results from both zones.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then separately just in terms of how you’re thinking about 2014 maybe this is more analyst material but can you just talk about CapEx versus cash flow and level of comfort without spending versus not outstanding this year ex Kitimat and Wheatstone and with Kitimat and Wheatstone? In terms of the details of all that we’ll certainly get into that on in our February 26 Analyst Day.
I think I’ve said at Goldman conference.
We’re going to look within our cash flow with our E&amp;D budget and we’re going to finance our LNG project outside of our cash flow.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Two quick ones assuming you’ve maintained a kind of run rate in Permian and Central as you have been on a spending basis and activity basis.
Should we expect if prices are kind of constant to have a similar or large amount of reserve ads in terms of expansion discoveries.
As far as I can recall this is the most onshore ad you’ve ever had onshore.
That’s one -- if this is run rate basis we’ll see this repeat? Well certainly let me kind of answer that directly.
We’re going to show a lot of that on the 26th of February.
But what we’ve been up to over the last three years is to make those certainly the Permian and Central region and some of the other things we’re doing in North America the center piece of our growth.
So we would expect to continue to be able to grow on Permian Central and our overall onshore North American assets.
Okay.
Thanks Steve.
Regarding Argentina you did have a lot of unconventional potential.
Was it just not worth all the hassles political in terms of getting money out of the country in terms of repatriation? It’s a situation that is for us.
It was 3% or 4% of our reserve 3% or 4% of our production.
And if you think about the opportunities that we have in North American onshore and you think about bringing that money forward what we can do with it made all the sense in the world John.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Thanks everybody.
Hey Steve I was wondering if I could just come back on portfolio rationalization question.
Specifically when you sold the Gulf of Mexico one of the I guess justifications was the reserve life had -- it is difficult to see how you could replicate recent terms of the market and have been able to give credit for it.
But it did generate free cash flow.
I’m just wondering it seems to me that the U.K.
kind of falls into lot of the same categories.
So I guess my question is are you not done with your portfolio rationalization and if so why does U.K.
to rank as competing for capital versus the onshore.
And I’ve got a quick follow-up please.
Yeah.
What we have said is we want assets that generates substantial cash flow.
We want assets that can grow.
In the North Sea we’ve been able to generate quite a bit of excess cash flow while keeping it relatively quiet.
But one thing I would say the difference between that and Gulf of Mexico we were facing about $250 million a year of abandonment liability because of the change in the laws because of Macondo so it was time to divest that asset.
Okay.
So do you (inaudible).
What we have on the books right now is our assets going forward and we think we have tremendous potential to grow where we are.
Great.
I appreciate that.
And maybe my follow-ups for Tom maybe.
Tom you gave us the earnings number for the non-controlling interest I wondered -- and which is the housekeeping question though I wonder if you can give us cash flow numbers associated with that and I will leave it there? Thanks.
I don’t have the cash flow you know the way the accounting accounts work there wasn’t very much actual cash flow that came out and since we didn’t do the acquisition for the sale until middle of November but it’s going to come out in investing and will show up in investing activities on a go forward basis.
I don’t have that number in front of me Doug but we can get.
If you call Brady afterwards he will get it for you.
All right.
Thanks everybody.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
Just a follow-up question here on Argentina would you guys expect to report that is discontinued operations at all in the first quarter or is it going to stay in your financials until the deal closes? And then I guess additionally are you guys going to be able to repatriate all that capital back to the U.S.
and there isn’t going to be any tax leakage.
Leo we are still looking at how we are going to report.
Obviously we just signed the deal yesterday hasn’t closed yet.
So we are looking at by the end of the day we should have an answer on how we are going to report it.
In terms of the cash the cash will remain overseas until we determine what our needs are both internationally and domestically.
Okay I guess… And the currency is U.S.
dollars.
U.S.
dollars.
Okay.
I guess just looking at Egypt here kind of getting into your financial supplement it looks like your gross production kicked up this quarter from Q3 in the first time a little while.
Do you guys see any kind of renewed growth going forward? In Egypt I think your rig count has been pretty steady but I guess the growth production hadn’t done much until this quarter.
Just trying to get a sense of dynamic there do you guys think that you have done better captive growth here going forward?  I think that the uptick that we have seen in the fourth quarter is largely a timing thing.
We had a fairly slow process in getting new development leases approved but what’s that happened at the beginning in the year of the third quarter we had that uptick in production and you are seeing all the new discoveries coming online at this point in time.
That’s the explanation to that.
Okay.
And I guess that is looking at the Gulf of Mexico Shelf I thought it was a little bit of production in the fourth quarter is that just prior period adjustment or is that actually some lingering legacy stuff and maybe one so? Well I think it’s associated with the state water stuff that we have.
But also remember we had some rights that didn’t close until the fourth quarter so that reflects the production off of properties until they close.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thanks guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hall with Heikkinen Energy.
I guess first on my and the operational supplement had some info on the Delaware Basin just curious it look likes it’s pretty low working interest on the acreage position there.
How much of that is operated and all the activity you are moving forward here near term? Are there any particular areas that you are focused on and what’s the interest looks like around those assets? When you look at Delaware Basin position we have picked up a lot of that through BP and so we do some metals which has some lower interest and the good news is we’ve got high nets.
There is an update to the operational supplement that Chaparral 89 #101H it’s a 3rd Bone Spring horizontal.
We had opened the chokes as well as the numbers in the report are flowing it’s now making 972 it’s kind of a peak on the oil side at 3.4 million for boe a day of 1 375 and 30 day average now is over 1 000 barrels a day.
We have got another one in the Shelf and we have the demonstrated staying on.
So we are excited about the Delaware and which is our acreage position it’s taken us a little longer to accomplish some things together and get some critical mass so we can clear in a position to drill horizontally in there.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thanks.
Look forward to more color at the Analyst Day and then I guess last one you have mentioned a package for sale in South Texas any color around what exactly for sale there is it more is it there getting your asset? Yeah.
I -- its small gas assets that are just scattered around the South Texas they are just cleaned up.
Okay and… I am sorry? Not the big block usage in era? I mean which is drilling in so we are drilling quite a few well in that part of the world right now.
Okay.
Very good.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Magner with Macquarie.
Good afternoon.
I want to follow up on the Barnhart’s question from earlier.
It looks like in the ops report volumes in December were down to 10 000 barrels a day I think that’s down from around 13 000 barrels a day in early October.
I am just curious what’s happening there at the Barnhart.
It’s a timing issue I mean I think now what we have found is with five rigs running out there currently right now we now have to drill sections and some buffer before we go on and complete the lot of wells.
So it’s just a simple timing issue of when you bring those pads on I mean right now with the section where we laid out four uppers and four lowers we think we can get those on with five to six rigs running and two frac crews in about 90 to 120 days.
And so it’s purely a timing issue of brining production on.
Okay.
And that’s four lower four upper is that sort of the spacing that you determine is optimal for that area? We will go into more of that on Analyst Day but I mean right now that’s kind of where we are but I think as you look the unconventional just like conventional in Permian you know you have been in for drilling for 50 years in this type rock.
And when you look at the unconventional they are even tighter.
So I think there is going to be room to continue downspacing as we go forward.
Okay.
Just one clarification Steve you mentioned what’s in the portfolio now is what would be in the going forward.
There has been some talk about potential deepwater Gulf of Mexico transaction any update or thoughts on that? No I think we stand by our statement.
What we are going into 2014 now with the Argentina now I will tell you Argentina was the long-term company we have worked on that for a months and months and months but in terms of assets that we have right now as stands Argentina and stands the Canadian gas package small Canadian gas package I don’t want to over-emphasize that I just want to bring up that we have couple of other things marketing out there.
The assets which you see right now the assets we are going to go forward with and I will be real honest with you I am extremely excited about what we are today.
Okay.
Thanks for the update.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Good afternoon.
I want to go back into the Delaware again and just be a little bit more specific.
In the supplement that you put out you have said that you got to achieve commercialization of the 2nd and 3rd Bone Springs and the Wolfcamp and Reeves and Loving County.
I was wondering if you could just give some color as to what commercialization means maybe on acreage or locations and are this going to be develop simultaneously on that? Well Jeff Oldham County specifically we’ve got a really nice block of acreage out there.
We got three rigs running right now.
We’re drilling second third most rigs both as well as in Wolfcamp.
So we’ve got a play that we feel really good about in there and the numbers are starting to show and that Shelf well that is update to be honest one of the third Bone Springs that we brought on in December.
So the nice thing about that area it doesn’t take big acreage block because you can stack a lots of horizontals in and we’ve got a pretty good material block in there with high high nets and we’re very excited about it.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And another question I have was with regard to the rocker B on 106 Cline well.
I notice that was completed in Reagan County and I was wondering first of all just one of your first Reagan Cline wells and going forward is the program going to increase in Reagan or is it going to still predominantly be Glasscock? That is one of our first wells in Reagan I think as we get over there.
You got multiple branches in the Wolfcamp and we’re also excited about the Cline basin to do.
So we continue to test our acreage and as we set up our 2014 ’15 ’16 and beyond programs we got to get in and understand all the various expansions and that’s exactly what that is.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Tullis with Capital One.
Good afternoon everyone.
Steve just a quick question on the Gulf of Mexico shallow water subsalt play what has been the recent activity there and how does it fit into your plans for 2014 based on what you see so far? Let me give you an overview and then I’d like number that we have achieved to run that some detail.
The exploration potential varies significant and what we -- what is the reason we retain that 50% is that we don’t to dreg the base on the shallow Shelf.
But we have a real opportunity to grow that in the future.
And with that Tom you might mention some of the things we are doing.
There are a couple of rigs active.
They are all outside operated at this point time on the shelf itself.
The most notable one probably is the appraisal well to our (inaudible) which is main pass 295.
That appraisal well is making whole as we speak and in the next 45 days or so we are to see some results from that it’s a down-dip appraisal test to establish reserve magnitudes and hopefully provide us with our first drainage point in that field.
There are other wells underway.
I believe there are two other ones that are drilling or completing.
There are fairly low-risk tests being drilled as well.
We don’t have any results on that at this point.
We see that they are fairly slow in 2014 as we convert over from the old Gulf of Mexico shelf to the new program.
And I think it will take a while to build inventory and prioritize those so that we can look forward to the feature.
I think it’s an outstanding opportunity for growth.
All right.
Thank you.
Appreciate it.
Your next question comes from the line of the Michael Rowe with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Company.
Holt &amp; Company</strong> Yes good afternoon.
I just want to follow-up on the discussion of severance costs trends in the Permian and kind of wondering if you could talk about sort of recent well cost you’re seeing down in the region and particularly for the Barnhart assets where you all have been drilling some longer laterals.
Yeah I think in general things are holding pretty good.
I mean we’re getting more efficient there.
But in some areas we’re also experimenting on the completion side and putting more sand in and less fluid and those various things.
So we’ll get into those in detail but I feel good about the cost.
And obviously if we want to increase our completion size obviously we expect to get bigger recoveries for that relative.
So it’s all about either taking cost down or increased our EURs and that’s something that Steve highlighted in the opening comments about our operation excellence we will continue to do.
But I think in general they are at a point right now where they are holding pretty firm its topline and it’s all about what kind of efficiencies we can drive in right now.
Holt &amp; Company</strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
And then just a quick follow-up on that would be.
I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about maybe this is an Analyst Day question but maybe some of the Wolfcamp potential that you see in Glasscock Counties specifically and where you all primarily have been drilling the Cline information? Yes that is something we’ll get into in Analyst Day.
I mean it’s right there in Deadwood where we’ve been.
It is more heavily in the Cline and you’ve got the Wolfcamp coming off and it does not lend itself quite as much for horizontals right in the area we are.
Get South of us there the geology changes you see a lot more activity.
But we’ll get into more detail about that at Analyst Day.
And then I would also expect to see us drill a couple of horizontal Wolfcamp wells done there as well.
Holt &amp; Company</strong> Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Good afternoon everyone.
If I could go back and ask another question about the Permian.
One of the things that distinguishes you guys -- Apache from a lot of the other independent E&amp;Ps out there particularly in the Permian Basin is your big position on the Central Basin platform.
And I noticed in your operation supplement you have you made a point of saying that three bar field had one of that I guess it was a second highest production increase in the quarter.
But you really only detail one well there which was at the I guess the Three Bar Shallow and the Wichita Albany.
I’m worried if you can give us an idea there’s been a lot of questions on the Wolfcamp and the Midland Basin a lot of these Delaware Basin unconventional plays? Can you give us an idea where your Central basin platform projects or target fit in terms of relative attractiveness with these other more industry-led horizontal drilling programs? Yeah it’s a great question.
It's something that tends to get overlooked is the potential for horizontal in the Central basin platform.
I’ll tell you that Wichita Albany play at Three Bar will stack up against anything in the industry.
We’ve got 16 wells on there.
We did give highlight that is in the year we’ve got and there has also been fantastic there.
We are looking at taking that play outside of that just on Three Bar unit there but additionally as you start to look up and down the section there are all sorts of zone that we’ve not completed vertically or not drilled vertically that make great horizontal targets.
And we always typically have run one to two rigs on the Central basin platform.
I think we’ve got three of -- they are right now and they are chasing these exact types of things.
And there is lots of oil to be found in Central basin platform.
So just to be clear I think you said it John but I want to make you understand you said what you’re seeing there is as good as any of these horizontal conventional plays you’re seeing elsewhere in the Permian basin? Our Three Bar development absolutely.
Okay thanks for that detail.
And at this time there are no further questions in the queue.
Mr.
Brady do you have any closing remarks? Excuse me.
No I don’t have any closing remarks.
I just wanted to say thank you all for participating in the call and putting up with my cold.
And if you have any additional question please reach out to Investor Relations.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Jennifer and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Apache Corporation First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Brady Parish Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir please go ahead.
Thank you Jennifer.
Good afternoon everyone.
And thank you for joining us for Apache Corporation’s first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
On today’s call we will have three speakers making prepared remarks prior to taking questions.
I will start by giving a brief summary of results and then we will hear from Steve Farris our Chairman Chief Executive Officer and President; followed by Alfonso Leon our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In addition joining us for the question-and-answer session are John Christmann Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of North America; and Tom Voytovich Executive Vice President Chief Operating Officer of International.
We prepared our quarterly financial supplemental data package for your use which also includes the reconciliation of any non-GAAP numbers that we discuss such as adjusted earnings or cash flow from operations.
In addition we have prepared an operations supplement which summarizes our activities and includes detailed well highlights across the various Apache operating regions.
These can both be found on our website at www.apachecorp.com/financialinfo.
Today’s discussion will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
However a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental data package on our website.
This morning we reported first quarter 2014 earnings from continuing operations of $753 million or $1.90 per diluted share.
Adjusted earnings which excludes certain items that impact the comparability of results totaled $707 million or $1.78 per diluted share.
Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital totaled $2.2 billion during the quarter.
During the first quarter total reported net production averaged approximately 640 000 boe per day with liquids production constituting 58% of the total.
Production during the first quarter was impacted by the sale of our operations in Argentina which closed March flow and were shown as discontinued operations on the income statement.
Including discontinued operations from Argentina our total production for the quarter was 672 000 boe per day.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Steve.
Good afternoon everyone and thank all of you for joining this afternoon.
As you know Apache has taken some significant steps to rebalance our portfolio and to focus our strategy on predictable production growth among North American onshore assets which are fuelled by our substantial cash flow that we generate from our international operation.
As we reshape our portfolio for the last four years we’ve now shifted our focus to execution which has been a long core strength of Apache for a number of years.
As Castlen pointed out today we announced strong first quarter results generating $707 million of adjusted earnings and $2.2 billion of cash flow from operation before changes in working capital.
During the quarter as Castlen pointed out we experienced weather impacts in the North Sea as well as our central region where weather not only impacted our production but it also impacted our delay in our drilling schedule.
Despite these significant disruptions our first quarter production numbers were ahead of our internal plan.
We remain on track to deliver within our previously stated production guidance for the year at 15% to 18% North American onshore liquids growth and 5% to 8% global boe growth on our pro forma 2013 production of 537 000 barrels per day.
During the quarter our operational focus in our [indiscernible] acreage position across the number of hydrocarbon rich basins allowed us to drive production growth in North American onshore liquids where we averaged 198 484 barrels per day which is up 6% or 11 600 barrels per day over the fourth quarter.
North America onshore liquids represented 53% of our total worldwide liquids and 31% of our total overall production.
You can read a number of details in our operational performance and the quarterly operations supplement.
I am going to go over a few of the highlights.
In the Permian we got off to a strong start to the year with production increasing nearly 15 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day or 12% quarter over quarter.
This growth was a result of our continued strong performance relative to our tight curve and the ability to move some of our well forward.
We continued to have exceptional results on the Wolfcamp where we drilled an additional $43 horizontal wells during the quarter and further delineating our potential in the southern Midland basin where we averaged 7 rigs .We also saw significant results in our Bone Springs play in the Delaware basin.
In our Gulf Coast region we saw some very encouraging results from our Eagle Ford acreage.
Earlier this year at our investor day we outlined our 400 000 gross acreage position in the northern part of this play.
We’re continuing to progress on stranding [ph] of the area despite nine additional wells during the quarter our most recently completed well was McCullough-Wineman in Brazos county which 30- day IP averaged 1 455 barrels of oil equivalent a day well above our initial type curve.
Based on this recent well result and our overall understanding of the play we plan to increase our rig count from four currently to eight by midyear.
In the division we’re driving costs down in the play and are currently working to reconfigure our wells to further enhance our returns.
In Canada quarter-over-quarter we grew liquids production by 10%.
We experienced strong growing results in our new liquids rich area of the Duvernay and Montney.
We have 3D wells with encouraging results but we don’t plan to disclose further details at this time.
Earlier this week we disclosed two recent field discoveries in Egypt including a well in Matruh basin and Khalda Offset Concession which encountered pay in five separate formations and tested at combined rate of 49 million a day and 7 700 barrels of condensates per day.
As you know we rigorously review our opportunity set and allocation of capital on a quarterly basis.
Based on the strong results we’ve seen in the Permian so far and the Eagle Ford and our Gulf Coast regions we are evaluating the programs with an eye towards reallocating capital for those regions.
Looking ahead to production for the rest of the year we anticipate strong second half growth as projects come on line in Australia and North Sea a bit recovery from a very difficult winter.
Let’s turn now from operations to our continuing efforts to fine tune our overall portfolio.
During the quarter we announced several additional divestments in March we closed our previously announced sale of our operations in Argentina.
In addition we announced the sale of non-core assets in Canada from Noel Wapiti and Ojay which did close on April 30.
I am sure you saw this morning we announced the sale of our deepwater projects Lucius and Heidelberg and 11 primary term exploration blocks to Freeport-McMoRan for $1.4 million.
We have retained all current production in deepwater as well as the 147 deepwater primary blocks.
Based on the operator’s current timeline for the estimated production contribution for Lucius we’re foregoing about 0.4% or approximately 2000 barrels of oil per day at gross for the year – both of this transaction.
As I previously mentioned we remain confident in achieving our 2014 growth guidance.
I also want to provide an update on the progress related to our two LNG projects Wheatstone and Kitimat.
We are in advanced discussions and on track to decide on the most appropriate financing options in the near future and at Kitimat we have been working with our partner to reduce our 2014 capital spend given where we are in the project lifetime.
Currently we anticipate reducing the budget by approximately 40% to around $600 million net as you recall that’s down from an initial budget net (indiscernible).
Also at Kitimat we are currently in discussion with several interested parties as we look to right size the overall investment in this project.
This is an ongoing process and one that we are focused on getting done in this calendar year.
Finally I want to provide an update on our buyback program.
Utilizing proceeds primarily from divestments during the quarter as we bought back an additional $485 million of stock this brings our total since the launch of the buyback program to the end of the first quarter to nearly $1.5 billion or 17 million shares.
As a reminder our board authorized 30 million shares buyback program in early 2013 and we’re continuing to believe that Apache shares are a compelling investment at this price.
But on the first quarter conference call last year that we initially outlined our plans to redefine our global portfolio and bring greater focus to our expanded North American onshore asset base.
We’ve made significant progress over this past year.
We emerged a leaner a more North American onshore physical company.
We believe our current portfolio gives Apache a tremendous foundation with sustained predictable repeatable and profitable growth for the foreseeable future.
I would like to turn it over to Alfonso Leon.
Thanks Steve.
I am going to cover three areas today.
Our balance sheet reporting matters and earnings performance.
As Steve indicated we continue to take important steps in pushing our portfolio for profitable growth.
Within the first four months of the year we announced and completed the sale of our entire operation in Argentina and certain dry gas properties in Canada.
Today’s announcement of the monetization of our development stage projects at Lucius and Heidelberg represents yet another step forward in focusing us in our growth area while crystallizing value for shareholders.
We continue to actively repurchase Apache’s common shares.
During the first quarter we bought back $485 million in stock bringing our total re-purchase in initiating our $2 billion buyback program last year to $1.5 billion through the end of the first quarter.
We continue to view our shares as one of the most attractive options to capture cash flow reserve value and portfolio debt.
We recently allocated an additional $300 million of cash availability through incremental buybacks and now has a further near term optionality on this front with funds from Lucius and Heidelberg transactions.
Of course our balance sheet remains very strong and supports our deep opportunities for organic value growth.
We ended the first quarter with $1.6 billion of cash and debt unchanged at $9.7 billion which puts us at 22% debt to cap.
We have approximately $1.8 billion in new proceeds from our Canada and deepwater transactions coming our way now and we expect our E&amp;P capital expenditure to be within our cash flow for the year.
So our financial position is really very strong.
Now there are two balance sheet items in front of us.
First is managing our interest in two integrated LNG projects for maximum shareholder value growth.
Steve discussed this briefly but given the importance of this issue I want to touch on them as well.
We have identified competitive alternatives to finance our remaining investment in Wheatstone LNG outside of our cash flow and expect to announce our decision over the next few months.
In regard to Kitimat LNG since our analyst day in February we have been working with our partner to reduce the proposed investment in 2014 by 40% to $600 million net to Apache.
In addition we are in discussions with other potential partners to right size Apache’s percentage interest in the project.
Kitimat is one of the most strategic projects underway in the global energy industry.
It will open Canada’s gas exports to Asia.
Kitimat has real pipeline solution in place is backed by an unprecedented 100 TCFs of supply in the highest quality gas shale in Bakken in North America and can be delivered from the Art Well Pass [ph] producing up to 1 TCF each with minimal environmental impact.
It’s a good project.
What we must do is right size Apache’s participation and states the investment to build long term value while supporting our competitive per share performance today.
The second balance sheet item to keep in mind is that most of our current cash is overseas and cannot come back to United States without tax consequences.
This is the common issue for global corporations like Apace and yet one more reason why our monetization step announced today with Lucius and Heidelberg is important.
This is U.S cash for Apache.
Moving to financial reporting.
In our first quarter earnings our former business in Argentina is reported as discontinued operations under accounting rules for current and historical period.
This is the only component of our nearly $10 billion of recent portfolio focusing steps that you will see reflected as discontinued operation and that is strictly a function of GAAP rule.
[indiscernible] is based on continuing operation on the total I stated.
A financial supplement posted on our website provides additional details regarding Argentina operation.
I am now going to turn to results.
Our performance for the quarter was driven by strong production and price realization and resulted in reported earnings from continuing operations of $753 million or $1.90 per share.
Our results included a couple of non-cash items including an unrealized after tax gain on our derivatives of $49 million and some deferred tax impact.
When we remove these non-cash items for comparability purposes our adjusted earnings were $707 million from continuing operations or $1.78 per share up from $610 million or $1.52 in the fourth quarter.
Operating cash flow was strong driven by the performance of our North American onshore base we generated $2.2 billion of cash flow from operations before working capital items up from $2 billion in the fourth quarter.
Now I would like to provide a bit of line by line color on our financial expectations through the end of the year.
Let me start with production.
In February we outlined 2013 performance production of 537 000 barrels equivalent per day.
These represent before a gas production for 2013 minus all the divested properties the each of non-controlling interest in Egypt tax barrels [ph].
This 2013 number provides the baseline for comparability.
As outlined in detail in Page 4 of our operations supplement the equivalent underlying production in the first quarter of 2014 was 548 000 barrels equivalent per day.
We performed ahead of our expectations through the first quarter and remain on track to achieve our guidance for the year and in spite of the loss of production growth from Lucius and the weather impact in our central and northeast regions in the first quarter.
Turning to realization oil realizations averaged approximately $101 per barrel for the first quarter.
Based on the current market outlook for differentials we see our first quarter North American realization discount to WTI of $4.60 widening in the second quarter by approximately $2 or $3 and then falling back to first quarter levels by the end of the year.
We see international oil and North America gas realizations at about the first quarter discount to benchmarks for remainder of the year.
On NGLs we currently expect to realize about 30% of WTI through 2014.
Going to the expense side LOE per boe was up a bit quarter over quarter to $10.37.
We expect this for boe cost to increase 10% driven by general increases in labor and power costs and our divestments of dry gas properties for the rest of the year.
DD&amp;A per boe is expected to rise by as much as $2 by the end of the year driven by our capital focus in liquids projects although this is subject to significant variability spending on timing of reserve bookings.
We broadly see other per unit cost metrics relatively stable through the rest of the year from the first quarter levels.
On income taxes our first quarter effective tax rate was 40.4%.
Going forward we expect our effective tax rate for the rest of the year to be in the range of 40% to 44%.
Our deferred tax percentage in the first quarter was 28% in line with what we would expect for the remainder of 2014 absent nonrecurring items.
Finally through the end of the first quarter our E&amp;P capital is on track with our planning for the year.
Overall and despite significant weather events it was a very strong quarter for Apache and we reported strong production results earnings and cash flow.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
And I think we are now ready for any questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Co.
Regarding capital allocation within the portfolio does it make sense to dial back activity a little bit in the central region and redirect those dollars to higher rate of return plays like the Permian or Canada et cetera? I'm not sure if you were kind of touching on that a little bit in your prepared remarks at all Steve.
Yes we haven’t made a final decision but I would suspect with the results that we’ve gotten out of the Eagle Ford and some of the really better results in our type curve in the Permian basin you could see us allocate capital a little differently than we did going into the year.
And would that the a decision that's more made at midyear? Probably a decision will be made in the next couple of weeks I would say.
And then my follow-up is given your tremendous success in growing volumes in the Permian are you getting close to reaching a max operational limit for Apache and the region as it pertains to people rig availability procuring need of services et cetera? With respect to services and rigs we’re in very good shape frankly.
One good thing about having [indiscernible] rigs running that we have is we can’t get rigs and frac those.
Certainly I made this analogy before it’s a little bit like when you have a four month for 16 [ph] and you can add one more – it’s 16 you’ve got to add another 4.
We can go up some but we are not going to be able to go up some the way we’re going at from 2011 to 2012 and from 2012 to 2013.
But we have made [ph] in that account.
And your next question comes from the line of John Freeman with Raymond James.
Alfonso just following up on what you said about Wheatstone where you're looking at these competitive financing alternatives.
I mean can you just kind of give us some ideas of what those alternatives are? We need to get some decisions going our side but the basic principle is this is not going to come out of our cash flow this is not going to come out of our existing assets.
Where this is a project that is contracted and a project that can finance itself so that we don’t have to make any incremental investment in this project.
And it can also be something that we’re obviously looking Q4 value we’re going to do whatever adds in those value for our shareholders – And then other question shifting gears on the central region when you discussed that the weather not only impacted your production but also the drilling and completion schedule.
Just for context you drilled 44 net wells during the quarter.
How many did you originally budget that you were going to drill and complete in the central region? John Christmann who runs our North American company you got -- Yes we had originally planned and kind of outlined at the February analyst day 418 plus which is about 100 wells a quarter.
So it’s a significant reduction in terms of what we were able to get on.
That is really a result of jut the backup testing when you have – we had two different weather at those and it really weathers the production as much as being able to get wells down and frac and volume production.
And your next question is from the line of Charles Meade of Johnson Rice.
I wanted to ask the other press release -- the other news that you guys have been talking about today is the sell or the sale rather of Lucius and Heidelberg.
And I wondered if you can -- you made reference in that press release that you're continuing to pursue the sale of other prospects I believe was the word.
So I wondered if you could just give a bit of the narrative back story on how the sale came about.
Whether it was someone who came and knocked on your door whether you guys had the for sale sign on those for a while given the mark that Anadarko put on them? Well if you recall back in the beginning of 2013 even our yearend earnings call we started unveiling what really had been planned for sometime but unveiling our goal to rebalance our North American portfolio make it a bigger chunk of it and we identified a number of assets internally that we were going to be on that risk actually the deepwater was on that list at that time.
The one thing I would tell you is that we made the conscious decision we would not sell any properties that we didn’t think that we got a fair value for.
So that probably answers that question.
It hasn’t been actively marketed but it has been in the market for sometime.
That does.
And I wonder if I could turn to the Permian here.
When I look at your operations report and I see that you look like you've had some of the best results you guys have had in the Wolfcamp.
In northern Reagan and in Upton County I know that's a little bit different from where the bulk of your area -- bulk of your activity was in 2013.
So maybe this is best for John is that a fair read on the quarterly results out in the Permian? And what's got you excited now? I mean I think we continue to see improvement on all our wells driven by completions the things we are doing but we did run six rigs in the Mariam county we may not track there and continue to have outstanding results there.
We have added 5 horizontal rigs that we started adding late last year and kind of started to hit our strides in most other counties Midland Upton and Reagan so we’ve got 5 rigs running there two verticals you will start to see some of those kick in.
The thing about Wolfcamp is you’ve got multiple beaches and we’re still early in understanding exactly how many wells we can drill per section how many laterals and that sort of thing.
So I am excited about all of it – our whole portfolio in the Permian is we’re having great results not just in Wolfcamp.
So it’s not about the whole but – I might add when John mentioned the number of wells per section that number is not going to go down that number is going to go up because we have identified that we may be able to downspace more than we are currently and we may have more batch of horizontals being able to go out so the reverse per section certainly in that Wolfcamp area is not just in Barnett but all through that play we could see significant upwards.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Roe with PPH.
I was just wondering you mentioned earlier in your prepared comments that you're seeing on the LOE side a 10% increase in general increase in labor and power costs for the rest of the year.
Just wondering if you could provide a little bit more color around that please? If you look across the industry and even if you look at the variance on our first quarter versus fourth quarter LOE per boe those are the driving factors in terms of forward experience with the level of activity out there.
Those are the two biggest drivers of our variance on a going forward basis within this year.
And then I guess just my follow-up question would be it sounds like you're planning on using the cash from the deepwater Gulf of Mexico sale for additional share buybacks.
I'm just wondering is there anything else you were contemplating for that or just how you're thinking about allocating that cash flow infusion.
Thank you.
We are going to a board meeting next week and that’s the discussion that we still need to have internally.
Just announced the transaction today so we have to go through that.
But we are very conscious obviously the value of opportunities that we are crystallizing right now through our buybacks in front of us.
And your next question comes from the line of John Malone with Mizuho Securities.
Just looking at Kitimat.
Clearly it's been a drawn out process getting a partner.
You've seen some potential partners go with competing projects.
Is there anything you can say Steve about any differences in perception that you might have of potential partners since it's late and just a longer process? Maybe on pricing or cost or environmental question in BC and can you talk just a little bit about the landscape in Asia LNG in general? In terms of our partner strategy we brought Chevron into the project just last year and that was in ’13.
We have been pursuing a very deliberate one step at the time of pros that brings value to this project – bringing Chevron in last year in 2013 was the very value added for us it’s a downstream operator to complement our upstream expertise at Apache.
At this point as this project gathers further momentum we have decided it is the right time to bring in additional partner into our group if anything the momentum of the project had accelerated beyond our expectations the pipeline is in very good stage the facility is in a very good stage and Chevron is very keen and start to head with this project.
So it’s just the right time for Apache now to bring in another partner as we think about how much we had and what project within our portfolio to maintain our balance.
And just Alfonso just one analogy as well some housekeeping.
You haven't spent anything from a general cash flow in Wheatstone to date? Is that correct? We have incurred capital expenditure year to date in the Wheatstone project.
We have not affected our financing decision as it fits very welded and up until the date within this year and which we implement that in anything transaction we will be funding that capital expenditure either by all means.
And one last one for me just on the North Sea can you give me a sense of what you think the run rate could be there net of any weather affects? I know you've got new wells coming on in hopefully the 40s in barrel how will that compare to or offset the natural declines? Well as you are well aware our strategy going into the year was that we were going to have growth regions and cash flow so we measured the investment in the North Sea essentially deep flat.
So we expect to meet that end of the year I think that catch up from the weather event in the first quarter was already underway and I would look for you to see that the production rate stabilized where it was probably about in the fourth quarter.
And your next question comes from the line of Arun Jayaram of Credit Suisse.
John maybe starting with you.
I was wanting to see if you could comment on how some of your initial well results have been doing on the horizontal side and the Delaware Basin? We’ve got 3 rigs running over that whole area and we have been very pleased I mean we are predominantly growing in Bone Springs and in Wolfcamp.
And I think there is a couple volumes to be listed in the ops report and we are very pleased over there.
We do have some acreage to the south that we are evaluating and later in the year we will be looking at some of those areas but if I am looking the page 1 1H and number 02H both net they’re still playing on the 30 day IP they came out over a thousand boe per day.
And over 12 rigs and high pressures.
John if you're going to put some incremental capital as it stands today would you be looking more on the Midland side or the Delaware side? Right now we are probably running two-thirds of rigs running in Midland that’s the easiest place to add and that’s driven based on just where we can put in immediately.
I think the economics are very comparable in both basin though – as the year unfolds mostly it’s getting more active in the Delaware.
My second question is Steve you reiterated your North American onshore liquids guidance.
Obviously the Permian is ahead of plan as we stand today.
Do you expect the central region to be able to make up some of the weather induced downtime they had in the first quarter? I think it will make it up some of it I also think that we have opportunity set for day in the Eagle Ford and starting off the year based on what we have learned over the – really the last four months we have an opportunity to ramp that up.
I think I mentioned in my prepared remarks we’re going to go to from four rigs to by the middle of the year to 8 rigs there – plenty of upside [ph] on that to be able to do that.
And my final question is for Alfonso.
The CapEx number in the quarter came in a little bit of above at least what I was modeling.
Just wanted to see if you could give us a sense of -- your full-year CapEx at the analyst day for your E&amp;P was I believe a $8.5 billion how you're trending relative to that target.
We’re exactly on plan it’s actually slightly under in some regions but all in all on plan for that target.
When you look at the table in our supplemental financial disclosures I think there might be a bit confusion out there when people are looking at those numbers and thinking about the 8.5 the numbers on that table include LNG CapEx within the relevant countries that’s something that we are going to look at for us coming quarters except – to provide better clarity so the people can actually see how we find those to the 8.5.
You also have Argentina in there and you also have to keep in mind that that table includes Egypt on a 100% basis so it does now have our two-third interest economics interest in Egypt [indiscernible] in the 8.5.
So we’re going to work to make that a little bit clear for the next quarter but we are on plan with our CapEx.
I want to reiterate what Alfonso said you have a 100% capital – in that line you have 100% capital for Egypt and our equity interest is two thirds.
So it takes a little work to get to the net numbers.
So overall -- And your next question is from the line of Eric Otto with CLSA Americas.
Just a follow-up on Kitimat.
Can you give us an update or color on discussions with customers? And related to that does your partner still require oil link pricing for them to move forward with FID? I think starting with customers the one thing I would say is that it’s a very active marketing group right now.
We are – we have had discussions with most everyone you would expect that you would market LNG to and those discussions we are ongoing.
With respect to oil price I think as a group has been our partner pretty good realization that it really doesn’t matter how you make up that basket but you really have to bear – at a price at the end of the pipe that will make up an economic project with the project and I think we are both on the same page there.
And your next question comes from the line of John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Kitimat is it easier having FID to seek partners or does it matter at all in terms of bringing someone in? John I don’t – I think Alfonso put a pretty good focus on – we are moving the project forward and we have a lot of momentum right now I think that’s being hopefully recognized on the market side and in terms of FID we would expect – we still have – final to do on the downstream on the upstream it’s not just about – all about just drilling wells we got an awful of facilities with takeaways planned success – we are in pipelines that we have put in there.
So we are involved in that FID right now that FID should be done – upstream should be done by the middle of 2015 and likewise in terms of where Chevron is on the other side.
But they are not contingent on each other let me put it that way.
One for John Christmann.
We're hearing a lot more about changing well designs and multiple launch for unconventional plays.
Also the use of more ceramics.
Are you changing your well completions designs at all in the Permian? We showed a slide at analyst day that showed early results relative to the new changes we have made.
I think as we get in and drill more of these wells and better understand the source that we are dealing in and the spacing and the – we are getting better and you are seeing more sands more stages more zones and finding ways to place it properly.
So it’s a combination of a lot of things.
And your next question comes from the line of Michael Hall with Heikkinen Energy.
I'm just curious on the good result you've been seeing there in the Eagle Ford what are the hydrocarbon mix splits on those wells? And do you think you're stimulating the chalk at all with those? And what are the cost running on them? With respect to the mix that well I mentioned made about 730 barrels for condensate for the rest of the year.
So it’s about 60:40 liquids to gas.
With respect to cost I don’t know – well costs -- we’ve just redesigned our Eagle Ford wells we think we can take about $1.2 million off the well design that we’ve got right now.
I am hopeful we can take more than that out of it.
As you go into pad drilling and you go into manufacturing mode you can really bring your cost down we have shown that at Bernhard [ph] area we’ve seen that honestly – we start off drilling wells $16 million and today they are under 7.
So we expect those costs to come down significantly.
And then you highlighted in the commentary or on the balance sheet all the cash that's sitting in the international arena.
Any plans to do -- what are your plans to do with that cash I guess? And how should we think about that? As we go through the next few months in terms of getting to the way forward in our LNG projects we have to get – good decisions where it did not represent any type of cost in our cash flow and we have – lot of exposure to Kitimat.
Once we have complete clarity [indiscernible] it is our objective to have over the next few months and we have some more at that clearly at this very moment we cannot bring that international cash to the United States without tax consequences.
But that is something that we will have to continually looking at and figure out what we do about it.
We do generate NOLs in the United States as we go along as that can give us path – as we find our way to bring that cash back.
And one more if I could sneak it in on -- just total capital cost just kind of the outlook you're seeing particularly in the Permian as you rollover contracts for the end of the year and into 2015.
Any commentary around any cost increases you're seeing on drilling or pumping? No we just recently refrac tender and actually had a pumping services come down amazingly.
So we see things pretty well I mean there is pressure on the bigger rigs 1500 horsepower rigs with top drives there is more demand for those will be just up a little bit I think the big deal is with the efficiencies the things we have been able to do we have been able to maintain or lower our oil costs.
And your next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers.
The first question I wanted to ask you was as I survey the Permian the industry is moving towards stacked lateral moment on TAD.
And when we see Apache horizontal success with the less than households name zones Penn Shale [ph] Wichita Albany Strawn do those zones or that acreage have multi zone horizontal stag development potential? That just varies I think what they show you is the diversity of our asset base.
So we got acreage in place so not everybody is and so we’ve got – and that’s the nice thing about our portfolio.
While there are some areas in there where you could put multiple laterals if you get over to the edge though in the Heady count but some of those are really low zone targets but the nice thing about the Permian is that you got other stack zones that are – the strata that work as well.
So that you are seeing horizontal drilling really grape hold in the central platform the wells in Delaware and Midland basins.
Going back to the Eagle Ford McCullough-Wineman well.
Is that going to get more drilling near the Brazos-Burleson border or maybe push more into Burleson County? At the investment day it looked like most of the drilling was taking place to the West.
And I guess overall I'm asking what do you think is the direction of Eagle Ford delineation over the next several quarters? I think McCullough-Wineman well that is running very high on it’s built in some things up and you will see us get very active in that area Steve mentioned with Heady rigs towards mid-year as far as direction of where it goes that’s not something we comment on at this point.
We are excited about it on our acreage.
And if I could sneak one quick one in on the use of cash.
If the Montney and the Duvernay continue to create some excitement over time could those programs become home for some of the international cash later on? We didn’t announce our results but I would say they were – we drilled two Montney wells now we drilled two Duvernay wells both of them are stellar walls.
And we have quite a bit of acreage both in Montney and the Duvernay.
We are drilling up right now to look at – when we talk about capital allocation because we are in the sober [ph] month in Canada we will have a plan going in for our winter drilling starting at about August September that will probably look a little stronger in the Duvernay and Montney.
And your next question is from the line of James Sullivan with Alembic.
Just wanted to go back to the East Eagle Ford for a second.
And you guys talked about the McCullough-Wineman well was a nice result.
But I think you had a couple of wells drilling in the Reveille -- at least next to where you had the well -- the older well that you guys had talked about the 8 9 and 10.
Did you guys have results on that yet? We do not at this point we [indiscernible] well there and so we are stacking some things up that will be completed in the near future.
And then could you -- obviously you guys are sounding pretty high on the play based on the McCullough-Wineman results and that was over on the other side of the county there.
But can you talk just a little bit about the geology there? I mean obviously you've discussed the launch at the analyst day but I mean is it -- are you guys feeling it's quite repeatable across the acreage in terms of how continuous the section is and all that? It’s very practical as you go across I think the thing we have seen in the area is the QRs go up little bit which is helping you so little higher gas rate with it which is a good thing.
So we’re very encouraged – got more energy in the system – If I could just switch over for a second to the Permian.
I -- and let's see if I can express this question in a way that makes sense.
But obviously you guys have an enormous vertical program that's transitioning over now into horizontal program.
So in a sense the ramp in horizontal activity -- it's not coming in in a vacuum you've got human capacity there for the vertical program and in logistics and so forth.
Can you just characterize -- I mean actually you guys went down up by four vertical rigs and up by one in the horizontal.
Is that I know it's a little crude to think of it that way but is that not a bad sense of scale in terms of how -- what you take from one program to give to the other in terms of capacity? If that makes sense? It’s a good question.
That is not how we think about it.
I mean we look at the baseline we really look at how the plays work on an economic basis and we have been shifting as we have been building the horizontals you will see a little bit of continued trend as we add rigs there will be likely to be horizontals.
I think we’ve got a baseload program out there really high graded projected with the verticals that we like to keep I mean the nice thing about the verticals is we get on quick the competitive rates of return and you don’t have to wait on pads and those things so you will see us run a baseload of vertical rigs and then continue to grow the horizontal rig count.
When you are setting your base sort of when you confirm a vertical wells I don’t decline likely horizontal wells you kind of match vertical wells and get the base going up.
And our next question is from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
Hey guys.
Can you speak a little bit to how much acreage you have in the Permian and Upton and Reagan County's? It looks like you just start getting after that with some strong results there.
In terms of the acreage there I mean we’ve got – we showed that at the analyst day those 3 counties I think couple hundreds hundred thousand acreage I need to check that exact number.
Just a second.
While you're checking on the you guys just mention the ability to sort of keep the vertical rig count consistent and add horizontal rigs over time.
Could you give us a sense of where you think that number could go to? What is the current horizontal rig count today in the Permian? And I'm sure you guys have a plan over the next couple of years to ramp that up could you maybe put some numbers around that? Your first question we got 292 000 acres in those 3 counties and 232 000 net.
You got significant Wolfcamp exposure in and – when we look at our plan for the year we plan on 39 rigs – total rigs we plan on 26 horizontals and 13 verticals so almost 2 in 1 horizontal and vertical ratio that’s probably a pretty good ratio for where we are today right now there is capacity growth – to put couple in there but as Steve alluded to it’s about just people and execution.
I guess just talking to about asset sales here I guess obviously you guys just announced the deepwater.
I guess I thought it was a bit surprising.
On previous calls you said there weren't a lot of big deals left in terms of selling assets.
So I guess anything else we should expect on the asset sales side later this year? Well I tried to answer that earlier when – the year end analyst call last year we talked about portfolio of baskets that we were going to sell and we identified a number of candidates and quite frankly the deepwater was more of those candidates.
The other thing we had decided is we went from stalled properties to something less than we thought the value to look for so that assets it’s been on the list for over a year.
We are going to make sure we got what we call we get value for that asset and it’s really – from our standpoint it wasn’t a surprise we talked about order of magnitude we have always indicated that we were moving out the deepwater we still have about 900 000 barrels 95 00 barrels today in the deepwater we continue to reduce that.
We are not going to sell it unless we find someone is willing to pay what we think is and I mean what is worth but in terms of our really in the deepwater we will have done that.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Tullis with Capital One.
Steve in today's press release announcing the sale of the deepwater it sounds like the Company's planning to get a decent amount more active among the Gulf Coast.
Could you give a little more detail there and maybe what activity could look like over the next year or two? Well as you are ware a year or so ago we went into effect the strategy to reposition ourselves in the Gulf of Mexico to become to be able to generate meaningful organic production growth on the shale.
Now as the shale of course is when we had interest in about 500 blocks 125 of those operated and most of which have never experienced any deep exploration.
So it’s also where we transition our very experienced technical team out of deepwater with your advanced techniques for deepwater to similar geology on the shale and basically we are focusing on exactly the same horizons on the shale that we have been in deepwater for years.
This is something that hasn’t experienced a lot of activity in the past.
There is lot of advances to be in over the shelf there is a lot of room for liquids rich and oil growth there is a much shorter concept to realization times and when compared to the deepwater and we can certainly leverage existing infrastructure to cut the time and the cost on this process.
So it’s where – prospects can also better compete with the risk of our pretty robust global portfolio and that’s something that really for the last couple of years the deepwater has been able to do.
So in short we are going to move our technical talent out of the deepwater and merge that with a much more sensible resources that are available on the shale.
You may want to think about this as especially 2014 is a year of inventory builds and we would expect to come out of the blocks in 2015 with a nice drilling line.
I think we will hear our first real prospects and [rig count generated] realized in 2015.
And just as a follow-up does your partner Fieldwood have any activity currently along -- that you're involved in along the coast? Well results that we should look for near-term? The only well that – really is the easing out with 136 which is put out in the first quarter I think about 6 million a day and a few hundred barrels oil I mean 300 barrels of oil other than that I don’t see any additional activity in the near term.
And your next question is from the line of Doug Leggate with BofA Merrill Lynch.
Thanks good afternoon guys thanks for taking my questions.
Steve in the Gulf of Mexico there the sale of Lucius and Heidelberg what does that mean for the remaining interest you have in the deepwater in terms of your commitment to that area? In other words could they be for sale at some point? Let me answer that I think maybe you didn’t hear me or maybe you can’t hear I understand maybe [indiscernible].
We still have about 96 00 barrels a day in the deepwater it would have been nice to be part of a package that we sell.
As I mentioned earlier we made a decision about a year and a half ago that we weren’t going to sell anything under a value that we thought it was worth.
So we are going to continue to operate those we have 147 deepwater blocks but you will see us migrate out of the deepwater either through producing that out and then abandoning it or if someone was interested in it we certainly think it was worth for [ph].
But we have moved that team – we moved that team to the shale where we have a significant acreage and I think the real opportunity to have more organic growth there.
Sorry I wasn't reading between the lines.
So I'm guessing you originally had tried to sell that together with Lucius and Heidelberg and decided not to -- is that how we should think about it? Sorry I didn’t quite catch up you.
Sorry so just reading between the lines should we assume that you tried to sell the entire package and decided against it -- decided to hang onto those assets? So they were for sale in other words? You bet.
Thanks for that.
My follow-up is onshore and hopefully it's not too convoluted.
But just comparing the operating report to last operating report there seems to be a fair amount of movement in your acreage positions.
And the one that jumps out is the Marmaton.
It's dropped from 512 000 to 395 000 net acres.
So I'm just wondering what's going on there? Is there active sort of high grading process going on or is this acreage expiry or what's causing the moving parts? And I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
I can’t comment.
John? We got two rigs in the Marmaton in the first quarter 26 we have working in the Anadarko basin.
Yeah one other things -- we’re completely we got an upper Marmaton and we’ve got a lower Marmaton.
And I don’t know what’s in that book but it depends on if you are in that lower Marmaton which is more gassy but it comes on like gangbusters for the upper Marmaton.
So we need to reconcile that.
I don’t know what those numbers but I am sure as the total both upper and lower is probably the same number I think we probably set up a lower Marmaton we’ve got listed in there which is just subset of the total Marmaton.
And your next question is from the line of Harry Mateer with Barclays.
Hi guys.
Just a question for me on the balance sheet.
Can you just give us an update on where you think the debt balance should be? Are you happy with your debt levels now or should we anticipate potential use of proceeds going forward to be further debt reduction? Clearly the strong position we don’t have any immediate need for any debt run up or debt reduction we are in a very comfortable position and the most important question is what do we do with the cash coming out our way and what do we do once we complete will be pursuing on our LGN projects.
Okay.
It’s fair to say it sounds like investing in the business and potential returns to shareholders are going to take priority over debt reduction at this point? I think what he said is we don’t feel we need to pay down any debt.
We just need to make sure we will be able to cover the things that we are liable for and we are going to look at obviously certainly share buybacks at our current pledge or on the table.
And we have no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the conference back over to our presenters.
Great that concludes our call for today.
Once again we want to thank you for joining us and if you have any additional questions feel free to reach out to investor relations.
Thank you.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference call and you may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Sia and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Apache Corporation Second Quarter Earnings 2014 Conference.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you at this time I would like to turn the conference over to Ms.
Castlen Kennedy.
Please go ahead ma’am.
Thank you Sia.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us for Apache Corporation’s second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
On today’s call we will have three speakers making prepared remarks prior to taking questions.
I will start by giving a brief summary of results and then we will hear from Steve Farris our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and President; followed by Alfonso Leon our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
In addition joining us for the question-and-answer session are John Christmann Executive Vice President and COO of North America; and Tom Voytovich Executive Vice President and COO of International.
We prepared our quarterly financial supplement for your use which includes the reconciliation of any non-GAAP numbers that we discuss such as adjusted earnings or cash flow from operations.
In addition we have prepared our quarterly operation supplement which summarizes our activities and includes detailed well highlights across the various Apache operating region.
These can both be found on our website at apachecorp.com/financialdata.
Today’s discussion will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
However a number of factors could cause actual results to defer materially from what we discuss today.
A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental data on our website.
This morning we reported second quarter 2014 earnings from continuing operations of $505 million or $1.31per diluted share.
Adjusted earnings which excludes certain items that impact the comparability of results totaled $644 million or $1.67 per diluted share.
Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital totaled $2.2 billion during the quarter.
Total reported net production averaged 635 814 barrels of oil equivalent per day with liquids production constituting 59% of the total.
On a pro forma basis adjusting for recent sales and excluding the non-controlling interest and tax barrels from Egypt second quarter production was 550 357 barrels of oil equivalent per day with liquids production constituting 60% of the total.
I’ll now turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Castlen and good afternoon everyone and thank you all for joining us.
I want to apologize everyone I’ve got somewhat of a summer cold so I sound a little – my sounds a little deeper than it usually does I apologize.
Our second quarter results provided I think additional evidence of our strong North America position and our ability to continue to profitability grow our production.
And before I jump into the details of the quarter I want to provide an update on Apache’s ongoing repositioning of profitable and repeatable North American onshore growth.
Over the last five years Apache has greatly enlarged and enhanced its North American onshore resource base and I believe that it is capable of driving our growth and performance over the next several years.
During the last 18 months we’ve been increasing the focus on our North American onshore business by divesting of around $10 billion of property.
In addition we’ve launched an aggressive stock repurchase program and we’ve also made it clear there are no sacred cows and our efforts continue.
There has been recent discussion regard Apache’s potential future steps and focusing our portfolio and today’s call gives me an opportunity to provide an update to our shareholders on our direction and the work that it’s been underway.
First let me state at the outset the Apache’s future will be centered on our tremendous North American onshore resource base.
Second I’d like to make it clear that Apache intends to completely access the Wheatstone and Kitimat LNG project.
And third in light of our expanding opportunity set in North American onshore we are evaluating our international assets and are exploring multiple opportunities including the potential for separation of some or all of them through the capital markets.
And one additional note regarding our North American onshore portfolio over the past year we deepened our understanding of our North American properties.
We’ve elevated our capabilities in advanced emerging plays and in that regard this fall we intend to hold an update presentation on North American onshore highlighting our $1.7 million net acres in the Permian basin.
So with that out of the way let me move to the details of our performance in the second quarter.
This morning we announced second quarter results of $644 million or $1.67 per share of adjusted earnings and $2.2 billion of cash flow from operations before changes in working capital.
During the quarter our operational focus in extensive acreage position across our best hydrocarbon region rich basins allowed us to drive production growth in North American onshore liquids.
On a pro forma basis we averaged 201 000 395 000 barrels of oil per day which is up 18% year-over-year.
North American onshore liquids represented nearly 61% of our total worldwide liquids production and 37% of our overall production.
A corner stone of our North American onshore success has been the outstanding performance in the Permian basin.
And through the first half of the year the Permian region’s performance is ahead of our plan.
In fact we surpassed the significant milestone earlier this year as we celebrated reaching 150 000 barrels of oil equivalent and a day net.
We have come a long way since we launched the regions just over four years ago.
And have grown production nearly 200% since that time.
In fact we have grown production 17 out of the last 18 quarters and the last 11 quarters consecutively.
Cash flow from the region is coming in ahead of plan.
And we anticipate the region will fully fund its capital program for the year.
We expect to deliver over 23% liquids growth and more than 20% Boe growth for the year.
And this performance demonstrates our focus on operational excellence and are driving out of cost from the system.
And it underscores Apache’s leading position in the Permian.
In the Anadarko Basin our Central Region has experienced several challenges over the last couple of quarters.
And as a result production growth has been disappointing.
Our total wells drilled to-date for the year is 26% behind plan due to weather slowdowns as well as mechanical difficulties in both drilling and completion.
We’re retooling the region in addition to recently making personnel changes or scaling back the Anadarko Basin activity and reducing capital and rigs.
We continue to believe in the growth opportunities in the Anadarko Basin we just need to slowdown and assure our selves we’re making good investment decisions over the long term.
We do intend to ramp up our drilling activity in our Central Region Canyon mine play and Oldham and Potter County of Texas Panhandle.
And I’ll touch on this in more detail a little later.
As we said in the past we view North American onshore business as one large resource comprised of several different plays and we will allocate capital and resources to the best opportunities within that portfolio.
Despite the challenges we had in the Anadarko Basin I want to reiterate our 15% to 18% North American onshore liquids guidance.
And I also want to reiterate our 5% to 8% increase in our production overall production guidance.
We have a significant opportunity before us in North American onshore and the ability and expertise to continue to execute and deliver growth in the years to come.
I’d like to specifically mention a few highlights from the quarter and share some of the results we are most excited about.
I want to start in North American onshore Permian Basin we have averaged 37 rigs 24 of which were horizontal and we grew production 4% over the previous quarter.
Year-over-year we’re seeing total production growth of an impressive 26%.
We had a strong Wolfcamp shale results in Regan County in Southern Midland Basin.
For example our SRH 1335 had a 24-hour rates of 1 184 barrels of oil equivalent a day.
We also had impressive results in the Bone Spring of the Delaware Basin with several new wells coming on in Reeves and Loving County including the Robin 8 with 24-hour rate of nearly 1 200 barrels of oil per day.
And our East Texas Eagle Ford play in Brazos and Burleson counties we continue to be very excited about our opportunity in this emerging play.
We’d recently added additional acreage and now hold over 2 000 net acres in the play.
We’re shifting to more of an appraisal mode in our drilling from pads to further reduce cost and enhance returns.
We have spud 26 wells during the quarter with most scheduled to come on line frankly in the third quarter the Reveille 8H was completed during the second quarter in a 24-hour IP of 987 barrels of oil equivalent a day.
We also have early test on wells coming on in first part of the third quarter including the nearby Reveille 10H and 14H which had 24-hour IPs of 906 barrels of oil equivalent per day and 1 220 barrels of oil equivalent per day respectively.
With these strong results and our tremendous land position we decided to further ramp our activity up and should be running 10 rigs by year-end in this play.
In the Canyon Lime play in the Texas Panhandle we also have seen strong results specifically our most recent well the Bivins 94-1H at a 30-day IP of 1 718 barrels of oil equivalent a day.
We hold approximately 100 000 net contiguous acres in this play and are planning to drill a total of six wells this year to further delineate the play and we should have four rigs running active in this play by year end.
Turning to Canada in our first quarter call we disclosed that we had drilled the Duverney and Montney wells.
The initial production rates has been encouraging.
For an example in the Duverney in the first quarter we completed well 24-hour rate of 1 963 barrels of oil equivalent a day.
And in the Montney our first well was completed in the first quarter had a 30 day IP of 926 barrels of oil equivalent a day.
And with these positive results we’re looking to increase activities in these plays and plan to spud 10 wells in the Duverney and two wells in the Montney by year-end 2014.
We’ve also been adding to our acreage position in both these plays we now have 146 000 net acres in the Montney and 177 000 net acres in the Duverney.
I want to take a second and shift to our international region.
Production was in line with expectations as we held it flat over the previous quarter.
We remain on track to generate significant free cash flow for the year from our international regions.
In the North Sea second quarter production was up 7% quarter-over-quarter as we recovered from a difficult winter.
We drilled eight new wells during the second quarter including a new well in the Beryl field that achieved 30-day IP of 4 500 barrels of oil equivalent a day.
And our (indiscernible) well that achieved an average 30-day IP of 1 500 barrels of oil per day.
During the quarter in Egypt we had additional exploration success we had notable tests in the AEB Safa and Paleozoic reservoirs as well as the horizontal test in Upper Bahariya.
Following Phase I of our (indiscernible) development project the field is now producing at peak productions and we’ve also seen record oil and gas production from successful work on the BP acquired call to two properties at Abu Gharadig and Razak.
And finally in Australia we continue to make progress on several of our new projects.
Our Balnaves project is expected to come online in the third quarter in fact we expect first of all in the next few weeks.
I want to point out our Coniston development project which is originally scheduled for first oil during the third quarter of 2014 is now going to be delayed until early 2015.
Our FPSO the Ningaloo Vision were delivered to the shipyard in Singapore early part of this year to undergo process upgrades and capacity expansion which will require to bring on our new Coniston wells.
During a deep hole inspection coincident with the upgrade it was discovered that it had significant structural steel replacement problem that was necessary to ensure its long-term safety and integrity of production up time for this FPSO.
The repair work is well underway; it should start up later than initially planned.
However and this delayed start up does not but I want to point out this delayed start up does not impact our overall production guidance.
As I mentioned earlier we are on track to deliver our production guidance for 15% to 18% North American onshore liquids growth and our global BOE expected growth of 5% to 18% based on our 2013 production on a pro forma basis.
Finally before I turn the call over to Alfonso I want to briefly touch on our buyback program utilizing proceeds primarily from divestments during the quarter Apache bought back an additional $780 million worth of stock.
This brings our total expense the launch of our buyback program through the end of the second quarter to nearly $2.3 billion or 26 million shares.
As a reminder during the second quarter our Board increased our authorization by 10 million shares to 40 million shares.
And we continue to be Apache shares at compelling value at current prices.
With that I would like the turn the call over to Alfonso  Thank you Steve.
I’m going to cover some balance sheet highlights and provide production and financial expectations for the remainder of the year.
First with respect to our balance sheet during the second quarter we completed three significant portfolio focusing steps.
The monetization of our major deepwater development projects the divestment of dry gas properties in Canada and the focusing of our asset base in south Texas.
These three things actions close during the quarter yielding $1.8 billion of cash proceeds.
This brings the total cash proceeds generate before portfolio focusing steps over the last year to $10 billion.
As Steve mentioned we continue to actively repurchase Apache common shares during the quarter.
In the second quarter we bought back $780 million in stock.
To put that number in context I should note that the $1.4 billion proceeds from our deepwater divestment were only received on the very last day of the quarter 30<sup>th</sup> of June.
Our balance sheet remained strong our total cash position as of June 30 is nearly $1.9 billion.
Debt remains unchanged at $9 billion which puts us at 22% debt to cap.
Now I’m going to make some comments regarding your expectations for the remainder of the year starting with production.
As Steve said we remain on track to deliver our production growth expectations for the year consistent with our 15% to 18% North American onshore liquids growth expectations and the third and fourth quarters we anticipate 2% to 4% sequential North American onshore liquids growth driven by our horizontal development programs continuing to build on their momentum.
In line with our 5% to 8% global BOE production growth we anticipate our global gas production to drop 1% to 2% sequentially in the third quarter.
And for global BOE production to be flat to 1% up sequentially for the quarter.
This is driven primarily by our regularly scheduled third quarter maintenance turnaround in the North Sea where production is expected to be 12% to 14% down sequentially in the third quarter with that production returning in the fourth quarter.
As a final production note we currently expect Australia production to rise 6 000 to 8 000 BOEs per day sequentially in each of the third and fourth quarters driven by oil from Balnaves ramping up.
Going to turn now to realizations.
We currently expect North American oil realization discounts to WTI of $5 to $8 barrel.
On the international oil side we expect to shift to a realization discount to Brent of $1 to $2 per barrel as our mix of production evolves with Australia ramping up.
We continue to expect North American natural gas realization discounts to NYMEX for the full year in line with first quarter or a $0.40 per Mcf discount.
And we now see global NGL realizations at 28% to 30% of WTI for the remainder of the year which is slightly lower than our previous expectation driven by North America now being expected to be at 25% to 27% of WTI.
Now I'm going to move to the expense side.
Starting with LOE.
Second quarter unit LOE was up sequentially to $10.59 this is in line with expectations we set out in our previous call of an increase form first quarter levels by 10% through year-end driven by the ongoing shift in our portfolio balance and general cost increases.
Going now to DD &amp; A unit recurring DD &amp; A was up $0.70 sequentially in the second quarter.
This is in line with our expectations to see it rise this year by as much $2 per BOE from first quarter numbers as we focus our capital on liquids projects.
Going to taxes other than income we expect an increase for the remainder of the year primarily driven by the initiation of Australia PRRT expense.
Based on current strip prices we currently expect taxes other than income to increase sequentially by $40 million to $70 million in the third quarter.
Going to G&amp;A second quarter G&amp;A expense reflected the timing of third-party reimbursements we expect a sequential increase of $20 million to $40 million in G&amp;A expense in the third quarter.
And finally on the Income Statement going to income taxes our adjusted income tax rate was 40.3% in the second quarter which is in line with our expectations of 40% to 44% for the year.
On an adjusted basis our deferred tax percentage was 30% which is broadly in line with our previously stated expectations for the year.
Finally capital for the first half of 2014 was in line with our plan for the year.
We have updated the format of our capital table on Page 10 of financial supplement to facilitate the tracking of our investment.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
I think we’re now ready for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Please note that during the Q&amp;A portion of the call you are allotted one question and one follow-up question.
Please hold for the first question.
First question will come from Bob Bracket with Sanford Bernstein.
LLC</strong> Hi good afternoon.
Question on this international asset separation and it has two parts.
In terms of Egypt does the JV partner have any preemption rights or any ability to restrict what you might do there? And the second is you talk about North America growth as opposed to U.S.
growth.
What’s the role of Canada in the portfolio and is it a target for the international asset separation? Well let’s start with the international certainly the way that we are looking at it we would just spend out or set up a company that was not was above any of the relationships Apache had at the joint venture level.
So that would not require votes of other parties.
With respect to Canada we have said for some time that Canada was a part of our North American onshore portfolio certainly we have two businesses up there.
I think we have a business which is a big business that we have with respect to Duvernay Shale the Montney Shale and some of the other things that we are working on there and then we also have Kitimat Horn River Leard.
Kitimat Horn River Leard is part of our LNG projects that we indicated and re-indicated today that we intend to exit.
LLC</strong> And then a follow-up on the East Texas Eagle Ford if you’re ramping the 10 rigs does that you’ve de-risked it and this is a commercial project that competes for capital.
We feel very comfortable we’d de-risk and it also is going to compete with capital and today what we are trying to do is refine it and it increase the rate of return and the EURs and lower the cost.
LLC</strong> Great thanks.
The next question will come from Michael Roe with PPH.
Yes good afternoon.
I just had a quick question on the central region.
So I know you all picked up some rigs in Q2 to try to catch up based on your slowdown in Q1.
So I was wondering when you’re decelerating in that region this year are there particular zones that we will see less capital relative to others? IV</strong> This is John.
Yes I mean we are planning to drop some rigs and slowdown and retool in the central region so we will dropping some capital back half of the year.
I apologize because you were very almost inaudible on this end but – right now we got two parts of the central region we got the Anadarko Basin which we are going to drop some rigs on and we also got the Canyon Lime down in Texas Panhandle we are going to be increasing but net-net we’ll be reducing our capital in the overall program for the central region.
Okay yes so my question didn’t come through clearly I was just curious if there is any specific zone in the Anadarko Basin that will see less capital unlike is it the Cleveland or the Granite Wash they will see less capital or will it just be kind of uniform across the board.
In general we still remained very bullish or excited about the basin we just need to slowdown and we’ve had good wells in all those zones.
We just need to kind slowdown take a deep breath and pause and regroup.
Okay great and then I guess just shifting really quick to the Permian Basin looks like the well results you all had in the Bone Spring look pretty strong in the Pecos Bend area.
I was wondering if you could help provide color on how much acreage you have in Reeves Loving and Ward Counties of the Delaware Basin? Just trying to get a sense of your running room there.
IV</strong>  When you look at our Delaware basin acreage we’ve got over 500 000 gross for that 215 000 net.
So we’ve got good running room in all three of those counties.
But I don’t have a break down specifically just to those three.
But that is how you kind of look at the whole Delaware basin.
Okay thanks for the color.
The next question will come from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
David your line is open.
Can you hear me your line is open.
You can go ahead and move to the next question please.
The next question will come from Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Co.
Hi good afternoon guys.
Good afternoon.
Regarding potential international divestitures how do you balance the need to simplify the company and placate some shareholders in the near term versus the challenges of receiving fair value for those international assets and what is best for the company in the long-term.
Well I think number one if you look at what we’ve done over the last five years and what we’ve said today they are consistent we – in the past we haven’t said what we’re going to today we thought like we – with all the discussion out there we felt like we had to discuss some of this.
With respect to what we have sold in the past and the way I feel about the future is I think we’ve have gotten very fair prices from what we have sold and frankly they are like Heidelberg and Lucius we started selling that over a year and what we ended up selling it for because we weren’t going to sell it at prices that don’t make sense.
And that’s the way I feel about our international assets.
But I do think there is a potential for a capital market solution for a number of these assets and we’re working on that have been working on that for some time.
Thank you Steve and then my follow up relates to Kitimat.
Does the sale of Kitimat impact the value of the Leard and Horn River assets.
Or do you – if you’re going to sell down your interest in Kitimat do you in turn sell down the Leard and Horn River so that goes with that package and does it stay with the Canadian assets that might be at a part of your onshore North America go forward company? Yeah I have to honestly say I don’t think the complete exit by Apache has a impact on the value of Kitimat going forward one way or the other.
I said frankly whether we’re in it or not is a world class project with world class reserves and frankly Chevron and Apache at this point are a way head of anybody else in that arena.
So and we’ve always been in a position frankly that we felt like we could not be in these LNG projects.
And I just think it’s important that we stayed back.
Thank you Steve.
The next question will come from Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Thank you.
In terms of Apache post these transactions what’s your hope in terms of say a growth rate what do you think is an appropriate growth rate for a North America onshore focused Apache? What kind of growth rate would you think is competitive? How would you see spending would you think you would be free cash flow positive or free cash flow neutral or would you accelerate and actually be deficit spending? And then also what kind of returns would you be looking forward in the post-transaction Apache? Well I think if you look at frankly if you look at what our growth rate is today and you compare it with most of the companies of size our long term forecast is 5% to 9%.
Regardless of whether we say that is our forecast that is competitive in the market I think our liquids growth are competitive in the market at 15% to 18%.
With respect do we live within our cash flow? I think we have been very open over the last several quarters about what our view of our capital structure is.
Our capital structure should be in a position that is competitive in the market and gives us flexibility in the financial arena so that’s all I’m going to comment about that.
I think we have the potential frankly with the asset base that we have and the expertise that we are building the capabilities for frankly.
Really have the potential to have significant growth over the next several years.
Got you.
And then a follow-up so just a follow-up to that question and then another one.
So just in terms of returns do you think that the post-Apache or the post-transaction Apache will yield better returns than the existing Apache? And then off question is like what’s your thinking behind the sale of international and what kind of iterations have you thought about have you thought about spinning out the Permian for example or have you thought about spinning and selling everything except keeping Egypt and North Sea which currently generate free cash flow and also keeping the Permian but selling everything else.
So just trying to think about what iterations have you thought about and what does selling international really do for you?  Well we thought about a number of reiterations.
I don’t know that I could mark off each one of the ones you went through in terms of the consideration.
I see North American onshore sales as a different business than what we are doing internationally.
They take different expertise they take different time frames they take different really scientific skill sets.
And I think that it is important for us to recognize that and recognize if we’re going to be the best we can be we need to concentrate on the things that we have the most of and I think has the highest – the greatest growth future.
Got you.
And just on returns do you think you'll have higher returns post transaction or is there…   Yes I do.
I think overall when you say returns I’m talking about future returns on invested dollars.
As we look at our discretionary spend going forward where we can spend dollars for the highest rates of return.
I think what we’re doing now certainly in the Permian what we’re doing in Eagle Ford compete with anything else we’re doing investing across the Company.
Certainly Egypt is a great rate of return but we also got to recognize that it’s a situation that fits into international portfolio also.
Got you.
Very helpful.
Steve thank you.
The next question will come from John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Yes hi.
Two quick ones for me Steve.
What was the condensate yield out of the Duvernay well you mentioned? John I’m sorry.
I didn’t… IV</strong>  Yes John.
Hang on just a second here.
On our Duverney well the 734-barrels of oil a day 200 barrels are condensate and about $4.4 million.
Those are actually 30-day average.
Great.
Thank you.
With respect to the international spin Steve what about tax efficiency? Is it easier to do a spin versus an outright sale? How could you shield your basis for a lot of the sales proceeds? John.
Hi it’s Alfonso.
We have been working on this for quite sometime now.
Based on our work to-date we believe that we can effect the separation of our international business in a tax efficient manner.
We still have obviously significant work ahead of us as we move this forward.
So based on everything that we have seen thus far we believe we can get this done efficiently? Okay great.
Thank you very much.
The next question will come from Doug Leggate with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Thanks everybody for getting me on.
Steve Egypt when you sold it last year I think one of the arguments for keeping the two thirds that you retained was about you may get a better option to see a recovery in the political environment there and obviously you took a fairly hefty discount on it.
I’m just curious therefore is a separation via a spin preferred to trying to take cash out of Egypt because obviously you'd end up suffering the same fate I imagine? And if so would you be thinking an international listing for the international business or would you be thinking about two U.S.
listed companies I know it’s a bit conceptual but just trying to get understanding how you’re thinking about it I’ve got a follow-up please?  Well certainly if we do it in the capitals market we spin it certain of our shareholders will still own it.
I mean and they have the benefit of it.
And maybe Alfonso I didn’t understand the complete question frankly.
Hey Doug.
Look we are looking at all alternatives and that’s why we’ve outlined that we are evaluating a number of different alternatives.
We need to get to the best possible outcome the one that maximizes value for our shareholders.
So we are progressing different alternatives.
Now when you look at the profile the profitability the competitive position of our international businesses they are each of them the leader in their respective competitive space.
So obviously they have a very attractive profile for a portfolio capital markets positioning.
So that’s certainly a very compelling opportunity.
So my follow-up maybe it’s just for you Alfonso but the value of your onshore resources obviously going to be depended on the pace of drilling and Wheatstone for sure and certainly North Sea in each of – would have generated on both – currently generated substantial free cash flow.
So how do we think about giving that up in terms of the ability to accelerate the onshore using that international free cash flow as you did separate businesses and I’ll leave it at that.
Thank you.
Let me just start with respect to – you’re not really taking it away let’s assume that we – if we were to divest of it obviously we’d also – we’d just bring in the value forward.
If we do spin it we also have debt associated with those assets that are spun out so in either way you’re not giving up that assets you’re just separating them.
So Steve would we expect then to – Apache has always kind of talked about living within cash flow so in that situation are you seeing you reduce your balance sheet to accelerate the growing in the lower 48?  Well I think what I’ve said and I'll say it again and because I said it earlier.
We look at our financial position based on what we think is a competitive in the market and also in such – in a position that we can continue to grow.
We're in a different space than we were in when we were acquiring and exploiting.
We're in a different space in terms of what our go-forward opportunities are.
So how we look at our balance sheet is going to change a little bit.
Got it understood.
Thanks very much fellows.
The next question will come from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Sachs &amp; Co.</strong> Thank you.
Good afternoon.
A question on the Permian.
Relative to your Analyst Meeting in late February what is evolving in your Permian strategy or assumptions and how are you looking at potential and drilling opportunities in your central Midland Basin position in Midland Martin and Howard Counties?  IV</strong>  Well I mean what we laid out we’re pretty much in line.
We’ve run six to seven rigs at Barnhard.
We’ve been taking those learnings and applying them.
We’ve now got 18 rigs running horizontally in the Midland Basin.
So we’re starting to announce some results in our Scottish rights and our pile area and so forth.
So we’re taking those learnings that we’ve had in Barnhard.
In general though we’re still working.
I mean when you look at what we’re doing right now on the completion side we’re looking at more clusters more stages more sand loading per linear foot all of those things and I think it’s helping wells holdup longer and so forth.
So we continue to take those learnings that we’ve had and progress them into other areas as well as into the Eagle Ford and those things.
Great thanks.
And then what is the timing for a greater decision on the separation of the international assets? Is there a specific time you expect to have that and does that decision need to be made prior to selling Wheatstone Kitimat or other international assets individually? Brian we haven’t set a specific timeline.
We are working on a number of different opportunities and have been working on them for quite some time at the moment.
Each of them has a different timeline associated with it and we will make decisions as we get to decision points.
Specifically on the separation workflow I’m sure you’re very familiar with those are multi core processes.
So that is not something that is executed on an imminent basis.
The work has been underway but there is still significant work ahead of us.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Michael Hall with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Thank you.
A number of mine have been asked on the portfolio repositioning so I’ll leave that be but on the Permian just a couple questions.
The oil growth in the quarter kind of slowed a bit on a quarter on quarter basis.
Anything in particular driving that and is this kind of a timing issue or how should we think about that going forward? IV</strong> It’s clearly timing issue.
We pulled a few pads forward into the first quarter.
That’s why you had bigger first quarter numbers relative to second quarter.
So it’s an issue on the timing and so forth.
But we remain optimistic and encouraged with our asset base.
Okay.
And I guess in that context are there any surface constraints that you’re working through at present that might help restructure? IV</strong> We don’t have anything backed up right now.
I mean that’s the nice thing about our portfolio is we plan our schedule we plan our completion timing we stay ahead on the facilities.
So that’s the big advantage we’ve got which has really let us have such a track record 17 out of 18 quarters up.
So we remained executing the plan we’ve got out there.
Great and then just as a reminder can you remind me what your protection on differentials looks like out of the Permian Basin and in the context the royalty revenues coming from the mineral ownership you have in the basin? IV</strong> In terms of our volumes we do have the ability to take Gulf Coast pricing or WTI or NYMEX.
We’ve got protection on the differentials.
We have not disclosed anything on our mineral royalties out there.
We do have a nice position but a lot of that is future acreage to be developed and it’s not something that’s contributing a great percentage right now.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Good afternoon everybody.
I want to go back to the issue of the international assets.
It seems to me that a lot of the conversation questions contain the assumption that all of the assets or the whole set of international operations will all go out in one transaction.
I wanted to test that assumption a bit because it seems to me that some of the assets would have a better reception in the capital markets and then others maybe belong with you or belong in some other international company’s portfolio.
So can you may be shed a little light on whether there’s going to be multiple transactions or just one?  That’s a very good question.
Honestly we truthfully have been working on a number of opportunities.
One is a complete capital market solution.
But we also have other solutions that you point out that could take place and could take place quicker than a complete capital market’s exit.
So yes it could be some combination of each one of those.
Great thank you Tom.
And then going back to the Permian I know you guys have fielded a lot of questions on your royalty position in the last month or so.
And I wonder if you could give anymore breakdown of maybe by Midland Basin central Basin platform Delaware Basin or by county on where those royalty acres lie.
IV</strong>  They’re scattered.
We’ve got a big position in the very very southern portion of the Delaware is where a big chunk of it sits which is really below where the activity has been but we think it could ultimately move there.
But that’s where a lion’s share of it sits.
We’ve also got some gains but nothing that we’ve lined out is in an area right now that we’re going crazy with on the development side.
Got it.
That’s helpful detail.
Thank you John.
The next question will come from Arun Jayaram with Credit Suisse.
Good afternoon.
Alfonso Steve understanding you’re still evaluating the potential separation of international.
It seems like the comments today suggest that you believe strategically a complete separation of the two makes the most sense.
So is that a fair characterization strategically?  I think it’s a fair characterization that they are – we recognize and we have recognized that there really are two different businesses and I think how we accomplish that recognition in the end will probably end up a majority of those assets being in another vehicle if you understand what I’m saying.
What that vehicle is if it’s a capital structure solution or for an outright sale.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
Thanks for clarifying that.
Second question just goes along with the Anadarko Basin.
Steve this has been an area that I know you focused on post the Cordillera transaction.
Can you just give us a little bit more detail on why the growth rate is coming in a little bit lower than you had thought initially? I think I’ll let John comment on the details.
I think our biggest issue is I think I’ve pointed out in my prepared remarks we are 26% behind in terms of getting wells on compared with our plan.
Regardless of the results of those wells 26% is and honestly the majority of those had some kind of mechanical issue either sidetrack or casing or completion problems.
We just took our eye off the ball frankly and we got to get our eye back on the ball.
IV</strong> And Arun just a little color there.
We’re 43 wells short of what we plan to have on through the first half of the year which is huge when you had a program of 163 for the plan.
And then when you look at a lot of what’s lead to that we’ve had over 27 wells that sidetrack in.
So when you look at that I mean that’s big big portion of where we are.
I will say we’ve had good results in all of the play.
So we aren’t saying none of them are working.
We’ve just got to kind of get refocused and get back to doing it how we approach how we used to do it.
Okay.
IV</strong> And with new technology too.
Okay.
And then just my final quick question you guys reiterated your volume guidance despite the timing in Australia at Coniston plus perhaps a slower growth rate from the central.
Where is this going to be made up Permian and East Texas? IV</strong> Your Permian your East Texas Eagle Ford as well as Bivens play Canada remains ahead of schedule as well.
Okay.
Thank you for that detail.
The next question will come from Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers.
Good afternoon.
I think I’ve got some John questions here.
Can you give some color on the current DNC costs and the K-bob Duvernay and what you think these costs can look like over the next 18 months? IV</strong> Well right now we’ve got two wells down and they were not done off of pads and so not really in a position to steer off of where we’ve been.
As we work on the program this fall we plan to spud six more Duvernay wells and I think we’ll see cost come down significantly.
But our first couple wells were science wells.
And so they’re not representative of where we’ll be in the future with our program up there.
The next question was the Hector County Kline well was a very strong result.
Can you contrast the extra Kline from the Kline wells you’ve been drilling in the East and Glasscock? Are there any noteworthy differences in geology or mix or cost? IV</strong>  Well just like the Midland Basin you get a little bit deeper in the basin.
So you get a little bit pressure or little different oil makeup.
So that area we’re very excited about.
But geology is a little different and obviously the fluid property as well.
Okay.
If I can sneak one last one in.
You said in the first quarter 2014 when you were talking about the East Texas Eagle Ford you were targeting getting some wells up to 10 000 feet laterals.
I was just wondering have you drilled any of that long yet? And can you disclose what the lateral lengths were of the two Reveille wells you highlighted in the second quarter supplement? IV</strong> Those Reveille wells have been in the 6 000 to 7 000 foot range and we have not drilled one up to 10 000.
I think we had one about 8 000 was one earlier.
So we do think we’ll be able to continue to drill longer laterals.
A lot of that’s just driven by how we led the units down in the land position.
Okay great.
Thanks very much.
The next question will come from Leo Mariani with RBC.
Just a question on the Kitimat disposal here.
Can you talk a little bit more about the motivation for this? Is this based on the fact that it’s going to be a significant CapEx burden for a number of years for the company and you wouldn’t see any cash flow out many years? Is that one of the motivating factors behind the disposition? And given how that’s a very early stage project would you expect to get a material amount of cash for that on the short-term? IV</strong>  Well in terms of the decision process obviously if you look at where we are going on our base business and you think about the priority of capital and the time frame associated with LNG projects and specifically Kitimat frankly it makes sense for someone else to own it that has a different time horizon than we do.
And in terms of the order of magnitude of the capital cash we’ll have to see.
Okay.
That’s all I had.
Thanks.
The next question will come from Richard Tullis with Capital One.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Just a couple quick questions.
Steve what were the average well costs in the second quarter for your Permian Wolfcamp and Bone Spring wells? Our Wolfcamp wells have been running around $7 million roughly which is kind of an average.
One thing we’ve seen is we’ve gone with little harsh sand loadings some have creeped up $7 million is probably a pretty good number and our Bone Spring wells have come down a little bit and they’re probably in that same range.
Okay.
Given this what could be even in more focused onshore North America assets than say at the time of the Analyst Meeting how does the Gulf of Mexico shelf fit into that portfolio? Would you still plan to be active there in 2015/2016? This is Tom.
Gulf shelf remains an area of focus for us but we are in an inventory building mode now.
There’s no capital committed for 2014.
We would anticipate some expenditures in 2015 provided of course that that opportunity is competitive with other things in the portfolio.
I will say that inventory building is well underway.
We have pretty impressive list of prospects.
And I will also say though that there’s no pressure to execute on these right now.
The only decision making component here is whether or not these prospects are competitive with what we’re doing in North America onshore.
And if they are they’ll get consideration for capital.
Okay.
And then just lastly how much has been spent to date on Kitimat on a net basis? I think IR will have to come back to you on that number.
Okay that’s fine.
I don't have that number yet.
All right.
Thank you.
I appreciate it.
The final question will come from Joe Magner with Macquarie Thanks for getting me on here.
Just want to go back to the portfolio of repositioning topic here for a bit.
I guess I'm still not clear on what actually is driving the moves now what's driven the recognition that the domestic business or the North American business is different and should be separate from the international and LNG businesses.
And it's only a few months ago that you all had laid out sort of the longer term view with all of the moves that it made last year and there was a lot of hope that perhaps that work was behind you.
And now we've got one two potentially a number of additional transactions to be on the look out for over the coming quarters.
What really I mean aside from the recent announcements about some increased interest from some potential shareholders some certain shareholders I guess that's what I'm trying to get a better handle on.
It seem like you were comfortable and had made comments in the past but the moves that have been made were the moves that you had in sort of in mind and thought that was going to be enough.
And now we've got another change here so could spend a little more time on that? Certainly.
Let me start off with talking about from late 2009.
And I thank most of our shareholders and (indiscernible) most have that chart because what I showed is that we made a strategic decision to get back into North America.
And if you look at what we did over that timeframe I think we brought $16 billion worth of properties and 85% of were with North America onshore.
And if you look at about what we were about after 2012 first part of 2013 I think at our year-end analyst call we said we were going to sell $1 billion worth of properties at that time.
In the second quarter we came out and announced we were going to sell $4 billion worth of properties and end up now of selling $10 billion worth of properties.
I think the overriding thing that we take from this is that number one; we started out being on the forefront of coming back to North America.
And I think what you’re seeing is what does it take to get North America onshore to center part of this company? And if you look at what we’ve been able to do it's getting us a long way there.
If you look at what we got in front of us in terms of these LNG projects and the long term nature of them the amount of capital it takes to invest in them.
I think that’s an easy decision.
I think the difference what we come to the conclusion of frankly in our North American versus international is they are two different businesses and if you look at the way that you go about doing them in workflows et cetera they are two different businesses.
So in our opinion it makes sense that we continue to reduce the size of our international assets because we made a decision long time ago we’re going to be North American onshore.
So that’s honestly that is and we’ve had some recent discussion about that among lots of folks and I think it’s important that we state our case and that is our case.
Okay we will stay tuned for additional updates thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
Great thank you so much.
We appreciate you all participating in our call today and as always feel free to reach out to IR with follow-up questions.
Thank you all and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Jennifer and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
And I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gary Clark Vice President of Investor Relations.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you Jennifer.
Good afternoon everybody.
And thank you for joining us for Apache’s third quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
On today’s call we will have three speakers making prepared remarks prior to taking questions.
I will start by giving a brief summary of results and then we will hear from Steve Farris our Chairman CEO and President; followed by Anthony Lannie our Executive Vice President and CFO.
Also joining us for the question-and-answer session are John Christmann Executive Vice President and COO of North America; and Tom Voytovich Executive Vice President and COO of International.
Please note that we have streamlined our supplemental earnings disclosures this quarter.
We are replacing our financial supplement and our operation supplement with a single quarterly earnings supplement.
Most of the financial disclosures previously found in the financial supplement can now be found in the tables attached to our earnings release as well as the 10-Q.
Our new streamlined earnings supplement will continue to summarize our operational activities for the quarter and include well heights across various Apache operating regions.
The supplement also includes information on E&amp;P capital expenditures and the visual graphic to illustrate cash sources and uses that reconcile changes in net debt quarter-over-quarter.
Our earnings release accompanying the financial tables and non-GAAP reconciliations and our new quarterly supplement can all be found on our website at apachecorp.com/financialdata.
Today’s discussion will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
However a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discussed today.
A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental data on our website.
This morning we reported a third quarter 2014 loss of $1.3 billion or $3.50 per diluted share adjusted earnings which excludes certain items that impact the comparability of results totaled $528 million or $1.38 per diluted share.
Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital totaled $2.1 billion during the quarter.
Worldwide reported net production averaged 637 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day with liquids production constituting 60% of that total.
On a pro forma basis adjusting for recent assets sales and excluding the non-controlling interest and tax bills from Egypt our second quarter worldwide production was 562 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This represents a 2% increase from the second quarter and a 6% increase from the same period a year ago.
I will now call -- turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Gary and good afternoon everyone and thank everybody for joining us.
During the third quarter Apache continued to make progress on our transition to becoming a premier North American resource company delivering another quarter of strong production growth.
Our North American drilling program delivered on-shore liquids production growth of 5% sequentially and 15% year-over-year when adjusted for our asset divestitures.
We had strong performance in the Permian and it continues to drive North American results.
I want to go back if you recall during our February 2014 Investor Day we provided guidance for our Permian production growth from 12% to 15% for the year.
Through the nine months ending September 30 our production increased 25% nearly doubling our February guidance.
This increase growth is a result of mix shift to more horizontal drilling.
For example our horizontal well count is up 50% and our vertical count is down 40% through the first nine months of this year compared to same period last year.
The biggest drivers of growth in the Permian were our Wolfcamp horizontals in the Southern Midland Basin our Yeso program in the Northwest shelf and our horizontal Bone Springs wells in the Delaware Basin.
A particular note our Pecos Bend area in Reeves County completed four very strong Bone Springs wells during the quarter.
The average 30-day IP of these new wells was over a 1 000 barrels equivalent per day.
In our Eagle Ford play we’ve ramped up activity throughout the year and we are now running 10 rigs there.
Strong results coupled with our relentless focus on lowering well costs are allowing this play to compete very well for capital within Apache’s capital program.
During the quarter we spud 29 wells including wells on four separate pads and brought on our first two pads online in the Reveille area Williston County with an average 30-day IP of 609 barrels of oil equivalent a day.
The success of our Eagle Ford program to-date coupled with our expectations for lower well costs and higher rates of return have prompted us to allocate more capital to this play in 2014 than we originally budgeted.
Turning to the central region we have retooled the organization we have significantly reduced our rig count we have made numerous process improvements and reprioritized our focus following our challenging first half 2014.
We are scaling back our traditional Granite Wash and Tonkawa plays in the Anadarko Basin and we are focusing more on our drilling program in the Canyon Lime play in Oldham and Potter County in Texas Panhandle.
As of this morning we had 16 rigs running in the Anadarko Basin and four in the promising Canyon Lime.
In our Duverney and Montney plays in Canada we ran three rigs total and spud initial wells at the Duverney seventh well pad and drilled the first well at our Montney two well pad.
The Duverney and the Montney offer some of the best reservoir rock in North America and we are looking forward to these plays driving our strong production growth once we have optimized our well costs and our completions.
We are continuing to high-grade our North American asset base through the addition of leasehold in key growth areas and the sale of non-core acreage.
During the quarter we invested $520 million primarily in leasehold in the sweet spots of our key growth areas.
This opportunistic investment was the big driver of the capital cost increase you see in our financial table.
We plan to fund our increased investment primarily through the sale of non-core North American assets which we currently have in the market.
We’re looking forward to sharing these details in our acreage purchases as well as providing an update on perspective asset sales on November 20th.
Looking ahead we’re confident that our 2014 North American liquids production growth will come in at the higher end of our 15% to 18% guidance range which led predominantly by better-than-expected production out of our Permian region.
To sum it up we are encouraged by the progress we're making in North America both in our ability to drive cost out of the system as well as improve our well performance.
And we are looking forward to providing a lot more detail in the next few weeks when we visit New York City.
Turning to our international operations all three of our regions North Sea Egypt and Australia delivered profitable production growth and remain on track to generate significant free cash flow per year.
As a result third quarter worldwide volumes came in slightly above the second quarter at 637 000 barrel equivalent per day which is right in line with our internal expectations.
In the North Sea we completed our annual third quarter maintenance turnaround with no material delays.
Production losses from scheduled downtime was partially offset by strong drilling results at Forties in our first well from The Forties Alpha Satellite Platform.
In Egypt we executed on a very active exploration and development program.
During the quarter we drilled eight new well discoveries in a call to concession.
One of the most notable of which was Meghar-08 which IPed at nearly 3200 barrels oil equivalent a day.
And yesterday we tested our [Matruh] (ph) number one exploration well on Western Shushan Basin for over 7000 barrels of oil per day.
Operations and production in Egypt continued with no material disruptions during the quarter.
And finally in Australia we made headway on several projects.
Our Balnaves’ FPSO came online at the end of August and is currently producing at 18 000 barrels of oil per day net to our interest.
We continue to progress our Coniston oil development and remain on track for first oil during the first half of 2015.
In closing I want to reemphasize the strategic direction we laid out on our second quarter earnings call.
We remain committed to exiting our two LNG projects Wheatstone and Kitimat.
And we are continuing to evaluate the separation of our international assets through either strategic transactions or the capital markets.
And with that I’d like to turn it over to Anthony Lannie.
Thanks Steve.
As mentioned earlier we believe our North American onshore resource base is capable of driving strong growth and returns over the foreseeable future.
And we continue to take important steps in that direction and allocate resources accordingly.
In tandem with our strategic shift towards our North American onshore assets we took the following two steps during the quarter.
We determined that the undistributed earnings in our Australia Egypt and North Sea regions should no longer be considered permanently reinvested in our foreign operations.
This change in policy results in a non-cash charge to U.S.
deferred income tax expense of $814 million on those regions for undistributed earnings.
In addition we repatriated $1.9 billion of cash from our Egypt region during the third quarter for which we recognized an associated non-cash U.S.
tax expense of $249 million.
Bringing this cash back to the U.S.
will provide us additional balance sheet flexibility and liquidity as we delineate several promising onshore plays and expand our acreage holdings while at the same time repurchasing Apache’s stock.
Turning to the income statement.
As Gary noted at the outset we reported a quarterly loss of $1.3 billion or $3.50 per share which was driven by two significant items.
The first is the $1.1 billion of income tax related charges that I just mentioned in which reflect the change in our permanent reinvestment policy and repatriation of foreign earnings to the U.S.
The second item is an approximate $1 billion after-tax non-cash ceiling test write down primarily related to lower oil and NGL price realizations and the impact of unamortized deepwater costs that remained in our full cost pool following the sale of our Lucius and Heidelberg projects at the end of the second quarter.
When excluding these items along with other more typical non-cash items such as mark-to-market derivatives and foreign currency exchanges our adjusted earnings were $528 million or $1.38 per share down from $644 million or $1.67 per share in the second quarter.
Operating cash flow remains strong driven by performance of our North American onshore base.
We generated $2.1 billion of cash flow from operations before working capital items which was down slightly from $2.2 billion in each of the first two quarters of 2014.
Despite strong production numbers our bottom line results were impacted by lower commodity prices.
In North America our oil price realizations averaged $94.69 per barrel in the third quarter down 9% compared to the second quarter.
Gas price realizations averaged $3.88 per Mcf down 7% from the second quarter but still 9% higher than the comparable 2013 period.
We ended the third quarter with just over $1 billion of restricted and unrestricted cash on our balance sheet bringing our total -- our net debt to $9.9 billion.
Year-to-date we have invested $7.5 billion in our drilling programs of which approximately $626 million is related to opportunistic acreage and leasehold acquisitions onshore North America.
Our strong free cash flow from foreign operations and low debt-to-cap ratio of 25% provides Apache the liquidity to support both our North American growth and share repurchase program.
On the expense side LOE per Boe was up 5% quarter-over-quarter to $11.13.
This is in line with the expectations we set on the first quarter call.
The increase is driven by general increases in labor and power costs and our divestment of lower-cost dry gas properties.
Turning to income taxes our third quarter effective tax rate reflects the impact of the aforementioned change in our foreign earnings reinvestment policy along with the full cost ceiling test write downs as well as other non-recurring items.
Absent these items our adjusted effective tax rate would have been 43.5% which is in line with previous guidance.
Our adjusted earnings and adjusted effective tax rate recalculations can be found in our supplemental financial information attached to this morning's press release.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
We are now ready for questions.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
I guess it’s good afternoon.
Lot of moving pieces but can you talk about where Canada fits in big picture going forward? What I think you’ve seen from 2014 -- I mean 2013 and 2014 we’ve really high-graded our portfolio up there.
We basically have two real major plays up there which is the Duvernay and the Montney.
Right now that is going to be our growth drivers for going forward.
Okay.
I don’t what you say ahead of the North American update? But if I think about the Permian production -- can you just talk about how you see production? It look like it’s slowed a little bit in the quarter but I mean that could just be noise and timing or completion et cetera.
But can you talk about that growth trajectory over the next 12 to 18 months? I mean the first key is we are having a great year.
When you look at the well count over the first three quarters of last year our horizantals were up 50% as we kind of shifted our program.
We are currently running 41 rigs.
You’ve seen us dropping the verticals as well.
So actually we are working quite a bit ahead where you had guided to 12 to 15% and we are looking at year-end numbers.
We are going to put you twice the lower end.
So we feel really strong about that.
I think going into next year we'll get into that on the November 20th but a lot of that will depend on the commodity price forecast and how much cash we want to invest there.
The big deal is I think we feel good about the projects and we have a lot of flexibility with the rig count.
So we are in a good spot going into next year.
And your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everybody.
Steve the step-up in the East Eagle Ford obviously that’s a newer play for you.
I guess we are going to hear more about that at the end of the month.
But I’m just kind of curios if you could help right for us in this oil price environment how that play would stack up against your Wolfcamp assets and in particular how would you allocate capital or prioritize your allocation of capital towards the central areas and more gassy areas in the portfolio and I have a follow-up please? Yeah.
Thank you.
Honestly we are tremendously pleased and excited about the future of the Eagle Ford and I don’t want to steal our guys thunder for November 20th.
But we’ve seen our latest wells continue to get better and we are driving quite a bit of cost out of the system.
Our view is that’s going to be a major play for us going forward especially in 2015 2016 and beyond.
And some of that acreage that we talk about and we will show you this more on November 20th.
We’ve increased -- basically that acreage is made up of two parts.
One is we’ve increased the acreage in our interest and our existing acreage by buying some of our partners out and the other one is aggregating acreage right around what we think the sweet spot is.
So John you might want to comment? I mean I think directionally when you look at where we are we dropped our rig count in the Anadarko.
Steve mentioned we are down to 20 rigs now.
So you see that drop in conjunction with the Eagle Ford ramp-up and that will continue going into next year.
So that directionally tells you where they are and we’re looking at the portfolio things that migrate to the top quick they are going to be the Eagle Ford the Canyon Lime and the Permian and lots of plays there.
So it’s going to compete very very well.
I appreciate.
My follow-up is really more about -- I guess you don't talk too much about the restructuring but the issue around -- the subtlety of the issue around the international cash or free cash flow which I guess is previously accelerating the drilling program to some extent in the Lower 48.
With the separation of the international business and the lower oil price how does that impact your -- I guess your willingness to spend outside of cash flow to bring forward the volumes to some of these newer plays? So I guess I am really trying to understand is operating cost flow is that still a limiter for spending in the Lower 48 or the standalone company? Or should be expected to use the balance sheet and I will leave it there? Thank you.
Yeah.
I might make a general comment.
I think we -- over the last two months we’ve seen a $20 move in oil prices.
I think all of us have to look at that.
We certainly are looking at it in terms of making sure we’re prudent and what our capital program is going forward.
I will tell you from an investment opportunity standpoint we are better off right now and we have been in Lower 48 over the last two or three years.
We have tremendous inventory right now good inventory.
I doubt if you see us until we understand where this price is going be really bullish on overspending our cash flow going forward.
Your next question comes from line of John Freeman with Raymond James.
Good afternoon.
The Canyon Lime is the one area in the central region that you all are increasing activity on and it seems like each quarter the commentary is more bullish.
I think now you are kind of ranking as one of your three best North American areas since that Bivens well that you had.
And I just want to make sure that I’ve got on the right numbers.
When you entered the year that was about 100 000 net acres that was prospective for either the Canyon Wash or the Canyon Lime is that still a good number to use? I mean you’ve obviously been busy buying acreage across North America.
We are going to show a lot more of that on November 20.
We have more acreage than -- we have more acreage today than we have in the past.
Okay.
I want still (indiscernible).
I will wait on that.
And then just my follow-up question.
On Egypt you mentioned that there was the sequential production decline was due primarily to some technical challenges as well as some partial shutdowns on a shale operated gas plant.
Can you just kind of give maybe an update on that status? I will let Tom Voytovich who really got the details on that to answer that question.
Well to directly answer the technical challenges there is a gas plant the old biogas plant which has been rife with problems with the Benfield system and they have shale operated gas plant.
It’s the only outside operated plant that we participate in.
And as a result of that out takes have gone down materially 30 million to 50 million cubic feet a day and that really accelerated here in the latter part of the third quarter.
We think that this is going to continue through the rest of the year but we will be making up for it in other ways.
Now the only caveat I would give that is is in the Egypt 88% of our revenues come from our oil.
Gases is percentage wise a bigger chunk of our production on a Boe basis but 88% of our revenues come from the oil side.
And your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
Following up on the earlier question on free cash flow.
In a lower oil price environment if you are committed for Apache to stay within cash flow is there any change to how you're thinking about the strategic nature of some of your free cash generative businesses like the North Sea and Egypt? Is there a case that perhaps you keep that as part of Apache for longer and use that free cash flow? If not do you see yourself potentially having to cut back on activities in areas that you may rank in your top 3 plays like the Eagle Ford Canyon Lime or Permian? Brian I think the statement that we made in our second quarter earnings call and I reiterated today we are committed to exiting the LNG facilities and truthfully we are -- we’ve got lots of people working on those projects to do just that.
In terms of evaluating our international assets for possible transactions or spends that’s an ongoing process and we continue to look at it everyday.
Certainly I think our -- truthfully I think our North American business today and I probably wouldn’t have said this a year ago or year and half ago is very capable of standing on its own.
I mean I think we’ve got the inventory and I think what you’re going to see in November 20 is we now have the capabilities and the leadership in the regions to be able to do that.
And your next question comes from the line of Joe Allman with JPMorgan.
Thank you Operator.
Hi everybody.
Steve could you just clarify your strategic direction? So we understand that you plan on exiting the LNG business.
But do you plan to exit the international business? And has there been any even nuisance change just based on data or thinking more deeply about things about whether to exit the international business? No I don’t think so.
I think our plan our strategic vision is to separate our North American form our international business.
I mean no -- nobody else I mean when I say think it’s just -- we have the same thinking today that we have in the past.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then onshore North America activity on a net basis are you in the process of ramping up the North America drilling activity and spending or are you keeping things flat or you actually on the net basis reducing activity and spending over the next several months? Well I think I guess I will reiterate the answer I gave a little early or the fact of the matter is we’ve had by anybody’s calculations we’ve got a real sea change in oil prices.
I think we’re all going to have a look at how we run businesses at $80 oil in North America and without blowing out your balance sheet.
So depending on what happens to oil prices we’re running a number of different cases but we’re going to -- our capital program is going to be somewhere around what our cash flow is going into 2015.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rowe from TPH.
Yes.
I have a quick question on the Anadarko.
So I guess you’re down to 20 rigs now versus 30 or so that we’re averaging Q3 and you specifically highlighted the Granite Wash and Tonkawa two intervals that you are hitting activity.
I was wondering is that purely driven by tribal economics given where commodities prices are.
Or was there I guess something else unique going on there operationally that cause those two specific targets to see less drilling? As we mentioned or Steve mentioned in the script I mean we retooled and even on the last call we’ve changed out our entire leadership in our central region.
So we’ve addressed the region VP as well as the Op.
So the good news is in all of our plays we still got good wells and good things there.
We have shifted the rig count a little bit.
We pared back as Steve said in the script and the talk on the Granite Wash.
We’ve got a few more running in the Cleveland and the Cottage Grove where we’re having some good results.
And we’re also shifting to the Canyon Lime.
But I think when you look at that portfolio and the mix you’ll see a shift towards the Eagle Ford and the Permian and the Canyon Lime as we look at next year.
Okay great.
And then just lastly on the $520 million spend for leasehold and property acquisitions in Q3.
Is this part of a broader effort to I guess increase M&amp;A activity relative to drilling given where commodity prices are now just curious to see if you are all thinking about easing capital for M&amp;A has been changed versus prior expectations? Gary do you want on the Rockies then I handle.
Yeah.
I mean we have really seen an opportunistic -- opportunity this year to add some exceptional acreage in our key growth areas and so we’ve taken advantage of that.
I wouldn’t say that it’s necessarily a sea change and how we view acreage acquisition and M&amp;A but the reality is we need to high-grade the portfolio.
And as we’ve matured our key plays and demonstrated a lot of confidence and what we can accomplish there we have seen a interesting opportunity to beep up in the sweet spots of those key plays.
And at the same we will divest and are divesting some of our areas where that are not going to attract capital and that are not on the growth track and they have lower rates of return.
So what you all seen is our spending in the third quarter what’s pending is the divestitures that will cover a lot of that spending.
Your next question comes from the line of John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Yeah.
Hi.
Three quick ones.
With respect to the asset packages can you give us a ballpark on associated volumes with them? Well we’re going to do that November 20th.
We have got a -- I will say we’ve got a package related to that we’re keen on.
We’ve got a package in South Louisiana our South Louisiana stuff its legacy we’ve had for sometime.
And we’ve also got some properties in central region that are gassy and we’re not spending money on.
So you’ll see what that looks like in -- on November 20th.
Okay.
Thanks Steve.
How much does your typical Eagle Ford well run on a complete well cost basis? John we’ll get into that on November 20th but they’re going to come in under $8 million Eagle Ford well cost.
We told you $8.3 in February and we’re doing better than that now and we’ve got our site set lower but we’ll share more on the 20th.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Yes.
Good afternoon everybody.
Steve if I could go back to maybe try to tie two questions together.
As we look at or as I look at your debt trajectory you had been on a trajectory down with debt not every quarter but generally over the last six quarters.
But you have had tick up this quarter.
And I’m wondering if perhaps that might be tied into a view that you are more likely to actually have an outright sale of some assets whether it would be Wheatstone or maybe some of your conventional all assets in Australia and that might be a source of funds to get that debt back down or alternatively if you're comfortable with debt in that $10 million to $11 million range going forward? Well I think the absolute debt is not as important as what we consider what our debt structure should be overall.
In terms of our debt going up a little bit this year I mean this quarter I think Gary has pointed out and I think I pointed out earlier.
We made some strategic buys of undeveloped acreage and what you’re seeing is you got a timing difference between we’re selling non-core assets which should come in the fourth quarter.
And the acreage acquisitions that we’ve seen in the third quarter so those two should balance out over the year.
Your next question is from the line of Michael Hall with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Thanks.
Well one of my have been addressed.
I guess just one on East Texas I’m just curious on those wells and maybe I might have to wait but I figure I’ll ask.
What the hydrocarbon splits look like on those wells on average and then maybe high and low case splits? I mean we’ll get into that in detail when we -- we’ll show some data on November 20th but they really -- I mean we mentioned the first couple pads have come on in the Reveille of average 690 Boes a day and that’s in a lower GOR area.
One thing across our acreage that GOR does move so it just depends on the area but we’ll go through that in detail on November 20th.
Okay.
Steve.
Thank you.
And your next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Good afternoon.
A little while go you called out the Montney and the Duvernay but I found it interesting that you have three rigs devoted to the Bluesky formations in the Kaybob.
And could you provide a little color here? Is it vertical or is it horizontal is it developmental or expiration? Why is Bluesky attracting this rig? Jeff they’re just economics they’re good wells they are all horizontals and the economics are fantastic on them.
So we can get the rigs in there and we’ve got three elements there.
They’re cheaper they are not as expensive and they help the program so.
But the economics are very compelling.
Okay.
Kind of staying on this sort of theme.
We’ve had earlier discussions of the pan shale as more of a standalone horizontal target.
But this quarter you showed us three highlight vertical wells that featured the 10 combination with the Strawn and the Wolfcamp.
Were these expirations wells preparing for later horizontal drilling or does this vertical drilling have legs of its own? No that’s another area.
I mean you’ve got to look across the counties and we’ve got some areas where we are drilling horizontally in the Pan and the Strawn and we will show little bit of that on November 20th.
In this particular area we highlighted some wells that are North of Odessa and the [Gustav Bay] (ph) area and some vertical wells that we can stack those and they are also very compelling.
We saw fantastic rates from those so.
It shows you the variety in the Permian and you’ve got lots of zones lots of area and different plays but they are very economic.
And your next question comes from the line of Richard Tullis of Capital One.
Hey thanks.
Good afternoon.
Steve I don’t think this area has been touched on.
How does the remaining Gulf of Mexico shelf assets fit into your strategy going forward in this lower oil price environment.
I know in the past you’ve mentioned that you expect it to perhaps begin drilling some of the deeper shelf targets in 2015? Yeah.
Right now we are building inventory.
I might point for those listening we have --we kept half of the deep rights when we sold our shelf.
And we have about 500 blocks of deep rights under our existing shelf acreage that we sold.
And truthfully that’s -- if we have a very good idea there we’ll fund it otherwise that we will continue to build inventory.
Okay.
And just as a follow up what sort of price is required to -- oil price to generate expectable rate of return in the shelf for the type of well as you anticipate drilling? Actually the shelf rates of return are very very strong.
And especially if you are drilling them the reason we kept the deep rights is we sold 700 platforms.
And so most of the deep rights are in and around the existing infrastructure.
So you time back quicker and you can get them on quicker.
And you don’t have the infrastructure cost that you do when you are under deepwater going out and doing expiration.
Your next question is from the line of John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Yeah.
Hi last one for me.
With the ceiling test how much of it was the unamortized deepwater cost and was that all a U.S.
pull or was there some Canada in there as well? It was about 50-50.
And it was all in the U.S.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Leo Mariani with RBC.
Hey with respect to your 2015 budget trying to get a sense of when we would get a look at that? And I guess would we get a sense of spending on November 20th in terms of your North American on throughput? Yeah.
We are going to roll out what our 2015 and then our forward plan is what our outlook is over the next several years.
And our capital budget for 2015 will be part of that.
All right that’s helpful.
And I guess just in terms of the international sales.
I guess it’s an ongoing process here.
Clearly I guess we are in position now where oil prices have come in.
Just trying to gauge your apatite in terms of spinning things off versus sales here? I think they are both viable.
I will tell you the one thing we’ve said and I think we’ve constantly done we are not going to sell something just to get rid of it.
And ultimately the separation will partly be I am sure a span of some of our assets.
And we have no further question in queue at this time.
That concludes the call.
Thank you all for joining us and we’ll talk to you on November 20th.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference call and you may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Kelly and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the 2014 Fourth Quarter and Year-End Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
Gary Clark Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin your conference.
Great.
Thank you Kelly.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us for Apache Corporations fourth quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Speakers making prepared remarks on today’s call will be Apache CEO and President John Christmann; and Interim CFO Anthony Lannie.
Also joining us in the room are Tom Voytovich Executive Vice President and COO of International and Steve Riney who will officially take over as Apache's new CFO later this month.
We are delighted to have Steve on Board and look forward to hearing from him on next quarter’s conference call.
In conjunction with this morning’s press release I hope you've had the opportunity to review our quarterly earnings supplement which summarizes our operational activities and well highlights across various Apache operating regions.
The supplement also includes information on our capital expenditures for the quarter as well as a chart that illustrates cash sources and uses and reconciles Apache's change in net debt during 2014.
Our earnings release the accompanying financial tables and non-GAAP reconciliations and our quarterly earnings supplement can all be found on our website at www.apachecorp.com.
I'd like to remind everybody that today's discussion will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
However a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discussed today.
A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental data on our website.
This morning we reported a fourth quarter 2014 loss of $4.8 billion or $12.78 per diluted share.
These results contain several non-cash charges primarily related to the impact of declining oil and gas prices acreage impairments the announced disposition of our LNG assets and changes in foreign tax estimates and assumptions.
Adjusted earnings which excludes certain items that impact the comparability of results totaled $404 million or $1.07 per diluted share.
Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital totaled $2.1 billion during the quarter.
Worldwide reported net production averaged 673 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day with liquids production constituting 62% of that total.
On a pro forma basis which excludes assets that have been divested non-controlling interests and tax barrels in Egypt our fourth quarter worldwide production was 609 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This represents an 8% increase from the third quarter and a 12% increase from the same period a year ago.
I would now like to turn the call over to John Christmann.
Thank you Gary.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
I would like to start by saying a few words about our long-time Chairman CEO and President Steve Farris.
Steve announced last month that he would be retiring from Apache following more than two decades of leadership.
During his tenure he helped grow the Company to one of the largest and most successful independents in the world.
I would like to personally thank Steve for his service and am honored to be his successor as the new CEO and President of Apache.
In 2010 Steve initiated a strategic repositioning to bring Apache's primary focus back to North America.
As we showed you at our November North American update 2014 was a milestone year for this transformation.
We streamlined and enhanced our North American portfolio and we added significant new unconventional capabilities.
We now have a deeper and more predictable inventory of economic locations in North America than at any time in Apache's history.
Our drilling production and inventory is oil prone and located in areas with multiple stack pay horizons which we believe creates a significant long-term competitive advantage.
We have the right teams processes and science in place to efficiently develop our existing Resource and to build future opportunities.
In response to the rapid drop in oil price we have purposely taken quick and decisive action to reduce our drilling activity well costs G&amp;A and lease operating expenses.
This will position us more favorably and make us a more efficient Operator in the future.
A top strategic priority for Apache during 2014 was to sell our Wheatstone and Kitimat LNG assets.
I am pleased to note that the sale of these assets which we announced in December is on track to close by the end of the first quarter.
Including capital cost reimbursement estimated proceeds from this transaction will be approximately $3.7 billion which we will use initially to pay down debt.
Our operations in Egypt and the North Sea provide a very nice complement to our North American production and cash flow.
Cash flow from Egypt and the North Sea has less than 50% of the downside sensitivity to oil prices as our North American operations.
Importantly both regions are still expected to generate free cash flow in 2015 at current strip pricing.
Apache’s Egypt and North Sea operations offer steady high rate of return projects and the portfolio diversification benefits of these regions becomes evident during oil price downturns like the one we are currently experiencing.
While we always leave open the option to adjust any part of our portfolio in response to changing conditions we are not currently proceeding with a sale or spinoff of Egypt or the North Sea.
With regard to Australia we are taking a close look at the potential monetization of our remaining non-LNG assets.
The value of these assets is generally underpinned by long-term fixed price natural gas contracts which we believe increases the universe of buyers and the potential valuation even in this depressed oil price environment.
In summary our portfolio is well positioned to weather the low oil price storm and I'm excited to have the opportunity set that lies before us today.
Before we go to the fourth quarter results and outlook for 2015 I'll make a few comments about oil prices and the actions we have taken thus far in this fast moving price environment.
We cannot predict nor control the length or depth of this oil price correction or the timing and extent of the rebound.
We have therefore acted quickly and decisively regarding the things we can control.
Our activity levels and cost structure.
During the third quarter of 2014 we operated 91 rigs onshore in North America.
By the end of this month we will have reduced our rig count to 27.
On the pressure pumping side our frac crews are down more than 50% over the same time frame.
In some instances we are choosing to lay down rigs that were under longer-term contract at day rates reflective of $100 oil price environment.
As a result we expect to pay some modest early termination penalties totaling approximately $50 million.
We are also delaying the completion of some wells in backlog until pressure pumping costs reset to levels that better reflect the current commodity price environment.
Corporate cash flow is the main constraint on our 2015 drilling plans.
We would consider using our balance sheet only to capitalize on lower acreage costs and other potential opportunities that may occur rather than to drill wells and chase production in a depressed and volatile oil price environment.
Importantly once we achieve the full benefit of lower well costs our returns will be competitive at $50 per barrel of oil to those represented in our November North American update at $80 per barrel.
The key difference is that we will simply have less cash flow to work with and will accordingly drill fewer wells.
Additionally we are diligently working through a dynamic scenario planning process that will allow us to quickly adapt our business and activity levels under a variety of potential commodity price case scenarios.
During the robust and relatively stable oil price environment over the last four years Apache was one of the most active drillers in North America.
We grew our Permian Basin production by more total barrels at a faster rate than any of our peers.
I’m highly confident that when oil prices begin to recover and stabilize at higher levels we will efficiently ramp up our drilling programs in the Permian Eagle Ford and Canyon Lime to deliver top-tier production and cash flow growth.
The recent oil price decline has been dramatic and almost unprecedented but we believe that it will create a once in a decade opportunity for those of us that have moved aggressively.
For Apache the oil price drop and subsequent industry slowdown has several positive aspects that we believe enhanced our ability to generate strong long-term shareholder returns.
The slowdown provides an opportunity for us to be come a more efficient company through focused initiatives such as realigning our North American incentive program to reward continuous improvement and cost discipline creating medium and longer term field development plans and high grading and improving our drilling inventory rationalizing and consolidating our acreage position leveraging our surface operations infrastructure and scale adding key acreage while there is less competition and at lower prices and reducing our North American base production decline.
Regardless of how long oil prices remain depressed we plan to emerge in this downturn as a top-tier resource company in terms of drilling inventory operational efficiency cost structure and balance sheet strength.
Now let's talk about Apache’s full-year 2014 results.
Worldwide production on a pro forma basis grew 6.5% in 2014 which was right in the middle of our 5% to 8% guidance range.
Absent some timing delays on the startup of our two large offshore Australian oil projects worldwide production would have been at the high end of our guidance range for 2014.
Onshore North American liquids production grew 18.6%which exceeded the high end of our 15% to 18% guidance range provided back in February of 2014.
This strong performance was possible because our high quality extensive drilling inventory in the Permian region enabled us to accelerate activity levels and production while at the same time we were seeing slower than expected growth and were recalibrating our capital program in the central region.
As a result North American liquids growth was driven by the Permian where production increased 25% from the prior year or approximately double the midpoint of the guidance we provided back in February.
In the central region growth was essentially flat for the year but despite a difficult first half played by weather and operational problems we were able to reduce our drilling programs significantly in the second half of the year while maintaining steady to slightly increasing production.
The North Sea and Egypt were ahead of plan while Australia was a little behind plan due to timing delays Balnaves and Coniston oil projects.
It was a good year for us internationally and we generated very strong free cash flow ex LNG spending.
Turning to our 2015 capital budget and production outlook based on the midpoint of our capital guidance range we anticipate spending a total of $3.8 billion in 2015 which excludes potential lease hold purchases or acquisitions.
Compared to 2014 this represents a 60% decrease in our capital spending.
We expect our pro forma onshore North American production to be roughly flat and our pro forma international and offshore production to be slightly up in 2015.
Our Companywide 2015 pro forma production should be relatively unchanged from 2014.
We believe this is a pretty good outcome given the extent we are reducing the capital program.
Turning to the fourth quarter regional review and our planned activity levels for 2015.
I was very pleased our drilling results across the entire company.
We had success in every region during the fourth quarter.
Onshore North America delivered liquids production growth of 5% sequentially and 20% year-over-year when adjusted for asset divestitures.
The Permian was once again our biggest growth driver and we exited the year with record production.
We ran 42 rigs during the fourth quarter and we expect to have this down approximately 15 by the end of the month.
In 2015 we plan to average 10 to 12 rigs in the Permian approximately five of which will be in the Midland Basin four in the Delaware Basin and two rigs will be drilling high rate of return vertical and horizontal wells on the Central Basin platform in Northwest Shelf.
In the Central Region net production grew 3% sequentially during the quarter as we completed 72 gross wells in various legacy Anadarko Basin formations.
You can see the results from some of these wells in our quarterly supplement where we highlight a few key contributors from the Granite Wash Cottage Grove and Cleveland and Lower Marmaton.
As a result of taking a more measured approach in these legacy plays we are seeing better-than-average well performance better returns and much better capital efficiency.
During most of 2015 we plan to keep one rig running in the Anadarko Basin.
In the Canyon Lime no new wells were brought online during the fourth quarter; however we just started to flow back our first four well pad in the Canyon Lime and will have some flow rates to report there in the near future.
In the Eagle Ford our rig count peaked at 12 in December and by end of this month will be down to four.
By mid-year we plan to have one to two rigs working in the Eagle Ford and are prepared to ramp back up quickly if oil prices allow.
The Eagle Ford is an excellent example of our cost initiatives driving positive returns in this depressed price environment.
Our initial wells in Area B of the play were running in excess of $8 million.
If you'll recall back in our November North American update we projected 2015 well costs would average around $7 million.
With lower service costs and further design improvements we think we'll have these wells down closer to $6 million within a few months which depending on their oil cut they can deliver solid economics and strip prices.
In Area A where we should generally have better economics we have a backlog of 20 or so wells that we will be bringing on over the course of the year.
Apache is progressing its understanding of the Eagle Ford petroleum system and will update you later this year as we gather more data.
We plan to continue consolidating acreage around our core position.
To sum it up we're drilling better wells at lower cost and continue to expand our understanding of this compelling play.
In Canada we are finishing up a three-rig drilling program in the Duverney and Montney plays this spring and will release the rigs for the remainder of the year.
We plan to complete a seven-well pad in the Duverney in the third quarter and in the Montney we continue to develop a long term solution to process future Montney gas production.
We are making progress reducing drilling and completion costs in Canada.
Canadian production averaged 72 300 BOEs a day during the fourth quarter which is a decrease of 1% sequentially from the third quarter.
Given minimal planned activity during 2015 we anticipate that production will decline from fourth quarter levels.
Turning to our international operations all three of our regions the North Sea Egypt and Australia delivered profitable production growth and remain on track to generate significant free cash flow for the year.
In Egypt we made two oil discoveries during the quarter.
While additional appraisal work is under way the Ptah and Berenice field discoveries appear to be two of Apache's largest oil field discoveries in Egypt over the last 15 years.
On a gross basis we expect Egypt will decline modestly in 2015 but our cost recovery mechanism there will result in a fairly significant increase in our net barrels.
In the North Sea we delivered the strongest production numbers in the history of the region with a great rebound from the third quarter turnaround season.
Coming off this high watermark and given the significant reduction in capital investments we are starting to see natural declines kick in.
With the program we have planned we do expect North see will decline slightly in 2015 beginning in the first quarter.
Lastly in Australia we continue to make progress towards first oil at Coniston which is expected to be online mid year.
I would now like to turn the call over to our interim CFO Anthony Lannie who will discuss in further detail our fourth-quarter non-cash earnings charges and provide guidance around first quarter 2015 North American production and CapEx.
Thank you John and good afternoon.
I would like to begin by providing some detail around our fourth quarter non-cash charges.
As noted in this morning's press release we reported an after-tax loss of $4.8 billion or $12.78 per share for the fourth quarter of 2014 as a result of several key non-recurring items.
We incurred $2 billion in after-tax non- cash property write-downs related to full-cost ceiling impairments in the U.S.
and North Sea.
Under full-cost accounting we are required to use trailing 12 month oil prices to calculate the PV-10 value of our reserves each quarter.
Approximately half of the charges associated with the Company's full-cost ceiling test were driven by an impairment of acreage that we do not intend to drill.
We recorded a $1.3 billion impairment of goodwill in the fourth quarter related to our U.S.
North Sea and Canada reporting units.
This is a function of prior-year acquisition values being valued under today's lower commodity price deck.
If oil prices do not recover materially from the current futures market price indication the Company expects further impairments of the carrying value of its oil and gas properties throughout the remainder of 2015.
The Company does not however anticipate significant additional acreage or goodwill impairments in 2015.
In December 2014 we announced the sale of Apache's interest in the Kitimat and Wheatstone LNG projects along with associated upstream oil and gas assets to Woodside Petroleum for $2.75 billion plus recovery of Apache's net expenditures made between June 30 2014 and closing.
Assets associated with the sale of our LNG facilities are classified as held-for-sale on the balance sheet.
Accounting rules require us to evaluate assets held-for-sale for impairment.
Accordingly an impairment analysis was performed on these assets and an after-tax loss of $753 million was recognized in earnings.
The full-cost upstream assets associated with this sale are excluded from held-for-sale accounting and no impairment was recorded however.
We do expect a non-cash charge upon closing of the sale.
Lastly we incurred approximately $1 billion in non-cash deferred tax adjustments for the fourth quarter primarily related to the U.S.
GAAP rules pertaining to the measurement of income taxes on undistributed earnings in our international regions that we no longer consider to be permanently reinvested.
The announced sale of our interest in the Kitimat and Wheatstone LNG projects and associated upstream assets was a key step in refocusing our portfolio and giving us more flexibility with capital allocation.
Additionally during 2014 we completed the sale of our Argentina region our deepwater Gulf of Mexico interest and several non-core assets across North America.
In total for the year we completed or announced sales of approximately $7 billion of assets worldwide we intend to use the proceeds of the remaining sales to pay down debt and strengthen our balance sheet in this low price environment.
I would like to leave you with some guidance for our North American onshore operations in the 2015 first quarter.
We currently project that quarter one North America onshore production will average between 300 000 and 305 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day which is down slightly from our record fourth quarter 2014 levels when adjusted for asset sales.
This slight decrease is attributable to the plan deferral of completions which John spoke about earlier couple with the impact of severe weather conditions during January.
In the Permian region alone we experienced abnormal weather related down time of approximately 14-days in the first half of January.
The estimated impact of this down time when spread across the quarter is roughly 3700 barrels of oil per day.
From a CapEx standpoint we anticipate spending roughly $800 million in onshore North America during the first quarter which represent approximately 36% of our full year onshore North America budget.
I should also note that our first quarter and full-year 2015 capital budget excludes approximately $300 million of estimated spending for LNG which we anticipate being reimbursed upon closing of the LNG sales this quarter.
Our financial strategy for 2015 is to maintain a strong balance sheet and live within our cash flow in order to take advantage of opportunities quickly and efficiently once prices begin to recover.
I will now turn the call back over to the operator for question-and-answers.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of David R.
Tameron of Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Hi good morning.
John can you talk about – when we start thinking about the rig efficiency obviously I know you’re going to say everything you drill is good but some has got to be better than the others.
So when I start thinking about productivity per rig and those type of metrics what type of up lift do you think you'll see on the scale back? Well I mean it’s hard to put the percentage as an actual percentage but clearly about slowing down on high grading we will focus on our best wells additionally we're going to be drilling wells only wells that we really need to drill right now and the nice thing is a lot of our acreage is held we don’t have lease obligations we're worried about.
So it’s all about reducing the cost structure and improving the economics before we really speed up but there is going to be efficiencies dialed in I think that kind of goes into what the capital reduction that we've shown and where we are given guidance on the production levels.
Okay one more for me and I'll let somebody else jump on.
When I start thinking about the toggle and what you guys are looking for mid year obviously you want service cost reductions.
And you mentioned this you alluded to this that your 2015 is more captive your capital program is more constrained by your cash flow.
What should we look for? What metrics should we be looking for on our end to try to guess when and if you decide to ramp? Well I mean the easy thing is we'll signal because we'll pick up rigs when we start to ramp so but I mean there’s two things.
There’s two parts that equation one is a commodity price but the bigger deal right now is cost structure and we made the decision to consciously and aggressively drop rigs because the cost structure needs to come down for this price environment and we can always ramp back up I mean you look at our depth of our portfolio in the Permian we showed we delivered 25% year-over-year growth we got very very deep high graded inventory.
So it’s going to easy to scale up but the big deal as we've got to drive the cost structure down to reflect this current price environment.
Okay thank you.
I'll let somebody else jump on.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Pearce Hammond of Simmons &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon guys.
Hello.
Hey John I was curious how you can reduce your North American rig count so sharply yet keep production flat.
Touching on the earlier question is this due to greater efficiencies or well productivity? Or is it a backlog of drilled but not completed wells that you can work through this year? And then if you stayed at an average of 17 rigs into 2016 do you think you'd keep production flat there? Or would it start to decline? Well I mean clearly we are able to drop quickly because we did not have a lot of committed contract or required location we had to drill.
So we are able to scale back very quickly.
We will come into 15 with a pretty deep backlog of wells and we have pushed a lot of those completions back because quite honestly we've got to get the completion cost to come in line as well.
So we are going to very methodically push those back.
If I can defer those see the benefits of lower completion costs and then bring those back on and potential higher price environment and later there is a big win there.
As for what 16 looks like a lot of that’s going to depend on where we are mid-year and what the program does.
So we’ve got the benefit this year of having a backlog of completions and we can spread those out and it's kind of how we planned it.
And then John I know this question I'm about to ask is tied into what the cost structure is but at what oil price would you be willing to accelerate the drill bit again? Right now the wells we're drilling are economic because we've been aggressively attacking the cost structure.
As I mentioned in the script our limitation is cash flow and we're wanting to put it our cash flow to work in the best places we don't feel right now that tapping the balance sheet to drill wells that we don't have to drill in this price environment or cost structure makes sense so I think we've got a deep inventory and when the economics and more cash becomes available we will ramp back up.
Great and one last quick one for me.
What level of service cost concessions are you currently experiencing? And how much do you think you can capture this year on a percentage basis? I mean I'd say in general if you look at our Eagle Ford and I alluded to that in the script we showed cost in our November update of around $7 million we're early last year we were North of eight I can tell you we’ve already reflective of old service costs we just TD'd a well in the 6.5 range.
We feel like we can get those well under six so we're already down 10% to 15%.
We got now some things dialing in that's going to help our numbers go further so with the drop in oil price being where it is I know a lot of our competitors are talking about just seeing 10% well cost reductions that's going to have to be more than that.
We're seeing more than that.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Arun Jayaram of Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon John.
I first wanted to ask you a little bit about the shape of the production profile in 2015.
I guess you guided to 300 000 to 305 000 BOE.
That suggests you'll stay relatively flat all year.
Is that how we should think about it? Because what we don't know is how you plan to time the completions throughout the year? Yes Arun with where Anthony alluded to first quarter being and where we’re going to exit where we average it's pretty good assumption on how we are got it dialed in right now.
Obviously first quarter is being impacted by the significant down time we've had already.
First two weeks of January were very rough in the Permian and central so that's part of why you see more of a flat look because we've had a lot of down time early but we do have a lot of completions that we'll be able to bring on and obviously drilling better wells with the rigs we’re going to be running too so I think that's probably a pretty reasonable view of how we’d look at right now.
Okay the only thing that wasn't quite intuitive you guys talked about spending $800 million in Q1 which is about 36% of your budget yet you're deferring completions could you just maybe reconcile that a little bit the timing of the spend? Sure.
It's just simply we're coming in hot plus we've got the LNG spend too that when that closes so you've got a combination but you don't go from running 90 rigs to down to levels we're going to be and not have a hot spend early.
Makes sense.
Just a couple other quick ones.
John you alluded to $800 million of acreage acquisition costs in Q4.
Can you give us some details on where you added the acreage? We touched on that in November.
I mean it was predominantly in our key areas.
A lot of that was Eagle Ford and Canyon Lime and Permian and really within our core areas.
Okay and then my final one is on the international.
In the slides when you do the pro forma adjustment you talk about the Australia asset sales and North Sea.
I believe Australia's Balnaves.
Can you give us some numbers around the magnitude of the sales at Balnaves and in the North Sea? Well I let Gary answer that one Arun.
Arun we can say that the Scott Telford and the Balnaves you are going to be in the 10 000 sort of type barrel range.
Okay thanks a lot Gary.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Brackett of Bernstein.
Your line is open.
Hey question on the status of the split of the international assets.
Is that on ice in a low-price environment? Is that still something that's a strategic priority? Right now in this price environment a lot changes a $100 price environment to $50 so right now as I stated in the prepared comments we are not proceeding with anything on the spinoff of Egypt or North Sea.
We are looking at possibly still monetizing or the non-LNG assets of Australia but at this point in this price environment I think you're seeing strength of our international assets complement our North American portfolio.
And can you talk about where your hedges stand for 2015 now and what your hedging strategy this year and next might be? Right now we’ve got very little hedges 415 and that is one of the things we're going to be looking at is was what type we've gone through a major transformation as we started thinking about 15 the world changed and that's something we'll be looking at early part of this year is what type of hedging strategy we would use in the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Rowe from TPH.
Your line is open.
Hi good afternoon.
I was wondering if you could maybe provide a little bit of context around your backlog at the end of the year of your $2.2 billion mid-point budget for North America onshore.
How much of that is actually just blowing through and completing drilled but uncompleted wells versus actually going and drilling new wells to add to the production base? Well I’ll say we haven’t provided a lot of color there we are coming into the year with a couple of harder wells so it is a portion of that budget but we are going spread it out over the year.
Okay that's fine.
And then switching to one specific region the Eagle Ford that has a pretty sharp rig count drop down to about one maybe two rigs in 2015.
You mentioned getting the cost structure down to $6 million per well so what exactly needs to happen to get there to make that asset more competitive? And if we see a rebound in crude oil prices do you expect that cost structure to come back up? How should we think about that specific asset and the drilling economics there? Well the answer there is when you look at our cash flow still the lion share of our capital is going to go into our bread and butter Permian which has been driving our performance.
So we're going to be down to one rig - one to two rigs in Eagle Ford one to two rigs in the Canyon Lime those are both areas where we are advancing deep inventory of economic wells but in terms of how they stack out right now the Delaware Basin and so our step in the Permian is going to little bit slightly higher but I do not see some of the efficiencies we are driving into those well costs a lot of those are utilizing 3D avoiding drilling hazards or efficiency there is more to this than just service cost.
So I don’t envision any of those coming back in even if prices rebound.
So that’s the nice thing about slowing down is this is going to really give us a chance to when we speed back up to do it a lot more efficiently in a lot better later because a lot of the changes are not just come out of service side they are out of our end and designs and other efficiencies.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani of RBC.
Your line is open.
Hey guys I was hoping you could speak a little bit about the improvement you saw in results in the Central Basin particularly some of these Lower Marmaton wells looked really massive.
Could you speak a little about to some of the well costs you're seeing in Central? I know it's a bit different by some of these formations and where you're going to be targeting most of the capital in 2015 there? Well we are really going to have one rig around it so what we’ve shown though is by taking a very measured and disciplined approach which we made a lot of operational changes you know management changes last summer in Tulsa and you're seeing fruit of that really start to come through.
It's more conventional reservoirs.
We've got to do more homework up front.
It shows the depth and quality of the acreage up there but really when you look at this year it will be a very small program just based on the commodity mix and so forth.
Okay so is there any particular zone that you guys focus on? Or is it still multiple horizons in terms of how you tackle this? It will high graded list of all wells there so we do have a couple hundred acres in the Woodford that will be active there about 50 000 net in the ops report there will be lower Marmaton and then we got some nice Cottage Grove and Cleveland and big kind of small assortment of all the best projects we have from all those formations.
Okay that's helpful.
And in terms of your guidance here for the first quarter in North America your 300 000 to 305 000 BOE does that exclude production that you're selling as part of the LNG divestiture? Some of the Kitimat properties? Or is that included in those numbers? And are those going to be discontinued or how does that work? There is actually with what’s being sold with Kitimat there's not any production would be dialed into those numbers.
So that is an adjusted number that you would expect to see from us post sales.
Your next question come from the line of Harry Mateer of Barclays.
Your line is open.
Hi good afternoon.
The first question so you've mentioned that you plan to initially use asset sale proceeds to pay down debt.
First can you just tell us how much CP and/or credit facility borrowings you had at the end of the year? And then can you talk about how you plan to pay down the debt? Are you considering more liability management actions like you did in late 2013 to take out long term debt? Or are you just looking to take down short-term borrowings? I'll have Anthony answer that question.
Just short-term borrowing but we had $11.2 billion of debt at the end of the year with $800 000 million of cash on the balance sheet for net debt position of 10.4.
We’ve increased our CP line of credit and $3 billion to $5 billion in December.
So we have about almost $4 billion of available credit line.
Okay and then second can you just update us on your balance sheet and credit rating priorities in general? So any sense for what credit ratings you're trying to target for Apache given the current commodity price environment and your view that you're no longer looking to spin Egypt or North Sea? And are there any targeted leverage metrics we can be thinking about or what is the right debt balance for the company? We are still working with the credit rating agencies on what our credit rating will be but we intend to pay down debt and have a very strong balance sheet.
Your next question comes from the line of John Freeman of Raymond James.
Your line is open.
Afternoon.
I was looking at the rig count kind of break down if I wrote it down correctly John when you were going over the rigs in the Permian.
And it looks like the Delaware Basin is about the only place in your whole portfolio where the rig count's not really changing from the November update.
And obviously it makes sense given at that time you all said that was the highest net present value per well.
I'm just trying to get a sense of how you all think about the capital allocation the Permian where trying to balance the fact the Delaware Basin is your highest NPV but you're still running rigs in some of these other areas of the Permian.
The issue there is you correctly picked up that rig count did not change and our governors in the Delaware right now are more driven by infrastructure take away capacity in those things.
So you are exactly right.
That is not a piece it is at the top of the food chain.
And it didn’t change.
The others had to compete with the Permian and that's why when you look at we’ve got the lion share of our capital there so Permian still will be getting 60% of our total North American capital and which is about in line with what we showed at the November update.
Okay and then last one for me just thinking about these delayed completions can you give just kind of a rough number on where your backlog of uncompleted wells stands in the Permian? We’re kind of couple hundred total.
Where the rig count's been a lion's share of those would be in the Permian.
Your next question comes from the line of James Sullivan of Alembic Global Advisors.
Your line is open.
Hey good afternoon guys.
I wonder if you could just - we've been dancing around this a little bit - but just give us a Q4 fully-adjusted volume number.
You guys gave the full-year number which is helpful for both international and North America.
But just net of the LNG upstream net of the North American packages net of Australia and net of North Sea that whole thing.
Yes hey.
This is Gary.
We are looking at about 319 000 a day as your pro forma Q4 number in North America.
And about 225 international and offshore.
Perfect thank you very much for that.
The other thing I had was you guys gave some color which was a little bit distinct in your release about completion costs.
And it sounds like - you're the only guys that I've really heard saying that you're thinking about delaying completions not just overall activity into the second half of the year.
With the thought perhaps that you'd capture a little bit more savings on the completion side maybe.
Could you speak to what you've seen in the market in terms of differential deflation rates on the drilling side say the rig side and drilling versus fracking and completing the wells and whether that's driving your thinking? Or am I reading too much into your comments there? Well I mean I think the simple answer is we need to get the costs down in line with the oil price environment and when you look at 60% to 65% of your total well cost is in the completions a lot of folks were assuming you'd just move through the backlog and keep completing the wells but I mean that's some of the best things we can do right now to push those back because up front significant savings there lets us drill other wells so we're seeing substantial numbers on both the rig rates and then with what we've done basically by setting down most of the rigs we're able to come in now and contract what prices should be in a $50 price environment and the same thing applies on the frac crews.
Your next question comes from the line of John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
Your line is open.
Yes thank you.
John since you've taken the helm have you had any other leadership team changes other than the addition of Mr.
Riney? At this point given where we are John we are taking a hard look at everything.
I’ve taken a pretty measured approach of stepping in and had a lot of things to get knocked out off in early.
I really want to think about what we have North America look like.
I've got Tom in place on the international side and I'm going to take a very measured approach and think through what this thing ought to look like for the long-term and come out with something at a later day.
Okay thanks.
On a pro forma basis for the U.S.
what's your average decline rate now? Right now if you look at our just in the U.S.
our PDP decline is across all products.
Oil is about 26% our total streams around 24% in North America and that's just on a PDP basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Joe Allman from JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
Thank you operator.
Hi everybody.
So just to recount in North America what's that rig count in the fourth quarter of 2015? And then I know you answered this a little bit earlier but if it's as low as I think it is I would assume that going into 2016 it's going to be hard to keep production flat.
And do you exhaust the wells waiting on completion? Do you exhaust those by the end of 2015? All right.
What I would say about that Joe is it will just depend on where we are and where prices are.
I mean clearly if we are under $50 it will be lower than the average for the year considerably come in hot but we are going to kind of let things dictate what we say going into the third and fourth quarter kind of based on where the market conditions are and also where the cost structure is.
I mean that’s the other piece we get cost down we would be able to pick up too so.
Okay so second question again following up from the first.
Do you exhaust the inventory of wells waiting on completion by year-end? And separate question the $2 billion ceiling test write-down that you described North Sea.
You described US.
You talked about some acreage that you're not going to drill.
Could you give us more details on that please? Well in terms of completion backlog we’ve got – that’s kind of at our disposal as to when we would complete those wells and obviously if we're an under 50 and prices have come on down and we will probably get some of those on and may choose to wait and see an increase in price when we go ahead and complete some of those wells.
For the write down of the charges I’m going to let Anthony handle that question.
Yes we haven’t provided any details in terms of split out between North America and North Sea at this point but the total is $2 billion for the ceiling test and another $1.3 for the balance for the impairment.
And your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Your line is open.
Thanks good afternoon John and congratulations on your appointment.
John I wonder if I could ask you about the organizational capability from going from 80-plus rigs to 17 rigs.
What does that do to you? If you were to look into being able to ramp that up again in the event of an oil price recovery do you intend on keeping the organization static? Will you see some headcount reduction and cost reduction at the corporate level? Can you walk us through how you think about that and how patient you're prepared to be until the oil price recovers if you choose to do nothing? Well Doug we have been looking at G&amp;A looking at it pretty hard in terms of ways to reduce it we did announce we had some reductions in January about 5% worldwide when you look at the numbers clearly we had an organization in place its capable of running 90 plus rigs in North America which at this point its less than that.
So we will continue to look at things one thing we are doing is we're taking some of our young engineers and we are putting them in the field which is allowing us to replace some contract folks so we’re being pretty smart about how to leverage folks get some good experience and also puts us in a better position in fact I have got a lot of good reports on the savings and some of the benefits that we’re having about putting those guys out in the field.
So we are going be pretty prudent in terms of what we do we will continue to look at what is the best organization for North America in terms of where things are going and do not worry about being over ramp up I mean its easy to ramp up after you’ve been there before I mean we’ve got great capabilities in the Permian and our other regions and it will not be hard to ramp up.
And in fact I’ve got a lot of ways thankful because its gives us a chance to really look at our processes our efficiencies our inventory and really spend some time high grading that and I will promise you will do it when we ramp up differently then would have been do it right now.
I know it's not an easy question to answer so I appreciate the answer.
I wonder if for my follow-up if I can go back to Bob's question earlier about the international strategy.
I really just want to get clarification on this because for the past year I guess there's been an expectation that the international business would be spun off completely.
Is this a temporary situation? Is it now strategic? Can you help us understand what has flipped the Board's view on this? Because clearly it's a massive turnaround to decide to keep it.
And will it compete for capital? I'm just trying to understand is this now – does the new Apache this time include Egypt and North Sea as go-forward assets? Or is this a stay of execution? I'll leave it there.
There’s a couple things.
One of our key strategic objectives was to sell the LNG and that will close in the end of the first quarter.
Secondly we are looking at our conventional business in Australia Egypt in the North Sea are different businesses then what we are doing in North America but the thing you are going to look as generate free cash flow they always have had higher rate of return projects which complement our portfolio and clearly in this price environment it would not make sense to monetize them and they complete things very nicely.
So at this point there is no plans to sell or spin and they fit nicely with the portfolio when we ramp back up we will grow North America at faster rate.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Thank you good afternoon.
Apache has a number of different opportunities within North America onshore to ramp up investment when the time is right.
Based on what you're seeing now what is the best way to do that? Do you see concentrating more in specific areas among the Delaware Basin versus Midland Basin versus East Texas Eagle Ford to gain greater scale when you do want to ramp up and efficiencies? Or should we expect a gradual ramp up everywhere when the time is right? A lot of that's going to depend on a lot of the strategic testing and the things we're doing in these plays right now.
We're learning things each day.
We've got the rig we're running in the Eagle Ford will be telling us very critical things as well as the Canyon Lime as well as the Permian so the good news is we've got a deep inventory and I'm confident we're going to have plenty of economic projects.
We've got more right now than cash flow to spend at these levels so a lot of that Brian will just depend on how we see each of those plays at that time.
One place is one of the questions earlier we have not slowed down in the Delaware and we will continue to try to expand that and then I think we're going to be in a position to we've gone from 12 rigs down to we will be at four and down to one to two in the Eagle Ford.
We can ramp that back up very quickly.
The Canyon Lime we can put up at five or six in there and the neat thing is we're high grading a lot of prospects and a lot of acreage and we'll have a lot of choices to choose from.
Thanks and as my follow-up and it actually follows up on a couple of questions earlier and as well as your response here just now.
You say you want your costs to come down you want prices to go up.
Your returns are strong from the portfolio today.
But is what you're saying that every well that the 64 rigs you have dropped or are planning to drop achieve attractive returns at today's oil prices.
But simply you've dropped them to stay within cash flow? Or are there areas where you need costs to come down to meet your return threshold? And if so can you provide specifics? It's a combination.
There are a lot of those projects on the lower end that need prices down to where we want to drill them right now.
But I can tell you where we made the cut based on our current cash flow I have more capabilities right now of economic projects we were electing to defer because we don't have to drill them.
I mean the point is why drill them in this price environment when things are going to improve? So it's a combination.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Tullis from Capital One Securities.
Your line is open.
Thanks good afternoon everyone.
John following with the rate of return line there so we saw the rates of return associated with your portfolio at the November meeting based on $80 oil $4 gas.
What do you think the impact is on the portfolio in general using current commodities and the reductions you've seen in well costs to date? Well there's no doubt that they drop.
You go from 80 and 4 and you go to 50 and call it 50 and 290 apples-to-apples they have dropped.
Now we are working on the cost side and we still have very attractive returns in the place where we are active so but there's no doubt right now the returns are costs haven't come down to put the returns in line with what we showed you and $80 a barrel in November.
Okay.
And looking at the Eagle Ford A area back in November it looked like you were going to be quite active there in 2015 running as many as 10 rigs with a fairly high rate of return.
Why the significant change down to one rig now? And I'm not sure if that's going to be in the A or the B area? Has your thinking on that play changed any? Or is it more just a rate of return thing right now? It’s neither its cash flow in the portfolio of what the dollar amount is so it's simply cash flow.
We got more - there is lot’s of wells we could drill in the Eagle Ford right now but it’s purely just a function of we aren't going to tap our balance sheet to develop production.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeffrey Campbell from Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Your line is open.
Hi John.
I'd like to second the congratulations on your new CEO role.
First I want to ask about Canada.
I noticed you're going to stop drilling in March 2015.
I just wondering will the completions be delayed there as you were talking about doing elsewhere? Because in November you made it clear this is an emergent play so was just wondering if maybe the desire to see results would be a part of the calculus.
Well Jeff thank you.
Two things.
Number one we do have excellent results and high hopes for Canada and but there's two things.
Montney wells we are going to be completing.
There are little more dashing than the Duverney and the Duverney wells have great economics we will be completing the - we got a seven well pad there it’s testing two different spacings.
We will be completing those in the third quarter of this year.
It’s simply a function of cash flow in Canada is limiting how much we're spending in Canada so that's why and obviously with the winter drilling season we've come in very hot in Canada and actually Canada is going to be a slight out spend versus cash flow.
So it’s purely same answer again.
It’s cash flow driven is what's causing us to do that and the good news is after these two wells we had to hold acreage in the Montney we don't have any acreage problems in Canada this fall.
And obviously if prices change going in third or fourth quarter you could see us decide to step back up.
But we will right now the plan would be not to do anything.
Okay thanks and to ask a little bit different question.
In Egypt we're reading a lot about the government trying to procure pipeline nat gas Israel as well as floating LNG.
Is there any financial incentive to try to increase the natural gas production into the Egyptian market because I notice your highlight wells are very high oil cuts.
Yes I’m going to have Tom handle this one.
The answer is that the Egyption government has kept the gas price artificially low for 12 to 13 years now 14 years and there is no indication that they have the willingness or desire to increase the domestic production gas price and as such we continue to focus on oil and drill sufficient gas wells to keep our infrastructure full primarily by focusing on higher condensate yield reservoirs so that we could also increase liquids productions at the same time.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Hall from Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Your line is open.
Thanks appreciate the questions.
I guess you provided the rig counts going forward for 2015.
Maybe circling around this weighted uncompletion question in a little different way.
How many wells do you anticipate to put on production regionally in 2015? And then how much of the you said 200 or so in backlog so I'm just trying to think through the organic program underlying that is...
Yes I would – we have not disclosed the well counts in terms of lay that much detail out in terms of the plan.
We kind of hit on rigs and we have a couple hundred wells in addition to those and I mean if we want to get back with them later Gary or something on details.
Yes Michael we can follow-up with you there but we really haven’t kind of put anything out there on the specific well counts you know I just...
Okay but if -- relative to the Analyst Day in November you cut the rigs probably 50% or more or not quite.
But is it fair to say then you're only taking the well count down by a quarter or so or is that simple math? You can do it you can probably do the math on the rigs but the other factor is there costs are coming down so it’s not straight linear math.
Fair enough.
And then you provided the PDP declines that's helpful.
How did that vary regionally? That’s another things I don’t have that detail for you.
I’m just giving you a general on North America.
That's fair and that's helpful.
And then final one of mine just housekeeping on the budget for 2015 does that include capitalized interest? And if not roughly do you all know what that might look like? It does.
Your next question comes from the line of John Wolff from Jefferies.
Your line is open.
Afternoon guys.
I'm just looking at the numbers and intuitively spending about 36% of your budget in the first quarter and looking for exit rate that's similar.
It just feels like there's a contemplated CapEx increase in here in the second half of the year based on being able to achieve that type of momentum with the base decline rates that you've laid out.
I'm just trying to get to the math.
Is there a contemplated CapEx increase coming in May-June timeframe? Not in this budget at all.
Can you give a little intuition on how you only have two-thirds of the budget left to spend in the last three quarters? It should be down dramatically in terms of the spending versus 2014.
Is it a assumption that oil service costs are down 20% 25%? Is it the expectation that oil prices are up $10? We're just having a hard time getting anywhere near the math on the domestic production.
Well it works fine on our end.
I mean basically it's a function of how we spread the completions out.
We've come in hot.
We've got with Canada having completed it you're not going to be completing those Duvernay wells until the third quarter.
The math works.
It's just a function of we pushed a lot of completions back and we'll bring them on at the appropriate time.
But there's nothing baked in beyond there's no capital increase.
There's no oil price increase you know we wouldn't be very smart to do that.
Your next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani from RBC.
Your line is open.
Hey guys I just wanted to ask you a little about the M&amp;A landscape.
It sounds like in your prepared comments you spoke about rather buying acreage and maybe securing more assets as opposed to drilling.
Can you talk about what you see out there that might be available? And what type of size of purchases are we talking about? I mean I think the point is we would be opportunistic.
I mean we see a potentially if things stay where they are there's a lot of folks that are significantly out spending.
There is a lot of clocks on acreage.
We're seeing things pop-up right now and for drilling a well we can earn pretty big acreage blocks.
I think there's just a lot of opportunity that could surface and we would expect to surface.
All right.
And moving over to your international guidance for 2015 you guys talked about 207 000 barrels a day which I guess is after subtracting out final tax working interest barrels and some tax barrels.
Do you guys have that guidance numbers kind of prior to those subtractions? Because I know you guys reported that way in your financial just to keep it apples-to-apples for the financials? I’ll let Gary.
I’ll tell you what.
Why don't we do this and follow-up because we've gone over the top of the hour.
Why don’t we follow-up with offline on those on that reconciliation.
Your next question comes from the line of John Herrlin from Societe Generale.
Your line is open.
Yes hi just one quick follow-up.
Obviously there's been a lot of questions regarding oil field services costs completion costs et cetera.
On a going-forward basis do you think the services providers will be more willing to index so you avoid kind of this boom-bust type pricing? Or will it just be business as always? John I mean that’s one of the things we’ve looked very heavily at and we think it makes a lot of sands and quite frankly we should have done it a while back.
So we would like to think that you can do that.
Okay great.
Thank you.
And your last question comes from the line of James Sullivan from Alembic Global Advisors.
Your line is open.
Hey guys thanks for running this call real quick do a little follow-up.
Can you guys talk a little bit about what you're doing in Central Oklahoma? You guys did put the Woodford wells up on the ops report but are you guys targeting some of the multi-lateral areas there with the Springer and the Merrimac and other stuff? Just get a little detail on that.
Yes I mean as I mentioned we are going to have one rig pretty much dedicated.
We will be drilling some Woodford wells.
We've got about 200 000 acres gross 50 000 net so we will be active there with that and we’ve also got some really look in economic prospects in some of our other plays.
So its juts simply budgeting our capital there but you will see some more Woodford wells from us.
Great and just a quick follow-up to that.
Is that one of the areas you guys talked in the leasehold work you've been doing.
I think East Eagle Ford probably got some of that money and some of the other areas but are you working there as well with the leasehold? We have been working to fill in and bolter on our position but that’s relevant for all of our key areas where we would be active drilling.
End of Q&amp;A This concludes today's Q&amp;A session.
I now turn the call back over the Mr.
Clark.
Well thank you everybody for joining us and please follow-up with myself or my team in IR if we can handle any of the other details that we didn’t get to on the call today and we look forward to speaking to you all next quarter.
Thank you very much.
This concludes today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Fia and I will be the conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Apache Corporation First Quarter Earnings 2015 Conference.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Gary Clark.
Sir you may begin.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on Apache Corporation's first quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Speakers making prepared remarks on today's call will be Apache's CEO and President John Christmann; and CFO Steve Riney.
Also joining in the room today is Tom Voytovich Executive Vice President and COO of International.
In conjunction with this morning's press release I hope you have had the opportunity to review our quarterly earnings supplement which summarizes our operational activities and well highlights across various Apache operating regions.
The supplement also includes information on our capital expenditures for the quarter as well as a chart that illustrates cash sources and uses and reconciles Apache's change in net debt during the first quarter of 2015.
Our earnings release the accompanying financial tables and non-GAAP reconciliations and our quarterly earnings supplement can all be found on our website at www.apachecorp.com.
I'd like to remind everyone that today's discussions will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
However a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental data on our website.
This morning we reported a first quarter 2015 loss of $4.7 billion or $12.34 per diluted share which includes an after-tax ceiling-test write down of $4.7 billion primarily related to the impact of declining oil and gas prices.
When adjusted for certain items that impact the comparability of results the first-quarter loss totaled $139 million or $0.37 per diluted share.
Cash flow from operations before changes in working capital totaled $900 million during the quarter.
Worldwide reported net production averaged 601 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day with liquids production constituting 62% of the total.
I would now like to turn the call over to John.
Thank you Gary.
Good afternoon and thank you all for joining us today.
I'm pleased to report that we had a successful first quarter on several fronts.
Operationally we executed a very rapid and efficient downsizing of our drilling program.
On a go-forward basis our reduced program better aligns capital expenditures with cash flow in this depressed oil and gas price environment.
Specifically we decreased our North American rig count by 77% from 65 rigs on December 31 to 15 rigs by the end of the first quarter.
We are highly focused on reducing all elements of our cost structure.
On the capital side we were fortunate to enter this downturn with minimal long-term rig contracts and very few acreage exploration issues.
As a result we were able to quickly adjust our costs and now project that total drilling and completion costs will ultimately be down between 20% and 40% in 2015 from the levels we disclosed for our key plays at our North American update in November.
And compared to 2014 we are on track to achieve an overall 25% reduction in average drilling and completion costs.
As the year progresses we anticipate capturing potentially more savings.
With regard to G&amp;A over the past 18 months Apache has divested a substantial number of operated properties and exited several operational areas.
Our smaller footprint now requires less overhead and a more prudent approach to spending.
Every dollar we save in corporate overhead can be recycled into our asset base to generate a return for our shareholders.
We are structuring Apache's organization planning functions and operational teams to provide maximum flexibility to respond to commodity price changes and cash flow availability.
We have budgeted conservatively at $50 WTI for the year.
And while first quarter oil prices came in a little below that level the second quarter is off to a good start.
Should oil prices stabilize at these higher levels and cash flow increase accordingly we are well-positioned to ramp up the drilling program in an efficient and cost-effective manner.
Despite a significant reduction in drilling and completion activity we were able to minimize our first quarter production decline in North America from record fourth quarter levels.
We also encountered some significant weather challenges in our Permian and Central regions during the quarter.
However North American onshore production still exceeded the high end of our guidance range.
On the international side Egypt and the North Sea both outperformed our expectations during the quarter primarily on the strength of successful delineation drilling and better than expected well performance.
Australian operations were generally on track in Q1.
However production was adversely impacted by two cyclones that hit late in the quarter.
Turning to our capital spending; during the quarter capital expenditures before LNG capitalized interest and Egypt's minority interest was $1.3 billion.
This represents approximately 36% of our full-year 2015 capital budget the midpoint of which has been reduced to $3.65 billion.
CapEx was in line with our expectations for the quarter and consistent with our commentary on last quarter's call that we were coming into 2015 hot on activity and capital.
Given the magnitude and success of our first quarter activity and spending ramp down we remain confident in our 2015 CapEx guidance.
Also despite our significantly lower activity levels for the rest of the year we remain comfortable with our pro forma North American onshore production guidance of relatively flat compared to 2014.
In summary it was a very good quarter both domestically and internationally.
And I'll provide a little more detail on the regions in a moment.
Since the last earnings call we have made excellent progress on our portfolio repositioning initiatives.
In April we announced the closing of our Wheatstone and Kitimat LNG assets along with a definitive agreement to sell the remainder of our Australian oil and gas assets.
We expect to close the Australian asset sale around mid-year and our updated capital and production guidance provided in this morning's press release takes into account this assumption.
In his prepared remarks Steve Riney will discuss how we plan to utilize the $5.8 billion of proceeds from these transactions.
I'd like to now make some comments about our operating regions and also provide some color on our projected year-end horizontal well backlog.
As I noted earlier we substantially reduced our drilling and completion activity during the first quarter.
In North America we completed 42% fewer total wells compared to the fourth quarter of 2014.
More importantly we deferred our scheduled horizontal completion count in anticipation of better pressure pumping pricing from our third-party vendors.
For example we completed only 84 operated horizontal wells in North America during the first quarter compared to 153 operated horizontals during the fourth quarter of 2014.
Despite these activity reductions our first quarter North American production averaged 307 000 BOEs per day and exceeded our guidance range of 300 000 BOEs per day to 305 000 BOEs per day.
In our Permian region production grew 6% compared to the first quarter of 2014 but decreased by roughly 10 000 BOEs per day or approximately 6% from record levels in the fourth quarter of 2014.
The majority of this sequential quarterly decrease of approximately 7 800 BOEs per day is attributable to severe winter weather-related downturn.
In fact had we not encountered weather-related shut-ins during the quarter our oil volumes in the Permian would have been roughly flat compared to the fourth quarter.
Assuming no change from our currently budget activity levels we anticipate the Permian oil production will increase gradually for the remainder of the year while natural gas production should remain relatively flat.
The Permian production increase in 2015 will be driven by the Delaware Basin where we anticipate generating significant volume growth from 28 wells scheduled for completion in the second and the fourth quarter.
Key Permian Basin well completions during the quarter included two very strong Delaware Basin horizontal wells; the Condor 205H and 206H in our Pecos Bend area and three solid horizontal wells with relatively short laterals at our Powell-Miller area of the Southern Midland Basin.
On a lateral adjusted foot basis all of these wells produced at 30-day average IP rates above the representative tight curves which were presented at our November update.
In particular the Condor wells in Delaware Basin which have been online for just over two months are substantially outperforming expectations.
We look forward to drilling more wells in both of these areas during 2015 and reporting results in the coming quarters.
We are making good progress in reducing drilling and completion costs particularly in the Delaware Basin where we plan to be the most active this year.
The previously mentioned Condor wells were drilled and completed for around $6 million.
This represents a 25% reduction from the $8 million well costs we provided in our November update.
On the Central Basin Platform we completed a large number of very economic vertical wells from our 2014 backlog and completed two exceptional horizontal wells in our North Monahans area that produced a 30-day average IPs in excess of 1 000 BOEs per day.
In April we completed our highest IP well ever in our Barnhart area the Scott Sugg West Unit H11U which is producing more than 1 000 BOEs per day.
Also in April we put on production our first four Midland County wells in the Wildfire area along with our first well in the Azalea area near the Midland-Glasscock County line.
Early results from these core Midland County wells look very encouraging and it's fair to say that this activity has positioned us well for a good start in the second quarter in the Permian.
Turning to the Central region production was down 2% sequentially from the fourth quarter after adjusting for asset sales.
This was expected following our significant reduction in activity.
During the first quarter we completed only 24 gross operated wells compared to 51 gross operated wells during the fourth quarter.
Apache's primary focuses today in the Central region are the Canyon Lime and the Woodford plays.
The Canyon Lime is a tremendous source rock with significant oil in place but due to the recent drop in oil prices we have slowed our drilling pace and turned our attention to optimizing our approach and reducing costs in the area.
We have made some significant breakthroughs on the cost side in the Canyon Lime.
Drilling costs in our two most recent wells came in around $4.25 million.
Completion costs on these well should be roughly $2.75 million each which means that all in we believe we can develop this play for about $7 million per well excluding facilities costs.
This is also almost 20% lower than the $8.5 million well costs that we showed at our November update.
We brought online our 93H pad during the first quarter and the flow back has been somewhat limited as a result of an extended third-party plant outage.
Regardless these wells appear to be tracking in line with their type curve.
We have various tests underway in the Canyon Lime that will help optimize the play and prepare for future rig ramp up.
Under the improved cost structure I noted above our Canyon Lime inventory starts to become economic at around $60 or $65 per barrel and we believe there is significant opportunity to improve the economics as we advance the play.
That said the Canyon Lime will still need to compete for capital on an NPV and rate of return basis with our other plays.
To-date we have drilled 14 wells in the lower Canyon Lime 12 of which are online and producing.
As of March 31 we had a backlog of four wells drilled but uncompleted in the play.
In the Anadarko Basin we are currently acquiring seismic and delineating roughly 50 000 net acres in the Woodford Springer play also referred to industry as the SCOOP.
We're currently drilling a two-well pad in Grady County and are planning to drill and complete a few additional Woodford wells later in the year.
A tremendous amount of science and testing is also underway in our Eagle Ford play.
To-date we have drilled in four primary operating areas; Reveille Ferguson Crossing Remington and Brazos Riverside and have materially advanced our understanding of this intricate resource play.
We have now drilled a total of 86 wells in the Eagle Ford 45 of which are online and producing.
Lithology and hydrocarbon phases change fairly significantly in Northern Eagle Ford.
We're continuing to test optimal drilling and completion methods frac designs and well spacing.
Each of these inputs can vary materially depending on the hydrocarbon phase window and clay count of the area.
In Area A which is generally characterized by higher gas/oil ratios the drilling is a bit more complex and expensive due to depletion in the chalk above the Eagle Ford.
Our current drilling and completion cost target is around $6.5 million which is down more than 20% from the $8.4 million we cited back in November.
In Area B which is a bit shallower we estimate drilling and completion costs will be around $6 million per well which is down roughly 15% from previous estimates.
We have a large backlog of wells to complete in the Eagle Ford and while we may not get to all of them this year we can expect this play will contribute to our North American oil growth in 2015 and 2016.
Like the Canyon Lime we anticipate becoming a more active driller in the Eagle Ford when oil price approaches the $65 per barrel level.
In Canada we had a good quarter.
Weather-related downtime was minimal and production decreased only modestly from the fourth quarter 2014 levels despite reduced completion activity.
During the quarter we generated positive results in a new lower-cost oil-rich area of the Montney which we call Ante Creek.
We have some running room there; however more infrastructure will be needed to bring these wells online.
We also successfully tested the very thick lower Montney formation for the first time in our Wapiti area and believe it will have minimal communication with the currently productive horizons in the upper Montney.
In the Duvernay we just completed drilling our first seven-well pad in the Kaybob area and look forward to completing those wells and bringing on some significant volumes during the quarter.
Turning to our international operations; in Australia our production averaged 59 400 BOEs per day which was down from the fourth quarter.
During the quarter we had unanticipated production shut-ins for approximately 2 600 BOEs per day due to the impact of two cyclones that hit the region.
Otherwise the ramp up of our Coniston and Van Gogh fields remains on schedule as does the planned sale of all of our Australian oil and gas assets by mid-year.
In Egypt the successful delineation of our Ptah and Berenice fields has led to a recent gross production rate of more than 19 600 barrels of oil per day from seven wells.
This month we plan to place one more delineation well online and increase production to approximately 22 000 barrels of oil per day.
Several other new field discoveries have been made across multiple concession areas subsequent to quarter-end.
As a result Egypt is tracking very well against our production outlook from February 12.
Apache's production in the North Sea decreased as expected from a record high in the fourth quarter of 2014 but was up 5% relative to the first quarter of 2014.
One of the two main electrical transformers failed on our Beryl Alpha platform resulting in two weeks of unplanned downtime.
This translated into a 2 600 BOE per day net production hit for the first quarter.
Our North Sea team responded quickly and commendably to this incident and managed to keep our production tracking in line with plan.
Subsequent to quarter-end we logged significant pay at new wells in both the Beryls and Forties areas and there's a high degree of confidence in our 2015 North Sea production outlook after adjusting for the sale of our non-op interest in the Scott and Telford fields.
We're excited about our recently processed 700 square mile 3D seismic survey covering the Beryl field complex and adjoining area.
This is the first seismic survey conducted over this field since 1997.
From the higher resolution of the extensive data set a number of interesting features have surfaced in terms of potentially material exploration targets and lower risk in field drilling opportunities.
We look forward to testing these later in the year and in 2016.
Since our fourth quarter call back in February we've received a lot of questions about our inventory work off in 2015 and our projected drilled but uncompleted well inventory going into 2016.
Let me quickly provide you a few numbers that may be helpful for modeling purposes.
We entered 2015 with 207 drilled but uncompleted wells at our North American onshore backlog 80% of which were horizontals.
Based on our current plan we expect to exit 2015 with between 80 and 100 drilled but uncompleted wells essentially all of which will be horizontals.
I would stress that this assumes that we do not add any additional rigs in the second half of the year.
During this period of depressed oil and gas prices Apache is not standing still.
Though we have reduced our rig count we continue to move forward on multiple initiatives that will strengthen the company.
I believe these initiatives will help transform our operational and financial results and ultimately drive incremental shareholder value.
I mentioned them last quarter and would like to close by reiterating them here again today.
We are realigning our North American incentive program to reward continuous improvement and cost discipline.
We are developing detailed medium and longer term field development plans and continue to high grade and build our drilling inventory at multiple price scenarios.
We are continuing to invest heavily in seismic acquisition processing and other technical services to provide a more thorough understanding of our acreage and optimize our drilling and completion techniques.
We are focused on quick payout high return work over and re-completion projects that protect our North American production base and we're consolidating and enhancing our portfolio through opportunistic acreage additions where there is less competition and lower prices.
I have confidence in the positive impact of these initiatives and I'm excited about our people our acreage and our strategy.
Despite the commodity price challenges the entire industry faces I believe Apache will finish this year as a much stronger company then when we began it.
I will now turn the call over to our new CFO Steve Riney who I am very pleased to have on board.
He has only been here a few short months but has already made a significant impact on our organizational capabilities.
Steve? Thank you John and good afternoon.
It's great to be a member of the Apache team.
And I have to say it's everything I hoped it would be and more.
In my three months in the role I have spent most of my time getting to know the business and the people and understanding how we do things.
I have been very impressed with our team.
They're dedicated to always doing the right thing and to growing value for our shareholders.
We also have a terrific set of assets that are more than capable of delivering on that same goal of growing value.
Before I dive into the first quarter performance discussion I thought I would share some of my emerging views on top priorities with respect to the role of finance at Apache.
There are two particular areas where I am focusing my near-term attention: planning and capital allocation.
I have a firm belief that finance plays a key role in stewarding the value proposition for our shareholders.
We don't do this alone.
There are many others who lead very important elements but finance plays a vital role in bringing a dispassionate view into the planning process and the capital allocation process.
In planning we're working to pull together a high-quality view of the next five years as well as to develop a dynamic planning process.
Planning is where opportunity and expectations become aligned.
Shareholders have expectations with respect to operational performance financial delivery and growth.
So there is an element of what we must deliver in the planning process.
Our portfolio presents our current opportunity set.
This is where planning addresses the question of what can we deliver.
Getting these two views aligned builds confidence that long-term delivery is on track and this is what we're trying to accomplish.
We're working the plan with three price scenarios in mind: a low case of flat $50 WTI; a high case of a rise to $80 WTI and then flat; and a base case of the five-year strip.
Recent oil price volatility reminds us we have little control over the price environment and underscores the importance of being prepared to take any necessary steps to correct our course.
We are redesigning the planning process to significantly improve our visibility into the potential impacts of price movements across the portfolio so we are prepared to rebalance the activity set accordingly.
Of course price does not move in a vacuum and we will take into account that costs move in tandem with prices and may do so in very different ways for the various pieces of our portfolio.
In some places costs can move very quickly with price movements potentially providing a natural hedge.
In other places the cost reaction could move much slower.
The capital allocation process is how the plan gets implemented.
We have a tremendous variety of opportunities in our global portfolio and we are working to improve our understanding of how the economics of every element of the portfolio work.
It can be more complicated than it is sometimes portrayed and an appropriate depth of understanding gives confidence that the best opportunities are getting funded and they are truly adding value for our shareholders.
We're also working to establish a strong linkage between the investment economics view of the portfolio and the long-term plan view.
It is not enough to understand the depth of economic opportunities in the portfolio.
We need to understand how that depth changes in different price environments.
And finally the various price assumptions in the plan and the corresponding cash flow generation will establish the pace at which the portfolio of opportunities can actually be funded.
So we have a lot of important work to do but we are already on our way and we have a plan for taking this forward.
Now let me turn to some of the details of our first quarter results.
John and Gary reviewed our earnings and key operational drivers for the quarter so I'll make a few comments about our ceiling-test write down planned use of proceeds from recent asset sales and our 2015 capital spending outlook.
I'll then finish up with some directional guidance for the year on a few other items.
As noted in this morning's press release we reported an after-tax ceiling-test write down of $4.7 billion or $12.48 per share for the first quarter of 2015.
This is a result of the current commodity price environment.
Under full cost accounting our upstream assets are carried at historical cost.
Each quarter we compare this cost basis to a calculated PV-10 value.
To the extent the net book value exceeds the PV-10 valuation the result is a ceiling-test write down.
The ceiling-test employs a methodology prescribed by the SEC which uses trailing 12-month average oil and gas prices.
The PV-10 calculation assumes these average prices are held flat into perpetuity.
The prices for the last two quarters have dramatically reduced our PV-10 calculation.
In addition since today's trailing 12-month prices still reflects several months of higher prices from last year.
If prices do not recover materially you can expect further impairments during the remainder of 2015.
In terms of our planned use of asset divestment proceeds in April we received $3.7 billion of proceeds from our LNG transaction with Woodside and approximately $560 million of U.S.
income taxes has become payable as a result of repatriating these funds.
Of the remaining $3.1 billion $2.6 billion were used in April to pay off commercial paper in short-term bank loans which you will see on the balance sheet at the end of the first quarter.
Around mid-year we anticipate receiving an additional $2.1 billion subject to customary post-closing adjustments upon closing the sale of our remaining Australian oil and gas assets.
We plan to use these proceeds in combination of further debt reduction and cash retention.
On page three of our earnings supplement we provide a net debt reconciliation for the first quarter.
On that same page we present a pro forma view of our actual net debt at March 31 to reflect the asset sale proceeds expected in the second quarter.
With this pro forma view you'll see that our net debt is less than $7 billion which is less than two times our projected 2015 EBITDA assuming $50 WTI and $53 Brent.
Turning to capital spending; we continue to anticipate North American CapEx excluding LNG to be in a range of $2.1 billion to 2.3 billion.
We have no current intentions to expand the planned activity set in North America during 2015.
However if rising oil prices and continued capital efficiency result in 2015 cash flow significantly above plan levels this may change and as John indicated we'll be prepared to respond.
Our anticipated spending levels in the North Sea and Egypt remain unchanged.
As we noted in this morning's press release we're reducing our full-year international capital budget by $150 million as a result of the pending sale of our remaining oil and gas assets in Australia.
Accordingly our revised guidance for international and Gulf of Mexico capital spending is between $1.3 billion and $1.6 billion.
On the cost side both LOE and G&amp;A are experiencing downward pressure in 2015.
These operating expenses came in at just under $10 per BOE during the first quarter which is 5% lower than 2014 actuals.
For G&amp;A as John indicated with the reduction in the scale of the portfolio and reduced activities around the globe overhead costs should be coming down and they are being specifically targeted for reductions.
Some of this has already been accomplished but there is more to do.
Following the closing of our Australian sales we will prevent present a more in-depth view of our cost-cutting efforts especially in the area of G&amp;A spend.
Interest expense for the year is projected to be around $460 million.
Approximately 50% to 60% of this will be capitalized.
On the tax side we anticipate our effective tax rate on adjusted earnings in 2015 will be between 25% and 30%.
Note that this does not include the one-off benefit in deferred taxes for the recently enacted UK tax rate change which we expect to be a little over $600 million.
Operationally you'll see on page two of the first quarter earnings supplement our North America onshore production guidance is unchanged and is expected to be relatively flat compared to 2014.
You'll also see in the earnings supplement that we have updated our pro forma production guidance for the Gulf of Mexico and international operations to be slightly up from 2014.
Please note this guidance now excludes Australia production volumes entirely.
I'd like to close by echoing what John said in his remarks.
Our goal for the remainder of 2015 is to maintain a strong balance sheet to live within our cash flow and to prepare the organization for an efficient ramp up in activity when the cash flows dictate.
We will also continue to be opportunistic but highly disciplined in evaluating new opportunities that may unfold in this challenging price environment.
I am very excited to be a part of the Apache team and I look forward to meeting with many of you down the road.
I will now turn the call over to the operator to begin Q&amp;A.
We'll pause for just a moment to compile the Q&amp;A roster.
The first question will come from Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Thank you.
Good afternoon everybody.
John I wonder if I could take the activity step-up question if I may and it's not so much about – you've laid out what oil price I think you would start to go back to work but you still have a fairly intricate portfolio.
You've got a lot of opportunities.
How would you think about the incremental allocation of capital? For example you're running more rigs in the Eagle Ford right now but if you did go back to work what would be the first call on spending? And I've got a follow-up on the international please.
Okay.
Well Doug thank you.
We have actually worked hard to be in this position to get our activity levels adjusted and obviously address the cost structure.
So it puts us in the position now where we can be opportunistic.
Obviously prices on the strip right are now running ahead of where we planned so it puts us in a position to make some choices.
The first and easiest thing obviously to do would be to put a couple of frack crews in and recomplete some of our drilled but uncompleted wells but we want to be very prudent we want to be opportunistic we're starting to see some acreage things that pop up that might be very additive to long-term shareholder value so Doug we want to be very prudent because we worked hard to get into this position and want to kind of monitor that as the second half of the year unfolds.
We're working through a detailed planning process right now as Steve lined out with three price scenarios and one at $50 flat on the low side the other one at $80 bracketed and then the strip and so that will help us give some guidance in terms of those directions.
Clearly when I look at the portfolio the Delaware Basin is an area and the Permian is an area that we can go in quickly with cash flow in terms of additional activity as we plan to run quite a few more rigs there.
And then also both the Canyon Lime and the Eagle Ford at higher prices we'd scale in there.
But we've got lots of opportunity in front of us and we want to be opportunistic and very careful on where we go forward.
Just to qualify John is the backlog concentrated in one particular area? Or is it pretty much spread around? It's spread around.
The lion's share that we mentioned we came into the year with 207 and 80% of it was horizontal.
We will work off the vertical backlog which was predominantly in the Permian by year-end.
And we said we'd come in – exit right now our plan would be to exit the year with between 80 and the 100 uncompleted wells.
A big chunk of those will remain in the Permian and obviously we've got some in the Eagle Ford and then the other areas.
Okay.
My follow-up John is on the North Sea.
Obviously you had some interruptions this quarter but in the absence of exploration success what is the production prognosis for the North Sea? And maybe if you could just frame into that how you see your backlog of opportunities to hold production flat? I'll leave it there.
Thank you.
Well we're very excited about what we've been able to accomplish in the North Sea.
We're coming off of a Q4 record high for us of over 80 000 BOEs a day.
We've got a deep inventory there.
As part of our capital reductions we did scale back in the North Sea as well.
We've got over 200 identified prospects and locations.
We've got deep inventory.
And for the year Doug from where we are right now we would envision it being relatively flat on a go-forward basis.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
I'll leave it there John.
The next question will come from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Good morning John.
I guess afternoon.
What's changed as far as the Delaware? Can you just give a little more detail what you're seeing why you're getting more aggressive there and why is the remainder of the Permian program going to be focused there? Well we'll be focused in two areas.
Obviously the Delaware even if you go back to our November update we're planning to run four to five rigs there.
That's where we were maintained today and honestly right now the economics there are just slightly higher.
We've also got some testing we're doing there which we think can be differential.
Right now we've only brought on two wells this year.
We plan to drill another or actually complete another 28 wells for the rest of the year.
So we're excited about our position there and we see lots of opportunity.
But we will also be active in the Midland Basin as well as our Central Basin Platform.
About half of our Permian rigs will be in the Delaware and the other half are going to be spread out.
But we're moving into the Midland County Southern Midland Basin area our Wildfire area Powell Miller.
We're excited about those.
We'll actually be doing a Spraberry test later this year in the Wildfire area and we've also been drilling great wells on the Central Basin Platform.
So it's just part of our portfolio and right now the economics over there are slightly better than they'd be in the other areas.
But we're excited about all the areas.
Okay.
And just as a follow-up if I think about the Delaware it looks like the couple of wells that you highlighted during the quarter in the supplement were in the third Bone spring.
Can you give us any color as to where you plan to focus – those four rigs? Is there any zone in particular standing out? Can give us any color on that? Well it really depends on the area.
If you look at our Pecos Bend area where the two Condor wells are we drilled 31 wells to-date.
21 of those have been in the third Bone springs.
We've had six in the Wolfcamp and four in the second Bone springs.
Right now we're kind of dialed in on the third Bone springs and there's a couple landing zones in there.
You move into the other areas and that's the nice thing about the Delaware is you've got multiple targets anywhere from the Avalon to the first second or third Bone springs or down to the Wolfcamp and some other zones.
So the nice thing is it kind of depends on the area you're in but with where those rigs are focused.
All right.
Thanks.
The next question will come from Leo Mariani with RBC Capital Markets.
Hey.
You guys came out in your prepared comments and talked about having a position at 50 000 acres kind of in the Woodford Springer area.
I'm just trying to get a sense if this was a legacy position in the portfolio or something that you guys leased recently.
And maybe if you can just provide a little bit more color regarding your comments about some leasing opportunities that have been picking up here? Well I'll start out with the Woodford.
It is predominantly legacy acreage.
Last year we did sprinkle in some sections around there.
And we have been blocking that up as we have been most of our key core areas.
Currently we've got one well the Ellis 14-4-6 number 1Hs it's right now on completion.
We've got two rigs out there and we're drilling two wells the Ellis 14 number 2H and the Truman well.
So we've got three wells we'll be bringing on in the very near future.
We're very excited about the rates.
We've got about 200 000 acres there gross and about 50 000 net and it's a nice little position that can be very material for us.
In general obviously we're seeing some opportunities in all of our core areas.
And that where we're busy trying to core up acreage prep things and be prepared for when we allocate more capital to some of the high-value areas.
All right.
And I guess you guys obviously spoke about some really nice cost reductions here that you've seen here recently on your wells.
And a lot of that was focused in the Permian with some of the costs coming down.
I wanted to get a sense if you guys are also not only seeing cost reductions but are you seeing improvements in the wells just better efficiency as you guys tweak frac design and you're seeing the wells in the Permian get better here of late.
Maybe you can speak to that? Yeah I mean the first thing is we did a very detailed dive on the EURs in the plays in November.
And since that time we've brought on some wells but not many.
You look at the Delaware we brought on two wells.
They are outperforming our type curve so we're doing some things there technically which we think can improve those.
But with two wells on they've only been on 60 days I'm not in a position right now to be updating type curves.
And the same is pretty much true in our other areas.
Our Canyon Lime wells are coming on relative to type curves.
In the Eagle Ford we've got some slightly above some under.
So we feel really good about those areas.
We are seeing cost we've kind of dialed in 10% to 15% on the last call when we talked about the plan for 2015.
Clearly we said that they're going to range from 20% to 40% right now.
We're seeing on average about 25%.
A lot of that's attributable to the service side.
But a lot of it's just more people now focused on ways to drive cost out and doing a better job planning our wells.
And clearly if prices remain where they are we're going to see costs further align and come down for the rest of 2015.
I guess previously you folks had spoken in the past predominantly last year about separating North American business from the rest of the international properties.
I just wanted to see if there's any kind of status update on that or if you've got kind of a new way of thinking about any type of separation of the business lines.
Well we addressed that on the first quarter call.
But the key objectives with us on our international portfolio were two.
One unload our LNG which we have done signed closed.
And then we announced the sale of Australia.
I think that leaves us with a portfolio now that we plan to stick with we're excited to have.
We're 60% to 70% North America.
If you look at our North Sea and our Egypt operations we've got world-class people there as well as leading positions.
And the nice thing about both the international assets they complement our North American portfolio they're Brent pricing.
And the other thing is the way the PSCs and the tax regimes work you've actually got less sensitivity to lower oil prices in terms of after tax cash flow.
So going forward we're going to as we work through our planning process we're working through North America we're also working through Egypt and the North Sea and we will be outlining longer-term plans.
But we're very happy with the portfolio as it stands today.
Thank you very much.
The next question will come from Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
Good afternoon.
Question on that impairment the $4.7 billion.
Can you give some detail what assets were involved there? Yeah Bob.
So the primary assets that were involved there were the U.S.
Canada and the North Sea.
There was about a $7.2 billion gross impairment.
You'll see in the 10-Q it'll be released later today that $5.2 billion of that was in the U.S.
$1.4 billion of that was in Canada and about $600 million of that was in the North Sea.
All of that's on a pre-tax basis.
Okay.
And the U.S.
assets how would those split? Yeah we're not providing a breakdown of that into the U.S.
Okay.
And then a follow-up on the net proceeds what's the ultimate use of those net proceeds that you've collected from Australia? So we collected $3.7 billion pre-tax proceeds.
We've got about a $600 million tax liability that will get paid later this year so the $3.1 billion net $2.6 billion of that went in the month of April to pay down the debt the short-term debt that existed on the balance sheet at the end of 1Q.
The $2.1 billion that will be coming in sometime right around midyear for the second Australia transaction that $2.1 billion will be used as a combination of debt pay down and some cash retention.
We haven't decided exactly the ratio of that yet but I would say the majority of that will be going to debt pay down.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Arun Jayaram from Credit Suisse.
Good afternoon John and Steve.
My first question regards the new planning process that's under way.
I think you articulated maybe three different pricing scenarios that you would look at.
I was just wondering if you could give us a sense of when this planning process is completed what will be – will there be a new set of targets that you'll communicate to the Street and could this potentially impact your views on 2015 production and capital? Yeah Arun at this point we're working through that.
Obviously we've got early looks but we're taking a really deep dive at the portfolio and one of the keys is it's an iterative process as you have to try to really synchronize cost with price environment for each of those.
So what we're really trying to do is put some sidebars on the world we'll be operating in as we start to take a longer-term view.
I don't envision anything impacting 2015 from where we sit today for how we budgeted it.
And so we feel good about where we are but we'll be working through that and over the next several months we'll get to where we have an internal view as we start to think about how we react going into 2016.
Great.
Great.
Obviously John the balance sheet is in a different place or will be once you complete the transactions.
You commented in the press release about potentially being opportunistic yet disciplined.
Historically Apache has been a counter-cyclical investor so where is your head at in thinking about potential acquisitions and would you be focused in on your core area or look for new areas? Well Arun where my head is right now is delivering value for the shareholders and trying to maximize that.
And I think we have positioned ourselves very nicely.
The nice thing is we have high-quality assets and deep inventory but we also are always opportunistic and always in looking at opportunities so if there was something that we thought made sense and incrementally might add value then we might be willing to move forward on it.
But in general we're happy with our asset base and we're going to be very selective but clearly we're in a position where we have a lot of flexibility and you'd never know what might present itself.
Okay.
Just my final question as you think about capital allocation to the Permian this year could you give us a sense of what percentage of your CapEx perhaps ballpark is going for Midland versus Delaware and how that could shift over time given your comments on the Delaware today? Well I mean when we look at where we sit right now kind of like even like what we lined out in November about 60% of our CapEx on North America is in the Permian.
When you look at what we've done with the price environment we've slowed down much more so than we had planned in the Eagle Ford and the Canyon Lime and even Canada.
So for the bulk of the year the majority of our capital is going to be going into the Permian.
I would say that in terms of if we were to add incrementally the Southern Midland Basin would be an area we've got the best – most flexibility and things ready to drill that we could move quicker on.
We had kind of planned even in higher capital and prices to run the number of rigs we're running in the Delaware.
So we like our pace right there given our asset base so I would say incrementally we'd probably add first in the Delaware or we might choose to accelerate in the Delaware or add in the Midland Basin.
Okay.
Thanks a lot John.
The next question will come from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Good afternoon John and to the rest of your team there.
If I could ask a question about those Wildfire wells that you just mentioned in your operations report.
Presumably if you were ready to share already you would have put it in there.
But you did I believe say that the early flow back was very favorable on those four wells so I wonder if you could perhaps condition us a bit on – give us a background on did you batch drill and batch complete those four wells? Did they just come on in the last week or so and what is it? Is it the total fluid volume that's being moved that has you feeling it's favorable? Well Charles what I'll say is I'll go ahead and give a little bit of color.
We've got four roughly 7 500 foot Wolfcamp B wells that are in what we call the Lynch Unit.
All four wells were completed in late March.
We've got all of them on in less than three weeks so we're not ready to talk about 30-day rates they're going to be second quarter wells.
But they've been encouraging.
In general we've had an average kind of peak IP of around 1 400 BOEs a day they're 70% to 80% oil.
So we're very excited about them and we're flowing them back very conservatively.
So we're very very encouraged.
Additionally we've got about three wells there we'll drill in 2015 and delineate and optimize and test our fracs and then it sets us up for quite a drilling program there going forward when we decided to scale up.
We also plan to test a Spraberry shale well there probably in the third or fourth quarter of this year.
Got it.
Got it.
That's great additional detail John.
And then if I could ask another question.
This goes back to the drilled uncompleted count that you expect to have at year-end 2015.
I think you said it was 80 to 100.
Perhaps you could tell me if I'm thinking about this the right way but if you're running 15 rigs and just to make the math easy let's say your average drill time or drill and complete time is – I guess spud to rig release would be the appropriate thing is 30-days that would imply kind of a six-month backlog there.
And if you cut it in half and say okay well our spud to rig release is 15 days it gets down to about a three-month backlog.
So both of those seem sort of high to me and it makes me wonder if you plan to continue to work down that backlog as you go into 2016 and could you tell me is that the right way to look at that? Well what I'll say is what it tells you is we're going to carry.
We're not just aggressively moving through our backlog.
And that's a function of cash flow and being very disciplined.
Clearly we could go complete a lot of wells today if we wanted to.
We're going to take a very measured approach.
We're being very careful with how we allocate our capital and how we handle it this year but it puts us in a position where we will enter 2016 with a lot of flexibility just like we entered 2015.
Got it.
That's what I was after.
Thanks a lot John.
The next question will come from Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.
Hi.
Good afternoon everybody.
I was just wondering you've talked about cost improvement and performance improvement.
Around these oil prices with this level of spending where would you anticipate your volumes to be growing or not growing in 2016? And is there a price of oil that you can share with us where you feel that if we saw that price you would start to reaccelerate the activity? Thanks.
Well good questions Paul.
What I'd say is number one it's cash flow for us that matters.
I don't worry as much about oil price.
What I'll say is we're taking a very hard look right now and going through a very rigorous planning process which kind of brackets some scenarios.
And we're looking at a range which we would mirror – kind of mirror the cost structure to those oil prices and look at that.
So as we get further into the year into the next quarter and we get closer to 2016 and things crystallize we'll start to be more candid on where we are for 2016.
Right.
So I was just wondering if we could get a sense given the way performance is improving let's say for example you held your CapEx at these levels how would you anticipate your performance in volumes to be next year? What I'll say is clearly if we're in a low price environment capital in 2016's going to go further than it went in 2015 because costs are going to be lower we're seeing efficiencies.
Additionally with the G&amp;A reductions and things we're targeting we will be able to put more dollars in.
So through the efficiencies and that sort of thing it's going to take less in 2016 to deliver than we have in 2015 but beyond that we're working through a rigorous process we're going to stay committed to bracketing kind of the environment we're in and then communicating that at a later date.
Understood.
I can kind of sense that you're in the process so it's hard to talk about but I'll just try one more.
Could you just put some numbers around the cost savings that you've achieved and maybe where you think we may be by the end of the year? And I'll leave it there thanks.
Well we outlined in February a 15% reductions from our November levels on our well-by-well basis.
If you look at it today I've said today we'd be at least 25%.
So the one thing is we came into the 2015 hot.
We spent a lot of our capital so if you look at our go-forward capital for 2015 we're seeing down 25% on average from the levels that we had in November 20.
Okay.
And you think there's more to come? Absolutely.
All right.
Thanks.
The next question will come from Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Co.
Yeah.
Good afternoon John.
Thank you for taking my questions.
John just following up on Paul's question there just to clarify so if you were to hold CapEx flat in 2016 versus 2015 in North America do you think you'd be able to grow production? Pearce we're early.
I don't want to give you overall numbers because we're working through planning.
I'm just – my point was if I hold CapEx flat I'm going to get more out of it in 2016 than I got out of it in 2015.
Okay.
Great.
And then on Egypt it seems like the political environment has become more stable.
You had some – the permits that you got on the concessions were faster it looked like this most recent round.
Is the arrow pointed up in Egypt? And if so could you end up allocating more capital there? Yeah I think clearly the investment area there is improving and if you go back even though the Arab Spring we've never skipped a beat.
So it's in general the investment has always been good for us.
We've got a great relationship with the Egyptian government and we did set record times and bring in Ptah and Berenice on but we've been that way in the past.
So lot of advantages.
It's clearly the sentiment is turning and like the rest of our business we're excited about it and that's one of the options we'll have on the table as we start to think about if we have incremental cash flow where would we put it.
The next question will come from James Sullivan with Alembic Global Advisors.
Hey good afternoon folks.
I just want to go back for a second to the Condor wells in the Delaware.
Just want to see – the 30-day IP you gave of those was not is not normalized for lateral and the short lateral length is that right? That is correct.
Okay.
Great.
So that's a good number.
Just to follow-up on that your position out in the Delaware seems to consist more of the smaller lease configurations.
What is the appetite? You guys have talked about bolt-ons and leasehold.
What's your appetite or can you describe the environment for trying to block up your acreage? Obviously I'm sure there's always appetite to do it but with firming up in prices are the bid asks just too tough and would you migrate over the river into Reeves to try to do that and where you might get a better pricing? Well I mean I think we're obviously very high in the Delaware.
We've got lots of room to build off of and we've got inventory for many years on our existing acreage position.
It's one of the areas that clearly that if we felt like we could add something at attractive prices that we'd look at.
Okay.
Sounds good.
Just to go to the international piece.
Obviously since you guys are thinking about the North Sea and Egypt as a retained part of the portfolio could you just remind me this is probably something I should know but could you just tell me what the challenges are associated with the cycling that free cash flow back to the U.S.
under kind of a normal retained asset accounting? I know that those should be free cash flowing generally if you think about a normalized price environment so the idea that feeding the U.S.
will be a positive thing but just want to see what the tax implications would be of that? Yeah James.
We don't see any significant issues with cycling cash back to the U.S.
now especially with eliminating the election to permanently reinvest earnings overseas and we'll be able to do that with a significant amount of foreign tax credits as well going forward.
The next question will come from Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers Investment Research.
Inc.</span></strong> Howdy? Hi Jim.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi John I wanted to ask you first a broad question and then a specific one.
You mentioned a couple of times on the call today that $65 a barrel was an encouraging number let's say.
I'm just wondering do we mean that you're looking at it as something that you have an ability to hedge at $65 or do you have a certain amount of time you want to see stability around $65 a barrel before you begin to start pulling levers? What I would say is right now we're not hedged.
Our best hedge is our activity levels which we are able to mirror.
Clearly we would look at – hedging is a tool that we could use before we started to make some longer-term commitments in terms of activity levels as we went into these plays.
The point is for the Canyon Lime and the Eagle Ford when you get into the $60 to $65 range that's an area where they become very attractive for us to put capital back to work.
But as I said in my prepared notes they'd have to compete with the other opportunity set.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
And the other question I wanted to ask was about the Eagle Ford itself.
I think you gave a little bit more color or at least maybe I noticed it this time a little more color and complexity in the play.
Now you've got a lot of 3D seismic covers.
And I also remember last quarter you said sometimes it's not such a bad thing to be forced to slow down a little bit.
And I'm wondering if the path forward here for a little while is to use this 3D to try to figure out the better places to not only – better ways to complete your wells but maybe even thinking about better places to drill preparatory to the time when you return rigs there? Well actually would you look at the Eagle Ford we're dealing with four phases across our acreage position.
We've got black oil we've got volatile oil we've got wet gas and we've got obviously dry gas which we're not obviously focused on.
As you look across those three areas you've got 38 wells to complete Jeff 17 in Area A as we lined out back in November and 21 in Area B.
We've been focused on our cost side.
I think we have made significant progress on the drilling side.
So it's just optimizing completions and working on improving the economics.
So we'll be working on that and providing updates later in the year.
The final question will come from Michael Rowe with Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for squeezing me in here.
I just had one quick question on the Permian.
Can you talk a little bit more about the growth in oil volumes for the rest of the year while gas stays flat? Is that a function of the weather impact reversing itself here or is it that you're leading on your completion backlog? How should we think about the growth there in oil with the reduced capital spending? Well there's two things.
Number one obviously from where we are first quarter we did have weather impacts.
So there's a piece of that.
The other thing is though we only brought on two Delaware Basin wells.
So we've got pretty good inventory ahead of us.
In fact if you go back to our Q4 we did not bring on a lot.
So we're sitting with some nice things coming on and as you get into the second quarter and into the summer months we've got some key pads and some things we'll be bringing on which are going to help drive the liquids in the Permian coming forward.
So we've just got a lot of our stuff in front of us.
We've moved into the Southern Midland Basin Wolfcamp so we've got a lot of exciting things to bring on even at the reduced activity levels in the Permian.
And then I can't underscore our base decline.
We've got 25% 26% across North America and a nice thing about us relative to our peers is having a big Central Basin Platform position where our decline rates and the water floods we've got 45 water floods we've got seven CO2 floods having a lot of that low decline base really helps in terms of our volumes out there.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
Appreciate the detail there and then one quick question on the North Sea.
Was curious about the 3D seismic survey that you're doing there at the Beryl field because you're working on some drilling plans.
And subject to more capital availability you would maybe consider drilling some more wells there.
Does that savings of $150 million from selling Australia does that kind of give you the capital availability to potentially put a few more North Sea wells in the 2015 program or is that more planning for 2016 drilling? I would say we've got a plan right now.
We've got brand-new 3D there which we're excited about.
The 150 comes out of Australia reductions.
So clearly anything we decide to add anywhere is going to be a function of future generation off our existing base.
But there is opportunity in the North Sea.
We've got some exciting things we will be testing later this year and well into 2016 and beyond.
So it gets back to the depth and the opportunity to generate value over the long haul.
The thing I would add about the North Sea that's differential for us is in both of our big complexes we have made significant investments in our infrastructure that pushes our abandonment timeframe way out into the 2030 range.
And we've spent over $1 billion at Forties which gives us long long runway there.
And the same thing at Beryls we've spent $300 million there over the last few years which gives us lots of runway in time and we're very excited about the opportunity set.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Suzy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Apache Corporation 2015 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Gary Clark Vice President of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Clark you may begin your conference.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining us on Apache Corporation's second quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Speakers making prepared remarks on today's call will be Apache's CEO and President John Christmann; and CFO Steve Riney.
Also joining us in the room is Tom Voytovich Executive Vice President of International and Offshore; as well as Tim Sullivan Senior Vice President of Operations.
In conjunction with this morning's press release I hope you have had the opportunity to review our quarterly earnings supplement which summarizes our operational activities and well highlights across various Apache operating regions.
The supplement also includes information on our revised full-year guidance capital expenditures for the quarter as well as a chart that illustrates cash sources and uses and reconciles Apache's change in net debt during the second quarter of 2015.
Our earnings release the accompanying financial tables and non-GAAP reconciliations and our quarterly earnings supplement can all be found on our website at www.apachecorp.com.
I'd like to remind everyone that today's discussions will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
However a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental data on our website.
And I would now like to turn the call over to John.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Gary.
Good afternoon and thank you all for joining us today.
I'm very pleased with our second quarter results and the tremendous amount of progress we have made refocusing our asset base strengthening our balance sheet and restructuring our operational organization.
Importantly we are continuing to deliver on our cost initiatives and we are exceeding our previously established production goals.
During the quarter we closed on the sales of our LNG business and remaining oil and gas assets in Australia which served to more strategically align our portfolio with our core competencies.
In doing so we greatly enhanced our balance sheet strength and liquidity position.
Additionally we reduced our drilling and completion activities and overall spending to a level that is more in line with the current commodity price environment.
We also realigned our management and regional operating structure to drive greater efficiencies and we implemented meaningful new initiatives to reduce overall G&amp;A costs.
Finally we delivered strong production both domestically and internationally which is prompting us to raise our 2015 production guidance.
Looking ahead we anticipate having strong production momentum as we exit 2015 and believe that we will have the flexibility to live within 2016 cash flow while maintaining relatively stable year-over-year production levels.
Now I'd like to review our operational results in greater detail.
During the second quarter onshore North American production averaged 317 000 BOEs per day and once again came in ahead of our expectations.
This was driven by strong operational performance across the entire portfolio and in particular from new well contributions in the Permian and the Eagle Ford.
Our performance internationally was also impressive.
Excluding Australia pro forma production from international and Gulf of Mexico was 172 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Egypt was a significant driver during the quarter as delineation of the Ptah and Berenice oil fields continued to drive gross production sequentially higher.
In the North Sea our production declined modestly from the first quarter as a result of two seasonal platform maintenance turnarounds but was still above internal expectations due to production efficiencies.
We have also had recent drilling success in the North Sea which I will discuss in a few minutes.
Our performance on the capital side during the quarter was in line with our expectations.
Expenditures on continuing operations before leasehold acquisitions capitalized interest and non-controlling interest were $857 million which was down 28% from the first quarter.
In addition to realizing service cost reductions Apache is delivering solid drilling and completion efficiency gains which is critical in this low oil price environment.
At the beginning of the year we took aggressive steps to address our cost structure and established a plan to reduce drilling and completion costs by at least (5:30) levels.
Year-to-date we have already achieved the 15% reduction and are on a run rate for an approximate 25% reduction for the remainder of the year.
We now believe that there are potentially even more cost savings over and above the 25% if oil prices remain at current levels.
Our lease operating expenditures per BOE were down 13% year-over-year in the second quarter and our G&amp;A run rate is following quickly as a result of the overhead initiatives that we are pursuing on multiple fronts.
Steve Riney will provide some more details in a few minutes on those items as well as some forward-looking guidance.
As noted in our press release this morning we raised our full-year 2015 onshore North American production guidance to between 305 000 BOE to 308 000 BOEs per day the midpoint of which is up approximately 5 000 BOEs per day from our prior implied guidance.
We are also effectively raising our international guidance as we now see production in Egypt and the North Sea up 5% to 8% this year on a pro forma basis which is a notable increase from our previous guidance of up slightly.
Looking at our onshore North American production profile for the remainder of the year we expect third quarter production will be down sequentially from the second quarter.
This is due primarily to monthly well completion timing planned downtime associated with offset fracing operations and planned facility and plant maintenance in the Permian.
In the fourth quarter however we expect a strong production rebound and project that December will be our highest production month in the fourth quarter absent any adverse weather events.
Overall we feel very good about our performance to date and our projected production momentum as we enter 2016.
It is important to note that we are in the process of developing our initial 2016 plan as well as our five-year plan.
This will put us in a better position to provide more thoughts around next year's production and capital outlook on our third quarter call.
I'd like to now discuss some of our key operational areas and activity plans for the remainder of the year.
During the second quarter we operated an average of 34 rigs company-wide with 15 rigs in North America 12 rigs in Egypt and 7 rigs in the North Sea.
In North America we completed 63 gross operated wells during the quarter which was a 51% decrease from the first quarter.
Despite the significant drop in completion activity our onshore North American production grew by 9300 barrels of oil equivalent per day sequentially.
The majority of this increase was driven by the Permian Basin where we delivered strong new well results and experienced a bounce back from the tough first quarter weather conditions and shut-ins.
We consider our Permian Basin to be advantaged in this current environment due to a relatively low base decline rate of approximately 22%.
This is aided by our Central Basin Platform and North West Shelf assets which represent approximately half of our gross production from the Permian and have a decline rate of roughly 14%.
We have several production enhancement initiatives under way including various water flood activities and ESP installations that serve to protect our base decline rate at a fairly low capital cost.
In the Delaware Basin we saw a strong oil performance in the Pecos Bend area and generated positive results from our delineation and target testing.
Drilling at our 7-well Osprey pad confirmed good performance from 660 foot down-spaced wells and also helped to confirm an additional landing zone in the third Bone Spring formation which appears to be performing as well as our primary target in the third Bone Spring.
In the Waha area we placed our first two wells online during the last week of June.
Initial results look encouraging and we will update you on this area next quarter.
At our North American update on November 20 of last year we shared an average well cost for the Delaware Basin of $8 million.
Today we are drilling those wells in the mid to upper $5 million range and our target is to get down closer to $5 million which would represent an approximate 35% reduction from November 20.
In the Midland Basin we ran three rigs during the second quarter with one in our Wildfire area one in Powell-Miller and one at Azalea.
Our first four wells at Wildfire in Midland County showed strong 30-day average IP rates of 1 090 BOEs per day in the middle Wolfcamp.
We plan to complete an additional eight wells in this area during the second half of the year three of which will be drilled to the lower Spraberry.
During the second half of the year we will be completing 11 wells in the Powell-Miller and Azalea areas which we anticipate will contribute solid results.
Lastly at Barnhart we brought on four wells during the quarter which exhibited some of the strongest results we have seen to-date across the field.
In the Central Basin Platform and North West Shelf we see numerous opportunities across our acreage position to continue drilling wells with high rates of return.
We are currently focusing on areas such as the Cedar Lake Yeso play and the Seth Campbell Clearfork play which are highlighted in our quarterly supplement.
These plays offer relatively inexpensive drilling and completion cost thus yielding very attractive rates of return in today's low commodity price environment.
Turning to the Eagle Ford.
During the second quarter we made important progress in optimizing our completion techniques and significantly improving flow rates on the four new wells we brought online.
Our current focus in the Eagle Ford has primarily been in Area A at Ferguson Crossing in Brazos County.
During the second quarter we brought online four key wells two on our Walker pad and two on our Rae pad.
The 30-day average IP of the two Walker wells was 1 935 barrels of oil equivalent per day which significantly exceeds Apache's Area A type curve and represents our highest flow rates in the Eagle Ford play to-date.
Based on these results we plan to add a rig back into the Eagle Ford at Ferguson Crossing during the second half of 2015 which will help us continue optimization and delineation of this highly prospective area.
In the Midcontinent which was formerly our Central region production was down 7% sequentially from the first quarter as a result of natural declines and reduced activity.
During the second quarter we completed only six wells compared to 24 wells during the first quarter.
Apache's primary focus in the Midcontinent is delineating our Woodford/SCOOP acreage and continued testing of the Canyon Lime play.
In the Woodford we have one rig drilling and delineating our 50 000 plus net acres primarily in Grady County and we plan to add another rig in the fourth quarter of 2015.
We recently brought online our first Woodford well of 2015 with very good initial results.
The Truman 28-6-6 #1H a 16-stage 4 400 foot lateral tested at a peak rate of 392 barrels of oil and 6.9 million cubic feet of gas per day on a 20/64-inch choke.
We plan to complete at least three more Woodford wells this year including a two-well pad that is waiting on completion and another well which is currently drilling.
In Canada we had very little drilling and completion activity during the quarter.
However our production declined less than expected due to minimal weather-related downtime.
The next significant activity scheduled is the completion of our seven-well Duvernay pad in the fourth quarter of this year.
Turning to our international operations.
In Egypt Apache's continued exploration and development success is driving better-than-expected production volumes year-to-date.
As noted in our press release we experienced positive results during the quarter at our Ptah and Berenice oil fields in the Faghur Basin.
We now have nine wells online at these new fields producing a combined gross rate of more than 23 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
During the second quarter the Ptah-5X exploration well appraised the northeast flank of the Ptah field and is flowing at a restricted rate of 3 000 barrels of oil per day.
We also drilled and completed our first development well which flowed at a 30-day average IP rate of more than 3 000 barrels of oil per day.
Apache has five wells drilled in the Ptah field all of which are currently producing.
In the Berenice field Apache drilled an additional development well during the quarter that logged 93 feet of pay and is now online.
This marks the fifth well drilled to-date in the Berenice field four of which are currently producing.
Our current 2P reserve estimate for the Ptah and Berenice fields is approximately 50 million barrels which we believe will require a total of 20 wells to 25 wells to fully develop.
During the quarter Apache achieved an exploration success rate in Egypt of 78% which is significantly above the company's historical average.
In the North Sea two seasonal platform maintenance turnarounds reduced output by approximately 3 300 barrels of oil equivalent per day but production still exceeded our internal plan.
We anticipate a strong second half of the year which has minimal scheduled maintenance downtime.
As a result we now project that pro forma North Sea production will be flat year-over-year compared to our previous expectation of down slightly.
In the Beryl field area we made a significant exploration discovery with the 9/19 B/K well which we refer to as the K prospect.
The well encountered 235 feet of net pay in two Jurassic-age sandstone reservoirs.
Apache's pre-drill mean unrisked reserve estimate for the K prospect was approximately 7 million barrels of oil equivalent and given our initial test results we believe recoverable reserves are likely to significantly exceed this estimate.
The field will be developed as a subsea tie-back into existing infrastructure.
The K prospect well was our first exploration well and only our tenth well drilled in the Beryl area since acquiring the field in 2011.
We look forward to demonstrating the future reserve and production growth potential at Beryl.
Also in the Beryl area Apache brought its first subsea development well on production at the Nevis Central field.
The S67 well encountered 114 feet of net pay and achieved an initial production rate of approximately 11 500 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Egypt and the North Sea continued to provide excellent diversification to the Apache portfolio and reduced the overall volatility of our cash flow profile in this low oil price environment.
Returns at $50 oil in these regions are very economic.
And we plan to provide more detail around the portfolio depth and quality of these two businesses in the future.
At the beginning of 2015 we established a conservative budget that assumed a $50 WTI and $53 Brent oil prices.
Although prices came in above these levels in the first half of the year the recent retreat in oil prices underscores the importance of our conservative budget and capital spending approach.
As we enter the back half of 2015 Apache is achieving efficiency gains and cost reductions that are enabling us to increase our planned drilling and completion activities.
In North America we are now planning to run an average of 16 rigs in the second half of the year 13 rigs of which will be in the Permian Basin one will be in the Eagle Ford and two will be drilling in the Woodford/SCOOP play.
We now expect to reach total depth on approximately 40 wells to 50 more wells than our original 2015 plan and to complete approximately 30 wells to 35 more wells than originally planned.
Internationally we plan to average 17 rigs in the second half of the year which is down slightly from second quarter levels.
However we plan to complete approximately 15 wells to 20 more wells than previously planned most of which are in Egypt.
This incremental activity will positively impact our production trajectory as we enter 2016 while having only a minimal impact on our full-year 2015 production volumes.
In conjunction with this activity increase we are tightening our capital expenditure guidance range to between $3.6 billion and $3.9 billion.
Apache is staying within our dramatically reduced capital spending budget while at the same time exceeding our production goals for the year.
Our strategy in this low oil and gas price environment is to continue working on our cost structure continue investing in acreage and 3D seismic and continue key play delineation and target testing such that when it is time to ramp up our drilling program we will be doing so in the most efficient manner possible which will maximize program rates of return and net present value.
To sum up we made very good progress in the second quarter.
We completed our major asset sales and put our balance sheet in excellent shape.
We reduced our drilling and completion program to levels that are appropriately aligned with the current commodity price environment.
We realigned our regional operation structure to drive greater efficiency and technical collaboration.
We made significant reductions in our run rate G&amp;A and overhead costs.
And we delivered strong production both domestically and internationally which resulted in an increase to our 2015 guidance.
And with that I would like to turn the call over to Steve Riney.
Thank you John and good afternoon.
As John said we had a very good first half 2015 and we are very well positioned even if the current low oil price environment persists.
I would like to take some time to highlight the financial positioning of Apache and what we have accomplished in terms of driving down our cost structure consistent with the current price environment utilizing divestment proceeds to reduce debt and to improve near-term liquidity extending our credit facility to ensure liquidity through to June 2020 and aggressively adjusting our activity level to live within our means on an ongoing cash flow basis.
But first let me highlight the second quarter financial results.
As noted in this morning's press release Apache reported a GAAP loss of $5.6 billion or $14.83 per common share.
This includes after-tax charges for a ceiling-test impairment of $3.7 billion as well as $1.9 billion of other items mostly after-tax losses and tax expense associated with the company's assets sold during the quarter.
Our earnings for the quarter adjusted for these items were $82 million or $0.22 per share.
As in the prior two quarters we experienced a ceiling-test impairment in second quarter resulting from the continuing low price environment.
Under full cost accounting our upstream assets are carried at historical costs.
Each quarter we compare this cost basis to a PV-10 value calculated using trailing 12-month average oil and gas prices held flat into perpetuity.
To the extent the net book value exceeds the PV-10 valuation the result is a ceiling-test write-down.
We expect further ceiling-test impairments in the second half of 2015.
As outlined in more detail in our 10-Q based on June 30 2015 forward strip prices.
For the remainder of this year we would expect to incur an additional $3.5 billion post-tax impairment.
One notable impact of the ceiling-test impairments on our financial results going forward will be a reduction to our unit DD&amp;A rate.
For example our DD&amp;A per BOE during the second quarter was 20% lower than it otherwise would have been as a result of impairments taken in 4Q 2014 and 1Q 2015.
Forward-looking impacts are uncertain as they will depend on many factors beyond just ongoing impairments.
Let me now turn to costs.
The following oil price environment and subsequent activity reduction across the industry has resulted in significant downward pressure on service costs and we are generally seeing lower trends in most major cost categories.
More specifically for Apache much of the improvement in our cost structure is being driven by our belief that we should prepare ourselves for an extended period of lower prices.
Accordingly we have put considerable effort into poring over every aspect of our cost structure.
Since the end of 2014 we have reduced head count by approximately 20% consolidated certain regional offices and streamlined the organizational structure.
These actions are generating significant savings in our overhead cost structure.
The measurement of overhead costs can be complex from an accounting perspective.
A good proxy for our overhead cost structure is the gross cash spend for everything above the field.
At the end of 2014 these costs were running approximately $1 billion annually.
The combined effect of our portfolio changes and extensive efficiency efforts across the organization will bring our current run rate to below $750 million.
Our goal is to enter 2016 at a run rate around $700 million.
These overhead cost show up in our financial statements in various places.
On average about 20% typically appears in lease operating expense 45% in expensed G&amp;A and 35% in capitalized G&amp;A.
Thus these savings will manifest in many different ways.
The bottom line though is it represents cash savings of about $300 million per year which can now be better utilized to create shareholder value.
On the lease operating expense side our second quarter LOE was just over $9 per BOE which is 13% lower than second quarter 2014.
As John indicated we believe in this price environment there will be continued downward pressure on all costs and this includes lease operating expenses.
Next I would like to make a few comments regarding our balance sheet position and liquidity.
While we've certainly accomplished a lot in terms of focusing our portfolio we have also improved our overall financial strength.
In particular we have reduced debt levels extended our credit facilities and we are now eliminating certain nearer-term debt maturities.
Our proceeds from divestments enabled us to pay off $2.7 billion of short-term debt in the second quarter.
We ended the quarter with long-term debt of $9.7 billion and nearly $3 billion of cash and have recently initiated steps to pay off $900 million of outstanding 2017 bonds.
Following this we will have no long-term debt maturing prior to 2018.
As mentioned in our 1Q call the sale of our foreign assets and the repatriation of the proceeds triggered a U.S.
income tax payable of $560 million.
Actual cash payment of this liability will occur in the second half of 2015 so I would like to point out that our current net debt of $6.7 billion should be considered as being closer to $7.3 billion.
As of June 30 2015 Apache held access to an undrawn commercial paper program backed by our $3.5 billion credit facility which was recently extended through to June 2020.
Combined with our current cash position and the maturity profile of our long-term debt our liquidity is in very good shape.
Having established this position we are also working hard to protect it.
As John has indicated many times we are aggressively working to live within our means on a cash-flow basis.
Obviously that was a difficult task for the first half of the year as prices declined rapidly and activity took time to ramp down.
John spoke previously about our activity level for the second half of 2015.
We are positioning our second half exploration and development activity at a pace that if continued would target cash flow neutrality for 2016.
Our goal has been and continues to be to live within our means on a cash-flow basis.
We have taken significant actions to achieve this and it has proven to be the prudent course.
However we want to balance these efforts with continued investment in an inventory of high quality opportunities that still work in this price environment.
We have made great strides to position the company to be successful in a low-commodity-price environment.
We knew that if we could be successful at $50 oil we would certainly be successful at higher prices.
The company is in a solid foundation with a healthy balance sheet substantial liquidity and improving cost structure commensurate with the price environment and a capital activity plan to live within our means as we enter 2016.
We will remain opportunistic but highly disciplined in the manner that we allocate capital in this challenging environment.
I look forward to a successful second half of the year.
And we'll now turn the call over to the operator for Q&amp;A.
Our first question comes from the line of Dave Tameron of Wells Fargo.
Hi.
Congrats on a good quarter.
John how do you think about the price level here when you're at $45 versus $50 versus $40? And at what level would you see yourselves going the other way and pulling back a little bit? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Dave I mean I think the first thing is we took a more conservative approach earlier in the year when we kind of carved out a $50 budget back in February.
So it's put us in a position where we've been counting the – trying to get our heads around what $50 means and working hard on our cost structure.
You know I think clearly with the – when you look at the activity increase while we're adding back three rigs in North America it's really going to be just one rig increase over what we ran in the second quarter.
So we're trying to kind of streamline our activity with where we envision things would be in that price range as you mentioned.
I think the good news is we've got flexibility and as we're working on our plans for 2016 right now we'll work on it even harder but we've got flexibility to move up or down from this point.
So the first thing was was to kind of synchronize to this price environment and we'll maintain flexibility that we could ratchet down or ratchet up a little bit if necessary.
Okay.
And then just as a follow-up circling back to 2016 you mentioned within cash flow you could show some I think you said modest growth or you keep your production level I guess where it's at.
Are you assuming the current strip? And then kind of what framework what metrics should we think about for 2016? Is it going to be within cash flow? Is that the driver there? Can you just talk more about that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think that first of all we've got a deep inventory projects that work at low prices so we feel good about the inventory.
I think the key is we do and we've said from the get-go this year we had a heavy outspend Q1.
I think we did an excellent job of getting in line in Q2.
So as we start to think about 2016 we do want to be in line within cash flow and kind of living within our means.
We're working through our planning process right now in great detail and as that becomes a little bit more clear and we think about it as we work through it we'll be able to give a little bit more color on the next call.
But in general I think the important thing is we've proven what we can do this year on a much lower decreased CapEx budget.
We've proven that our costs – our dollars are going further.
And I think with the initiatives we have and the way the cost structure the G&amp;A we're going to be able to do more with even less capital in 2016 if necessary.
All right.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Leo Mariani of RBC.
Hey guys.
Just I wanted to see if I can get some comments on the current kind of M&amp;A market.
I know you guys had talked previously in the year about trying to grab more acreage and looking at acquisition opportunities.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Leo two things.
Number one I think when you look at the acreage market out there there's stuff off the beaten path that I think we'd be interested in.
And we don't budget for that but we're clearly always looking for things that work in low price environment.
I think when you step back and look at the bigger picture M&amp;A market right now some of the price decks that have been used to justify some of those transactions I think have been relatively high.
And I think if you go back to our portfolio at $80 we've got a lot of inventory that works.
And so from my standpoint we would look at things incrementally.
The good news is we've taken the steps to put our balance sheet in great shape so we've got capacity we've got a credit facility in place and we've aligned our cost structure and our activity levels to current so we've got lots of flexibility.
And I think the key is is we've got a good portfolio and it would have to be something that made sense incrementally to what we have in terms of what we could add.
So I think in general the market's been a little pricey.
These last transactions have been using a higher deck than I think what's bearing out right now.
Okay.
And I guess just thinking about your most resilient assets and where you have the deeper inventory in the low oil price environment here should we continue to think Egypt and Permian get the lion's share of capital as you work your way into 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> As we look at the back half of the year we'll run approximately 16 rigs in North America.
13 rigs of those will be in the Permian.
We'll have five in the Delaware like we maintained all year.
You'll have the other eight in our Midland Basin and Central Basin Platform/Northwest Shelf.
You'll see us sprinkle a few more rigs into the Midland Basin second half of the year.
You'll also see one rigs to two rigs from us in the Woodford which is working quite well in the low price environment.
And with the results that we mentioned on our Walker wells in the Eagle Ford we're pretty excited about that as well.
So when I look at North America you'll see most of the work being in the Permian.
Internationally quite frankly both Egypt and the North Sea compete very well and have great rates of return in terms of those projects.
So we've scaled back there this year like we did in all the other areas but we've got good inventory there.
Look at what we're doing with Ptah and Berenice.
I mean we've now got 10 wells on producing more than 23 000 barrels a day and that's constrained with facilities there's room for that number to go higher and it's going higher as we speak.
So I think we've got a lot of inventory at low prices that's going to keep us busy for a long time.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
And our next question comes from the line of Brian Singer of Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good afternoon.
I wanted to focus on the Eagle Ford that you've spoken in the past about some geologic complexities in this part of the Eagle Ford.
With the results that you're reporting in Area A do you feel like you've cracked a code there? Is there a code to be cracked? Can you talk to the well costs and where this play stands and ranks relative to some of your other opportunities? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Brian.
I mean it is a little more complex.
You've got as I've mentioned in the past your geologic setting is critical as well as your fluid.
I mean you've got everything from a dry gas to a black oil.
You've got a wet gas a volatile oil in there.
There is higher clay content.
It's a little thinner.
So I think one of the key areas we have been able to make some progress on our completion procedures.
And the latest four wells we brought on the two Walkers and the two Raes I think if you look at the two Walker wells those wells in a little over three months have produced 83 000 barrels and 80 000 barrels of just oil alone.
So we're pretty excited about those results.
Well costs are in the low $7 million range and we feel really good about the economics.
So I mean I think we've definitely made some progress.
We're still working spacing.
We will put a rig back to work there and continue to highlight the fairway there.
But a big breakthrough for us technically on the fracking side.
Great.
Thanks.
And then I wanted to shift to the Midland Basin and the Wildfire area in Midland County is an area you reported some good results.
Can you talk about the running room there at Wildfire? And then if we look outside Barnhart at your Midland position is this the area that has the greatest running room that you're most excited about or would you highlight other parts of the portfolio within the Midland Basin? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> If you go back the best place to go back and look at our portfolio there would be our November 20 update.
We kind of circled the four counties.
We showed around 200 000 acres as I recall.
In addition to Wildfire we've got our Powell-Miller area we've got our Azalea area.
We've got a lot of running room in there.
We've really just had a rig or two working.
So we're very encouraged.
It's an area we've got room to add.
If you go back to our November update we were planning to run eight to ten rigs.
We'll probably have two to four or five rigs in there roughly this back half of this year.
So we've got a lot of running room and we're very encouraged by the results.
We're also taking a pretty measured approach on our flow backs.
We've been experimenting with the frac procedures.
We've taken some of those up to 3 000 pounds per foot.
So we're making headway in there and feel good about the inventory.
Great.
And our next question comes from the line of John Freeman of Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Good afternoon.
Just some questions on the backlog that you all laid out.
You said at the end of the year you'd have roughly 80 to 100 drilled uncompleted wells.
I think you ended last year around 200 wells.
And I'm just trying to get a sense would you consider kind of a normal backlog at somewhere around two wells to three wells per rig? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> That would be a little high.
What we'd say a normal backlog.
You know when we were blowing and going we were down to maybe 1.5 wells per rig.
Some of the pads you'll get a few more.
If you go back to we actually came into 2015 with 216 wells in backlog and I think about 45 wells of those were verticals.
So when you look at our horizontal backlog it was in the 160 to 170 range.
I think the number was 166 wells.
We've kind of guided to 80 to 100.
And that number may creep up but we feel good about that range.
So it's going to be a little higher and that's just a function of still keeping an eye on prices and keeping a handle on our CapEx spend in this low price environment.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just my one follow up along those same lines.
I was a little surprised in the Permian that uncompleted backlog on the horizontal wells it basically stayed flat despite going from 15 rigs to 10 rigs.
Is there anything unusual that maybe caused that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No when we backed off for the first part of the year the completion costs hadn't come down yet.
And right now we've currently got two frac crews in the northern portion of that and we've got two in the south and we're just going at it very methodically.
And so there's clearly room to accelerate but we don't see any reason.
And obviously in hindsight with this recent drop in prices we've been prudent not to do that.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks John.
Good quarter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Herrlin of Société Générale.
Yeah hey John.
In your ops report regarding the Delaware you talked about doing different completions at Pecos Bend and Waha to eliminate water.
What are you doing and how much could that save you on a cost basis going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well John one of the things that's not talked about a lot we hear about the oil rates we hear about the gas rates in the Delaware we don't get a lot from other companies on the water rates.
These wells are high pressure.
The Delaware is characterized by very high pressure and you will get some very very high water rates.
And so we've been going in and really understanding our geology using our 3D seismic trying to understand how we want to complete these and buffer around areas where we can eliminate some of the water production.
If we can take those water cuts down just a few percentage points it makes a big difference one on your cost your LOE because you're having to handle the water not to mention your ultimate recoveries and that sort of thing.
So we're trying to move the needle and produce these wells at higher ultimate oil cuts and we're really trying to understand the geologic system and the framework to how to complete them.
Great.
Then in terms of restructuring your organization where are your technical operational centers is based? I mean you have one obviously in San Antonio but where else? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we've got an unconventional center in San Antonio.
We've got our regions now.
We've maintained a really three super regions as we have called them.
Permian we have a big presence out there which is handling our Midland Basin and Central Basin Platform/North West Shelf our San Antonio has our Delaware Basin and our unconventional technology center.
In the Houston region now we've consolidated by closing Tulsa and collapsed our central region properties in with our Gulf Coast and actually Canada now reports into that.
And we also have a technology center here in Houston that does a lot of support around the world on kind of our EP technology.
So not to mention our Corporate Reservoir Engineering Group here our enhanced recovery and some other things.
So really Houston San Antonio and then our regional offices.
And then our international we still maintain our presence in Cairo for Egypt and Aberdeen for the North Sea.
Great.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Our next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Hi John.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Doug.
We'll go with something more exotic than normal but that's fine.
A couple questions if I may.
First of all if I could jump back to the Eagle Ford the wells results continue to be pretty strong there.
I just wonder if you could help us understand the relative attractiveness of pulling wells or pulling rigs out of the Eagle Ford in favor of some of the other areas as opposed to continuing with Eagle Ford activity.
And in your answer maybe you could hit the HBP question as well if you've got any issues there.
And I've got a follow-up please.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I mean I think the important thing there is we had to really focus in on the completion procedures and the geologic settings.
And so actually backing down those rigs was a blessing for us.
It's let us really spend some time.
We've had a frac crew out there and we've done some work and like I said the last four wells we reported we've made some significant progress in understanding the complexities geologically and what's going on in the Eagle Ford.
When we start to look at the numbers today it competes extremely well which is why we're going to put a rig back in there.
But we have got Woodford that competes very well as well as Permian as well as some of our other areas.
So we've got a deep inventory and a lot of areas competing for capital.
And we're glad to be able to put it back to work in the Eagle Ford.
Are there any HBP issues in the Eagle Ford John that we should be aware of? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I would say the acreage that we want HBP will have HBP.
So clearly the fair way there is we're understanding that.
I mentioned that it is not a blanket fluid system and so it's important to understand your system.
But the acreage we're not worried about losing acreage that we'd want to hang onto.
Okay.
Thank you.
My follow up is on (43:43).
And our next question comes from the line of Pearce Hammond of Simmons &amp; Company.
Good afternoon John.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're welcome Pearce.
The first question is looking at your portfolio I know this is hard to answer but what do you think your base decline percentage is as kind of a whole company? And what do you think the maintenance CapEx is for the company to keep production flat? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I mean if you look at our overall portfolio decline we're in the 25% range.
I mean we highlighted in my prepared remarks today our Permian is around 22%.
It's helped by our Central Basin Platform/North West Shelf.
We're working through our planning process right now.
And the one thing I would say is that if you look at 2015 relative to 2014 we now are going to show growth in North America on a significantly reduced CapEx program but we're not in a position to give you guidance in terms of what would be "maintenance" in terms of – if you're asking maintaining flat production or that sort of thing.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then my follow-up: service costs you've done a great job of bringing those down.
Looking at the Ford strip it sounds like your expectation as service costs move lower but a lot of the service companies right now negative cash margin.
Do you think that service costs continuing to come down is realistic at this point? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I mean I think there's two things.
Number one we were probably the earliest out there on the service side and if you look at our savings today to the 25% there's probably more than half of that is operational things and logistics and things we've done to get better.
My conversations with the service companies have moved to this has never been about margin we're just asking them they've got to make the margin to have a healthy business.
It's been though we've got to sit down and figure out how to work together and how they get smarter and how we can take costs out of the system that don't need to be passed through.
So bottom-line on it is in a low price environment it doesn't matter if you're operating at negative margin you're going to have to find a way to get more creative and get your cost structure down.
And I think it's a matter of us rolling up our sleeves working with them and finding creative ways to take costs out of the system which is what we do and that's what's we'll – that's what's happening right now across the industry and that's what we'll continue to do in the future.
I mean when you look at the numbers second quarter the market had pretty well baked in recovery into the mid-$60s on oil price back half of the year.
And clearly that's not – it doesn't look like that's the case and so as a result the cost side's going to have to come down and we're going to have to work together and get in the trenches and figure out how to lower them.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Bob Brackett of Sanford Bernstein.
Yeah a question on your realizations in the international assets.
North Sea and Egypt looked pretty strong.
Is that a seasonal effect or what's driving that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I don't know if Steve wants to add something.
I think it's just a function of having Brent pricing and predominantly oil-driven revenues.
And Tom Voytovich has another comment too.
We get a pretty good gas price in the North Sea too and our gas rates are up this year so that's contributing to it as well.
Okay.
Great.
And another would be what's your exit rate for December 31 of this year? Do you have a sense of what that might be? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well what we said is if you look at our fourth quarter December's going to be our highest month.
So we're not in a position to give that number at this point.
If you take our North American guidance we gave numbers in terms of we got actuals first quarter second quarter 307 000 BOEs 317 000 BOEs gets you to 312 000 BOEs for the first half average.
Our midpoint of our guidance range would be 307 000 BOE for the year which means you average 302 000 BOE the back half.
We've said third quarter is going to be under that and fourth quarter we're going to see a nice rebound so and I think there's room in those numbers.
So with that it's about all I'll say at this point.
And we guided to kind of 164 000 BOE to 168 000 BOE on our international.
And it's going to be probably relatively flat.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Hall of Heikkinen Energy.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I guess I wanted to follow-up a little bit on your comment about keeping production relatively stable within cash flow for 2016.
Is that intended to mean stable year-on-year 2015 – or 2016 versus 2015 or stable from the exit rate in 2015? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I mean that clearly we're not giving full color.
I think what we've looked at and if you look at how we've been able to stretch capital this year with where our cost structures are and the quality of our inventory we feel like we can be relatively stable and it would be more year-over-year.
But we'll come out with something more definitive at the appropriate time.
Okay.
Great.
And then as a follow-up you've done some great jobs on the overhead cost reductions.
I appreciate all that extra granularity.
Just curious as you guys are looking at 2016 and beyond you had a much larger rig count obviously and activity level in 2015 – or sorry 2014.
What sort of activity level are you gearing the company for or sizing the company for from an overhead perspective? I don't know if you put that in terms of rigs or what but I'm just kind of trying to think through if there are more overhead reductions to come in 2016 or is it kind of already been done and at what sort of activity level can it support? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well we've been gearing our cost structure to a $50 price environment.
The thing I would say though is with the efficiencies and things we're doing today it will not take the number of rigs in the future in a higher price environment so I mean I think we've got – we've set this thing up to where it's kind of an accordion that can take on a lot more activity but we tried to gear it towards the low price environment because what I can't do is be wasting dollars in terms of G&amp;A that I should be putting in the ground that can be generating results.
And so we've tried to get real frugal on where we need to be and then in typical Apache fashion we feel pretty good.
We've got a footprint in place that will expand fairly significantly because I think what we've done this year has been really healthy.
We needed – as Apache and quite frankly as an industry – to look at our overall cost structure even in a high-price environment.
And we feel real good about where we are and how we've geared it and that we're definitely prepared for lower prices.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Meade of Johnson Rice.
Yes.
Good afternoon John to you and your team there.
If I could go back to a question that you touched on before in your operations report you mentioned that you had 70 horizontal wells in the Permian drilled and completed here at mid-year.
Does that – how does that interact? Or how does that drilled and completed count progress as we go through the back half of the year? I guess what I'm really after is are you really planning on working that down in late 3Q early 4Q.
And that's why we're going to see the bump-up? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'm going to let Tim Sullivan who I have not let him handle a question yet.
But I'll let Tim jump in and talk through those numbers a little bit for you.
Okay.
For the Permian Basin for our drilled and uncompleted wells we're at about 40 right now.
And as we work through the back half of the year and with our rig activity we're going to exit the year at down to about 25 to 30 throughout the year at the end of the year.
Got it.
And you said you're 40 – you're at 40 right now you said? In the Permian Basin...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> About 45.
We're at 45.
We're at 45 right now.
Okay.
Got it.
All right.
Thank you for that Tim.
And then if I could go back to some of Steve's comments...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Let me back up there.
We're at like 70 right now.
We'll end the year at about 45 with total Permian.
Got it.
And so that includes – when you say total Permian that's vertical and horizontal? Or what's the distinction there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Okay.
Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> 43 – it's going to be 50.
We're roughly – we're projecting about 52 if you add verticals and horizontals for combined Permian.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you John.
And then shifting over to more of balance sheet philosophy sort of question and this might be for Steve Steve I appreciate you giving us the forecast of what's going to happen with the balance sheet here in the back half of the year and I know that all of you guys there have worked really hard to put the balance sheet in the good shape it's in right now.
But philosophically as you – you talked about – you're working on a – you're working in a $50 world philosophically what kind of constraints do you want to keep on your balance sheet whether it's in terms of debt-to-EBITDA or some other relevant metric? And what are the circumstances that you'd have to see that would make either one lever up? Or use your balance sheet for a transaction? Yeah Charles.
I think at this point and in this environment as of today I think that the balance sheet in the shape that we've got it right now is probably pretty good.
And I'd prefer – my philosophy would be at this point in time we just keep it where it is.
We may look at paying down some further debt.
We'll look at that as we go through the second half look at what the price environment is doing.
And we get a really solid view of 2016 as we round out the planning.
But right now I think the best thing to do is for us to sit on the balance sheet that we have.
It's a good strong one.
It's highly liquid and it's one that would allow us to be opportunistic if we felt like the compelling opportunity came along.
I think John hit the nail on the head a few minutes ago and that is that the opportunities that we've seen and we've seen some other people jump at we wouldn't have put those under the column called compelling at this point in time.
And it's just not something that we would be willing to sacrifice the balance sheet for in any material way.
And our next question comes from the line of Mike Kelly of Global Hunter Securities.
CFA - Global Hunter Securities</span></strong> Hi guys.
I was hoping you could maybe give us a bit of a preview of what's to come with this capital allocation review that you're going to unveil next quarter.
And I'm really trying to get a sense of whether we should expect potential major strategy shift with this the portfolio get shaken up quite a bit? Or is this more modest alterations around the edges? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I would say in general if you look at where we are today you look at the rig count we're running and you look at the price environment I don't have a crystal ball out there what's going to look like in a couple of months but it's probably pretty similar I mean we've done a good job this year.
We're really drilling the things we want to drill.
We don't have an area where we are in what I'd call development mode with the exception of maybe our Ptah and Berenice area in Egypt.
So as you start to think about going forward I think capital is going to go to the best places but we've got it in those projects that are working the best right now.
And as you think about the incremental capital back half of the year we're putting a little bit back to work in the Eagle Ford.
We're putting a little bit back to work in the Woodford and obviously in the Permian in conjunction with our international.
CFA - Global Hunter Securities</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
If I go over to the Permian and the Delaware.
It was good to hear that the Delaware well cost down 35%.
If you go back to that November 20 presentation you guys had 100% IRRs out there but a much higher oil price.
Just wondering if you could talk about kind of mark-to-market today lower costs lower oil price what project return you could be looking at right now? And then just the scale of the inventory there the opportunity set that's really core Delaware.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'll let Tim Sullivan jump in on this one.
Yeah with the well costs we're seeing out there about $5.8 million.
And the IPs that we're currently seeing we're well above our type curves.
And even at the $50 oil price we're seeing above 40% rate of returns out of the Pecos Bend area.
And our next question comes from the line of James Sullivan of Alembic Global Advisors.
Hey guys.
Good afternoon.
Just sticking with the Permian for a second.
There was a comment in the prepared remarks about a second landing zone in the third Bone Spring.
Is that an option for stack development? And can you speak to how prevalent that appears to be? It may be early days on it but any detail you might have.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Right now we're looking at them as individual zones just another well that can be drilled from the pads.
And the good news is we've got a full pad in and they're pretty compelling.
And we're not in communication.
And the second zone is performing really in line with the primary zone.
Okay.
Sounds great.
So just maybe pulling back a little bit on the question of science work.
And I did notice you guys pulled the rig out of Canyon.
That might have been part of the plan that you guys were working on.
But just in terms of high-grading the portfolio how do you guys manage the balance between trying to allocate capital to areas that are going to be sure bets in terms of delivering program rate of return cash flows and doing more experimental work like in the Canyon and elsewhere where you've got stuff you don't know yet and maybe costs that needs to come down just philosophically? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well you've got to look at the areas where you think you've got the most impact or running room.
And the real driver is you can't lower costs if you don't put a rig in there.
And a lot of what we're doing this year is strategic testing like the second landing zone in the third Bone Spring.
We've just got to look at those and see how they stack up and see how many and then we'll go to work on that.
But very few places right now in North America are we parking rigs on pads and trying to develop things.
I think it's a function of right now setting up opportunities and really continuing to line our cost structure and get our returns at the levels we want before we'd go back to work with major development programs.
Our next question comes from the line of Edward Westlake of Credit Suisse.
Thanks for squeezing me in at the top of the hour here.
Just on the last comment you made about getting into development mode.
No one has focused on this today but say the oil price does go back up to the sort of $65 range that I think you referenced on the last call for some of the plays.
How aggressive could you be in terms of the number of rigs that you could add over the next two years to three years? That's my first question and I have a quick follow-up.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well in terms of the number of rigs I think we could add as many as we wanted to.
We were running 93 last fall.
So that's not hard.
It will all come down to cash flow and economics and where's the cost structure.
So what will be the driver – and we've been real consistent on that theme all year is it takes the cash flow from our operations to be able to drive our programs.
Over the long haul we can go to the balance sheet from time to time if we felt like there was an opportunity.
But in general we want to be balanced and living within our means.
And so it will be a function of the cash flow that we have to reinvest versus what other opportunities are out there.
And then follow on is on the international CapEx.
I mean it's still running something like $650 million in Egypt on an annual basis if I just annualize your first half and $800 million in the North Sea.
Any opportunity to get some deflation or activity cycling as you go forward to get some savings there in the CapEx program? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We are seeing savings there.
The one thing in Egypt you really never had the run up from 2009 on the rigs that you had in the service side in North America.
So dollars go further which is why we've been running a number of rigs in Egypt.
When you look at the North Sea we've had a lot of success.
The one thing we haven't talked about is we sanctioned a project that's pretty critical to us.
It's Aviat.
It's a $200 million project over two years.
It's in the numbers now this year.
We're going to spend about $100 million.
But the big deal on that is we're going to convert the field to field gas from diesel.
And it's a very economic project it makes great rate of return.
But the big deal is is it's going to be safer it's going to be environmentally friendly and it's going to give us field gas supply where we're not having to bunker diesel to well into a 2030 timeframe.
So it's an important project.
It's about $100 million.
That's part of what's in that North Sea number this year.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Rowe of Tudor Pickering Holt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Good afternoon.
You mentioned earlier a balanced CapEx program.
Do you think the capital spent on North America onshore versus international offshore this year which is roughly 60/40 is that balanced enough? And does that really change depending on what part of the commodity cycle we're in? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well clearly we look at the opportunities we look at the running room and we look at the economics of the projects.
And the good news is we've got a great inventory in general.
The international portfolio is less sensitive to the drop in prices so it's a little more buffered on the returns.
And then on the North America side you can generate in some areas a little bit more NPV.
So it's a balanced approach.
We like where our mix is right now.
We're generating cash cash out of both Egypt and the North Sea.
And that's kind of directionally where we want to stay.
But right now we like that mix and think it's serving us very well.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just a quick question on the Mid-continent program.
You're spending some capital in the Woodford/SCOOP area but not much in the context of the whole portfolio.
So I was just wondering if you can comment on the 50 000 net acres you've got there today and just maybe provide some context around how sustainable you think that is for a company of Apache's size.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well number one it's we've got about 50 000 net acres that's predominantly Grady County.
We've got a rig in there we're going to put another one in the economics work very well.
Yeah it's material and it's material to that portion of our portfolio.
Most of the acreage has been purchased in there but we've got some nice positions that are clearly very economic at low prices and clearly we've got a lot of running room to develop on that acreage position.
So it's not something we're looking to scale up necessarily just because most of it has already been gotten but we've got really economic projects in there and it can make an impact.
Our next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
I just wanted to hear it one more time.
Sorry.
Guys I had a follow-up that I don't think – I think that your operator thought that my follow-up was a clarification point.
Anyway Egypt John.
Obviously at the beginning of the year you decided that this was going to be a core part of the portfolio.
So I'm just kind of trying to understand this step-up in exploration activities.
Is that something that has been a deliberate change in reallocating capital? I'm thinking with the PSC you get the money back fairly quickly.
And if so what is the exploration or drilling backlog look like for Egypt on the go-forward plan? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Doug it's really more driven off of technology.
I mean we've got the seismic 3D interpretations and so forth.
Our success rate we're drilling fewer wells than we drilled last year but we announced a 78% success rate and it's really just a function of the quality the technical work we're undoing in unlocking the basin and a lot of these stratigraphic areas and traps with the 3D seismic we're just getting better and we've got a better handle on the system.
And so is Egypt cash flow positive in the current environment? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Absolutely.
Great stuff.
Thanks very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Richard Tullis of Capital One Securities.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks.
Good afternoon John.
Quick question: looking at the Delaware Basin I noticed the Bone Spring completions during the second quarter.
While it's solid it looked to be a little bit lower in oil cut and productivity per lateral foot than those Condor wells that you reported in the first quarter.
Anything done differently drilling those Condor wells or was it just a particularly sweet spot? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I mean I think it's going to be spacing and just the area that you're in within that Bone Spring.
They're completed very similarly.
So it's just a function of the area where you are.
Inc.</span></strong> And how much acreage does Apache have in that Pecos Bend area? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Pecos Bend is actually pretty small.
I mean you'd have to go back and look at our ops report.
I think we're in the 7 000 acres to 8 000 acres in there.
It's not a very big area but it shows you how many landing zones we've got in a really nice little development area right there.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
That's it for me.
Thank you.
And our next question and our last question I should say comes from the line of Jeffrey Campbell of Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</span></strong> Good afternoon.
My fist question is just broadly looking throughout the various plays your Permian 30 day rates look pretty strong.
I was just wondering are you practicing any rate restriction in any of the portions of the Permian? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Actually Jeff we are.
I mean we have gone to some managed chokes and we're doing some things there right now that are helping us.
And we have also been very focused on our completions and sand concentrations and so forth.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
And then kind of taking Tom's remarks about the UK gas market in mind the high rate S67 well is that predominantly a nat-gas well and does it de-risk other potential similar locations? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Tom? Indeed it does.
It is a high rate gas well.
In fact it's making about $50 million a day right now which is at the gas price we're getting that's pretty much parity with oil right now on a BOE basis.
There are other opportunities out there.
We're just now getting started with our exploitation and exploration program of the recent 3D seismic but there are more opportunities just like this in the field pays.
These are individual fault blocks that were heretofore unseen or untouched at least.
And there are no further questions in the queue.
Okay.
Well thank you everybody.
We look forward to speaking with you all on the next quarter conference call.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good afternoon my name is Jennifer and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Apache's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
And Mr.
Gary Clark you may begin your conference.
Thank you and good afternoon.
Welcome to Apache Corporation's third quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Speakers making prepared remarks on today's call will be Apache's CEO and President John Christmann; and CFO Steve Riney.
Also joining us in the room is Tom Voytovich Executive Vice President of International and Offshore; and Tim Sullivan Senior Vice President of Operations.
In conjunction with this morning's press I hope you have had the opportunity to review our quarterly earnings supplement which summarizes Apache's regional operating activities and well highlights.
The supplement also includes our revised full-year 2015 guidance details of our capital expenditures in the quarter as well as a chart that illustrates cash sources and uses and reconciles Apache's change in net debt during the third quarter of 2015.
Our earnings release the accompanying financial tables and non-GAAP reconciliations and our quarterly earnings supplement can all be found on our website at www.apachecorp.com.
I'd like to remind everyone that today's discussions will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions based on our current views and most reasonable expectations.
However a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from what we discuss today.
A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental data on our website.
Also please note that in this morning's press we have consolidated our production and pricing information for the Midcontinent and Gulf Coast regions which is were reported separately.
I would now like to turn the call over to John.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Gary.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
Before I dive into our results for the quarter I would like to take a step back to highlight the progress we have made so far this year.
We have significantly streamlined and high graded our portfolio.
The result is a focused North American onshore position with significant visibility and an international portfolio which delivers tremendous free cash flow and very good exploration upside as evidenced by our announcement last week regarding recent discoveries in the North Sea along with our consistent exploration success in Egypt.
We have strengthened our balance sheet and liquidity.
We used the proceeds from asset sales to pay down debt and to increase our cash position.
During this time we also refreshed and extended our credit facility.
Apache's balance sheet is now a leader amongst our peers which we have accomplished without issuing new equity.
Over the last third quarters we reduced our drilling and completion program to a level that is appropriately aligned with the current commodity price environment.
Notably we generated a cash flow to CapEx surplus in the second quarter and would have maintained a surplus in the third quarter if commodity prices hadn't further eroded.
This need for spending discipline is something that many in the industry are just beginning to realize and pursue.
We have now achieved a nearly 30% reduction in our average well cost compared to a year ago.
We have relentlessly pursued cost reductions both through supply chain efficiencies as well as self-help through such things as improving wellbore and completion design.
We made significant reductions in our run rate for both LOE and G&amp;A costs and we are taking steps to realize additional savings through the fourth quarter and into 2016 and beyond.
We have delivered production growth both domestically and internationally despite a dramatically reduced activity level.
This result has been supported by our low underlying base decline and today we are again increasing our 2015 production guidance.
And lastly we continue to leverage our technical expertise and experience to seek out potentially high impact new resource plays by consolidating acreage and expanding our footprint within our existing operational basins.
We remain highly disciplined in this effort.
And it is important to note that we are not paying the high prices for acreage that are common in the high profile resource plays.
Now let me turn to our third quarter results.
The third quarter was another good one for Apache as we delivered on our operational and financial guidance made excellent progress on our cost reduction initiatives and had tremendous success with the drill bit most notably in the Permian Basin Egypt and in the North Sea.
As a result we are increasing our 2015 production guidance range for both North American onshore and our international and offshore regions.
During the third quarter WTI oil prices deteriorated to an average of $46 per barrel which was a 20% decrease from the second quarter average.
However the impact on our capital program for the quarter was relatively small as we had the foresight to pace our spending based on a $50 WTI plan price for 2015.
As we indicated on our second quarter earnings call our North American onshore production decreased sequentially in the third quarter but the drop was less than anticipated.
The decrease was primarily driven by facility downtime in the Permian natural decline rates and the timing of well completions.
We continue to expect North American onshore production volumes to increase for the fourth quarter and we should exit the year with solid production momentum.
Currently expect to finish the year at the high end of our upwardly-revised North American onshore production guidance range of 307 000 boe to 309 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day which reflects normal fourth quarter weather-related downtime.
Should we experience unusually severe or extended weather disruptions production may potentially move to the middle or low end of our new guidance range.
As I mentioned earlier both Egypt and the North Sea have been performing very well this year.
Production from our international and offshore regions averaged 180 000 boes per day during the third quarter.
The key factors contributing to this strong performance were excellent production efficiency or uptime strong sustained production from existing wells and significantly better-than-expected contributions from new wells completed during the quarter.
As a result we have increased our 2015 international and offshore guidance range which Steve Riney will discuss along with other updated guidance items shortly.
Our CapEx in the third quarter before leasehold capitalized interest and non-controlling interest was $762 million.
This is down 16% from the second quarter and 38% from the first quarter and puts us well within our full-year guidance for 2015.
Across all of our regions we are continuing to pursue and deliver substantial capital cost improvements.
For example in the third quarter our North American onshore well costs were down approximately 30% from a year ago which represents an improvement from the 25% decrease we cited last quarter.
Now I'd like to turn to some of our key regional highlights for the quarter.
During the quarter we operated an average of 28 rigs companywide 12 in North America 10 in Egypt and six in the North Sea which represents a decrease of six rigs from the second quarter.
For the last two quarters we have essentially been running our business at an activity level where cash flow was roughly equal to CapEx under a $50 WTI oil price deck.
Given the decrease in oil price during the third quarter we elected to defer the addition of two rigs in the Permian and one of our two planned rig additions in the Eagle Ford.
As a result we are decreasing the high end of our 2015 capital spending guidance range by $100 million to $3.8 billion.
The deferral of these three rigs will not materially impact our 2015 production but will result in a lower drilled-but-uncompleted well count at the end of 2015 than we previously expected.
In the Permian Basin our production was 170 000 boes per day down 2 100 boes per day from the second quarter.
This was driven by a combination of facilities downtime and the timing of well completions.
Despite these factors our Permian production remained strong.
This underscores the importance of our relatively low base decline rate of 22%.
Some notable activity during the third quarter came from new completions on our Condor lease at Pecos Bend in the Delaware Basin.
We completed four wells that materially exceeded our type curve on a per lateral foot basis in their first 30 days.
Returns in the Delaware remain very strong as we have achieved average well cost reductions of approximately 40% since 2014.
In the Midland Basin we brought our first well pad online at Azalea in Western Glasscock County and are seeing encouraging early results.
This area has the potential for multiple landing zones including upper and middle Wolfcamp and lower Spraberry targets.
We also brought online four good wells in our Powell-Miller area three with an average 30-day IP of more than 800 boes per day and another with a 24-hour test rate in excess of 1 600 boes per day.
In the Central Basin Platform and Northwest Shelf we are continuing to see excellent results from our horizontal Yeso play at Cedar Lake which is delivering very attractive returns at these low oil prices.
We have also dedicated resources to our water flood effort and other low-decline EOR opportunities.
We have a significant low decline base in the Central Basin Platform which helps underpin our lower underlying decline rate that I referenced earlier.
While our overall Permian activity levels are down substantially from 2014 we remain committed to testing the resource potential of several new areas across our significant acreage position and to identifying and unlocking additional resource for the long term.
Turning to the Eagle Ford.
We brought eight wells online during the quarter in our Ferguson Crossing area with an average 30-day IP of 1 545 boes per day.
We have made great progress in optimizing the completion design and increasing the productive capacity of these wells while at the same time continuing to drive down costs.
We have one rig working in the Eagle Ford for the remainder of 2015.
In the Woodford/SCOOP we are in the early stages of delineating our approximately 200 000 acres gross and 50 000 net acres.
During the third quarter we brought online the Truman 28-6-6 #1H which recorded a strong average 30-day IP rate of 1 949 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
We have two rigs running in the Woodford/SCOOP for the remainder of 2015 to continue delineation and to advance our understanding of this attractive acreage position.
In Canada we put our seven-well Duvernay pad online in late October.
Completion and connection of the pad came in under budget and the flow results we have seen to-date are very encouraging.
The team is doing an excellent job with costs in Canada and we plan to drill another Duvernay pad during the upcoming winter season.
On our Montney acreage in the Wapiti area we have received substantial interest from third parties regarding a potential joint venture with Apache and we are advancing these discussions.
Our objective for the JV is to fund early-stage drilling and infrastructure.
This will enable us to jump-start the investment program and begin to generate cash flow without having to divert our capital dollars from other areas of the portfolio.
Turning to our international operations; during the third quarter Apache became the largest oil and gas producer in Egypt on a gross operated basis.
We are very proud of this achievement and the fact that our gross production has returned to peak levels established back in 2011 and 2012.
The key here is that while production is at peak levels our percentage of oil and our margins are now considerably higher when normalized for commodity prices.
It should be noted that these production levels have been achieved despite a 35% reduction in capital spending year-to-date compared to 2014.
This highlights the operational success for our teams and our ability to do more even in a reduced capital environment.
Our strategy in Egypt is to target primarily oil and liquids reservoirs and to keep our production profiles as stable as possible.
Our late 2014 discoveries of the Ptah and Berenice fields have helped advance this goal in 2015.
During the third quarter gross production from these two fields peaked at over 26 000 barrels of oil per day.
Our objective is to sustain production from Ptah and Berenice at a high rate for as long as possible through the drilling of additional development wells.
In addition to Ptah and Berenice we have seen new discoveries across multiple concessions this year which will continue to support our production and free cash flow generation in Egypt.
In the North Sea we had a strong third quarter as our sequential production grew more than 4 200 barrels of oil equivalent per day from the second quarter.
We set a new production efficiency record of 92% uptime in the third quarter as we experienced minimal platform maintenance downtime.
We also benefited from better-than-expected performance from new wells drilled in both the Forties and Beryl fields.
As we look ahead to the fourth quarter I should point out that we are likely to experience more weather-related downtime some of which has already occurred in late October and early November.
On October 30 we issued a press release which announced three significant discoveries at our K Corona and Seagull prospects along with two high-rate development wells in the North Sea.
While still early in the development phase the ultimate reserve potential of the three discoveries combined could be greater than 70 million barrels of oil equivalent net to Apache.
This represents a potential 50% increase over the 145 million barrels of total booked proved reserves for the North Sea at the end of 2014.
For more information on these discoveries and a review of our extensive North Sea exploration and development inventory please join us for our North Sea Region Update webcast on November 17 at 9 a.m.
Central Time.
Similar to my comments on Egypt it's important to note that the outperformance in the North Sea has been accomplished despite an approximate 25% reduction in capital spend year-to-date compared to 2014.
In closing as we look to 2016 and beyond our organization and our balance sheet are well prepared for the possibility of lower for longer oil and gas prices.
We have in place the planning capital allocation and operational structure and focus that will enhance shareholder value despite the challenging commodity price environment.
Our singular focus is to optimize the growth of our enterprise while improving returns.
We have made great progress so far; recognize that we have more to do.
We are now working from a position of strength.
We have a premium acreage position in North America and we have the people and the technology to grow it.
We have best-in-class businesses running in the North Sea and in Egypt.
These are prolific hydrocarbon basins with many years of exploration and development ahead of them.
We have invested heavily in infrastructure in these regions over the last decade and keeping this infrastructure full by its nature leads to very high rate of return projects.
We have right-sized our activity level and we have driven efficiency improvements relentlessly on both capital and expense.
We have a strong balance sheet and good long-term liquidity.
And most importantly all of these improvements are starting to show up with strong results for 2015 and good momentum as we look forward to 2016.
We will remain focused on driving the expansion of our North American portfolio as it is our primary growth engine for the future.
However our international businesses have a demonstrated track record of delivering very high rates of return along with the ability to sustain production volumes through time and provide significant free cash flow back to the corporation.
These are franchises that we will continue to invest in for the long term.
I will now turn the call over to Steve Riney.
Thank you John and good afternoon.
As John indicated Apache had a very good third quarter.
We have made excellent progress on both operational and financial fronts.
We also still have much more to do.
Today I will highlight Apache's financial progress which will include our financial results for the quarter the results so far from our relentless focus on costs a review of our balance sheet strength and liquidity position our outlook for the remainder of 2015 and an update on our strategic planning process along with some very preliminary thoughts on 2016.
So let's begin with the third quarter financial results.
As noted in our press release Apache reported a GAAP loss of $5.7 billion or $14.95 per common share.
Our results for the quarter include a number of items outside of our core earnings that are typically excluded by the investment community in published estimates.
The most significant of those items is a ceiling test write-down of our oil and gas properties totaling $3.7 billion after tax.
As in prior periods the write-down in the third quarter resulted from the continued low commodity price environment.
Under full cost accounting our upstream assets are carried at historical costs.
Each quarter we compare this cost basis to discounted after-tax future net cash flows which are calculated using trailing 12-month average oil and gas prices with those prices and period-end costs held flat into perpetuity.
To the extent the net book value of the assets exceeds this amount the result is a ceiling test write down.
Based on strip prices as of September 30 we anticipate a further ceiling test write-down in the fourth quarter.
This expectation is detailed in our 10-Q.
In addition to the ceiling test write-down other unusual charges during third quarter included a $1.5 billion charge for an increase in the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets primarily due to a price environment which is unlikely to allow the realization of those tax assets for the next several years.
And $446 million of other items consisting primarily of $148 million for the impairment of our investment in the Australian fertilizer plant $146 million for mostly price-induced impairments for gathering transportation and processing facilities and $95 million of trailing tax effects associated with our previously-discontinued operations.
Our earnings for the quarter adjusted for these items totaled a loss of $21 million or $0.05 per share.
Offsetting the low-price environment were positive results on the operational side including strong delivery of production volumes across all regions continued improvement in costs as our extensive efforts to reduce G&amp;A and operating costs are showing through to actual results and great progress in capital efficiency as we are getting more from every dollar invested.
Let me now turn to costs.
The low oil price environment and reduced activity across the industry are continuing to result in downward pressure on costs.
As oil and gas prices began to soften late last year Apache moved decisively to ensure a leading-edge position to capitalize on cost deflation in the oil service industry.
Since that time we have made continual progress reducing both capital and operating costs.
Capital spending year-to-date continues to track in line with our expectations.
We have invested $3.8 billion through the first nine months of the year.
As we have stated in the past our guidance on capital spending excludes capital attributable to our one-third partner then Egypt capitalized interest leasehold purchases and capital associated with divested LNG and associated operations.
Excluding these items we have spent $2.9 billion through the first nine months of 2015.
This level of spending is tracking in line with our prior guidance.
On the lease operating expense side our third quarter LOE was $9.03 per boe which is 18% lower than the third quarter of 2014.
On a year-to-date basis we are averaging $9.33 per boe which is 12% lower than the same period last year.
So we continue to make significant progress on bringing down operating costs.
On our second quarter conference call we reported a 25% decline in our run rate of gross G&amp;A costs.
At that time we stated our goal was to enter 2016 with a gross G&amp;A run rate of approximately $700 million representing a decrease of over 30% from our run rate of more than $1 billion in the fourth quarter of 2014.
As we further refine our 2016 budget we continue to find additional G&amp;A reduction opportunities and are now tracking slightly ahead of our goal.
We will discuss this in more detail when we announce our formal 2016 budget in February.
Next I would like to make a few comments regarding our balance sheet and liquidity position.
Over the past year we implemented a number of measures which has significantly improved our overall financial strength.
Today our balance sheet and liquidity are amongst the strongest in the industry and we have accomplished this without issuing additional equity.
We have made tremendous progress in a very short period of time and I believe this will serve us well as we continue through a difficult and unpredictable industry environment.
So far in 2015 we have paid down $2.5 billion of debt.
Currently our net debt is less than two times annualized 2015 adjusted EBITDA.
We have extended our nearest long-term debt maturity to 2018 with only $700 million maturing prior to 2021.
We have restructured and refreshed our current credit facility at $3.5 billion which now matures in June 2020.
And we have retained $1.7 billion of cash liquidity.
And to ensure that we sustain this strong position we have reduced our activity to a level where we can attain cash neutrality in the current price environment.
I would like to remind everyone that as previously discussed the repatriation of proceeds from some of our foreign asset sales has triggered a U.S.
income tax payable of approximately $560 million.
Actual cash payment of this liability will occur in the fourth quarter of this year thus some might consider our net debt of $7.1 billion at the end of the third quarter as closer to $7.7 billion.
However so far in fourth quarter we have signed agreements for the sale of non-upstream assets which will bring in approximately $500 million in cash proceeds.
$391 million of this is for our interest in the Australian fertilizer plant which we have already closed and proceeds have been received.
The remainder is associated with various non-core assets with no associated reserves or production.
We expect to close those transactions in the fourth quarter or early 2016.
In total the proceeds from non-core asset sales largely offset the impact of the previously-mentioned tax payment on our net debt the end of the third quarter.
Apache's strong balance sheet and liquidity position provide both security for the near-term as well as tremendous flexibility for the long-term.
We can comfortably fund the highest-quality projects across the portfolio as well as our exploration strategic tests and new play programs.
We can do this within our continued cash flow from operations while retaining significant flexibility for any strategic opportunities which may arise in the future.
We anticipate a successful finish to 2015 as Apache continues to deliver strong operational results.
Therefore today we are increasing our production guidance and decreasing our capital guidance for 2015.
We are increasing our full-year guidance for 2015 North American onshore production to a range of 307 000 boe to 309 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
On a pro forma basis this represents more than 2% year-over-year growth despite significantly-reduced capital spending.
John highlighted the extensive drilling and operating success we are enjoying internationally as well.
Accordingly we are raising our full-year 2015 international and offshore production guidance to 172 000 boe to 174 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day up 6 000 boe from our previous guidance of 164 000 boe to 168 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
On a pro forma basis this represents year-over-year growth of 10% to 12% despite significantly reduced capital spending and demonstrates the quality of our international portfolio.
With regard to our 2015 capital spending we are lowering the top end of our guidance range to $3.8 billion from $3.9 billion.
This reflects our decision not to pick up three rigs in the onshore U.S.
during the back half of the year which John spoke about in his prepared remarks.
In the planning front Apache has taken significant steps towards achieving our objectives of enhancing returns while living within our mean on a cash flow basis.
As we refine our plan for 2016 and beyond we will continue to make further progress.
Our plan includes a rigorous process for capital allocation to our highest-quality opportunities while achieving an appropriate balance between short medium and long-term capital investment horizons.
This is particularly important considering the price environment we are in today and the outlook for the future.
As we look specifically at 2016 we are actively evaluating multiple scenarios with respect to commodity pricing and capital allocation.
We are not in a position to provide guidance ranges for 2016 as our review is still underway.
I will share though that the plan will be based on a few key things which we have established this year.
Notably we will plan a capital program which we believe will keep us cash flow neutral for the year.
We will not attempt to balance cash flow within each quarter but instead to level-load activity for the year.
We will fund the capital program from operating cash flows; we will not use asset sales.
We have not yet finalized the capital allocation plan for 2016 and are not prepared to provide a view on production volumes.
However we are prioritizing capital to projects providing the best combination of highest rates of returns greatest value for the future and a bias toward near-term production and earnings.
We will provide more specific guidance including our production outlook in February when we discuss the 2016 plan in more detail.
Finally I would like to address one of our accounting methodologies which we are examining for a possible change.
In order to more closely align our financial reporting and to create more comparability with our large cap E&amp;P peers we are evaluating a conversion from full-cost accounting to the successful efforts accounting method.
The primary reasons we are contemplating the change is because successful efforts is more commonly used by our comparable peers creates less long-term price-related volatility on the balance sheet and more accurately reflects the matching of expenses within the period in which they are incurred especially as it relates to exploration expense.
We'll have more to say about this in coming quarters.
In closing as we plan for the future we are not idly waiting for commodity prices to recover.
We have already taken calculated steps consistent with today's environment.
As a result we are well positioned to continue to profitably grow Apache through an actively managed investment program in a potentially lower-for-longer commodity cycle.
I look forward to a successful conclusion to 2015 and would now like to turn the call over to the operator for questions and answers.
Our first question comes from Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Good afternoon guys.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Just to follow-up on the commentary just now about matching cash flow with CapEx would that include the dividend or would the dividend be upside of that? Yes.
For 2016 our goal would be to match that including the dividend.
So it would be cash flow neutral.
Including the dividend.
Okay great.
And then I know you're working through this still but could you provide any color on what you think maintenance CapEx might be to hold exit rate 2015 production flat through 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Pearce this is John.
What I would say is the best thing to do is look at 2015 right now.
I mean we've guided to $3.6 billion to $3.8 billion of CapEx spend.
As you will recall in February we guided to relatively flat North American production and slight growth internationally.
When you look at the CapEx levels we had $1 billion outspend in the first quarter alone for this year.
When you look at the capital numbers clearly now with the updated ranges today at 307 000 boe to 309 000 boe on North America and 172 000 boe to 174 000 boe on international we're showing 2% plus growth in North America and 10% to 12% growth on the international side on that type of capital program.
I think the best thing we can do given this price environment; the commodity price is going be a big driver.
As Steve mentioned we're going to live within cash flow.
And so as we start to pour that plan that's a big key.
And I'd say looking into 2016 with the reductions we've had on the cost structure side specifically on the costs we have in the house at this point at 30% down capital's going to continue to go further.
I can also tell you that a lot of that CapEx this year was spent early in the year when we had higher costs.
And we see things even now that are going to point to lower costs going forward.
So the best thing to do is look at what we've done this year and kind of translate off of that.
Your next question comes from Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Good afternoon guys.
Maybe just a follow-up on that the 2016 budget parameters.
I mean you say that living within cash flow excludes asset sales and includes the dividends.
So do asset sales then just create a buffer on your balance sheet? How do you contemplate the redeployment of those proceeds such as the $500 million announced in the quarter? I mean it's been a relatively sizable program and just curious how you think about that capital coming back into the business.
Yeah.
I'll let John comment on this as well.
But I think at this point in time the right answer to that question is the fact that we're not contemplating any material asset sales in 2016.
And therefore we're not planning to spend the proceeds on any of those.
And therefore cash flow neutrality needs to be on an operating basis.
Now that's – I'd just caution all of that with the fact that we're not going to get dogmatic about being cash flow neutral.
And we reserve the right to not be cash flow neutral.
But it's going to be – it's a prudent assumption going into the year at this point in time.
And then 2016 I have no doubt will be just as exciting as 2015 has been.
And we'll no doubt adjust plans as we go through the year.
But I think the prudent thing to do at this point in time is to go into the year planning on being cash flow neutral.
Got it I would agree.
Maybe my second if I could following up on the comments on the JV process the positive progress there and then the plans to run three rigs in Canada next year versus zero today.
Can you discuss the cost environment in Canada and how you kind of see those returns stacking up against the rest of your portfolio? I presume that the JV details could also augment those returns for you.
If you could.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> In general Evan we want to remain cash flow neutral in Canada.
I mean what I don't want to do is take cash flow from our Lower 48 properties and spend that in Canada.
So that's the main reason why we are looking at and are making progress on a JV in the Montney.
And the way that would be structured is we would be using other capital to get that program kicked off.
In terms of how the Montney and the Duvernay compete in terms of – they compete very nicely with the portfolio.
And I'm going ask Tim Sullivan to dig in a little bit on the cost structure we're seeing on the Duvernay at this point.
Yes.
As John mentioned we just put on the first Duvernay pad that we drilled.
This was a seven well pad.
It was a spacing test.
Half of the section was designed to test eight wells per section; the other half to test six wells per section.
We're going through a third party facility.
So we're a little bit curtailed we only have four of the wells online.
But those four wells are doing just under 13 million boe (34:50) a day and 3 350 barrels of condensate per day.
Again those are curtailed with the flowing tubing pressure of over 3 300 pounds.
Next week we hope to have that facility up and running and we'll be able to bring the other three wells online.
And we should have everything flowing at capacity on December 1.
Now to the cost structure question last year we spent about $18.1 million drilling one-off wells out there.
We went to pad operations.
This year where we had two walking rigs and we batch drilled each section of the well.
We were able to reduce our well cost by 36% 8% of that savings was due to foreign exchange but the rest of it was primarily due to cost savings and operational efficiencies.
And most of those operational efficiencies were made up on the completion side.
In those seven laterals we did 124 different frac stages and we pumped that in just six days.
We averaged 7.9 fracs per day with only 34 minutes between stages.
And we got down to as low as 6 minutes between two of the stages.
So we were pumping 82% of the time when we had the equipment on location.
And really the Canadian team there we're really leveraging the learnings that we had from the Horn River drilling that we've done in the past.
And we see future costs there as we get our water facility in place even going down further and we think we can get these costs down to $8.5 million to $9 million per well.
Your next question comes from Doug Leggate with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Hi good afternoon everybody.
John I appreciate the disclosure I guess on the pursuit of a joint venture.
If I could just have a quick follow-up.
If we look at your position up there it seems that if I'm not mistaken the bulk of your locations is in the area where you have the lowest working interest.
And the highest working interest I guess you've got about half the number of locations so I'm thinking Duvernay being the one with the small working interest.
So when you think about structuring a joint venture and I guess getting someone to fund you or carry you is that the kind of structure we should think about? In which case what kind of working interest would you anticipate getting to and how would you think about that? I've got a follow-up please.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Doug I got to be a little bit careful.
We're talking about the Montney and it's an area we have 100%.
So we do not have partners.
We're not at this point looking at the Duvernay.
The area you're talking about the current wells we've got about 37.5%.
We're in there with Chevron and of course their joint venture partner.
So we're really talking about an area in the Montney where we have 100%.
And that is the area we're looking at and I don't want to get into too much color because we're in the heat of battle of negotiations.
But it would be structured where we would obviously be able to keep the majority and would get significant carry upfront and which would unease our infrastructure and costs going over the next couple years.
I appreciate that.
I don't know if I missed that earlier.
That would make perfect sense given your working interest there.
Thank you for that.
My follow-up is really about – I realize you don't want to give production guidance but if you look at the spend level in the third quarter – and obviously there's a lot of moving parts on production declines and so on.
But if you continue to spend at the third-quarter level based on what we saw in Q3 what would you say your underlying decline rate would look like? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I mean in terms of our decline rate if I take North America we're still running about a 25% overall decline our Permian's about 22%.
I do anticipate those numbers coming down as we start to look at the pace because we just haven't drilled as many new wells this year as we have historically.
So I think those numbers will be dropping slightly but it's early.
We're still working through those planned numbers.
The one thing I would say about the back half of the year as we alluded to on the call with the drop in prices we held off picking up three rigs two in the Permian and one in the Eagle Ford.
And it's going to have very minimal impact; we're still in a position to raise guidance on our North American position.
So we feel good about our properties we feel good about how we're executing and we're really starting to see efficiencies drive into the numbers.
Great stuff.
I will jump back in queue.
Thanks John.
And your next question comes from Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Good afternoon.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Brian.
How are you thinking about the role of the international assets here particularly in light of some of the positives you reported on in Egypt and the North Sea? Are there any changes in A how these areas are competing for capital relative to the rest of the portfolio and B the strategic thoughts on retaining versus divesting? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No Brian I think at this point when we look into the future our primary growth is going to come from North America.
I think you have to recognize the benefit of the portfolio.
And we came out with that early in the year with the drop in prices and the international both are less sensitive to the drop in oil price and you've seen that come through in cash flow from both those operations.
Secondly if you take Egypt and take Ptah and Berenice tell me how many places in the world you can have a discovery and within seven eight months you're producing from two handfuls of wells to 26 000 barrels of oil a day? So we've got quick tie-in quick infrastructure to those things so very high rates of return.
In the North Sea there's a couple of things there.
Number one we've invested in the infrastructure.
We spent $1.3 billion over the last decade at Forties and that infrastructure is in really good shape.
That's why we can operate at 92%.
In our Beryl area we spent over $300 million on the infrastructure there.
So I don't want to steal the thunder from our November 17 update on the North Sea but with those three discoveries one of them is a little longer cycle time Seagull but the other two I think you'll be surprised at how quickly we can bring those projects on through tie-backs to the infrastructure that's already in place.
So we look at it as a portfolio.
Our long-term growth is going to come from North America clearly but in this price environment right now I've got a lot of optionality in the international and a lot of very high rate of return projects that bring immediate volumes that compete extremely well that we can tie in and complement.
I think we've also proven through the exploration success that both of the international assets those franchises have a lot of running room.
And we'll get into more color on the North Sea here in just less than two weeks.
Great thanks.
And my follow-up shifts to the Permian Basin.
I believe you said in the ops update here there are no rigs currently in the Barnhart area which had been a source of your development.
As you've shifted more towards the other parts of the Permian can you talk about how we should look at execution and growth relative to when you were a bit more Barnhart-focused and what you see as differentiating or we should expect as differentiating Apache's Permian position relative to others who are in the region? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I mean I think the first and foremost thing Brian is we've got a very strong position across all the basins and that gives us lots of flexibility and optionality.
Right now in the Permian we're really not in development mode we are still doing a lot of strategic tests.
We're in the process right now of drilling our three Spraberry shale wells that we're very excited about.
So I think as we moved into the deeper parts of the basin we've seen better results in the Midland Basin and I think the Delaware we've got strong results in the area we've been active there Pecos Bend and our Waha.
So I think what you'll see is we know how to execute we've been in position where we've done a lot of pad drilling and so we know what that means and our asset quality is just as good as anybody's.
We just happen to be spread out across the multiple basins.
So as we look at 2016 we won't be and it depends on the price environment we're in as to how much development dollars we shift into Permian but the big thing we're going be focused on right now is trying to mirror our cost structure to that price environment.
And we're making headway there.
And I think the one thing that you can look to is just our results on some of the plays.
And I think we stand up well with anybody.
Your next question comes from Bob Morris with Citi.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
John in the Permian and pulling back two rigs you originally intended to add does that mean you're going to ramp up now to only 16 rigs by year-end? And where are you right now? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Right now we're at 14 rigs Bob.
I think we really just deferred.
And all that's really done for us is we will end the year with fewer drilled-but-uncompleted wells.
But we felt like that's the prudent thing to do right now based on where oil prices are and trying to feather our programs going into 2016 living within cash flow.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> And so the two rigs you won't add where had you intended to add those rigs in the Permian? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> They were going to be predominantly Midland Basin Central Basin Platform.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And then the drilled-but-uncompleted inventory you ran where is that? And is that steady-state or is that an inventory that you can draw down further in 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I mean first and foremost we had guided to on the last quarter a range in the 80 to 100 range of drilled-but-uncompleted horizontals in North America.
We now see that number ending the year around 60 plus.
And it's not that during the quarter we consumed a lot of drill – picked up our completion pace.
We just elected to wait.
And the main reason is we've got visibility on costs coming down further.
We've got a few drilling rigs that some term is rolling off in the next 30 days.
And we're going to see those rig rates drop 37% 38%.
So we made a decision over this last quarter not to in fact we lowered the top end of our capital guidance range by $100 million.
We decided not to spend that $100 million now and we can wait and spend those in the future.
And your next question comes from John Herrlin with Société Generale.
Yes.
Hi.
Not trying to preempt the North Sea discussion that you will have in two weeks but is it fair to say that you may dedicate a little bit more CapEx in 2016 to the North Sea? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> John I wouldn't see mix is changing too much.
I mean we've had if you look at our capital this year North Sea actually is down 25% over last year.
So I don't see a major shift.
You're not going to see us shift a ton of money by any means.
But I think you're going to see we've got a lot more running room.
And we've got some very material things that could come on that can be very impactful.
Okay.
Thanks John.
Regarding the switch to successful efforts any kind of a ballpark sense about what kind of a balance sheet hit it would be? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'll let Steve jump in on that one.
I was hoping you'd answer that John.
No I think it's too early to say.
We've got in the 10-Q what we believe the fourth quarter hit to the balance sheet will be because of staying on full cost accounting and further softness in the commodity prices.
But it's too early to say at this point in time what will happen if and when we switch to successful efforts to the balance sheet.
And your next question comes from Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Thanks for taking the question.
Just coming back to the Midland.
Obviously the industry has had success delineating various different zones in the Delaware.
I mean you've got some very good wells out at the Pecos Bend.
You've got a lot of wells or you've got some acreage Wildfire Azalea Powell-Miller over on the Midland.
I'm just wondering if you are able to give us having had more time working with the acreage some kind of as others do inventory that works at say $50 in terms of well locations and then $60 $70.
So some un-risked sense of the inventories in those two particular areas.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> What I would say Ed is we have not done a – I mean obviously we're working those areas.
We continue to test lots of zones.
You look in the Midland Basin we've got multiple zones in there we're testing.
As I mentioned we're about to drill or in the process of drilling Spraberry shale wells.
You look at our Pecos Bend area; we've gone in now and added a second landing zone within the 3rd Bone Springs.
So we continue to make progress.
We continue to test zones and really scope opportunities and work on the cost structure so that when we get to a position where we feel like it makes sense to put more rigs and more capital to work we're ready to do that.
In terms of counts we have not come out with a bunch of updated numbers.
Really the best look would be going back to what we did a year ago where we did a very deep look at North America on November 20 2014.
And obviously we've got areas where things have you know we've drilled some things and things have expanded but we haven't really come out with any major announcements or counts at this point.
I guess the issue was the oil price was a lot higher and the cost structure is very different today so I was just trying to get an update on that.
But maybe switching to break-evens I mean the Seagull discovery I mean have you – I don't want to – again steal thunder from what's coming in a few weeks but what sort of oil price do you think it would take to get that hooked back into infrastructure? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Not going to really get into that right now but I can tell you the nice thing about the North Sea is the deliverabilities and the high rates those rocks bring.
They're very forgiving; tremendous rock.
We announced in the press release a very substantial test rate on a very very low drawdown.
So the deliverability is going be fantastic there but I'm not in a position today to disclose F&amp;D.
That will be a longer – a little longer-range project.
It's four miles kind of south of our Forties area but we will have some color on November 17.
And your next question comes from John Freeman with Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> So nice well results in the Delaware Basin but what really jumped out at me in particular was you completed 22 wells in the area versus 12 last quarter despite still using just the one frac crew.
And so I'm trying to get an idea of – you completing nearly twice as many wells with the same number of frac crews.
Is that all huge efficiency gains or is there some other moving parts that doesn't make the quarters comparable? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I think number one is just the pace at which we had them but number two we are making tremendous headway on efficiencies everywhere.
We also are getting wells drilled significantly faster as well as getting more wells fracked.
Tim gave you some color on the Duvernay pad how quickly those went off.
We're seeing tremendous success operationally everywhere and that's just a function of it doesn't take as much equipment to go as far as it did a year ago.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And then on Egypt you disclosed that you've initiated this large seismic reprocessing project that you hope to have done by the end of the year.
I guess I'm just curious sort of what kind of took place in the field that kind of drove the decision to have it; what you hope to kind of get out of that shoot or reprocessing? Excuse me.
Reprocessing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> In Egypt.
Yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> In Egypt.
And where is it or? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> He asked the scope and what we thought we could get from it with the large reprocessing in Egypt.
Well as you're well aware the whole basis of our success in Egypt is that 3D seismic and with continued technological advances improved processing and basically combining previous shoots adding new data we just get a more clear picture of the same areas we've been working for years.
So all this is going to do is help us identify previously unseen prospects and continue to deliver inventory in future years.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And two perfect examples are Ptah and Berenice.
I mean they're right there at our Khalda Offset area right near our existing stuff.
So it's just a function of taking the technology up that can quantify and get really solid ties and – to the – some of the plays out there.
Our next question comes from Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Good afternoon guys.
John last quarter you and Steve spent some time laying out your new planning process where you guys were running scenarios at three different price points for WTI or for oil I should say.
I was wondering if you could give us an update if you've moved where those prices are in your scenarios.
And perhaps more broadly as you've been working that process over the last several months if you're finding any areas that are surprising to you either in terms of their rigidity or new areas of flexibility you've discovered.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Charles we did move those.
I mean we started the year with a – kind of a $50 $65 and $80 and we planned on $50 at the start and then in April May timeframe when things ran up into the mid-$60s we were using those decks.
Clearly we've moved those down.
In the last call we talked kind of $45 $55 $65.
We're not too far off of those cases as we think about things today.
The one thing I would say is the resiliency of the projects moves a little bit.
The bigger tie is what are you doing with gas prices and how does that link in with some of these plays that we've got that have a little higher GOR and gas rates? But in general we're seeing projects and wells in every play that works very well and it's really a function of the cash flow that comes off of those scenarios and the cost structure assumptions are the biggest variables we're trying to get pinned down right now.
Got it that's helpful.
And that's also kind of a good lead in to my next question where I wanted to ask about the Eagle Ford where you guys have turned in really some really good-looking rates there.
But one of the things that I attuned to there is that you have 80% liquids and a lot of times that can include NGLs which are kind of actually the lowest molecule on the totem pole right now.
So can you – and I know the oil gas and maybe the NGL mix varies a bit as you go up and down dip in this play but these most recent wells you've had in your Area A – the Eagle Ford the Lambert and (54:58) where do those fall on the percentage of black oil? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I'll have Tim give you that exact number.
I still think we're in the 55% range roughly in terms of black oil.
The Area A wells those are still within our Ferguson Crossing area.
So if you go back to our November 20 update a year ago and you look at that type curve Area A Charles they're going to layer right in on those – on that type curve which I think we gave those numbers specifically there.
I'm looking over here if we've got the percentages from that type curve but I know we disclosed those.
Yes we can get back with you on those Charles.
We've got those numbers for that area.
Your next question is from Leo Mariani with RBC.
Hey guys.
Just a question around the acreage acquisitions that you all were talking about.
Looks like you did a healthy portion.
You guys commented that you're sort of paying prices which were a lot less than some of these hot high-profile deals we've seen recently.
Can you guys just let us know where are you concentrating the acreage acquisitions? Is it sort of Delaware Midland or Midcon? Can you just help us with where you're looking to buy? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Number one we're within our core areas.
Number two we are looking at some things that would be significantly lower than what I'd call the retail prices that are being paid.
And it's where we're applying technology and science and we think we've got some things that could be material.
It is new ventures acreage so there's always risk with that and that's why we wouldn't want to talk about it now.
But we're talking significant multiples lower in terms of what that acreage might be viewed as and what it potentially could be worth.
And I think that's the zip-code that we feel like makes the most sense in this price environment because we can pick it up and we can work the science and you can have something that could be material.
Okay.
I guess jumping over to Egypt; you obviously had good performance in terms of your increases in gross production in the third quarter.
I noticed that the net production though went down a fair bit in 3Q versus 2Q despite lower commodity prices.
What's driving that and how should we think about that going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It's the tax barrels.
I'm going let Steve Riney give you the exact color on that.
Yeah Leo.
As you said rightfully so gross production in the third quarter was about 3.5% above second quarter.
And actually net entitlement to the venture owners us and Sinopec was also up about a little over 3% about 3.5%.
The issue is around tax barrels and tax barrels on a three-thirds basis for the PSC owners tax barrels were down 20 000 barrels a day between oil and gas.
And the reason for that there's no economic effect of that.
It's the in-quarter reimbursement of taxes associated with income taxable in Egypt.
And the bottom line issue is in the third quarter prices had declined to a point where there was practically no taxable income.
As a matter of fact in one month I think we had a negative tax barrel effect.
And so therefore both the tax income tax expense and the barrels associated with reimbursing that income tax expense were much lower.
Your next question comes from Mike Hall with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
A lot of mine have been answered but I guess just curious on the longer-range outlook.
You guys have talked about providing that in the past.
Should we expect to hear about that in February as well or what sort of I guess timeframe in your current thinking; when we will hear about that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well Michael we obviously will give you a full-year 2016 update in February and we'll see how things look at that point.
So clearly we're working multi-year plans.
But obviously with the volatility and the uncertainty around the prices right now we're going to continue working that.
Okay.
And then just looking at the mix of production in North America; got a bit more NGL relative to our expectations in gas.
Is there anything driving that from an infrastructure standpoint or is that more the focus of the capital program from a reservoir perspective? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No I mean actually I think when you look at our numbers and you look at 2014 and 2015 and our percent oil in 2014 averaged about 52.7% for the year we'll be 52.5%.
We're right in line.
In fact if you add our NGLs in 2014 and 2015 65%.
So you step back big picture there's virtually no change in our mix.
And we have the luxury of being more liquids rich and heavy than a lot of others.
I will say you see some small swings when we've ramped our programs down to some of the GORs and some of the programs.
For example last quarter we brought on some gas here Area A Eagle Ford wells.
If you look at our North Sea production we've shifted more to the Beryl area where we've got a little higher GOR than we do at Forties but I should say we get a very premium gas price up there over $7.
When you look at the Permian right now we've had as a percentage more in the Delaware.
Those wells had the luxury of having very flat GORs but they come on at higher levels.
So it's just a function of the portfolio but in general if you step back and take a big picture look it's virtually where it's been historically.
Your next question comes from Jeff Campbell with Tuohy Brothers.
Inc.</span></strong> The first question I wanted to ask is if we could talk about the Canyon Lime upper interval.
You highlighted shallower declines.
I was wondering are you doing anything to influence the decline? And while we're at it how pervasive do you think the upper interval is throughout your acreage? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes I'm going to – I'll let Tim Sullivan comment on the Quanah well on the Canyon Lime.
The Quanah well is a new landing zone.
It's the only well that we've got in that landing zone.
It's been producing about 2.5 months.
The IP 30 on that was about 1 662 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
In that 2.5 months it's cumed already 91 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day and is still doing just under a 1 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
So it is a standalone well but it's just a function of getting the spacing right.
We have not been curtailing production or anything.
It's just a shallower decline and we're excited about that zone.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thank you.
And I wanted to just ask another broader question.
Not too long ago there was talk about revived industry interest in vertical Permian drilling based on returns.
I was just wondering have you increased your vertical drilling any on that basis? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Jeff we haven't.
But I think one thing I'll say we've got the luxury of having about 60 water floods and seven CO2 floods in the Permian.
And we have a ton of vertical locations; infill locations that do make economic sense.
And right now we do not have any vertical rigs running.
That's an option that we could have for next year.
But we have not made any decision at this point yet.
Our final question for today comes from David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Hi glad I got in.
John can you – if I think about the Permian and just obviously the slowdown in the rig count and look at production quarter-over-quarter down-ticking a little bit gas up oil down when should we anticipate that inflection point as far as when we see stabilization and then move higher? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I mean I think that really comes down to when we feel like it's time to go back to work with more rigs.
And so I mean that's just a function of how much capital we want to spend and we made a decision not to add two more rigs here within the last quarter.
We'll go and do 16 and see but I mean that's all going to hinge off of cash flow and investable projects.
I mean we've got a ton of inventory that they're chomping at the bit to drill but it's just a function of trying to go back to our guiding principles of living within cash flow focusing on our returns focusing on the cost structure and growing value for our shareholders.
All right everything else has been asked.
Thanks appreciate it.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Jennifer thanks.
We're going to wrap it up there.
We're well past the top of the hour.
We had a long queue today so if we didn't get to your call please give the IR team a call.
Otherwise we look forward to speaking with you in February.
Thank you very much.
Thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's conference call and you may now disconnect.
Good afternoon.
My name is Kim and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Apache Corporation Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 earnings conference call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
Gary Clark Vice President Investor Relations you may begin your conference sir.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us on Apache Corporation fourth quarter 2015 earnings conference call.
Speakers making prepared remarks on today's call will be Apache's CEO and President John Christmann and CFO Steve Riney.
Also joining us in the room is Tim Sullivan Executive Vice President of Operations.
In conjunction with this morning's press release I hope you've had the opportunity to review our quarterly earnings supplement which summarizes key financial and operational data for the fourth quarter and full year 2015 along with details regarding our 2016 production and capital spending outlook.
We have revised and streamlined the structure and content of our earnings supplement and believe you will find it more useful.
Also please note that we've changed our capital expenditure guidance convention to reflect a more comprehensive picture of our spending.
Specifically the 2016 capital spending range we provided in this morning's press release includes all exploration development gathering transportation and processing expenditures.
It also includes budgeted leasehold acquisition costs and capitalized interest and capitalized G&amp;A.
The only element of our 2016 program that our guidance will continue to exclude is capital attributable to our minority interest partner in Egypt.
As a result of this guidance change references made on today's call to 2015 and 2016 capital spending may not be directly comparable.
Our earnings release the accompanying financial tables and non-GAAP reconciliations along with our quarterly earnings supplement can all be found on our website at www.apachecorp.com/financial data.
We also plan to post on our website a section which contains responses to any questions that arise on today's call for which we do not have readily available information to answer.
I'd like to remind everyone that today's discussions will contain forward-looking estimates and assumptions based on our current views and reasonable explanations.
However a number of factors could cause actual results to materially differ from what we discuss today.
A full disclaimer is located with the supplemental data on our website.
And I would now like to turn the call over to John.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Think you Gary.
Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
I'd like to begin with a recap of the significant progress Apache made in 2015.
I will then provide some highlights from our fourth quarter and full year results and conclude with some specific thoughts on what to expect for 2016.
Apache underwent a significant transition in 2015.
While the external environment remains challenging we entered 2016 better positioned to operate and thrive in a lower-for-longer commodity price environment.
In addition to completing an extensive refocusing of the portfolio we have taken other decisive actions to position Apache for an extended low price environment which included aligning our capital spending with cash flows attacking the cost structure continuing to high-grade and build an inventory of attractive opportunities that will deliver strong returns under a low oil price environment and strengthening our financial position and liquidity.
While we have made tremendous progress we are not yet finished with these efforts.
We streamlined our portfolio exiting Argentina Australia much of the Gulf of Mexico and two world scale LNG projects.
We are now focused on three principal areas a substantial onshore North American acreage position with an abundant inventory of high-value growth opportunities anchored by our extensive Permian footprint and sustainable free cash flow generators in our higher cash margin North Sea and Egypt businesses each with many years of low risk drilling opportunities and significant exploration potential still ahead.
In the current low oil price environment our more conventional international assets continue to generate strong cash flows and better rates of return than many of our operations in North America.
In the North Sea we are uniquely positioned.
We have two large-scale hydrocarbon accumulations in Forties and Beryl available high-quality platform and pipeline infrastructure and per unit cash operating costs that are one-half the industry average.
These advantages make tiebacks to existing infrastructure very economic even at current oil prices.
In Egypt we benefit from the cost recovery aspect of our production-sharing contracts such that they help to mitigate the impact of declining oil prices on our cash flows.
Our international positions clearly differentiate our portfolio play to Apache's long-standing strengths and remain economically attractive in this low oil price environment.
A year ago Apache took more decisive action than many of our peers and reduced activity levels in pursuit of cash flow neutrality.
We anticipated the lower-for-longer oil price scenario and recognized the importance of protecting value through more disciplined investment.
Accordingly we reduced capital by more than 60% in 2015 from 2014 levels and focused on bringing cost into alignment with the current oil price environment.
Specifically this time last year on our fourth quarter 2014 conference call I stated that "We would consider using our balance sheet only to capitalize on lower acreage cost and other potential opportunities that may occur rather than to drill wells and chase production in a depressed and volatile oil price environment".
We stuck to that view throughout 2015 and continue to do so today one year later.
At the same time we instituted an even more rigorous capital allocation process through which we continually monitor the delivery of the capital programs and reallocate capital as value maximization demands.
Motivated by the deteriorating oil price environment and a goal to achieve cash flow neutrality we attacked our cost structure in 2015 with a thorough review of G&amp;A LOE and capital costs.
Specifically we rationalized our entire organizational structure eliminating layers of management and consolidating office locations.
And we reduced staffing levels to more closely align with forward-looking activity levels.
As a result today our run rate gross G&amp;A costs are more than 30% below where they were in the fourth quarter of 2014 and we're a much more streamlined and efficient organization.
Our lease operating costs on a per boe basis were down approximately 10% year-over-year when excluding the tax barrel impact of our Egyptian impairment charges.
Our lease operating costs on a per boe basis were down approximately 10% year over year when excluding the tax barrel impact of our Egyptian impairment charges.
Our average drilled and completed well costs in North America were down 35% from fourth quarter of 2014 to fourth quarter of 2015.
Furthermore we strengthened our financial position and liquidity in 2015.
A portion of our asset divestment proceeds were used to reduce debt by $2.5 billion and to build our cash balance.
Apache began 2016 with approximately $5 billion of liquidity including nearly $1.5 billion in cash.
We value this position highly and we'll be very thoughtful in this price environment as to when and how we utilize it.
One of our primary operational objectives both last year and in 2016 is to assess refine optimize and add to our extensive inventory of captured drilling locations in North America in the context of lower-for-longer oil prices.
This is a comprehensive process that involves acreage delineation wellbore redesign completion optimization spacing and landing zone tests acreage swaps purchases and sales and the creation of full field development plans.
In addition to these activities extensive science and testing continues on our new play concepts which could lead to significant growth opportunities down the road.
The goal of this work is to fully define and prioritize the highest rate of return highest growth and most efficient North American opportunities to leverage in a better investment environment.
Apache is now very well positioned for whatever lies ahead.
We are living within our means and anticipate being cash flow neutral in 2016 and beyond until such time that the price environment warrants higher investment levels.
We have a very competitive cost structure and continue to drive overhead LOE and capital costs lower.
We are building high-quality drilling and exploratory inventory for the future.
We have the financial strength and liquidity to sustain us through a prolonged period of potentially lower oil prices and to propel us into a better investment environment.
Our sound decisions and decisive actions in 2015 leave us much better positioned today.
We have improved our financial position without raising equity and without reducing or eliminating the dividend.
At this time we plan to be cash flow neutral in 2016 and to invest primarily to enhance our long-term prospects for future growth.
Maintaining strong credit quality through disciplined capital allocation is a prudent approach in this environment thus we re targeting either unchanged or lower net debt levels by the end of this year.
Now I'd like to turn to the fourth quarter and full year 2015 results.
We are very pleased with our delivery around items that were within our control.
We exceeded our production goals across all of our regions in both the fourth quarter and for the full year 2015.
We accomplished this on a capital program of $3.6 billion which was at the low-end of the original guidance range we established on our earnings call a year ago.
During the fourth quarter North America Onshore production averaged 308 000 boes per day which as expected was a sequential increase from the third quarter production of 306 000 boes per day.
The increase was primarily due to the timing of completions and solid well performance.
In the Permian Basin despite some fairly significant weather downtime in December our fourth quarter production achieved an all-time quarterly high of 174 000 boes per day up 2% sequentially from the third quarter.
Growth was driven by the Delaware Basin where we completed 13 new wells primarily targeting the Bone Springs formation at Pecos Bend.
In the Midland Basin Central Basin Platform and Northwest Shelf we completed 61 new wells and delivered very good results in the Wildfire area with our first three lower Spraberry tests as well as three strong wells in the Wolfcamp on our June Tippett pad.
We also drilled some excellent wells on the Northwest Shelf at our prolific Cedar Lake Yeso play.
Please refer to our quarterly earnings supplement for details on some of these key wells.
As we look ahead to 2016 our Permian rig count will fall from 10 at the beginning of January to four by mid-year.
Permian well completions are expected to be down 75% year-over-year.
These actions clearly demonstrate that we are willing to let our Permian production decline until we are in a better investment environment.
Turning to the North Sea volumes were approximately 72 000 boes per day in the fourth quarter a 2% decline sequentially from third quarter production levels.
We brought three new development wells online during the fourth quarter at very good rates but these were offset by a maintenance turnaround at the Beryl Bravo platform.
2015 was an excellent year for Apache with the drill bit in the North Sea.
We brought online 19 new development wells with an average drilling success rate of 83%.
We also confirmed three significant new exploratory successes with the previously disclosed Callater or K Corona and Seagull discoveries which we expect will contribute very material reserve and production adds in the coming years.
In 2016 we are significantly curtailing our North Sea development drilling program and plan to employ no platform rigs during the second half of the year.
As a result North Sea production will decline slightly in 2016 compared to 2015 production of just over 71 000 boes per day.
In Egypt gross production declined roughly 3% sequentially from the third quarter.
Total liquids volumes declined 2% while downtime and bottlenecks at certain gas processing facilities reduced our natural gas volumes by 5%.
On a net basis excluding Sinopec's minority interest and the effect of tax barrels production actually increased 5% sequentially to 102 000 boes per day.
This a function of the significant oil price decline from third quarter to fourth quarter which resulted in Apache receiving more cost-recovery barrels under our production-sharing contract agreements.
The key driver in Egypt during 2015 was the tremendous success of our drilling program and production ramp-up at Ptah and Berenice.
As of year-end we had 12 wells producing in these prolific low GOR oilfields.
Since November 2014 Ptah and Berenice have produced more than 8 million barrels of oil.
In 2016 we plan to stabilize gross production from these fields near 30 000 boes per day.
Overall our gross production volumes are expected to decline in Egypt this year.
However net volumes should increase as falling oil prices drive an increase in cost recovery barrels per our PSCs.
On the cost side I noted earlier that our average North American Onshore well costs were down approximately 35% from a year ago.
We are continuously improving on this front and continue to see significant well cost decreases since the beginning of the year.
Some of the key plays where we are seeing exceptionally low drilling and completion costs include: the Delaware Basin where we have visibility to Bone Springs and Wolfcamp wells of approximately $4.5 million; the Midland Basin where horizontal Wolfcamp and lower Spraberry wells are projected to be drilled and completed for less than $4 million; the horizontal Yeso play on the Northwest Shelf in the Permian where our well costs are trending below $2.3 million; and the Woodford/SCOOP where our latest pacesetter was drilled and completed for only $7.5 million.
In 2015 we reinvigorated Apache's culture of cost and returns discipline.
While we have made great progress on costs they are not yet fully aligned with the current price environment.
Further reductions are planned for 2016 and it is imperative that we remain relentless in our efforts to drive costs down further.
To achieve this we will foster innovation and utilize technology that redefines the cost structure of both Apache and the industry.
The key takeaway is that these are not just belt-tightening efforts in response to price weakness.
Apache is implementing structural changes that will continue to accrue to our bottom line regardless of where oil prices and service costs go in the future.
To that end we believe that approximately one-half of the well cost reductions achieved over the past year are permanent while the other half will fluctuate with future service cost changes.
Regardless Apache will always focus intently on controlling what we can control and remaining highly disciplined through the cycle.
As we turn our focus to 2016 strip oil prices are now roughly 30% to 35% below where they were a year ago.
This underscores the importance of continuing to foster a new mindset and approach to capital allocation and managing our cost structure.
Similar to our approach in 2015 we are using a conservative price deck for 2016 budgeting that reduces the risk of inadvertently putting ourselves in the position of a material outspend and helps to sustain our credit quality.
Our capital allocation process for 2016 is built around four key themes: living within our means and achieving cash flow neutrality for the year at $35 oil focusing capital spending on protecting the asset base and optimizing and building inventory maintaining a relentless focus on both capital costs and operational expenses and remaining flexible opportunistic and ready to react as conditions change.
With this in mind we announced in this morning's press release a 2016 capital budget of $1.4 billion to $1.8 billion the midpoint of which represents over a 60% decrease from 2015 and over an 80% decrease from 2014 levels.
In our North American Onshore portfolio Apache is fortunate to have the vast majority of our high-value leasehold already held by production and only four rigs under longer-term higher day rate contracts.
As a result our obligation spending is relatively limited this year.
At $35 oil we do not believe spending on development wells and attempting to maintain production levels is a prudent or economic use of our precious capital dollars.
We would rather leave those barrels in the ground and come back to them in a higher price environment or as drilling and completion costs become more aligned with oil prices.
The majority of our capital spending in these onshore regions will focus on strategic testing and delineating our vast acreage position such that we optimize our growth potential and efficiencies when it is appropriate to put more rigs back into the field.
In light of these considerations our capital allocation to North American Onshore plays is approximately $700 million or 45% of our total capital budget.
At this level of investment we anticipate a pro forma production decline of 12% to 15% in North America Onshore compared to 2015.
Our decision to reduce North American Onshore investment by more than 70% and to allow production to decline in 2016 is simply due to our desire to preserve our financial position in the current investment environment.
It is not indicative of our asset depth or quality.
We are confident that our North American asset base can withstand this reduction in investment without any deterioration of the future opportunity set or impact our ability to arrest the decline and begin to grow again at the appropriate time in the future.
To provide some context around the sustainability of our onshore North American asset base we estimate that in the current price environment it would require a spending level of approximately $1.6 billion or an incremental $900 million of capital above our planned 2016 program in order to hold North America Onshore flat with the 2015 average of 309 000 boes per day.
This $900 million dollars of incremental capital is roughly equivalent to the amount of incremental cash flow Apache generates annually with a $10 per barrel increase in oil prices.
This implies with an average oil price of $45 per barrel Apache's North American production base could be held flat with 2015 levels.
At current drilling and completion costs this maintenance spend would equate to an incremental annual average program of approximately 20 rigs in North America.
I mentioned earlier that Apache is looking for a better investment environment before we materially increase our capital program let alone consider outspending cash flow on an annual basis.
We have the luxury of waiting for an environment in which oil prices and service costs are fully synchronized such that fully burdened and full-cycle economics in our North American drilling programs achieve double-digit rates of return.
It is not enough to deliver the 15% to 30% unburdened wellhead returns at $35 per barrel oil that are routinely quoted in industry presentations.
At Apache we have elevated our standard for investment of shareholders' capital.
Our drilling programs must deliver full-cycle fully burdened rates of return in the mid-to-high double-digits in order to deliver an acceptable return on capital employed for the shareholder.
That said we are thoroughly assessing our entire North American footprint and will be prepared to put rig lines back into each of the Pecos Bend Evergreen and Waha areas of the Delaware Basin and our high rate of return horizontal Yeso play in the Northwest Shelf.
We could add several incremental rigs in our Midland Basin Wolfcamp and lower Spraberry plays where we have 200 000-plus net acres in four core counties.
Our Woodford/SCOOP position will support an incremental drilling program for several years to come and we have numerous high-volume multi-well development pad locations ready to go in the Duvernay and Montney in Canada.
When oil prices rally further our Eagle Ford and Canyon Lime will come back into play and contribute to North American growth.
On the international side Egypt and the North Sea continue to deliver projects with solid rates of return and strong net present values.
Because both are economically advantaged under our assumed $35 oil price we are allocating approximately $800 million or 50% of our 2016 capital budget to these regions.
We project pro forma production from our international and offshore regions this year will be relatively flat compared to 2015.
The budget I just described is based on specific oil price and service cost assumptions.
If oil prices recover or if average well costs decline such that our cash flow is higher than we have budgeted we anticipate directing the majority of the incremental dollars to onshore North America.
This could in turn mitigate a portion of the decline implied by our guidance.
Before I conclude I would like to outline some of Apache's potential future growth drivers as we look beyond 2016.
With higher oil prices and access to more internally generated cash flow our North American Onshore production will stabilize and return to growth.
This growth will come from lower cost wells that generate better returns than Apache's historical North American programs.
High-graded plays with years of running room across our 3.3 million gross legacy acres in the Permian will drive growth from the Bone Springs Wolfcamp lower Spraberry Yeso and other formations.
This would be supplemented by the Woodford/SCOOP Montney and Duvernay post 2016.
Additionally we have acquired a substantial amount of relatively low cost acreage since early 2015 that could be incremental to the growth potential that resides in our legacy Permian and Anadarko positions.
In the North Sea we also see excellent growth potential.
In mid-2017 we plan to bring our Callater Discovery online at a 30-day IP rate of approximately 15 000 boes per day net to Apache.
Following that in mid-2018 we anticipate bringing online our first tertiary injectite discovery Corona at a rate of 5 000 to 10 000 boes per day net.
Looking out a bit longer term Corona has de-risked a string of exploration prospects that will be drilled in the future.
Over this same timeframe we will conduct exploration activities on our 2.3 gross million acres offshore Suriname.
While it is still early we're excited about the potential for this area which lies in the newly confirmed oil province.
We have included a map of our Suriname position in our quarterly earnings supplement for your information.
In closing Apache is well-prepared for a lower-for-even longer oil price environment.
As experts debate when or if oil prices will increase and to what levels Apache will continue to focus on the things we can control.
Our primary strategic objectives in 2016 are: manage to cash flow neutrality after dividends and end the year with unchanged or lower net debt levels; preserve our strong financial position; protect our asset base; and optimize and expand our high-quality inventory of growth opportunities through strategic testing and exploration.
Our goal is to emerge from this commodity price downturn with top-tier financial strength a robust inventory of high rate of return drilling opportunities in North America and a sustained capacity to generate free cash flow from our international assets in Egypt and the North Sea.
While we don't know when prices will recover we do know that the prudent choices we're making today will enhance our long-term success.
Quite often it is during downturns like these that the choices companies make can either set them up for long-term success or set them back.
I believe we have significantly strengthened Apache Corporation despite the challenging price environment and we are positioning ourselves to succeed through the recovery.
I will now turn the call over to Steve Riney.
Thank you John and good afternoon.
As John indicated Apache had a very good year in 2015.
We made outstanding progress high-grading the portfolio driving down costs aligning capital programs with cash flows and proactively strengthening our financial position.
We entered 2016 well-positioned for the challenges our industry will face.
Today I will highlight Apache's financial progress which includes our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year 2015 progress with our ongoing cost reduction efforts a review of our financial strength and liquidity and our outlook for 2016 production and capital spending.
So let's begin with the fourth quarter financial results.
As noted in our press release under generally accepted accounting principles Apache reported a loss of $7.2 billion or $19.07 per common share.
Our results for the quarter include a number of items outside of our core earnings that are typically excluded by the investment community in published earnings estimates the most significant of which are ceiling test write-downs impairments and tax adjustments associated with these items.
As in prior periods these write-downs resulted from the continued low commodity price environment.
Our loss for the quarter adjusted for these items was $24 million or $0.06 per share.
Before I turn to other items I'd like to comment on our reported production volumes which include a significant downward adjustment related to the Egyptian tax barrels.
The terms of our Egyptian PSCs provide that the payment of income taxes attributable to our entitlement will be made by EGPC from their share of production.
We then gross up our results for these taxes which are paid on our behalf.
Egyptian income taxes are calculated based on book income and are recorded as tax expense with an equal and offsetting amount in oil and gas revenues.
Thus there is no impact on net income as the revenues and tax expense we record each quarter offset one another.
The revenue effect of this gross up is also recorded as production volume in our operating results.
These are referred to as Egypt tax barrels.
In the first three quarters of 2015 we recognized book income tax expense and thus tax barrel production volumes.
In the fourth quarter we incurred a $1.3 billion charge related to impairments and write-downs in Egypt driven by the continued fall in oil prices which resulted in a significant loss for the quarter.
This loss has the effect of offsetting nearly all of the previously reported tax expense and tax barrels in the first three quarters thereby resulting in a large negative income tax expense and negative tax barrel production in the fourth quarter.
The total impact of the impairment is a loss of 38 280 barrels of oil equivalent per day of volumes in the fourth quarter or 9 649 barrels of oil equivalent per day for the full year 2015.
Because the Egypt tax barrel volumes have no economic impact to Apache and as we see in the fourth quarter can fluctuate materially from quarter-to-quarter our pro forma production guidance always excludes tax barrels.
We believe this non-GAAP view of production is more reflective of underlying economic production volumes.
Now let me turn to capital expenditures and costs.
In 2015 Apache's intense focus on driving internal efficiencies along with the significant downward pressure on third-party service costs resulted in substantial efficiency gains in both capital and operating costs.
Capital spending came in at $678 million for the fourth quarter and $3.6 billion for the full year.
This was at the low-end of our original guidance range.
As a reminder our 2015 capital spending guidance excluded capital attributable to our one-third partner in Egypt capitalized interest opportunistic leasehold purchases and capital associated with divested LNG and associated operations.
As Gary noted at the outset of this call we are changing our CapEx guidance convention in 2016.
Our guidance now includes all anticipated capital spending categories except capital attributable to our minority partner in Egypt.
This should make it easier to track our capital spending plans for the year.
On the lease operating expense side our fourth quarter LOE was $10.04 per boe which is 3% higher than the fourth quarter of 2014.
For the year LOE average $9.49 per boe which is 9% lower than 2014.
Underlying improvement in these metrics is masked by the negative Egypt tax barrel volumes in the fourth quarter.
On a like-for-like basis excluding this impact our lease operating expenses were down 4% and 10% per boe respectively in the fourth quarter and full year 2015.
We have also spoken to you about progress on our G&amp;A costs.
As a reminder we consider G&amp;A to be our gross cash expenditures for all costs above field operations.
The stated goal was to exit 2015 with a G&amp;A run rate of $700 million a decrease of over 30% from our run rate in the fourth quarter of 2014.
I'm happy to say we achieved this goal.
As we look ahead to 2016 we continue to find overhead efficiencies and we are reducing our G&amp;A cost estimate for this year to a range of $650 million to $700 million.
Next I would like to make a few comments regarding our financial strength and liquidity position.
In 2015 we reduced our debt levels from year-end 2014 by $2.5 billion ending the year with $8.8 billion of total debt.
We retained $1.5 billion of cash which we may utilize to further pay down debt.
We ended the year with net debt of $7.3 billion.
Our latest 12-month net debt-to-adjusted EBITDA ratio as of December 31 2015 was just under two times.
Apache's nearest long-term debt maturity is in 2018 and only $700 million or 8% of our total debt portfolio matures prior to 2021.
We restructured and refreshed our $3.5 billion credit facility which now matures in June 2020 and combined with our cash position we now have total liquidity of approximately $5 billion.
At this time our financial condition and liquidity are very strong and we have accomplished this without issuing equity without reducing the dividend and without selling core strategic assets.
And to ensure that we sustain this strong position we have chosen to reduce our capital spending this year to a level where we can attain cash flow neutrality at $35 oil.
Both John and I have mentioned the term cash flow neutrality a few times in reference to our overarching goals so let me be clear what we mean by this.
Cash flow neutrality means the capital program debt service and the dividend are all funded through cash from operations with little or no underpinning from financing or portfolio actions.
Cash from operations includes all operating costs including corporate overhead and includes movements in working capital.
At this time we anticipate only small non-core non-producing asset sales will be necessary to achieve cash flow neutrality in 2016 assuming $35 oil prices.
We could choose to spend more capital.
But as John outlined we believe that preserving our strong financial position and our credit quality through cash flow neutrality is the best approach for our shareholders in this price environment.
In the event prices improve during the year we stand prepared to ramp-up our investment activity within the constraint of cash flow neutrality.
Now I'd like to provide some more detail on our 2016 capital program.
As John discussed our budget of $1.4 billion to $1.8 billion is the product of a $35 oil price assumption for the year.
Since we are in a very volatile price environment and our overarching goal is for cash flow neutrality the capital budget will flex up or down with price movements.
Capital in 2016 will be allocated on a prioritized basis to protect the asset base further optimize and build high-quality inventory for the future conduct certain longer-cycle high-impact exploration activities and to pursue higher-return development activities which remain economically very attractive at these low prices.
There are two types of spend required to protect the asset base.
First we have to maintain the assets and keep them running efficiently.
This includes workovers recompletions and maintenance and will represent approximately 30% of our capital program.
Second in some places we have to engage in activity to maintain ownership of the mineral rights or to preserve leases.
This includes continuous drilling activity or lease-holding production maintenance and will represent approximately 5% of our capital program.
We will allocate roughly 30% of our capital to key exploration activities and new play tests to continue building and high-grading our drilling inventory for the future.
This will include continuing our highly successful North Sea exploration program key play tests on some of our existing acreage in the Permian and Anadarko Basins and seismic commitments in offshore Suriname.
The remaining 35% of our capital program will go to development activity.
Most of this will be allocated to the North Sea and Egypt where we continue to see development opportunities that work very well at low oil prices.
This is primarily due to contract structures and tax regimes that provide favorable capital recovery mechanisms and higher average cash margins.
We suggest our investors review our earnings supplement for additional detail regarding region-by-region netbacks.
We also have a number of onshore North America drilling locations in the Permian Basin and Woodford/SCOOP that remain economically attractive.
However these areas will receive less allocated capital due to the capital budget being constrained by cash flow.
While we have reduced development activity on these assets the leases are preserved and development will ramp back up in these assets and several other areas when oil prices and costs are better aligned to deliver more attractive returns.
Our reduced 2016 capital spending level is appropriate and prudent for a $35 oil environment.
The end result is that we expect our total pro forma production to be in a range of 433 000 to 453 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
This will represent a decline of 7% to 11% from a comparative pro forma volume of 486 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day in 2015.
These volumes exclude Egypt minority interest Egypt tax barrels and the effect of divested volumes from the 2015 base.
If prices rise allowing more capital to be deployed we anticipate most incremental investment would be directed to onshore North America and this would offset some of this anticipated decline.
In 2016 we will continue to optimize LOE but given our expected production decline and a mix shift to slightly higher-cost international production we do not anticipate materially lower operating costs on a per barrel of oil equivalent basis.
In terms of 2016 income taxes we expect our adjusted earnings global effective tax rate to currently be in a range of 15% to 20%.
Obviously lower than what we would typically expect our effective tax rate is being driven primarily by an expectation of very low book income.
Going forward we will be able to provide updates to this rate as the year progresses.
Also we can provide some guidance around expected cash tax payments.
We will pay the remainder of the income tax accrued for repatriating 2015 foreign sales proceeds of $85 million in the first quarter.
Given the low commodity price environment we currently believe that our cash tax payments in 2016 including cash taxes associated with the Petroleum Revenue Tax in the UK will be minimal.
For the first quarter we are providing pro forma production guidance for North American onshore of 290 000 to 295 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Our international and offshore production is guided to 180 000 to 185 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day which excludes Egypt tax barrels and the Egypt minority interest.
Our projected capital spend in the first quarter is $500 million to $550 million or approximately one-third of our full-year 2016 budget.
In closing our prudent approach in 2015 has put us on firm ground and helps ensure resiliency in this difficult and unpredictable environment.
As a result we are prepared to endure a potentially lower for even longer commodity cycle while retaining our ability to dynamically manage our activity levels up or down as commodity prices and service costs dictate.
Through all of this our primary goals will remain unchanged.
We will live within our means maintain our strong financial position build quality development inventory for the future and invest to improve returns and grow value for our shareholders.
We look forward to a successful 2016.
And I would now like to turn the call over to the operator for Q&amp;A.
And your first question comes from the line of Pearce Hammond with Simmons &amp; Company.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon.
John does the Egyptian government help drive your thinking regarding capital allocation among your different regions? I assume the Egyptian government wants you to produce as much oil and gas as possible to bolster both domestic energy security as well as the Egyptian treasury.
And so just curious if it limits your capital allocation flexibility in any ways.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Pearce clearly they would like us to invest more money but like everything else we decide where we put the investments in place so it has not had an impact.
We are going to generate cash flow in both Egypt and the North Sea and they understand that.
And it obviously will flow with our budget as we're flexible.
Great.
And then my follow-up around the offshore Suriname blocks if this is a legacy position from when Apache had a more defined exploration program like in New Zealand Cook Inlet and places like that is this a bit more of a one-off or is this a type of business that you want to build over the next few years? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think it is something – it fits with our international portfolio.
Actually we've got a lot of questions about that position Pearce.
We felt like it was important to go ahead and get a map out there.
We drilled the well this year our Popokai well and we actually had picked up the other block prior to either Exxon drilling there Liza well or our well going down.
So we've got those two blocks there not a huge capital commitment.
We're going to be shooting seismic over block 58 this year and we'll go from there.
And your next question comes from the line of Brian Singer with Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hello Brian.
With regards to the CapEx and activity reductions when we think about your cost base and your lowered cost including on the SG&amp;A side when it's time to ramp back up what is your operational and scale flexibility to do this? And what flexibility if any may be reduced at least temporarily? I mean in other words if you wanted to take the Permian and bring it back to a 10 or 15 or 20 rig count again would this require re-staffing and the passage of time to make that happen? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Brian with the way we've done our staffing we strategically designed this organization for a $50 plus world.
So we do not envision needing to add a lot of staff to be able to flex back up.
Clearly I think if you get into a significantly lower time period where you've got lower prices 24 months 36 months out at that point you'd probably reduce further.
But we've maintained the flexibility so we can ramp up our capital programs when appropriate.
Great.
Thanks so much.
My follow-up is actually a follow-up to Pearce's question on exploration.
You made a couple of references to adding exploration opportunities.
Was that specifically the Suriname reference that you've already kind of spoken to here or are there other opportunities including the onshore that you're pursuing from a more exploratory perspective? And can you give us more color beyond Suriname if the answer is yes to that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I mean it obviously includes Suriname.
We did a good job of highlighting our North Sea exploration program last November so we've got some exploration wells to drill in the North Sea.
We brought on two discoveries late-2014 in Egypt in Ptah and Berenice so we have active exploration programs both North Sea both Egypt Suriname and then obviously in North America.
We have acknowledged that we acquired some acreage last year at some low prices that we think can be prospective.
And while we've shut down for the most part our development drilling in North America we will be doing some strategic testing in and around our existing asset base and on some acreage that we've picked up.
And your next question comes from the line of Evan Calio with Morgan Stanley.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon guys.
I appreciate the color and added disclosure.
My first question you guys cut CapEx I think deeper than expectations to get within cash flow post-dividend and avoided at least so far some moves made by peers.
And maybe you alluded to this in your opening comments.
Yet to be clear on the strip do think that these moves mitigate the risk of needing to issue equity or losing your IG rating at Moody's? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Clearly at this point we took actions and we're very aggressive last year.
So you look back to 2015 and 2016 we've had a track record of reducing activity and really trying to gear our business and mirror our activities to the price environment we're in.
We've done that we worked hard last year to improve our financial position which we demonstrated we did.
If you look back over second quarter third quarter of last year we had an outspend of approximately 14% which was significantly lower than most of our peer group.
So it put us in a position where we have been working to gear our spending levels to a lower price environment.
So clearly we worked on that and we do have cash on hand this year.
Obviously we're making a conscious decision again in 2016 to live within the current price environment and within cash flow here such that we end the year with flat net debt.
So it puts us in a position where we would anticipate not having to do some of those things at this point.
And obviously protecting our investment grade rating is important to us and it's something that we take seriously.
Great.
And I guess – go ahead.
Sorry.
Oh that's me echoing.
Sorry.
I in my second question follow-up I mean while not the case currently on your credit rating but how should we or how do you think about potential impact to operations inside outside the U.S.
working capital levels if you either did see one or more non-IG credit rating? Yeah.
Thanks Evan.
So this is Steve.
We're not going to really deal with the types of hypotheticals of what would happen if this happen what would you do if the credit rating went down multiple notches.
We're doing everything that we can to prudently run the company financially as John outlined.
We've taken a number of steps to protect the financial position of the company.
And we think we're actually in pretty good shape.
We've done a lot of stuff in 2015 in the last year to strengthen the financial position build liquidity make sure that we don't have a lot of refinance risk.
And so S&amp;P has already come out with their rating BBB a downgrade to BBB and stable.
Fitch continues to have us at BBB+ and we're waiting on Moody's.
And I think we've done the things that we need to do and we'll continue to do the things that we need to do to remain investment grade.
And we've got $1.5 billion of cash on the balance sheet.
And if we need to use some of that as I said in my script to pay down a little bit of debt in order to protect that then we would certainly be willing to do that.
So we obviously think about what we would do and what we would be required to do because we need to be prepared and prudent about that.
We don't spend a lot of time worried about that.
We worry about protecting the investment grade rating.
And your next question comes from the line of John Herrlin with Société Générale.
Your line is open.
Two quick ones.
For Suriname when will you get the bird stack in on the seismic? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> John we will be shooting that later this year.
So it will be a summer program.
Okay.
Thanks John.
With respect to your unconventional activity that you have planned is this all going to be internal science done by Apache or are you going to be interfacing with the industry or what? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Clearly it'd be internal programs that we'd be doing on our own.
So I mean we participate in some wells in some areas and we learn from what we can and we've got partners in some places but clearly the work we are doing is all internally generated and for the most part it's done on our behalf for 100%.
Okay.
Last one for me.
Historically you've made a lot of acquisitions; not of late but a lot of people are experiencing some pain.
Will you be more opportunistic in terms of property front in terms of buying things beyond what you have done? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I mean John we always are aware of what's out there and look at things carefully.
The thing I would say we find ourselves today in a very enviable position and we're opportunity-rich.
With where we've scaled our capital back there are a lot of excellent opportunities that we are choosing not to fund and that we think we would pursue at a higher price environment.
So as we think about things they would have to be something that would be incrementally additive to our current inventory and portfolio.
And so I mean it'd be a pretty high bar to be able to – something that we would want to bring into the door.
And your next question comes from the line of Michael Hall with Heikkinen Energy.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Was just curious going back to Egypt a little bit is there anything – any feature within the PSC that kind of limits your downside flexibility around spending? I'm just trying to think through if there's any sort of reduced cost-recovery barrels or anything along those lines if you cut too much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No Michael there really isn't.
The nice thing about what you're seeing on the international portfolio is a lot of these PSCs and so forth were designed for lower price environments.
And quite frankly the way they work the government takes a greater percentage in higher prices.
And so as we look at the international portfolio and we look at North America there's greater leverage in North America to higher prices and there's less leverage on the international side.
So it makes sense to allocate more capital into those projects right now because the returns are superior.
And there's no requirements or commitments on the spend level that would cause us to have to spend more or anything along those lines.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Appreciate the color.
And North America if I just think about the 2015 fourth quarter rate and then take a linear decline through 2016 I'm showing about 20% plus decline year-on-year 4Q 2016 versus 4Q 2015 is that directionally reasonable or is that anything I ought to revise in that thinking? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I would say you'd probably end up a little bit steeper on the backside but it's all going to hinge on how flexible we are with the capital and prices.
And your next question comes from the line of David Tameron with Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning or I guess afternoon.
John I'm just trying to think about 2017.
If you think about it if you get a modest uptick obviously cash flow you guys have a lot of leverage to that.
Your cash flow goes up.
How are you thinking about the next two years? Is it spend within cash flow? Is it – it obviously would take a little bit of time to ramp to get there but how would you thinking about that in say a $45 world? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think the important thing is if you look at 2016 we're guiding to relatively flat international.
We said earlier on the call in the prepared notes that an additional $900 million incremental capital in North America would keep North America flat to slightly growing which translates to about a $45 world.
So 2016 we could live within cash flow and be flat to relatively slight growth.
So as we look ahead into 2017 there's a couple of things going on first and foremost.
We're in the second year now of a significantly reduced CapEx budget.
We reduced aggressively last year again this year.
So we've got fewer wells that were brought on than historical.
So our rates will be flattening slightly as we go into 2017.
Secondly it will not take as much capital in 2017 to keep it flat especially with North America.
We're already investing at levels right now on the international side.
Additionally we've got some catalysts that will be coming on in 2017.
If you look at the North Sea our Callater well potentially more than one well there that could be coming on.
So we've got some catalysts.
And quite frankly with the capital efficiency we're seeing the other thing I'll say is as we look at the 2016 budget we've already seen well costs coming in significantly under what we planned this year.
So the capital efficiency is the other big thing.
So I think as we get out into 2017 it's going to take a lower oil price for us to be able to stay flat and potentially grow.
Okay.
And then one follow-up just to clarify.
So you said that you're going to have four rigs in the Permian or that's where you get to.
Where – maybe one or two of those doing some R&amp;D can you talk about where the activity is going to be? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We've got four long-term contracts so we will ramp down to those four rigs.
There'll be a couple of them working in the Delaware two to three.
And there will be at least one up in the Midland Basin Central Basin Platform as we continue to test all of our plays.
And your next question comes from the line of Edward Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon and thank you very much for talking about returns and fully-loaded returns at that.
So as we go out on the other side of this trough however long it lasts what is the hurdle rate for investment fully-loaded that you're looking to develop? I appreciate oil price is going to move the cost structure is going to change but I'm trying to think about what hurdle rate gets you to invest.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think the key is we want to get to fully burdened corporate returns that are in the low-double digits.
And I think that's where we need to be striving and that's where we plan to get to.
Yes.
Good that you have a returns target because historically the returns have not been as good for the industry even at $100 oil.
Just a question then on the Permian and Delaware.
You've got acreage but it's not all contiguous.
I'm just wondering if there's any update on people being willing to block up to get some efficiency gains? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> The nice thing is we've got 3.3 million gross acres so we've got lots of acreage.
We have done a lot of small trades and we are doing a lot of things.
We are trying to block some things up and have had some success.
So they're not things that hit the press in terms of radar screen but we're continually looking to block and swap.
We're interbedded with a lot of the operators and there's lots of things we're doing to try to core up those positions and put together drilling units where you've got more control.
And your next question comes from the line of Bob Morris with Citi.
Your line is open.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
John on the four rigs at mid-year in the Permian will you have a rig running in the Woodford/SCOOP or anywhere else or will it be just those four? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> At this point we've got flexibility there Bob but I would anticipate those being in the Permian.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And then on the drilled but uncompleted inventory how will that trend through the year? Do you have an inventory starting out the year will that be drawn down or how will that contribute to the production during the year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> If you look at last year we consumed about 70 horizontal drilled but uncompleted wells and about 50 vertical.
As I was pretty vocal early last year the wells we drill we intended to complete and we drew down a lot of our DUCs.
I would envision us doing the same thing this year.
You could see that number come down a little bit but it's at a level now where we don't have a lot that we haven't already completed.
And the thing I'll add too is we have the luxury of not having a lot of rig contracts and a lot of leases that require drilling of wells right now.
So we're not in a position where we're having to build DUCs because we don't think that's a prudent use of capital.
And your next question comes from the line of Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
John I wondered if I could try two please.
I don't know if I missed this but could you give us some idea of exit rate to exit rate in North America Q4 to Q4 2016 just to give us an idea where you're going be running at going into next year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Doug we did not give any guidance around that specific.
I would say probably the best thing to do is take – we gave first quarter guidance we gave the average ranges for the year and I would just probably extrapolate from that.
I will say going into 2017 we expect to see capital efficiencies and things come into play where we have a much better picture for 2017 than we do currently for 2016 at these capital levels.
Okay.
I can join the dots.
If I may I want to go back to Suriname from the earlier question.
And I'm just trying to understand a little bit about what's going on there with your longer-term thinking.
Are you getting carried John on the activities there? And I'm just wondering are you retaining this really more as an option in case (1:01:04) spills over into your block? Or is that a little bit more strategic that this is really something that would be a core part of your portfolio going forward? And I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well what I'll say is when we originally took the block several years ago the first block 53 we viewed it as being in a very potential prospective area.
I think what you now see is you've got a proven oil hydrocarbon province.
We've got two blocks that are centrally located.
There is a system there.
We did drill one well last year.
Prior to drilling that well we did bring in partners and were promoted on the one well in Block 53.
We picked up Block 58 on our own just as protection.
It was not a huge commitment.
And I think we now have the luxury to see what we do with it.
It is a bid option.
We own it 100%.
And clearly it's an area that's very prospective and is getting a lot of attention.
And your next question comes from the line of Bob Brackett with Bernstein Research.
Your line is open.
The strategic allocation of capital could you contrast what you call a development CapEx versus a base maintenance CapEx say in the Permian? And what does strategic capital mean in that exploration bucket? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think first and foremost in terms of maintenance there are just certain things you have to do on your existing fields.
So basically Bob we're not drilling development wells in the Permian which would be to generate further growth.
So that's going to be the difference.
The other thing is going to be just your bread-and-butter maintenance things that you do with your base.
And that's repairing subs doing those types of things.
In terms of strategic capital we would put that as things that potentially sets up new drilling programs test new zones test new concepts helps us better define what are going to be the inventory of growth opportunities in the future.
So testing stacked pay on an existing development you'd throw-in on the strategic side? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> If it had running room and could open up something significant then yes.
If it's something small on the Central Basin Platform or some areas where we've got just a few locations identified then it wouldn't be in that category.
Okay.
I think that's clear.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> It'd have to have potential scope to it for it to be strategic.
Okay.
And your next question comes from the line of Mike Kelly with Seaport Global.
Your line is open.
Hey guys.
My question was asked.
I'll hand it back.
Thanks.
And your next question comes from the line of Charles Meade with Johnson Rice.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon John and to the rest of your team there.
I appreciate you guys sticking around to answer all these questions.
If I could ask what one about your dividend and your thinking there.
You guys made a lot of moves and you've reviewed a lot of them on this call to adapt to a reduced commodity price early but leaving the dividend intact stands out as an anomaly there.
So I'm wondering if you can tell us a little bit about your thinking.
And I know the board's thinking is really what comes to bear on this but if you could give us some thoughts on your posture there.
Yeah this is Steve again.
So you make very good points.
We cut early we took a lot of actions in 2015 that a lot of our peers didn't.
And I think for that reason we feel like we're very well positioned not to have to cut the dividend now.
We've done all the things to strengthen the financial position the liquidity position our refinance risk on the debt portfolio.
We've chosen to live 2015 and 2016 as close to cash flow neutral as possible.
We've done that because we believe that especially in North America the opportunities for investment are going to be better in the future than they are now.
There are some good ones now but we believe they're going to be even better.
So we've chosen to be cash flow neutral.
So we've added $1.5 billion of cash on the balance sheet chosen to be cash flow neutral we don't really need to reduce the dividend at this point in time.
And we do discuss that with the board.
We discuss it with them every quarter and I imagine we'll continue to discuss that with them every quarter.
But we just don't think we need to be doing that now.
We'll probably reconsider it at some point in time in the future when prices and costs are better aligned and we all kind of figure out whatever the new normal if we ever get to normal in our industry will be in the future then we can look at what our dividend yield is and whether that's appropriate for the situation that we're in at that point in time.
But at this point in time we just don't have any compelling reason to have to cut it.
We do realize that the dividend yield is pretty high for the situation that we're in right now but we're okay with that for now.
And that's why we went ahead and declared the regular dividend with this last quarter.
That's helpful Steve.
Thank you.
And then if I could dig down into the details on one of your Permian well results.
I think John earlier in your prepared comments you talked about the June Tippett well and looking at that even though it was kind of a short lateral on a lateral-adjusted basis that looks like it's – at least one of the wells there it looks like a real standout in the Midland Basin.
And I'm wondering if you could tell me if you share that point of view and if you do where the Midland kind of ranks? Because it seems like you're ranking the Delaware Basin generally in front of your opportunities in the Midland Basin.
Yes.
This is Tim Sullivan.
We did drill – this was at a Wildfire lease.
We did drill five well pads in the June Tippett lease.
Three of them actually came online in the fourth quarter and two of them online in early 2016.
And what we have done here these are mile laterals.
We had acquired some additional core data out here and tweaked our landing zone targeting a higher TOC and lower clay content area.
And the 30-day IPs for the average of those five wells was 980 barrels of oil equivalent per day and 75% of that is oil.
And if you compare that to a well or a pad that we had drilled early in the air which was a mile-and-a-half pad this mile pad is outperforming those.
So we are pretty excited about that and we do have quite a bit of running room.
And your next question comes from the line of Michael Rowe with TPH.
Your line is open Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Just a question on the North Sea.
I appreciate that there are a number of discoveries coming online in 2017 and 2018 to arrest decline.
That said can you talk about the base decline of this asset and what these productions or what these discoveries excuse me will do to aggregate production growth in those years? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> At this point we see the North Sea being able to hang in there pretty strongly with the capital levels we're at.
We have not looked at what price decks we'd use and a lot of that will hinge on how many platform rigs we have do we add those back in in 2017 and 2018.
We mentioned they would not be there the back half of this year so a lot of that's going to hinge on capital as we lay out those future years.
But we've got good running room now and a lot of nice things coming on.
Michael this is Steve.
I'd also just point you to the presentation we made the webcast that we made back in November.
It's got some information that I think you'd find helpful.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Understood.
Thanks.
I was just trying to see if there's been any change in thought process there.
But maybe just my last question would be just a question on the goal of spending within cash flow and the comment you made on cash flow movements with each change – dollar per barrel change in the oil price.
Of your 2016 operating cash flow do you have a sense for how much of that is attributable to North American Onshore versus your International business at $35 oil? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't have that number off the top my head.
You're going to have more cash flow coming out of the International in terms of on a per barrel basis just because our cash margins are higher.
But I'll let – we can follow-up with exactly that split.
I'll have Gary follow up with a better idea on the ratio.
And our final question comes from the line of Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you for taking my questions.
Steve mentioned that cash flow neutrality remains the approach whether oil prices rise up or down.
I was wondering if hedging might also be part of the method particularly if oil prices rise somewhat to protect the timing of any increased spending exposure.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Jeff at some point obviously if we were going to commit a lot of capital we would start to look at using hedging.
I think you're in a period today where we don't have a cost structure that's not synchronized with price environment.
But it is something in the future.
If we were to put a lot of capital back to work that we would consider as a tool to offset or mitigate some of the risk to ensure that we can deliver the return objectives that we're focused on.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks John.
My follow-up is can you review the very low Permian well cost guidance that you gave again with average lateral links that correlate to those costs? And also do those estimates include more intensive completions? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> In terms of our Permian well cost we see things coming down and even further this year.
As a rule we're looking at mile-and-a-half laterals.
We have seen the intensity of the frac concentrations going up.
So those are the types of parameters we're going to use or using in those estimates.
And I would now like to turn the call back over to the presenters for closing remarks.
That's going to wrap up the call Kim.
There's no more questions.
We look forward to speaking to you all next quarter and please give myself or Chris Cortez a call if you have any follow-up questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference call and you may now disconnect.