Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference Operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Kennametal's First Quarter Fiscal Year 2011 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the conference over to Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations.
Ms.
McGuire you may begin the conference.
Thank you Regina.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us to review Kennametal's first quarter fiscal 2011 results.
We issued our quarterly earnings press release earlier today.
You may access this announcement via our website at www.kennametal.com.
Consistent with our practice in prior quarterly conference calls we've invited various members of the media to listen to this call.
It's also being broadcast live on our website and a recording of this call will be available on our site for replay through November 28 2010.
I'm Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations for Kennametal.
Joining me for our call today are Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Carlos Cardoso; Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Frank Simpkins and Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller Marty Bailey.
Carlos and Frank will provide further explanation on the quarter's financial performance.
After their remarks we'll be happy to answer your questions.
At this time I'd like to direct your attention to our forward-looking disclosure statement.
The discussion we'll have today contains comments that may constitute forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve a number of assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information regarding these risk factors and uncertainties is detailed in Kennametal's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition Kennametal has provided the SEC with a Form 8-K a copy of which is currently available on our website.
This enables us to discuss non-GAAP financial measures during this call in accordance with SEC Regulation G.
This 8-K represents GAAP financial measures that we believe are most directly comparable to those non-GAAP financial measures and it provides a reconciliation of those measures as well.
I will now turn the call over to Carlos.
Thank you Quynh.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining us today.
During the September quarter we saw continued improvement in the global economy.
Our industrial end markets are benefiting from an increase in manufacturing activities.
The developing markets continue to show the strongest growths with North America as well as Europe reflecting ongoing activities.
The first quarter of fiscal year 2011 reflected excellent performance by Kennametal at many levels.
We realized organic sales growths of 34% compared with prior year quarter.
We achieved record operating margin performance for any first or second quarter.
Our adjusted earnings per share of $0.47 reflects an improvement of $0.51 per share compared with prior year period.
The year-over-year improvement in EPS was driven by increased sales volume and higher incremental margins.
We continue to realize significant year-over-year sales growths as well as strong operating leverage.
Restructuring has been an important driver in enabling Kennametal to further streamline our cost structure and we continue to implement those initiatives.
We currently have four plant closures underway and we are on track to realize $165 million of permanent savings on an annualized basis.
That is up $5 million from our previous guidance.
When those efforts are complete we have reduced our manufacturing footprint by a total of 20 facilities including divestitures.
At the same time we will have retained much of our operating capacity as a result of utilizing our lean practices to shift production to our other plants.
As we continue to focus on top line growth we retain our value selling approach for the end markets we serve.
We have begun notifying our customers of price increases effective on October 1<sup>st</sup>.
And we will continue to implement pricing actions throughout fiscal year 2011 as appropriate.
From a macro perspective we continue to see growth on a global basis.
North America and Europe are positive with emerging markets showing the greatest strength.
Currently we generate 52% of sales outside of North America with 26% coming from the rest of the world regions while we expect that customers will remain cautious overall demand continues to rise.
We experienced that first hand in early September at the international manufacturing and technology show or IMTS held in Chicago where we showcased our innovative new products for Kennametal NVIDIA brand.
Attendance at the show was good and machine tool builders reported seeing a healthy level of customer demand.
In addition we generated many new leads from the Kennametal NVIDIA booths combined.
Five times the number we believe that we receive in a previous IMTS in 2008.
We believe those are encouraging indicators of overall customer sentiment.
In transportation the growth transcend to be decelerating in the U.S.
In Europe Germany's sales are increasing and demand is being driven primarily by export markets.
China and India both continue to see growth in this sector.
In aerospace order backlogs are growing.
The suppliers are maintaining a high focus on low inventories.
As commercial revenues passenger miles continue to trend upwards this will benefit long-term cost of market sales.
In energy on a year-over-year basis U.S.
rig count increased 62%.
Canada rig count grew 24% and international rig count is higher by 16%.
In addition natural gas and storage is 6% above the five-year average which is a more favorable level than a year ago.
In the earthworks business gross construction customers still remain conservative due to the uncertainty related to funding for public works projects.
On a favorable note coal stockpiles have continued to decrease which leads to increased volumes in mining activities.
From a raw materials cost perspective we expect that market conditions may be volatile in the near-term especially related to tungsten prices but because our products provide tremendous value to our customers we are confident that we can maintain margin discipline.
As a result of better visibility across our business as well as our continued confidence in sustaining strong operating leverage we have significantly increased our guidance for sales growth earnings per share and cash flow for fiscal year 2011.
We remain committed to further balancing our mix in end markets served geographic presence and portfolio of business.
September quarter results demonstrate that Kennametal global team can effectively execute our strategies.
We are a resilient company as proven by our ability to weather one of the deepest recessions in history and emerge an even better company.
By maximizing opportunities that the down turn provided we improved our cost structure further implemented our channel brand strategy and realigned our organization.
We strengthened our foundation positioned Kennametal to benefit during the economic downturn upturn in front of us and placed our company in a path to becoming a breakaway company.
I will turn the call over to Frank now so that we can discuss our financial results for the quarter in greater detail.
Frank? Thank you Carlos.
I will provide some comments on our performance for the September quarter and then I will move to our updated outlook for the remainder of fiscal 2011.
Some of my comments will exclude special items so please refer to the reconciliation schedules provided in our earnings release related to Form 8-K.
To start the September quarter started off the new fiscal year on a very positive note.
We had a stronger than expected top line performance.
That was across all markets and all geographies.
We are also pleased with the exceptional operating performance and leverage delivered by both of our business segments and our operating adjusted margins of 11.7% was a September quarter record and as a result of our performance we are increasing our annual sales and earnings guidance for fiscal 2011.
As you know in order to take advantage of growth opportunities as well as provide a better platform for continually improving efficiency and effectiveness of our operations we implemented a new operating structure at the start of new fiscal year on July 1<sup>st</sup> 2010.
This was highlighted at a recent Analyst Day in New York.
As a reminder the key attribute of the new structure is the establishment of two operating segments by market sector which replaces the previous two operating segments that were based on a product focus.
The prior two segments were MSSG and AMSG.
The two new reportable operating segments are named industrial and infrastructure.
The industrial business is focused on customers within the transportation aerospace defense and general engineering market sectors while the infrastructure business is focused on customers with the energy and earthworks industries.
Additionally more corporate expenses are a now allocated to the segment so you will see a smaller portion in the corporate line as the new segments are fully loaded with all related costs.
Now I will walk you through the key items in the income statement.
Sales for the quarter increased 29% to $529 million as compares to $409 million in the September quarter last year increase in sales was driven by a 34% organic growth partly offset by 3% unfavorable impact on foreign currency effect and 2% unfavorable impact on fewer business days.
This represented the third consecutive quarter of year-over-year organic sales growth.
As Carlos mentioned looking at our sales by geographic area 52% of our sales are generated outside of North America and in the quarter our rest of the world grew to 26% of sales the same as our sales in Western Europe.
Further compared to last year rest of world grew from 23% to 26% of total sales.
Turning to the Business Group sales performance.
The industrial segment sales increased by about 33% from the prior year quarter.
And that was driven by organic growth of 39% partly offset by unfavorable foreign currency effect of 4% and 2% on favorable impact due to fewer businesses.
On an organic basis sales increased from all served market factors led by growth in general engineering and transportation with increases of 46% and 39% respectively.
And from a regional view sales increased by approximately 40% in Asia 30% in the Americas and 22% in Europe.
We did see sales trends revert a bit to normal seasonality but a few markets mainly general engineering did do better sequentially from the June quarter.
Infrastructure segment sales increased 23% from the prior year quarter and that was driven by a 25% organic growth slightly offset by 1% unfavorable foreign currency effect and 1% impact due to fewer business days.
The organic increase was primarily driven by 46% higher sales of energy and related products as well as increased demand for earthworks products and there from a regional view sales increased also 40% in Asia 22% in the Americas and 13% in Europe.
Now a recap of our operating performance.
Our reported gross profit margin was strong at 35.7% well above the 28.8% reported in the prior year September quarter.
The improvement in our gross profit margin was the direct result of higher sales and related increased capacity utilization higher restructuring benefits and ongoing cost discipline.
The business levered well in the quarter.
As Carlos mentioned we did experience slightly higher raw material costs in the quarter that is both year-over-year and sequentially.
The main driver is higher costs for tungsten.
We have already initiated pricing action to address this issue.
In addition the prior year quarter benefited from temporary cost measures such as salary cuts and suspension of the 401(k) match.
We have previously advised that the total impact from salary reductions was approximately $7 million per quarter and the 401(k) match impact was in addition of $2 million for a total of $9 million.
Turning to operating expense.
They increased year-over-year by 7.6% or $9 million to $125 million.
Approximately half the year-over-year increase was due to the restoration of the temporary employment cost actions taken in the prior year.
The remaining increase is mostly due to higher professional fees for strategic projects.
And our operating expense as a percent of sales was 23.6% for the quarter down 480 basis points from the prior year percentage of 28.4.
Our operating income increased to $58 million compared to an operating loss of $10 million in the prior year.
Absent restructuring and related charges in both periods operating income was $62 million compared with an operating loss of $1 million in the prior year.
We levered well again this quarter with the strong incremental margin of 52%.
Adjusted operating margin reached 11.7 despite the restoration of salary and other related costs that had been temporarily reduced in the prior year quarter.
Looking at the business segment performance.
The industrial segment operating income of $36 million compared with an operating loss of $18 million for the same quarter of the prior year.
Absent restructuring and related charges in both periods industrial's operating income of $39 million compared with an operating loss of $11 million from the prior year quarter.
The main drivers of the increase were higher sales volume good capacity utilization and incremental restructuring balance.
An industrial adjusted operating margin increased substantially from the prior year quarter to 11.8% from a negative 4.6.
The infrastructure segment operating income was $27 million and that compares with $12 million in the same quarter of the prior year.
Absent restructuring and related charges in both periods infrastructure's top rated income was $28 million in the current quarter compared with $14 million last year.
The operating income improved primarily also due to higher sales volume.
Improved capacity utilization and incremental restructuring benefit.
Infrastructure's adjusted operating margin increased to 14% from 8.5% in the prior year quarter.
And keep in mind that both business segments result in to the much higher portion of corporate operating costs than we have previously.
The corporate operating loss for the quarter was $5 million compared to $3 million in the same quarter last year.
The year-over-year change was primarily due to higher professional fees for the upgrade to our new enterprise system.
Regarding our overall bottom line performance reported first quarter fiscal 2011 diluted earnings per share of $0.42 compared to the prior year quarter diluted loss per share of $0.12.
And adjusting for special item its earnings per share were $0.47 compared to the prior year quarter adjusted loss per share of $0.04.
Turning to the balance sheet.
We continue to focus on driving working capital improvements while investing in our business.
We remain focused and diligent on receivable collection we further reduce our days there outstanding by one day in the quarter to 56 and by 12 days compared to the prior year.
Inventory increased 9% compared to June 30 and our turns remain at 3.4 turns.
The increase in inventory was two fold.
We added additional strategic law materials and finished with inventory to support future sales growth.
Our capital expenditures of $10 million were about the same as the capital expending of $9 million in the prior year quarter.
Capital expenditures net of disposals represented approximately 2% of sales.
At quarter end our total debt was $319 million down $49 million from September 30 last year.
Our debt-to-cap ratio at September 30 of 18.2% compared to September 30 2009.
Further more our U.S.
defined benefit pension plan remains over a 100% funded were also upgraded by Fitch to BBB flat and all rating agencies have a solid investment grade rating.
In consistent with our capital structure of principles in our priority to invest in our business and increase shareholder value our Board of Directors authorize a new share repurchase program of up to 8 million shares of our outstanding common stock.
This will be used primarily to offset dilution from the equity issued under our employee benefits program.
This is a multi-year program and as you know we have not had a program in space of September 2008 and this is consistent with our capital structure principal and our priority uses of cash.
Now let me update everybody on our current outlook.
First we expect economic conditions including global investor production to continue to improve at a gradual rate with the first half of our fiscal year stronger than the second half.
As a result of our first quarter performance and slightly better visibility we expect our annual organic sales growth rates to be better than our previous guidance by more than 400 basis points.
Currency will still be a drag year-over-year and given the recent trends and volatility in the currency market we expect the Euro to average $1.35 versus $1.40 we have realized last year this is up from our previous guidance of $1.30.
We still anticipate that sales volumes and related capacity utilization as well as further incremental restructuring benefits due to strong incremental margin and more than offset year-over-year cost increases for temporary items such as the salary restoration merit pension and benefit compensation.
And here are some other factors that we have considered in arriving at our outlook.
We are assuming raw material costs have increased and we have initiated price increases to offset those.
Construction benefits are running favorable to our plan and we now expect to reach $165 million in annual savings that's up $5 million from our prior guidance and given the mix of our business we now anticipate a slightly higher effective tax rate.
And finally seasonality patterns appear to be in line with historical ranges and it looks like expect approximately 40% of our earnings in the first half and 60% in the second half.
And under this assumed conditions we expect organic sales growth for the fiscal year to be 19% to 21% and total sales to be 18% to 20%.
And this is in line with our goal of growing at least two times the rate of industrial production.
We expect our earnings per share our adjusted earnings per share for fiscal 2011 to be in the range of $2.25 to $2.45 per share excluding the charges for the previously announced restructuring program.
We also anticipate cash flow from operating activities to be approximately $240 million to $260 million for fiscal 2011 based on anticipated capital expenditures of $80 million we expect to generate between $160 million and $180 million or pre-operating cash flow for the full fiscal year.
Now I would like to turn it back to Carlos for some closing comments.
Thank you Frank.
Moving ahead Kennametal is well positioned to benefit from the economic upturn and we are prepared to serve customer demand.
We have made the necessary changes to reposition the company and emerge in better condition than ever.
We already resized the company and have aggressively lowered the fixed costs.
Kennametal is now scalable up to $3 billion of sales a goal we can achieve without making any significant additional capital investments.
Based on an ongoing improvements in the worldwide industrial production and our ability to maintain strong operating leverage we have increased our guidance as Frank said for fiscal year 2011 accordingly.
Our revised guidance in the range of $2.25 per share to $2.45 per share compared with previous range of $1.85 to $2.15 per share represents an increase of 18% in the mid point.
During the current cycle we expect to achieve higher incremental margins than in the past periods.
We believe that we can realize 40% incremental margin over the cycle with higher levels earlier in the cycle.
In the meantime our strategies remain consistent.
We continue to focus on customers in their respective end markets develop new core products and drive top line growth.
Over the long-term we will continue to balance our served end markets business mix and geographic presence to improve our exposure to fast growing markets and regions.
In addition we will maintain a disciplined approach to capital allocation in order to further build shareholder value.
We have always been prudent in our uses of cash which includes reinvesting to add value making acquisitions paying dividend and repurchase shares to offset dilution.
In fact the Board just authorized a share repurchase program of up to 8 million shares which we will use primarily to offset share dilution from equity issued under the employee benefit programs.
The foundational work to advance our mission has been done.
Now we are transforming Kennametal to a market pacing organization to grow our top line and increase our profitability.
We are driving a sharper customer focus and delivering improved productivity.
In summary we are in excellent position to achieve the next milestone target of 15% EBIT margins and 15% return investment capital for fiscal year 2013 and delivering superior value to our shareholders.
Thank you for your time and your interest in Kennametal.
We will now take your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Eli Lustgarten with Longbow Securities.
Good morning nice quarter.
One second you said the tax rate will be some what higher.
I guess the adjusted tax rate I think was 25 to 24 quarter if I do it correctly to that we are talking like 26% or 28% or something like that? The reported rate as you know in the release is 27.6%.
So it is about 100 basis point a little bit less than that Eli and that is why we guided I would say 26% to 28%.
The only potential there obviously will be the mix of business and that's all jurisdiction made but if the Government in the U.S.
decides to tax the credit and not going (inaudible) session and we could get a little bit of balance at there but we can't build that in or becomes a effective litigation.
And yes in the guidance you just gave us 40% in the first half which the implied quarter second quarter is relatively flat with the first quarter some where between $0.43 and $0.51 I think if we were true to your guidance.
Can you give us some idea then how volume for the rest of the year because I know the second quarter gains still be in the low to mid 20s and then you will be trading downward but how you are seeing rest of the year and more importantly because we have new margin calculation to go through how do you see the operating profitability averaging for the year for both the industrial and for structure sector? I think the margins you know if the first up the 46 that is approximation and the best we can give you at this point.
But I would imagine the second half the margins will now be better given the fact that we have more work days we will have some of incremental restructuring benefits in the second half.
So we feel pretty good about that and then from an incremental margin we will still get 40% for the year.
The one thing I remind everybody is that we don't get 40% leverage on the benefit of the foreign currency translation benefit.
It doesn't fall so if you exclude that out of the number we will be down and back where we need to be.
I guess I was trying to driving more the operating margins were 14 in the first quarter which I know which is effective.
What kind of noise margins you think you can do in each of those sectors based on the new segments and putting the corporate numbers up there? What kind of range of profitability should we expect in the sectors?  I think you have to look at the performance that we have had in the past.
The first half profitability to your point is similar for the most case and then we will get a little bit of a step up in the second half.
Now from the seasonality perspective infrastructure will have some seasonality in the second quarter particularly in Europe because of the construction business and that is typically routine.
That obviously is stronger in the third fourth quarter and I would imagine the industrial business will continue to progress on a positive trend for the rest of the fiscal year.
The implication at that the infrastructure will be second quarter margin will be probably a little lower than the first quarter? Yeah that's potentially due to some of the seasonality.
Yeah.
And one final question.
Can you talk about the impact of restructuring on the rest of quarters? We got a nickel in this quarter how much is left for the rest of the year From a restructuring standpoint as we pointed out we will have an additional $5 million.
So I would imagine the first quarter what we is 39 million that would continue to ramp up each consecutive quarter I would expect another million plus in the second quarter and then maybe a couple million more in the out two quarters going forward.
What about the restructuring charges? Eli there will be a little bit I mean we are still going hit the 165 I would say.
We were anticipating to have a little bit more of those costs in the second quarter but given some of the delays with some of the issues in Europe some of those costs are left into the third quarter.
So I have Quynh get back to you.
I think we have $5 million in the first quarter.
Is that the similar in the second third and fourth? How much more just trying to get the impact per quarter is all.
I don't have that with me right here.
Eli I can follow-up with you on that offline.
Okay.
No problem thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Uhlman with Cleveland Research.
Hi guys good morning.
I was wonder if you could talk about the increase to the organic revenues to growth outlook for the year where are you guys feeling better about the business and the full year outlook it seems to counter some of the bigger picture macro indicators that we are seeing a little bit of softness where are you feeling better about the markets and then about Kennametal's own execution? Yeah Adam we basically had a very good first quarter above our expectations.
And we really did not change much for the rest of the year from the original expectations that we had.
So we dropped all of the benefits we had in the first quarter increased that for the year.
I want to remind everyone and we talked about this in New York if you look at IPI our plan and our current forecast was based on continually decreased of IPI from our first quarter all the way through the fourth quarter.
And if you look at from our plan perspective the decreasing IPI from the first quarter to the forecasted fourth quarter it is like a 40% increase in IPI.
So what we are seeing in the marketplace where you have seen so far is consistent with our guidance and forecast.
But you know we saw better results out of Europe than we anticipated slightly better out of North America and the developing economies continued to be very very strong.
Okay.
And then secondly the raw material outlook comes in costs going up.
Could you talk a little bit about that and then related to that the rare earth industry is it seems some tight supply out of China is that starting to happen in tungsten now and then is there any concern about supply? No there is no concern about supply.
We haven't really seen tightening and I also remind those of you that have followed Kennametal for awhile when the raw materials when tungsten went up significantly back in 2005 through now we never have seen a never had an issue with supply.
You know as then the primarily I would say it price increase I think there is some manipulation as you know in the tungsten because it is there only traded so it is going to be moderate.
So we believe that we can offset any costs of raw material increases with price increases and we are doing just that.
Could you help just quantify how much price you need to offset the material cost increases? Is it a big number or a small number? I would say that it is probably a relatively small number.
At this point.
Okay.
I'll get back in queue thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Holden Lewis with BB&amp;T.
Thank you good morning.
Trying to get a sense of you have increased you expectations for the restructuring from 155 to 160 up to 165.
You kind of increased that number $5 million to $10 million but you still have four plants in the process of being shut and just sort of thinking along the lines of how many dollars you saved per plant it seems like it is a pretty modest number when you consider how many plants you shut during the downturn and what your original cut of the savings were.
It seems like a relatively small number in light of the fourth plant that is still underway.
Can you just make some comments on that? Some of the plants are smaller obviously and then depending on the timing when they officially close some of those benefits obviously until the next fiscal year.
Okay.
So continually the number could be higher just you are not going to get it all during fiscal '11.
Right.
Okay.
And then back to the pricing question really quickly if I could I think historically you tried to make it your policy that your first goal is to offset raw material increases with productivity and to the extent you can't do the productivity then you sort of turn to the price increases.
Seems like you have been a little bit more aggressive with respect to price increases and you've been getting great productivity gains but sort of going to the price well like something you really can't been doing a bit have you kind of changed the philosophy a little bit about pricing and if you have what is behind that? Is it greater capability on your part in the market or anything like that? Actually we have had maintained our philosophy is a little different than what you mentioned.
Our philosophy is always been that we for the last five years that we want to offset the raw material with increase and we always say that it takes us about 12 months to do that and as we know with our philosophy our productivity we want to keep that productivity to be honest with you.
So nothing changed I mean I think we are still operating within that philosophy.
I think you are correct in your assertion that we have been very very effective in realizing the price in the marketplace.
And then I should mention that we have had now seven years of new products sales from new product to be about 40% of our total sales so that is paying off good dividends because those new products come with higher productivity for the customer.
So you know getting more of margin out of those products is not as difficult sell.
And I think that this year is turning out to be probably one of the most innovative years for us for Kennametal so we are putting a lot of new products out there in the marketplace.
We haven't slowed down we didn't slowed down during the recession.
Our R&amp;D efforts and I think that we are going to get a good payback from that.
Great thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ann Duignan - JPMorgan.
Good morning.
It's Ingrid standing in for Ann.
If we could go back to the cost savings I'm assuming that this is a gross number and then somebody's costs we are going to like we creep back into the system over the years.
Where would you expect cost increases over the next few years? Zero.
What about that we have been very consistent to say the $160 million was fixed costs.
We went to a great deal of paying to separate six permanent costs and temporary costs.
We said out of $160 million of fixed costs which is now $165 and $30 million of temporary costs that would come back to the business and those costs are at this point in the run rate all in.
This is 20 plants that disappeared.
They are no longer here.
That cost cannot come back to the business that cost is gone.
Okay.
Versus the temporary costs that we talked about which is cutting expenses you know not traveling taking furlough salary temporary salary cuts all of those are in.
But this the 20 plants are gone.
We are not going to have them any more.
That production has moved into current facilities current square footage that we have that brings the benefits additional benefits because of absorption and things like that.
Okay.
So I mean volume increases could it is like other costs but the costs that you have taken out will not come back in? The only thing you would have is your typical variable costs associated with higher sales person that type of stuff.
Raw material to build those further.
And just to go back to a prior question.
You know for the charges by quarter we have $4 million on the first quarter.
Probably going to go to about 8 in '013 and then the remaining probably got '011 or '012 in the fourth quarter just to help you guys with the charges by quarter.
Great thanks.
And then just on the share repurchase program I just wanted to clarify this is probably just to offset equity dilution it is not a signal that you are deemphasizing acquisitions in any way? Absolutely not.
This is basically 100% to offset dilution.
Have you started repurchasing at all? We can now we have blackouts that we have to follow SEC rules.
Okay.
So we just got the Board to approve it.
So at this point I want to blackout period though.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Walt Liptak with Barrington Research.
Thanks good morning guys.
A good quarter.
It is good to hear that you are steadfast about the costs not coming back and I wanted to ask about as business starts to improve could there be costs that come in that are like incremental to R&amp;D or new product or market share and things like that.
I think we would like to see the returns get to that 15% before doing that I wonder your outlook is for incremental growth related spending? I mean I think that we never relative to R&amp;D as I said we never slowed down our investment in R&amp;D.
As a matter of fact you were at the Chicago IMTS show and you saw the number of new products that we had there which I would consider massive new product introduction.
Nobody in the show had that level of new products out there.
And so I don't see us needing to increase that just because the environment is going to get better.
Well the only thing I would add I think with the new structure I think there is a number of opportunities that we still have on the table and combined of the integrated supply chain logistics and we have better global visibility with all the financial function versus the way it was in the past having individuals.
So you have this great make organization that allow if costs if some deployment would need to invest in our G&amp;A we're able to find it in another to offset as the rate of the offset any grow with the opportunity we have in front of us.
Okay good.
On the guidance I was a little bit surprised that you took up guidance I'm glad you did but a little bit surprised.
What changed from when you gave your guidance three months ago for the year? Was it that everyone was worried about the sovereign debt and then your first quarter came through without much of a slowdown in Europe? And you mentioned cost outlook what improved? I will let Frank get up there.
From my comment I mean we experienced a more top line growth than what we anticipated and our restructuring benefits came in at a better than we anticipated.
I think Walt too remember when you are doing your plan like in June July of last year I mean there were still a lot of costs double dip a lot of concerns out in the marketplace and it is always try to very difficult at the June 30 year end to try to predict obviously the new calendar year for fiscal '011 and I think a lot of companies have the similar issues.
Going through the guidance and we had expectations that it could happen we needed a little bit more time.
We just did a recent bottoms up forecast and as a result of that forecast a moment we feel much better and hence we pick up the number.
Okay got it.
Alright thanks very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Henry Kirn with UBS.
Good morning Eric Crawford on for Henry.
Could you talk a bit about how video performed in the quarter? Is it still 10% of the portfolio and what share of the portfolio is embedded in your guidance for the full year? You know it is still 10% of our portfolio.
I think that the we performed better than our expectations and we believe that we will continue to perform better.
We introduced the brand at in the U.S.
at IMTS at Chicago and to be honest with you it drove a tremendous level of interest.
As a matter of fact as I said earlier we had five times more leads this IMTS than we did in 2008 and actually I'm just leaving tomorrow morning first thing in the morning to Japan to go to the [Gymsoft] which is the IMTS of the Asia Pacific and we are introducing and launching the Video brand there for Asia.
So it is exciting and s going to continue to grow and we anticipate it is probably going to continue to be 10% of our total sales because we expect the Kennametal business to grow just as much.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then on the M&amp;A front could we get an update as to what you are seeing there? Are you seeing expectations relative to pricing get more attractive? Yeah I mean we have a healthy pipeline at this point.
I think that we continue throughout the recession to talk to potential candidates and to build relationships.
I believe the companies that we have an interest in and fall within our guidelines and as you know we have been pretty disciplined about that still have an expectation of a higher value than what they can get for it now.
So I don't know when that is going to change but it could change soon but we have a number of companies there we feel are very close from our relationship and knowing what they want and negotiating with them and they continue to see that you know they are trying to see what the economic condition is going to do and see if they can when is the right time for them to sell.
So it is still a little bit of hesitation out there in the marketplace.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Andy Casey with Wells Fargo.
Good morning everybody.
Carlos I jumped on the call a little late so I apologize if you addressed this question.
But your gross margins suggest fairly high capacity utilization.
Is that a part of it in addition to the productivity gains that you talked about and if so does the capacity utilization some what limit the ability to flex the SG&amp;A line? Hi Andy.
I wouldn't say it is been a high capacity utilization.
I think there is a period that we go through in the first quarter has obviously some seasonality.
So I don't see any issues there.
I mean as we said if you look at our run rates we are running at $2.2 billion type of run rate.
We can add capacity at this point is $2 billion so.
I'll follow up then later on.
Thank you.
Thanks.
There are no further questions at this time.
I will turn the conference back over to Ms.
McGuire for any closing remarks.
This concludes our discussion.
Please contact me Quynh McGuire at 724-539-6559 for any follow-up questions.
Thank you for joining us today.
This concludes today's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning today at 1 o'clock p.m.
Eastern Standard Time.
It will run through mid-night Eastern Time on November 28 2010.
The number to dial to access the replay is 800-642-1687 for callers in U.S.
and 706-645-9291 for international callers.
The conference id number for the replay is 14593557.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call and you may now disconnect.
Copyright policy: All transcripts on this site are the copyright of Seeking Alpha.
However we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists and are excited to contribute to the democratization of financial information on the Internet.
(Until now investors have had to pay thousands of dollars in subscription fees for transcripts.) So our reproduction policy is as follows: You may quote up to 400 words of any transcript on the condition that you attribute the transcript to Seeking Alpha and either link to the original transcript or to www.SeekingAlpha.com.
All other use is prohibited.
THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference Operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Kennametal’s Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2011 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers’ remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Regina.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us to review Kennametal’s second quarter fiscal 2011 results.
We issued our quarterly earnings press release earlier today.
You may access this announcement via our website at www.kennametal.com.
Consistent with our practice in prior quarterly conference calls we’ve invited various members of the media to listen to this call.
It is also being broadcast live on our website and a recording of this call will be available on our site for replay through February 28 2010.
I am Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations for Kennametal.
Joining me for our call today are Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Carlos Cardoso; Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Frank Simpkins and Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller Marty Bailey.
Carlos and Frank will provide further explanation on the quarter’s financial performance.
After their remarks we’ll be happy to answer your questions.
At this time I would like to direct your attention to our forward-looking disclosure statement.
The discussion we’ll have today contains comments that may constitute forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve a number of assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause the company’s actual results performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information regarding these risk factors and uncertainties is detailed in Kennametal’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition Kennametal has provided the SEC with a Form 8-K a copy of which is currently available on our website.
This enables us to discuss non-GAAP financial measures during this call and accordance with SEC Regulation G.
This 8-K represents GAAP financial measures that we believe are most directly comparable to those non-GAAP financial measures and it provides a reconciliation of those measures as well.
I will now turn the call over to Carlos.
Thank you Quynh.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I am pleased to report that the second quarter of fiscal 2011 was yet another period of strong performance for Kennametal.
We continued to deliver top line growth and realized strong operating leverage.
We remained focused on executing our strategies effectively and improving our operating efficiencies.
The considered efforts of our global team resulted in our organic sales growth of 31% compared with prior year quarter.
Our adjusted earnings per share were $0.57 compared to $0.14 in the prior year period.
The year-over-year improvement in EPS was driven by increased sales volume and higher incremental margin.
It’s worth noting that we realized 11.8% adjusted operating margin for this past quarter.
This is another historical high for any first or second quarter.
In fact the December quarter represents the third consecutive quarter that Kennametal has achieved record levels of adjusted operating margin performance.
In addition our adjusted return on invested capital was 10.9% as of December 31 2010.
Overall the December quarter represents an all-time-record performance for Kennametal.
Our second quarter results benefited from a strengthening global economy which reflected growth in many of our geographies and end market serves.
Industrial production continued to increase and Kennametal experienced higher customer demands.
Emerging markets such as China India and Brazil remained strong.
Our geographic profile continues to be more balanced.
For the December quarter we generated 56% of sales outside of North America with 28% coming from the rest of the world regions.
And indicator of ongoing favorable customer sentiments was reflected as (inaudible) which I attended last month and industry page show held in Japan Also certain end markets such as general engineering and transportation again showed the most sprints.
Current forecast shows that global manufacturing activity is expected to continue to grow.
In general engineering production activities continued to grow and represents ongoing rebound in the manufacturing sector.
As the economic recovery continues increased demand to replace older equipment and a growing need to upgrade productive capacity and increase resource suppliers will produce the next buying cycle.
The transportation production volumes for North America remained strong.
This trend is expected to persist in 2011 and Kennametal will continue to benefit from increased sold rate.
In Europe the majority of the demand is driven by exports.
The outwork is for slight growth in light vehicles.
However we expect and expansion in heavy truck market.
We are continued to see growth in the mass transit market with new opportunities from all regions as aided new railroad infrastructure is built or expanded maintenance.
In aerospace this is an encouraging indicator that industry is rebounding.
This is expected to be a growth driver for Kennametal in the intermediates for longer-term when key program increase production.
In energy U.S and Canadian rig counts were up year-over-year by 46% and 16% respectably.
International rig count was 10% higher than prior year.
Natural gas and storage was 9% above the five-year average which is more favorable than a year ago.
In earthworks recent flooding in Australia is restricting coking coal suppliers leading to higher prices.
As a result this creates an opportunity for U.S coking coal producers to supply demands from overseas.
According to global insights major commodity prices are forecasted to increase another 5% to 10% from the current levels in 2011.
High commodity prices support further investment in mining assets and mine capacity expansion which increases the addressable market for Kennametal products and services.
During the December quarter we continue to focus successfully on the value selling approach of our product portfolio.
Our products continue to bring high value to our customers and represent a critical part of their manufacturing processes.
Although raw material costs have increased specifically tungsten we believe those costs will ultimately recovered as we continue to informant price increases.
In general we increased prices October 1 for North America and January 1 for Europe.
As well as some income price increases in selected markets in November and December timeframe Through those price actions we planned to recover 100% of the raw material cost increases in the second half of our fiscal year.
We are on track for faster raw material cost recovery than in the past and continued to be discipline and maintaining margin performance.
In addition we continued to implement the remainder of our restructure initiatives which are lining down As a result of the restructuring programs we are on track to realize approximately $165 million in permanent saving on an annual basis.
At the same time we have retained much of operating capacity by using (inaudible) production through existing plans As we announced previously With the recent system upgrade to SAP 6.0 effective on January 3 2011 we marked the final milestone of this process.
I would like to congratulate our entire team across the globe on this monumental achievement.
Of course this is not the end of our transformation but the beginning of a new chapter.
And we’ll continue to focus on continuous improvements.
Our enterprise approach benefits are business by streamlining our cost structure and retaining our permanent savings.
At the same time it provides opportunities for additional top line growth by improving our customers’ experience with the company.
In summary Kennametal has successfully incremented our near-term strategy to resize the company.
And significantly lower our fixed costs.
This enabled us to be profitable at below $2 billion in sales.
Our business however is scalable to $3 billion without significant additional capital investment.
Kennametal has achieved higher incremental margins during the current cycle due to our actions to aggressively lower our cost fraction.
We remain committed to our goal to realize 40% incremental margins over the cycle.
We are disciplined in our capital allocation strategies.
We continue to be prudent in evaluating uses of cash which included reinvestment in the business acquisitions share buyback and dividends.
As always we remain committed to further balancing our mix in end-market service geographic profile and portfolio of business.
We will continue to grow our presence in fast growing channels with our good year brands where appropriate.
We’ll continue to introduce new products at the market leading phase.
We have strengthened our foundation position Kennametal to benefit during an economic upturn and our place company on the past to become a breakaway company.
I’ll now turn the call over to Frank so he can discuss our financial results for the quarter in greater details.
Frank? Hey.
Thank you Carlos.
I’ll provide some comments on our performance for the December quarter and then I’ll move on to our updated outlook for the remainder of our fiscal 2011 period.
As usual some of my comments exclude special items so please refer to the reconciliation schedules provided in our earnings release and related Form 8-K.
Let me start off by summarizing the December quarter in kind of tea key takeaways as we saw them.
Our first global business environment continues to improve as Carlos pointed out.
We’re beginning to leverage our operational structure.
We again demonstrated strong operating results free operating cash flow.
And we further strengthen our financial position.
We have some headwinds around raw materials but we have been proactively addressing them.
And we again increased our outlook due our December quarter performance improved visibility in a global recovery.
Our adjusted operating income that with the December quarter records coming in at 11.8%.
In addition as Carlos mentioned previously we performed a major upgrade of our ERP system SAP this quarter with the cut-off date of January 3rd.
And this was a significant undertaking by the entire organization.
And I would also like to thank all our employees for their time and efforts spent on this implementation.
So now let me walk you through the key items in the income statements.
First sales.
Our sales for the quarter increased 28% to $566 million.
This compares to $443 million in the December quarter last year.
Increase in sales was driven by 31% organic growth partly offset by 2% unfavorable impact on foreign currency effects and 1% unfavorable impact on fewer business days.
This represented the fourth consecutive quarter of year-over-year organic sales growth.
We also continued to make progress with a better balancing of our business as Carlos touched on.
Again at the end of the December quarter 56% of our sales were generated outside of North America and both rest of the world and Western Europe grew to 28% of sales.
This is the highest percentage of sales we have reached in the rest of the world to impart a stronger growth and our focus in these geographies primarily China and India.
And we also had sales from new products introduced in the last five years remain at the 40% threshold.
Turning to the business segment sales performance industrial had another good quarter.
The industrial segment sales increased 33% from the prior year quarter.
This was driven by organic growth of 37% partly offset by unfavorable foreign currency effect of 2% and the 2% on favorable impact due to fewer businesses.
On an organic basis sales increased in most served market sectors led by growth in general engineering and transportation with the increases of 49% and 36% respectively.
And regionally sales increased by approximately 48% in Asia 34% in Europe and 31% in the Americas.
The transportation and general engineering market sales increased sequentially from the September quarter while only the aerospace in that sense declined slightly.
Our Infrastructure segment sales increased 19% from the prior year quarter all driven by organic growth.
The organic increase was driven by 22% of higher sales of the energy and related products as well as 17% increase in demand for our earthwork products.
Regionally organic sales increased 24% percent in Asia 21% in the Americas and 12% Europe.
The December quarter is typically the slowest period of our infrastructure segments that’s due impart of seasonality of our mining and road construction businesses.
Now I will recap of our operating performance.
Our reported gross profit margin came in at 35.4% significantly above the 31.6% reported in the prior year period.
Improvement in our gross profit margin was the direct result of the higher sales and related increased capacity utilization higher restructuring benefits and ongoing cost discipline.
Again the business continued to lever well in the quarter.
Raw material costs particularly tungsten did have an unfavorable impact on our margin and leverage performance during the quarter.
And this was due to a faster than anticipated increase in input cost.
However as Carlos pointed out we are managing this challenge affectively the price increases to offset these costs.
At the second half our fiscal year we expect to recover 100% of the anticipated raw material cost increases but the impact will still have a dilutive impact on margins.
In addition and as a reminder the prior year quarter did benefit from temporary cost measures such as salary cuts and suspension of the 401(k) match.
And we have previously advised that the total impact from salary reductions was approximately 7 million per quarter and the 401(k) match impact was in addition of 2 million for a total of $9 million.
Our operating expenses increased year-over-year by 12% or $12 million to $132 million.
Much below the organic sales growth of 31.
So we continue to watch that relationship the primary drivers of the increase in the operating expenses were employment costs due to the reinstatement of salaries in 401(k) match and merit increases which occurred October 1 of this fiscal year.
And also incentive compensation due to better operating performance.
That was partly offset by favorable foreign currency impacts.
And our operating expense as a percent of sales was 23.3% for the quarter down 330 basis points from the prior year percentage of 26.6%.
Our operating income increased to 62 million compared to on 50 million in the prior year.
Absent restructuring and related charges in both periods our operating income was $67 million compared with 20 million in the prior year period.
We levered well again this quarter with the strong incremental margin of 38.4%.
Our adjusted operating margin reached 11.8% despite increased incentive compensation employee’s salary merit increases and the restoration of salary and other employment related costs that had been temporarily reduced in the prior year.
Looking at the business segment’s operating performance.
The industrial segment operating income of 42 million compared with 6 million for the same period last year.
Absent charges in both periods industrial’s operating income was 46 million compared to 9 million in the prior year quarter.
The primary drivers of the increase in operating income were the higher sales volumes improved capacity utilization a better product mixed in incremental restructuring benefits that was offset by the respiration of temporary cost reductions in higher raw material cost.
Industrials operating margin increased substantially from the prior year quarter to 12.4% from 3.1% in the prior year.
Infrastructure segment operating income was 22 million this compares with 18 million in the same quarter of the prior year.
And then absent restructuring and related charges on both periods infrastructures operating income was $23 million in the current quarter compared with 20 million in the prior year period.
Operating income improved due to improved sales increased capacity utilization and incremental restructuring benefits also offset in part by higher raw material costs and the respiration of temporary reductions.
Infrastructures operating margin remains relative flat at 11.8% compared to the prior year quarter.
Turning to our tax rate which now we see around 24% for the full fiscal year.
Regarding our overall bottom line performance our second quarter fiscal 2011 diluted earnings per share was $0.52 compared to the prior year diluted earnings per share of $0.07 and adjusted EPS $0.57 compared to a prior year adjusted earnings of just $0.14.
Turning to the balance sheet quick.
Our cash position increased nicely to 147 million and we remained focused in diligent on receivable collection we further reduced our DSOs by two days during the quarter to 54 and by 11 days versus the prior year quarter.
And our inventory turns improved to 3.5 and that’s up the half of turn in last year at the same time.
We did increase our inventory due to the addition of some strategic raw materials and finished with the inventory to support sales growth and the impropriation of the system cutover which occurred on January 3rd.
On the CapEx front our year-to-date capital expenditures are 21 million that’s slightly higher than what we spent last year of 19 million in the prior year.
And capital expenditures net of disposals represented about 2% of sales.
And at December 31 our total debt was 360 million down $21 million from June 30 our debt-to-capital ratio at December 31 was 17.6% compared to 20.2 at June 30 2010.
Furthermore our U.S.
defined pension plan remains over 100% funded and as Carlos mentioned our adjusted return on invested capital grew to 10.9% up 2010 basis point from 8.8% from the September quarter.
Now I’ll just touch on a couple of factors in our current outlook.
As Carlos touched on we expect economic conditions including global industrial production to continue to improve.
And as result of the strong first half performance coupled with better visibility we expect our annual organic sales growth to be around 21% to 24% which is better than our previous times by two to 300 basis points.
And this is in line with our goal of growing at least two times the rate of the global industrial production.
Currency is still going to remain to drag on a year-over-year basis and we expect the euro to average in the low 130 range versus $1.40 that we fully realized last fiscal year.
We still anticipate sales volumes and related capacity utilization as well as further incremental restructuring benefits we yield strong incremental margins to more than offset the year-over-year cost increases for the salary restoration merit and pension and incentive compensation.
Just some last factors as we touched briefly on raw material costs have increased faster than anticipated.
However we have initiated price increases to realize most of these by the end of the fiscal year.
Our restructuring benefits remain in line to reach the 165 million in annual savings.
And finally seasonality patterns appear to be in line with our historical ranges and we still expect approximately 40% of our earnings in the first half and 60% in the remainder of the second half of our fiscal year.
So factoring these assumptions we expect our earnings per share for fiscal 2011 to be in the range of $2.50 to $2.65 per share excluding charges related to the previous announced restructuring programs.
Our fiscal 2011 financial performance will reach levels of profitability never before achieved by our company the eclipse in our record setting year in 2008.
And I would add that we achieved in the records on much lower scales than in fiscal 2008.
We also anticipated cash flow from operating activities to be approximately 260 million to 280 million for the fiscal year.
And based on anticipated capital expenditures of 180 million we expect to generate between 180 million to 200 million of free operating cash flow for the full fiscal year.
Now I’ll turn it back to Carlos for a few closing comments.
Thank you Frank.
Going forward Kennametal is now even better positioned to benefit from a stronger sales environment and realized substantial margin expansion.
We have weathered the challenging environment of global economic downturn and emerged as a much stronger company.
Our new enterprise structure offers additional growth opportunities.
We are committed to continue our tasks to becoming a breakaway company when that can be profitable throughout the economic cycle.
We continued to implement strategies their focus on the customers in their respective end markets.
And grow our top line by serving demand getting market share and developing new products.
Based on ongoing improvements in the economic environment and our ability to maintain strong operating leverage we have again increased our guidance for fiscal year 2011.
Our updated sales guidance of 21% to 24% for the year reflects that we are outperforming the forecasted industrial production rate at a very strong pace.
Our revised EPS guidance in the range of $2.50 to $2.65 per share compared with the previous range of $2.25 to $2.45 per share represents an increase of about 10% at the midpoint.
This increased guidance reflects record operating margin performance even on sales volumes that has not yet reached to the prior sequel peak level.
During the current cycle we expect to achieve higher incremental margins than in the past periods.
We strongly believe that we can realize 40% incremental margins over the cycle.
Our long-term strategies remained consistent.
We continue to balance our served end-markets business mix and geographic presence.
We continue on our path to premier which is defined by customer needs and driven by the power of our organization.
The Kennametal global team is highly focused on achieving our next milestone targets of 15% EBIT margin and 115% return on invested capital by no later than fiscal year 2013.
We’ve successfully managed through an unprecedented market crisis and a repositioned company for improved margins and returns.
We refocused our strategic direction with a new operating structure and enterprise approach.
We aggressively manage our portfolio to increase profitability and returns.
We strengthened our financial position and enhanced our liquidity.
We expect to continue generating strong cash flows.
We will leverage our strong financial position to meet our next milestone targets and deliver continue shareholder value.
Thank you for your time and your interest in Kennametal.
We’ll now take your questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Eli Lustgarten with Longbow Good morning everyone.
Hi Eli.
Hi Eli.
How are you doing? Not too bad.
First question just on the corporate charges where $2 million or so in the segment data is that anything going on there and what’s the run rate for the second half of the year? Yeah.
It’s probably a little lower obviously with focusing on costs and the cutover for the system allocation was probably a little bit lighter.
So Eli it is probably going to be in between that number what we have in the first quarter going forward.
Okay.
But this did have additional need for that is nothing? No.
There’s nothing unusual when (inaudible).
Yeah.
And when we look at the rest of the year I mean can you talk a little bit about what kind of profitability in margin do you expect generally at this point when you go out the margins in the first half are a little bit sloppy because of raw material costs and the question is that are we going to get back to mid-teen margins across the board by the second of the year? Yeah.
I will start off.
I would not call them sloppy.
I think they’re actually pretty good through all-time records for the company.
You’re up to a new – you are now up to the gold standard come on.
Well.
Yeah yeah I think we’re going to get back to that infrastructure we had a little from our seasonality there.
But I think it is the one issue we know we know what it is on the raw material side.
We’ve been proactively addressing the raw material costs vis-à-vis the price increases.
And that was the one that probably accelerated faster than we anticipated and we thought it was going to go up but it really took a jump in November December we acted accordingly.
So we think we’re going to get back to our numbers and that’s probably took up the guidance and we’ll the get the benefits of our leverage in the second half just through the type of volumes that we typically benefit from – with the capacity in our second half.
And the restructuring benefits continued to remain on track and hopefully we’ll deliver the better on that front as well.
So at this point you’re expecting easy margin comparisons versus last year I suspect? Well again the fourth quarter from an EBIT perspective was an all-time record for the company at 14.1% and I’ll remind you the operating income leverage last year we did over 80% in the third quarter as well as over 50 in the fourth quarter.
So the comps were tough but we think we’re driving towards right profitability metrics.
Okay.
Yeah I’ll add I mean again 11.8% EBIT margin.
This company historically has never gone over 12% and 18.8 in the first half in particular is exceptional.
All right Frank.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Chase Baker with Credit Suisse.
Hi good morning.
Hey Chase.
Hi good morning.
Question on the raw material cost is there a way to handicap on the dollar basis the impact in the most recent quarter.
And I’m just trying to extrapolate what incremental margins could have potentially been if you didn’t have this short term hiccup? Yeah for competitive purposes we typically try not to provide that type of information but Chase we would have been we did 38.4%.
But I’ll tell you this we would have been over 40% in the quarter not have the anticipated raw material cost increases.
And just try to give you a flavor and I think I talked about this.
Input cost when you take into consideration still remain around in the 30% of our cost of goods sold it’s an impact but it’s not a – not going to see be significant driver going forward.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then Carlos I think you’ve mentioned earlier in your prepared remarks that this cycle you still like you’re on pace for a faster recovery of these raw material cost.
And is that just you’re being more proactive with pricing or what’s difference this cycle versus the last? I think that one is we have been more proactive I mean we’ve been anticipating the raw materials to go up.
And so number one.
Number two is we are because of the environment of growth and so forth I think is a little bit easier for us to get price.
And third as we spoke we do have a new system that has very good data that really help us do the strategic pricing that would not affect our top line.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Through SAP system.
Okay thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Hi.
Good morning guys.
Hi Ann.
How are you? Doing good thanks.
Just on the revenue outlook could you just talk a little bit Carlos about during the course of the quarter where have you seen the most incremental upside by region and by market? Yeah by region leading – the leading was the rest of the world.
So think about Asia China India and Brazil.
And by market was general engineering and transportation.
A bit more color on the general engineering in the transportation if you could please what is included in general engineering? Yeah in our general engineering I mean we have a lot of the small shops with is things like valves and pumps just general like medical.
And so we lump a little bit more into the general engineering because it’s hard to some of the middle small job shops actually produce products for a number of industries from one week or one month to another.
Okay so following kind of general industrial production that’s the way to think about this? Yeah.
But I want to make a point that we are considerably outpacing the IPI index which we’re just not following the industrial growth but the new organization with the focus on the customer and the new products that we worked on during the economic downturn are actually paying off for us in the top line.
Yeah I can appreciate that.
And then in that light I am thinking about 165 million in net cost out.
At what points do you think that some of your CapEx spend is going to have to for a capacity expansion I mean it looks like end markets coming back faster than you might have expected should we be really thinking about that 165 million as a gross savings not really a net because you are seeing incremental employment costs and 401(k) costs and compensation costs come back in? Yeah.
We always talked about two cost buckets the variable cost which would be a worth $40 million which – that’s where we talk about costs coming back the employment costs.
So there was furloughs temporary at salary reduction payments to 401(k) that we didn’t make and so forth.
So that’s what you’re seeing coming back.
The 165 is comer I mean we’ve changed the structure twenty plants are gone I mean the cost of those plants will never come back.
Yeah we moved the capacity into existing plant.
So as we get as a top line back that’s where we get a lot of leverage.
And we always said that because we did move the capacity of those plants that we closed into existing plants.
We have the capacity to reach $3 billion in sales without significant investments in capital.
So we plan to continue our capital acquisition at the depreciation more or less depreciation level.
Yeah.
And the only thing I would add to that in parts up to that is the SKU reduction that we’ve gone through over the cycle were taken out particularly in the industrial side almost three to 400 000 SKU combinations plus with the new product focus we continue to marry those up and rationalize on top of the line.
And then I think with the branding both with the Widia umbrella as well as Kennametal to have that better structure and focus.
We think we’re set for capacity for a while.
So we shouldn’t have to bring back a lot of cost.
And I appreciate all of that.
Carlos then just finally my question on when could you achieve the $3 billion just looking at how quickly some of these end markets have recovered? All our assumptions we gave our top level assumptions over ‘15 by ‘15 by 2013.
Our assumptions are that we would be at close to that level by 2013.
However as you said we have – our top line has grown at a faster rate and but we haven’t really looked at what we need to do what’s – is that going to be different going forward I mean we just implemented this SAP 6.0 and – system.
And so we were very focused on finalizing or all our restructuring and all that.
And I think in the next couple of months we’re going to be looking at the economic environment and what does that mean to our previous anticipated projections.
Okay.
So you all re going to take a re-look at that in the next couple of months is that what I take away from it? Yeah.
I mean we typically go through our annual plan during the end of the third quarter beginning of the fourth quarter.
So I mean I think that’s probably where we’re going to have a really good view of what’s – what does the environment look like and what is the (inaudible) for Kennametal? Okay.
Thanks.
I appreciate it.
And I know there is a lot going on and good luck with the SAP.
We are done.
You are done.
Good.
It’s done.
100% done so – Okay.
I empathize.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Uhlman with Cleveland Research.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Hey Adam.
How are you? Well thanks.
Just a couple of clarifications if I could first of all within the new revenue growth outlook for the year can you quantify how much of that is expected to be price realization? It’s probably a couple of points in there Adam.
Okay.
And then you had mentioned that we are still going to see some margin in delusion as the price is going to completely offset the higher raw material costs could you like quantify how much margin delusion baked into the numbers.
Again I still think as Carlos pointed we’re committed to get back to the 40 and for competitive purposes we don’t want it.
But obviously it’s a – it’s more than a couple of hundred basis points in any period.
But anything else my point is just on the delusion affect if you get dollar for dollar it just affects the overall percentage there.
So from a cost perspective and then the (inaudible) anticipated.
So raw materials continue to go up or down we’ll adjust accordingly.
But it’s tough to really give you a specific number at this time.
Got it.
Okay.
Just a last question on working capital to date second half of the year inventory look to be in really great shape relative to where sales are coming in and even with this material cost pressure can you talk about how do you expect that to play out in the back half of the year and tighten with that We think we were pretty good from our balancing of the inventory the right stuff that we need to have in the second half.
I don’t think we are planning to grow inventory beyond this level.
I think with the system with better visibility.
I think it will get better as we go through with the new SAP systems kind of like some of things we are seeing here.
So expect that better velocity as we exit this fiscal year into next year.
But I can’t see inventory going significantly up or down for the rest of the fiscal year.
The M&amp;A environment is getting a little better.
And we are and have been active in looking at properties and working some relationships in those properties but M&amp;A is a really difficult thing to forecast.
So I think that as we see from our balance sheet – I think we have a strong balance sheet that allows us to be flexible and we’re going to continue to look at it.
Great.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Henry Kirn with UBS.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
Hey Henry.
Good morning.
As you are able to price this faster could you talk a little bit about the price discipline in the market if you see the competitors and maybe if you see yourselves today as price leader or if the markets generally responding faster than historically? Yeah.
I mean we are the price leader in North America and we are probably a follower in Europe.
And sort of neutral developing economies.
But the pricing environment the competitor environment is being very good.
I think that our competitors had followed us in most cases what we have gone first.
And we certainly have followed our competitors when they have gone elsewhere.
So I would say that the environment is – price increases are always difficult.
But I would say in a relative basis the environment is okay.
Can you possibly give an update on Widia for the quarter maybe any metrics you could share? Sorry.
I couldn’t hear you Henry.
Is it possible to get an update on Widia for the quarter or any metrics if you could share there? Yeah I mean all I can tell you is that all our distribution is growing at a good pace and we feel really good about Widia but we don’t have any specific metrics.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Chuck Murphy with Sidoti &amp; Company.
Good morning guys.
Hey Chuck.
Hey Chuck how are you? Doing all right.
I just wanted to talk about the infrastructure real quick could you just talk a little bit about the sequential decline there.
I think you kind of mentioned seasonality before.
Was that a particular end-market that stood out? Yes.
It’s the highway and run construction I mean that’s one of those things when the water comes they just shut and go away.
So it was a little bit earlier than we have seen traditionally in the past.
Got you.
Okay.
And did that also kind of hit the margins a little bit as well or – ? It’s a combination of that the seasonality coupled with some of the higher raw material costs.
Got you.
Okay that’s all I had.
Thanks.
Our final question comes from the line of Walt Liptak with Barrington Research.
Hi.
Thanks guys.
Good morning.
I wanted to ask about I don’t want to be dead horse on the raw material thing.
But I wondered about hedge positions if you guys hold excess inventory or if you do something in the futures markets? Yeah.
We don’t do anything in the futures market.
I mean the tungsten is a very steadily traded commodity.
Right.
And we do have inventory that we look at to help us through that.
But as we said we are a way ahead in our recovery than any one time that I have been with the company for sure.
And the fact that we’re going to be able to recover 100% of the raw materials in the second half of the year and it just shows you that again I don’t see that as an impact for the year.
Okay.
And next – and it’s actually got a position as well for next year because we typically don’t get price back.
Okay.
Can you tell us what the – the overhang or the hit was from the rising raw material costs during the second quarter – in like millions of dollars? Yeah well.
We typically don’t provide that obviously that’s competitive.
Okay.
And what about gross margin.
I might have missed it.
Did you provide gross margin guidance for the next quarter? No we don’t.
We typically just give the full year EPS guidance.
With the increased guidance from the midpoint last time was 235 to 238 midpoints that obviously reflects some benefits in the second half with the capacity utilization in the volume which we typically get that left on the gross margin lines.
That’s been embedded in our EPS guidance.
Okay.
And what tax rate are you using for next quarter? Again it’s probably going to be about the same for the first half average it could move couple of basis points here and there but nothing substantially.
So given the mix of the business where we have forecasted it factoring in the RD&amp;E.
We had a little bit higher in the first quarter we threw it up in the second quarter.
So we thought we’d start the year at about 25.
So probably going to maybe be around 24% for the remainder of the year.
And that’s basically the next two quarters.
Okay.
All right.
Thank you.
Thank you Walt.
This concludes our question-and-answer session for today.
I’ll turn the conference back over Ms.
McGuire for closing remarks.
This concludes our discussion.
Please contact me Quynh McGuire at 724-539-6559 for any follow-up questions.
Thank you for joining us.
Today’s call will be available for replay beginning at 12 o’clock pm Eastern Time today and lasting through midnight on February 28 2011.
The conference ID number for the replay is 27874779.
The number to dial for the replay is 1-800-642-1687 or 706-645-9291.
This concludes today’s discussion.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
I would like to welcome everyone to Kennametal's Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Tiffany.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us to review Kennametal's Third Quarter Fiscal 2011 Results.
We issued our quarterly earnings press release earlier today.
You may access this announcement via our website at www.kennametal.com.
Consistent with our prior practice in prior quarterly conference calls we've invited various members of the media to listen to this call.
It is also being broadcast live on our website and a recording of this call will be available on our site for replay through May 27 2011.
I am Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations for Kennametal.
Joining me for our call today are Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Carlos Cardoso; Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Frank Simpkins; and Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller Martha Bailey.
Carlos and Frank will provide further explanation on the quarter's financial performance.
After their remarks we'll be happy to answer your questions.
At this time I'd like to direct your attention to our forward-looking disclosure statement.
The discussion we'll have today contains comments that may constitute forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve a number of assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information regarding these risk factors and uncertainties is detailed in Kennametal's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition Kennametal has provided the SEC with a Form 8-K a copy of which is currently available on our website.
This enables us to discuss non-GAAP financial measures during this call in accordance with SEC Regulation G.
And this 8-K represents GAAP financial measures that we believe are most directly comparable to those non-GAAP financial measures and it provides a reconciliation of those measures as well.
I will now turn the call over to Carlos.
Thank you Quynh.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
We are hosting this call from São Paulo Brazil.
Our Board of Directors and some members of our senior management team recently visited our manufacturing facility located near -- in the Atuba.
Kennametal's established operations in Brazil in 1999 and we have continued to grow our presence in this region.
I'm pleased to report that March quarter results continue to demonstrate that Kennametal's global team is successively executing our ongoing strategies.
During the quarter we realized organic sales growth of 25% on a year-over-year basis.
Note that that is against a strong top line comparisons from the same period in the prior year.
In addition we achieved the all-time records with operating margin of slightly over 15% a return on invested capital of approximately 13% for the March quarter.
Even with sales that are lower than our prior peak.
The macroeconomic environment has been better than our expectations.
Global business conditions remain positive throughout the quarter.
Industrial production continues to show strength around the world and emerging markets such as China India and Brazil remain growth leaders.
Specific to Kennametal for the year-to-date period we saw 39% of sales increase year-over-year in our rest of the world markets.
Again this growth is on top of strong comparatives from prior year.
Regarding our served end markets general engineering and transportation continue to expand.
Our strong sales growth reflected higher customer demand in both our served end markets as well as geographic regions.
From a macro-perspective growth remains strong in most areas.
China and India continue to be very strong with China taking some measures in the near-term to control growth while India is well insulated from external events.
In Brazil the industrial production rate is expected to remain high.
U.S.
manufacturing production is forecasted to grow and the extra output is likely to show up in exports or added inventory.
In the aero zone growth mainly comes from strong momentum in Germany.
The events in Japan are expected to shrink GDP for the first half of calendar year 2011.
However during the second half of calendar 2011 we expect reconstruction effort should ultimately boost growth.
While there will be an impact on the global supply chains it may represent an increase in demand for alternate sources.
For Kennametal we are getting a number of requests from customers across all geographies including Asia so there could be an increase in near-term demand as well as participation in longer-term rebuilding projects.
Moving to the outlook for end markets.
In transportation the Japan disaster is impacting global automotive supply environments.
Kennametal does not have a significant penetration of Japanese OEMs and that limits are direct exposure.
However we are beginning to see an impact to European and North American OEMs and suppliers.
Currently this is limited to the electronics and paint colors which affects model contents rather than production of power train and drive line components.
Also there may be a high impact to the tier suppliers that rely more on Japanese high-technology inputs which may affect production in this area.
However this shortage from Japanese suppliers can be offset by Western sources such as Kennametal.
In general engineering global Metalworking activity has increased significantly although still below prerecession levels.
New orders for machinery continue to grow as exports play a large role in demand growth.
Capital expenditure programs are expected to continue in order to meet customer needs to increase productivity and efficiency.
According to the Association of Manufacturing Technology consumption has increased significantly from prior year.
Going forward it is expected that transportation and aerospace markets will continue to increase capital spending over the next several years.
In aerospace several programs are poised to start production over the next 2 to 3 years for prototypes certification and testing.
It is expected that production activity will increase when the Boeing 787 enters commercial service and deliveries are ramping up.
And Airbus the A320 have been launched with 332 commitments in a few months.
And expect it to reach 500 orders by the Paris Air Show in June.
The Earthworks commodities pricing such as coal remains strong.
Large mining companies continue to consolidate and invest in capacity which supports strong demands.
Road construction demand trends vary by geography.
Infrastructure maintenance levels are governed by availability of funding in developing economies such as North American Europe.
Outlook for China India and Latin America road construction activity remains upbeat.
In energy oil prices coupled with tight natural gas shortage have continued to maintain a high level of activity.
In North America the drilling for oil versus gas has shifted from a 20-80 mix to approximately 50-50.
Offshore demand for in ramp [ph] and shale products also continue to grow.
The process industries continue to show improvement and OEMs have ordered books filled already for the coming 18 months.
Specific to our company initiatives we continue to make solid progress on our video strategy for further increase our market preference in distribution channels.
By aligning certain brands under the video name we have built an outstanding product portfolio improved customer access to those products worldwide and created a robust distribution brand.
We are continuing to top break those who represent our brands.
On a year-over-year basis sales for video products increased by approximately 45% from prior year.
Our team is successfully executing this strategy and gaining momentum globally.
The overall favorable customer sentiment has been apparent in major industry meetings and events.
For example Kennametal recently participated in CONEXPO in Las Vegas and highlighted our most recent innovations in construction products.
At this event we launched several new products including our new razor Road Razor ECO road rehabilitation tool in line.
This is an international exposition held every 3 years to showcase the latest equipment for the construction industries.
This year the event attracted an approximately 2 400 exhibitors and 120 000 registered attendees.
Thousands of customers visited our Kennametal booth and although the outlook varies by state the commentary was generally optimistic regarding the upcoming construction season.
At another occasion Kennametal participated in China International Machine Tool Show held in Beijing a couple of weeks ago.
The CIMT was a successful event with representation from 30 countries and approximately 10 000 attendees.
The Kennametal display featured our new product innovation: Beyond Blast and other products from ours spring innovations catalog.
Separately our video booth featured its featured portfolio and sub-brands.
Many customer meetings were held and outlook for the region continues to support an expanding economy while balancing inflation risks.
During the quarter we continue to implement price increases across the global customer base.
Additionally we recently notified customers that we will be adjusting our list price on a variety of products.
Those increases are necessary in an environment of rising raw material costs particularly tungsten.
We expect that raw material cost increases will continue to affect margins for another 1 to 2 quarters.
In the meantime we will continue to focus in maintaining margin discipline as always.
Kennametal customers include some of the world's largest companies and they view our products as valuable to their business and often as critical to their manufacturing processes.
Ultimately we believe that our price increases will be successfully implemented and at a pace that is factored in historically.
In addition we continue to work toward completing our restructuring initiatives.
At the beginning of the quarter there were four facility closures in process.
Since then three of the four manufacturing plants have closed and the final facility is expected to be completed in the June quarter.
Currently we are realizing approximately $165 million in permanent cost savings at an annualized basis.
When restructuring is complete we will have to do some manufacturing footprint by facilities 20 including divestitures.
However we have retained much of our capacity using our lean processes to share production to existing plants.
Today Kennametal has a manufacturing capacity to support up to $3 billion in sales with no significant capital investments.
Over all we continue to reach high profitability and return levels due to our continued focus on operating efficiencies.
As evidence of this adjusted operating margin for the March quarter was slightly higher than 15% and adjusted return on invested capital was approximately 13% which are all-time record highs.
Another metric to consider is incremental margin.
For the year-to-date fiscal 2011 period incremental margin was 42%.
This is well in line with our expectation of realizing 40% incremental margin over the cycle especially when we consider the impact of raw material cost headwind those accomplishments are impressive.
I would like to recognize and thank Kennametal employees for their dedication and commitment to continue to implement our margin expansion goals.
I will now turn the call over to Frank so we can discuss our financial results for the quarter in greater detail.
Frank? Thank you Carlos.
I'll provide some comments on our performance for the March quarter and then I'll move on to our update outlook for the remainder of the fiscal 2011 period.
So my comments exclude special items so please refer to the reconciliation schedules that we provided in our earnings release and related to Form 8-K.
So let me start off by summarizing the quarter.
We continue to make good progress by executing our strategies as Carlos articulated our organic sales growth was very good coming in at 25% on top of tougher comparables.
We once again have strong operating results and we further strengthened our financial position.
And we set a March quarter record for earnings per share of $0.83 and an all-time record for adjusted operating margin of 15.2% and return on invested capital of 12.9%.
And we achieved our fourth consecutive quarterly record for operating income.
I'm pleased with our overall performance especially in light of input cost pressures in the implementation of a new SAP system at the start of the quarter.
Now let me walk you through the key items of our income statement.
Turning to sales.
Our sales for the quarter increased 25% to $615 million compared to $493 million in the March quarter last year.
Our sales growth was achieved despite stronger comparisons of double-digit organic growth of 11% in the prior-year quarter.
This represents the fifth consecutive quarter of year-over-year organic sales growth.
We also continue to make progress of a better balancing of our business globally.
At the end of the March quarter 54% of our sales were generated outside of North America with Western Europe at 28% and the rest of the world at 26% of sales.
Now let me call your attention to the recent events in Libya and Japan and how they may affect Kennametal.
As Carlos stated both situations are unfortunate and devastating and our best wishes go to all individuals affected.
The situation in Libya has had very limited direct impact on our business or customers except for the impact of higher oil prices which we'll continue to evaluate.
In Japan the usual [indiscernible] supply chain is affected from shipping delays and raw material shortages.
Again this has had a very limited impact on our business in the March quarter.
We will continue to monitor the situation in Japan as the potential global implications for our business.
As many of you know we do not have a large presence with the Japanese automotive OEMs.
We're focused on our American and European transportation OEMs and the possible impact on production schedules due to availability of components.
One item to point out is that we are receiving inquiries globally including Asia from end users and distributors who are faced with training tool supplier constraints from their existing sources.
Some examples include an automotive OEM production line that was at risk of stoppage and requested immediate replacement tools and vary manufacturer that's testing our products after receiving notification of supply interruption.
Additionally distributors are seeking alternate supply sources to mitigate their risks in general the typical distributor carries approximately a few months of inventory so we anticipate some increased demand in the near future.
From a longer-term view it is anticipated that Earthworks tools will be needed for rebuilding affected areas after earthquake and the tsunami cleanup.
Now I'll turn to the business segment sales performance.
The Industrial segment sales increased 28% from the prior-year quarter and that was driven by organic growth of 29% 1% favorable for foreign currency effects partly offset by 2% impact due to a fewer business days.
And our organic basis sales increased in all served markets led again by strong growth in general engineering and transportation with increases of 34 % and 29% respectively.
Aerospace and defense also grew slightly up 6% compared to the prior year.
And regionally sales increased approximately 32% in Asia 29% in Europe and 23% in the Americas.
The transportation in general engineering markets continue to demonstrate the strongest growth.
Globally these markets performed well including the strengthening of business in Europe.
[Audio Gap] I'll pick up on discussion of sales on the infrastructure segment discussion.
As I've started our infrastructure segment sales increased 19% from the prior-year quarter driven by organic growth the organic increase was driven by 21% higher sales of energy and related products as well as a 17% increase in demand for Earthworks products.
And regionally organic sales increased 20% in the Americas and 15% in Asia and 11% in Europe.
The energy business continued to benefit from higher commodity prices increased capital spending including higher North America and international breakouts.
And the natural gas in storage is 2% above the 5-year average.
Our Earthworks business had a very good quarter and is currently getting ready for the construction season.
As Carlos mentioned the feedback from CONEXPO show in Las Vegas last month was very healthy.
Coal prices are stable and up from last quarter slightly as are coal stock prices.
Now I'll hit briefly our operating performance.
Our reported gross profit margin was 37.4% an improvement of 290 basis points above the 34.5% reported in the prior-year March quarter.
The improvement in our gross profit margin was a direct result of higher sales and price realization increased capacity utilization higher restructuring benefits and ongoing cost discipline.
Not surprisingly raw material cost is particularly constant had an unfavorable impact on margin and leverage performance during the quarter.
This was once again due to faster than anticipated increase in input cost.
So to try to put this in perspective during the quarter we experienced much improved price realization compared to the December quarter as a result of previously announced price actions in October and January.
However raw material costs further increased faster than anybody anticipated.
And had our initial assumptions come true we would have recovered over 100% of these costs.
The fact that tungsten average market price in the December quarter was approximately $300 per metric ton unit and has continued to increase to its current level of more than $400 per metric ton unit.
Accordingly we will manage this challenge effectively with further price increases to recoup these costs.
Bottom line we know the challenge we're addressing it and we're still delivering strong leverage.
Our operating expense increased year-over-year by 15% or $18 million to $138 million.
The primary drivers of the increase in operating expenses were employment costs including higher incentive compensations due to better operating performance.
OpEx as a percent of sales is 22.5% for the quarter now 180 basis points from the prior year percentage of 24.3%.
Our operating income increased to $88 million compared to $26 million of the prior-year quarter.
Absent restructuring and related charges in both periods our operating income was $93 million compared with $49 million for the prior-year quarter.
We levered well again this quarter with strong incremental margin at 36.2% and if you put that on a constant currency basis we have an additional leverage benefit that would have come in at 37.3%.
Our adjusted operating margin reached an all-time record of 15.2% as Carlos said despite all the headwinds we had to address.
We are overall pleased with the performance.
Looking at the business segment performance.
The industrial segment operating income was $54 million compared with $11 million in the same quarter of last year.
Absent restructuring related charges in both periods industrial's operating income was $56 million compared with $26 million in the prior year.
The primary drivers of the increase in operating income are higher sales volume including price realization improved capacity utilization and incremental restructuring benefits.
This is partly offset by higher raw material costs and the restoration of temporary cost measures from the prior year.
Industrials adjusted operating margin increased substantially from the prior-year quarter to 14.3% from 8.6% last year.
The infrastructure segment operating income was $36 million compared with $19 million in the same quarter last year.
Absent charges in both periods Infrastructure's operating income was $37 million compared with $26 million in the prior-year quarter.
The operating income improved primarily due to higher sales also with price realization increased capacity utilization and incremental restructuring benefits also offset in part by higher raw material costs and the restoration of temporary cost reductions.
And Infrastructure's adjusted operating margin increased from the prior-year quarter to 16.5% from 13.8% of last year.
Turning to the tax rate our effective tax rate for the quarter was 19.1% and this was better than anticipated.
The improvement in the rate was a result of higher benefits associated with our pan-European business model driven by stronger European earnings.
We now expect the full tax share rate to be about approximately 22%.
And then regarding our bottom line performance our reported third quarter fiscal 2011 diluted earnings per share was $0.77 compared to the prior year diluted share of $0.12.
On an adjusted basis we came in a $0.83 compared to the prior-year quarter adjusted earnings of $0.39.
Turning to the balance sheet our cash position increased to $184 million and remained focused and diligent on our receivable collection.
Our DSOs and IPOs are relatively flat in the March quarter compared to last quarter.
At the end of the quarter our total debt was $317 million which is also flat from last quarter.
Our debt-to-cap ratio for the March quarter was 16.9% compared to 20.2% at June 30.
Furthermore our U.S.
pension benefit plans remained over 100% funded and our adjusted return on invested capital increased to 12.9% up significantly from 6.4% in the June quarter.
And as I said earlier our adjusted return on invested capital is an all-time company record.
Now let me update everybody on our current outlook.
First we expect economic conditions including global industrial productions will remain positive.
We expect our annual organic sales growth rates to be approximately 24% to 25% which is higher than our previous guidance.
This is in line with our goal of growing at least 2 times the rate of increase in the global industrial production.
We still anticipate that sales volumes and capacity utilization including restructuring benefits will yield strong incremental margins more than offset year-over-year cost increases for merit and pension and incentive compensation.
Raw material costs have increased faster than anticipated.
However we continue to initiate price increases to offset these higher cost increases.
As Carlos said our restructuring benefits are in line to reach $165 million annual savings.
And our effective tax rate has improved due to an improved mix business and as I said earlier we now anticipate a tax rate of 22%.
Under these assumptions we expect earnings per share for fiscal 2011 to be in a range of $2.75 to $2.85 per share excluding charges related to previously announced restructuring and related programs.
It's a help putting [ph] our revised earnings-per-share guidance into perspective you should compare this year's expected full-year results to our prior year record-setting year in fiscal 2008.
If you take the midpoint of our current guidance and compare to our earnings-per-share of fiscal 2008 as prior peak of $2.76 you will clearly see that we have higher earnings on significantly lower sales.
As a reminder in fiscal 2008 we had sales of $2.6 million and an earnings per share of $2.76.
The projected results for  fiscal 2011 clearly show that our cost structure has been dramatically reduced and our strategies are working.
The increased guidance reflects record operating margin performance even on sales volumes that has not yet reached prior peak levels.
We are well within reach of our next milestone targets.
We also anticipate cash flow from operating activities of approximately $255 million to $265 million for 2011.
Based on CapEx of $80 million we expect to generate between $175 million to $185 million of free operating cash flow for the full fiscal year.
This is slightly lower than our prior-quarter guidance of $180 million to $200 million and the primary reason is due to slightly higher working capital based on higher sales and higher inventory levels related to recent cost increases.
At this time I'd like to turn it back over to Carlos for some closing comments.
Thank you Frank.
As we move forward with the key [ph]  to build on our enterprise approach.
We have transformed Kennametal to become a market trading organization aligning our business with our serve end markets.
This provides customers with the access to our entire product portfolio facilitate top line growth through cross-selling opportunities and streamlines our costs by improving supply chain and manufacturing efficiency.
We are positioned to focus more on customers gain market share and further increase our profitability.
Based on expectations of continued global growth and our ability to maintain strong operating leverage we have again increased our guidance for fiscal year 2011.
Our updated organic sales guidance of 24% to 25% for the year demonstrates that Kennametal continues to outperform the forecasted industrial production rates.
Our revised EPS guidance in the range of $2.75 to $2.85 per share compared with the previous range of $2.50 to $2.65 per share represents an increase of about 9% at the midpoint.
This increased guidance reflects record operating margin performers even our sales volumes that have not yet reached the prior peak levels.
During the recent cycle -- during the current cycle we expect to achieve higher profitability and price deteriors [ph] due to the structural improvements to our cost phase.
We continue to be committed to realizing 40% incremental margins for the cycle.
In summary we have strengthened our financial position and enhanced our liquidity.
We expect to continue generating strong cash flow.
Our global team remains focused on our next milestone target of 15% EBIT margin and 15% return on investment capital.
We believe that we can achieve those goals.
And at the end even further a longer path to premier.
Enabled by our long-term strategies we believe our performers validate our ability to achieve a sustainable level of profitability in the high-teens range.
For the past several years we have taken the necessary actions to further strengthen our foundation and extend our profitability.
We continue to balance our several end [ph] markets business mix and geographic levers.
Kennametal is a breakaway company that has demonstrated its ability to be profitable throughout the cycle.
We will maximize our strong financial position to meet those targets and deliver continued shareholder value.
Thank you for your time and your interest in Kennametal and we will now take care of your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Eli Lustgarten from Longbow securities.
Just some clarification.
Tax rate you said this year is 22% is that what we assume for next year also? Or we thought I mean it's sort of an important issue that has been...
Well I can't obviously get into next year's we'll provide that in July.
But yes the 22% is kind of what we anticipate as you saw the mix between rest of the world and Europe.
Europe was a little bit stronger.
And as that continues to perform we should see a deterioration in tax rate or a reduction in tax rate I should say.
As you know last quarter we guided 24% we picked up 2 points as result of strong the performance on the second half.
Okay.
One of the other things that was a surprise in numbers is the absence of currency in infrastructure and almost minimal currency versus what we are seeing around at other companies in industrial.
Is currency a bigger factor in the fourth quarter for you at this point? You gave us the year but we are looking currency benefits in the quarter? Yes.
Eli each of the first three quarters currency was actually negative.
I think it was a couple pennies negative in the quarter both transaction and translation.
And the fourth quarter is actually the first time and I'm speaking primarily from Europe perspective but we'll actually have a slight benefit in the fourth quarter.
So you're exactly correct.
And the same thing from a number of workdays.
I mean there was a factor that we had a couple of less workdays in this quarter we get them back in the fourth quarter? No.
Compared to last year the workdays are essentially the same in the fourth quarter on a year-over-year basis.
And if we talk about the profitability of industrial which seems to be lagging.
I mean it's a big gain versus last year and that's a decent incremental margin or so but we're still running in the less than 14% kind of number where 14.3% I guess number in a business that I guess was expecting to get well over 15% at some point.
Can you talk about what's going on in the cost price there? And can we expect to break 15% in the fourth quarter and is that a reasonable goal for an average for the year near-term? Yes I think that the performance has been pretty good from a little shy of 12% in the first quarter and we went little bit above 12% in the second quarter.
We saw a nice increase of almost 2 points or 200 basis points of improvement in the industrial operating income percent so and we like the improvement.
Yes there is some timing issues with the cost -- input cost in the pricing and there's probably -- we implemented a new system here so hopefully we can catch up a couple of things here in the fourth quarter.
So to have that type of performance on top of some of the raw material headwinds putting in a new SAP system at the end of the quarter I'm actually extremely pleased with the performance of industrial and I think we're moving in the right direction.
As a company I mean we are achieving all-time records and this is one of the reasons we have 2 segments.
And we look at the segments sometimes one will perform --  one quarter performs  better than the other.
But more than likely about 15% EBIT margin.
And it's still reasonable to expect Industrials to get around [ph]  15% as a goal at this point? That's the goal.
Have prices gone up enough with the way you start to run price increases that you essentially recover all of your costs in the next couple of quarters?  You sort of hinted that was the case but with the new round coming at this point do you expect to be there by the end of the next 2 quarters? All right.
Yes as we wrap up the fourth quarter again based upon where raw materials is it's like trying to catch a falling knife sometimes with this tungsten the way it's been behaving here but we should be able to recover 100% of our costs in the fourth quarter.
All right.
Your next question is from Andy Casey with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> Thanks.
First on the third quarter corporate expense a pretty detailed question but if I'm doing the math right after adjusting for restructuring it looked like it came down a couple of million in Q3 from Q2.
First is that math correct and then if so what drove the sequential decrease and how sustainable is that? Yes.
I would imagine that the third and fourth quarter will be similar.
It's just watching expense some of the some of the I'll call it the SAP implementation costs we implemented in the January conference.
So those costs are trending down as we have as anticipated so yes at this point I would say that the fourth quarter should be very similar.
But your numbers are correct.
LLC</strong> Okay thanks.
And then I'm at another detail on the remainder of the year this 22% for the full year is that a net number or does that exclude the restructuring? That's an all-end [ph] number.
LLC</strong> Okay.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Your next question is from Henry Kirn with UBS.
You've taken out $165 million in fixed costs you're closing the final 4 facilities.
How do you think of the footprint going forward? Is there still any opportunity to do further rationalization and take out even more fixed cost or are we sort of at that the steady state where things are as good as they can be on that level? Henry we believe there is always opportunity I mean we have a very strong lean culture so every year we take cost out.
The $165 million obviously was singled out at -- because it was a big number and the required special charges.
Our anticipation is that in 2011 we go back to the pre-recession where every year we have what sometimes is a significant cost reductions to lean savings.
So there are more opportunities and we'll continue to look at those.
Everything hinges around how much growth we expect.
Is it below 10% or more than 10% but typically what we see right now is to roll into pay-as-you go type of profits.
And could you give a little bit of an updated view on your priorities for the balance sheet and what you're seeing in the M&amp;A market right now? Yes.
I think that we -- the M&amp;A market is good.
I mean we have a strong pipeline.
We are very engaged in looking at opportunities.
But again we are very very disciplined about our M&amp;A process and it's hard to forecast M&amp;A activities.
So we can be very optimistic about it and we are ready and have the right balance sheets to take advantage of our good opportunities.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question is from Adam Uhlman with Cleveland research.
Just talk about the Europe business seems to be holding up a bit better than expected.
Could you get us a little bit more granular on the market dynamics there? Yes.
I mean our strength in Europe is because of our mix being filtered into the German market.
And as I have been saying for the last few quarters I think we've been able to outperform the overall European GDP or IPI as a result of our mix.
I mean Germany continues to outperform every country in Europe and the East driven primarily by general engineering and automotive and is driven primarily by exports.
And actually their machine tools business is trying to come back.
So and they have strong exports into China and India and to in certain cases the Latin America.
So we feel very good of I think the future if we used to be good and that helps us not only in the top line but as we can as we from the results of the quarter that helps us with the tax rate as well.
Okay got it.
And then regarding the commentary around the Japanese quake and the order pick up that you folks have seen or quoting activity -- I guess how sticky would that business be if you were to win over some business that was supplied by Japanese manufacturers previously? You know it's really hard to forecast that I mean we just -- we're seeing that the quoting activity going up.
We've seen some of the very little of the buy ex [ph] because I mean this has only been pretty vague in this as you from Frank that the distributors -- that's primarily a distribution type of business.
The distributors typically carry about 2 months inventory so if you see when we're under of that to occur versus where we are today of about two months old we anticipate to know more in the next month or so.
More details.
Yes.
Great.
Thanks.
Your next question is from Ann Duignan with JP Morgan.
Can I just ask you about your balance sheet performance? Inventories and day sales outstanding were a little bit higher than last year and last quarter.
Can you just talk was that related to SAP implementation or you just give us some color on what's going on there? Yes.
There's obviously some growing pains there and obviously the sales are a bit higher on the receivable side but we probably -- we'll try to pick that up here in the fourth quarter that's why we didn't change the casual guidance.
But as you go through just kind of learning the applications and you would expect that anytime that you implement a new system as well.
And now if you look at the inventory on a year-over-year basis you don't have the cash flow there.
Probably up $17 million the terms [ph] have been flat but we expect at the start to move in the right direction as production teams get also use to the system.
Okay that's a good color.
And then Carlos maybe been a little facetious when I ask this question but I can totally appreciate Brazil versus Latrobe.
But can you just describe the purpose of hosting the Board meeting in Brazil and what are your objectives your business objectives in Brazil? I mean we have a practice of taking the board through one of our facilities and have the Board meeting in one of our facilities every year and it's basically in this period.
And what we do -- and we take an international maybe every third year.
What we do is we take them to places where we had made major investments and/or acquisitions after a couple of years so that they can really see sort of how the investments of the company used is deployed and sort of understand the market and then get to see the benefits of investing.
And that took place here so we brought the board here and we had a very very successful visit.
And Brazil for us actually has the highest growth rate of all of our geographies.
Not by a book by much.
So this has been very a good investment for us.
As I've said we've been here since 1999 so we're kind of a little bit of late-comer into this -- [indiscernible] -- but we built a new plant here and we actually did an acquisition here so we are really leveraging those benefits right now.
I don't know if that answer your question.
Okay yes.
No that's help to add the color because I was thinking maybe a large acquisition is coming down the pipeline or something.
So that's helpful to the understand the context.
And just one real final one Carlos.
It's looking like you might you just have given the rate of recovery in revenues and earnings but there is a potential that $3 billion revenue target could be achieved sooner rather than later.
To what point do you start thinking about having to reinvest in the businesses to reinvest in capacity expansion et cetera and could that put pressure on your 15% ROIC target? Yes.
I think that -- I mean you said it perfectly we have talked about this $3 billion target.
Clearly it's going to come earlier.
I mean it's already an indication based on our performance [indiscernible] that we  will get so far that we had in the third quarter looking  at the fourth quarter.
And basically capital takes about to deploy effectively it takes about 12 months okay? So you will not put the pressure on the returns of the capital because you're going to have to build capacity gradually.
And the trick when we talk about $3 billion it's not like we have certain product lines.
We would not be at 90% we'll close to 90% in all products.
We will probably at 90% in certain products where we have to then expand those product lines but certainly I would not anticipate at this point to have a major investment even to go beyond $3 billion.
I mean I feel very comfortable that we can stay around the depreciation for a while longer.
Okay excellent.
I'll get back in queue.
Thanks so much.
Your next question is from Walt Liptak with Barrington.
Inc.</strong> Thanks.
I wanted to ask you about the tungsten prices coming up and just get some more clarity on it.
You said that it goes in your commentary it will be fourth quarter and first quarter the next two quarters where you get the cost recovery.
But then you mentioned I think Frank mentioned 100% cost recovery in the fourth.
Can you explain the difference? Yes.
Again I think the point there is we were a little bit behind here because the raw material costs increase and now we're going to cover 100% in the course for the full year.
We're obviously still behind and we're still going to be chasing that a little bit in the first quarter of next year.
But hopefully with the increases if they do take a little time we should get back on track by the first half of the next year but my comp were just 100% of costs increases by the end of fourth quarter.
Inc.</strong> And do you take out prices already for the fourth quarter? Yes they've been announced.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
In Both in North America and Europe or just at? All around the world globally.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And what about tungsten supply? Do you access to supplies is supply tight? No.
We at -- from Kennametal perspective we have not had any shortage for type neon [ph] for supplies.
It has been the price.
Inc.</strong> Okay and you mentioned the earthquake in Japan causing issues for some of your competitors.
Is that in your guidance that you'd might pick up some share in the fourth quarter and next year because of that? No.
I mean we just don't have enough detail with it.
We don't change our sales forecast based on quarterly activity only.
Well we certainly are putting...
Inc.</strong> Okay.
In the full-year guidance did you use the adjusted EPS number to $0.83? Yes.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
Okay thanks very much.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
This concludes our discussion.
Please contact me Quynh McGuire at (724) 539-6559 for any follow-up question.
Thank you for joining us and have a nice day.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
This call will be available for replay beginning at 11:00 a.m.
Eastern Standard Time today through 11:59 p.m.
Eastern Standard Time on the 27th of May 2011.
The conference ID number for the replay is 44620097.
The number for the replay is 1 (800) 642-1687 or 1 (706) 645-9291.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Kennametal's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Ms.
Quynh McGuire director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Regina.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us to review Kennametal's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2011 Results.
We issued our quarterly earnings press release earlier today.
You may access this announcement via our website at www.kennametal.com.
Consistent with our practice in prior quarterly conference calls we've invited various members of the media to listen to this call.
It's also being broadcast live on our website and a recording of this call will be available on our site for replay through August 29 2011.
I'm Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations for Kennametal.
Joining me for our call today are Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Carlos Cardoso; Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Frank Simpkins; and Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller Martha Bailey.
Carlos and Frank will provide further explanation on the quarter's financial performance.
After their remarks we'll be happy to answer questions.
At this time I'd like to direct your attention to our forward-looking disclosure statement.
The discussion we'll have today contains comments that may constitute forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve a number of assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information regarding these risk factors and uncertainties is detailed in Kennametal's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition Kennametal has provided the SEC with a Form 10-K a copy of which is currently available on our website.
This enables us to discuss non-GAAP financial measures during this call in accordance with SEC Regulation G.
This 8-K presents GAAP financial measures that we believe are most directly comparable to those non-GAAP financial measures and it provides a reconciliation of those measures as well.
I will now turn the call over to Carlos.
Thank you Quynh.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I'm pleased to report that Kennametal again achieved strong results for the June quarter of fiscal 2011.
During the quarter we had organic sales growth of 24% year-over-year.
This growth was realized on top of 39% organic growth in the prior year period.
In addition we achieved all-time records on an adjusted basis with operating margin of 17.5% and earnings per share of $1.11 for the June quarter as well as return on invested capital of 14.8%.
For fiscal year 2011 Kennametal has also delivered historical highs for operating margin earnings and return on invested capital even with sales that are lower than the prior peak.
Incremental margin for the year was 39%.
This validates our ability to capitalize on top line growth as well as the permanent nature of our streamlined cost structure to achieve higher levels of profitability.
We are proud of these impressive results because they demonstrate the progress of Kennametal's transformation.
The effectiveness of our initiatives the ability of our global team to execute our strategies and above all our capacity to deliver our promise of premier performance.
During the quarter Industrial production continued to show favorable trends in markets such as general engineering transportation earthworks and energy.
Our order rates were strong reflecting ongoing customer demand on a global basis with emerging markets continue to lead the growth.
For the June quarter Kennametal's Rest of the World market represented 27% of sales and grew 36% from prior year quarter.
We continue to implement our WIDIA brand strategy.
For fiscal year 2011 WIDIA Product stills increased 37% year-over-year reflecting strong growth.
As evidenced by our recently announced agreement with Fastenal to be the WIDIA's national distributor in North America there will be additional opportunities to expand our presence in distribution channels and gain further market share.
As we mentioned in prior discussions price increases are being implemented to recover high raw material cost as necessary specifically tungsten.
Our customers continue to value our products and recognize Kennametal's contribution to improving the productivity of their manufacturing processes.
We continue to increase prices as needed and we'll maintain margin discipline.
During this June quarter we successfully completed our restructuring initiatives which included reducing our manufacturing footprint by 22 facilities in total including divestitures.
However we retained much of our operating capacity by shifting production to existing facilities by using lean principles.
The restructuring program resulted in a higher than expected annual cost savings of $170 million.
This represents fixed cost that have been permanently removed.
The aggressive streamlining of our business combined with disciplined portfolio management have generated significantly higher operating margin earnings and return on invested capital.
From a macro perspective economic activity in the manufacturing sector continues to expand.
According to IHS Global Insight another soft patch is occurring but a double dip is not expected.
The world's economic expansion is forecasted to gain momentum in the second half of calendar year 2011.
Major downside risks facing global economy are uncertainties of our fiscal austerity and sovereign debt.
Upside opportunities include stronger spending by consumers and business in U.S.
Northern Europe and Asia.
Thanks to improved balance sheets.
Let's discuss the outlook in our served end markets.
In aerospace an increase in production is anticipated in commercial aviation.
At the recent Paris Airshow Airbus surpassed its own previous record at 713 intentions of purchase during this event.
Last week American Airlines announced it just placed the largest order in aircraft in aviation history and intends to add 460 narrow body fuel-efficient models.
The implications on the supply chain are positive as both Boeing and Airbus are ramping production of their flagship products.
In general engineering new orders for industrial machinery are expected to continue to grow.
Traditional manufacturers have increased the investment spending domestically and internationally focused on productivity and efficiency to help offset labor costs.
In transportation light vehicle sales are forecasted to be more than 12 million units in U.S.
according to IHS Global Insight.
In addition it is expected that supply disruptions related to the Japan disaster should ease and sales will reach nearly 16 million units by 2013.
On a global basis light vehicle output is expected to be more than 76 million units in 2011 and grow to approximately 87 million units in 2012.
Going forward there may be additional growth opportunities related to the light-weightening of cars with an introduction of carbon fiber reinforced polymer into the body structure.
In earthworks commodities pricing remained strong a record high mining capacity expansion investment continues.
Central Appalachia's steam coal and met coal pricing remain strong.
China and India's sea-borne coal demand continues to increase along with Japan in the wake of the spring's nuclear disaster.
Regarding road construction demand trends to vary by geography.
In developed economies of North America and Western Europe infrastructure maintenance levels are governed by ability of funding.
Overall funding outlook in developed economies is worsening due to the fiscal tightening and austerity measures.
However in emerging markets such as China India and Latin America the construction activity is upbeat.
In energy North American inventory is just below the 5-year average.
A warmer than expected summer may cause an uptick in seasonal demands.
However high gas prices may continue and are expected to keep prices at relatively the same level to calendar year 2011.
By the end of calendar 2011 the Energy Information Administration forecasts that marketed natural gas production will increase and continue into calendar 2012.
Overall Kennametal continues to achieve higher operating margin earnings and return levels due to our strong focus on operating efficiencies.
As a result adjusted operating margin for June quarter reached 17.5% with adjusted EPS of $1.11 and adjusted return on invested capital was 14.8% which all are all-time records.
In addition I would like to mention that Kennametal received national recognition for our commitment to excellence.
For example we were recently awarded Delphi's 2010 Pinnacle Award for Supplier Excellence.
The WIDIA Products Group was honored with the ISA's American Eagle Value-Added Partner Award for showing exceptional documented cost savings of productivity improvements to an end user.
This accomplishments are remarkable and I'd like to recognize and thank Kennametal employees for their dedication and commitment.
I will now turn the call over to Frank and he will discuss our financial results for the quarter in greater detail.
Frank? Thank you Carlos.
I'll provide some comments on our performance for the June quarter and then I'll move on to our fiscal '12 guidance for the next fiscal year.
Some of my comments exclude special items so please refer to the reconciliation schedules that we provided in our earnings release in the related Form 8-K.
So let me start by summarizing the June quarter and in part the year.
So Carlos I'm pleased to report that for both the June quarter and the full fiscal year we set records for operating income earnings per share and return on invested capital.
In the June quarter we again delivered strong organic growth coming in at 24% versus tougher comparables last year.
We also had stronger operating results and our capital structure continued to strengthen.
Our restructuring programs have been successfully completed and have yielded higher benefits and lower cost to execute than previously anticipated.
I also want to point out that for the full fiscal year we achieved these records while encountering the implementation of a new enterprise structure July 1 of last year.
We upgraded our ERP system on January 3.
We dealt with higher raw materials and the effects of salary and benefit restorations including higher incentive compensation.
So a great year on many fronts.
Now let me walk you through the key items in our income statement starting with sales.
Our sales for the quarter increased $155 million or 29% to $694 million.
This compares to $539 million in the June quarter last year and this was due to 24% organic growth or 6% favorable foreign currency impact and that was partially offset by the effects of fewer business days.
Our sales growth was achieved despite stronger comparisons of double-digit organic growth of 39% in the prior year.
And this represented the sixth consecutive quarter of year-over-year organic sales growth.
As Carlos alluded to we also continue to further balance our business globally.
And for the June quarter approximately 55% of our sales were generated outside of North America with Western Europe at 28% and the Rest of the World at 27%.
Now looking at the business segment sales performance.
Our Industrial segment sales of $437 million increased 31% from last year.
This was driven by organic growth of 25% and a 7% favorable foreign currency impact partly offset by 1% unfavorable impact due to fewer business days.
And on an organic basis sales increased in all served markets led by strong growth in general engineering and transportation with increases of 33% and 19% respectively.
Aerospace &amp; defense also grew.
That was up 8% compared to the prior year quarter.
And regionally our sales increased by 32% in Asia 24% in Europe and 20% in the Americas.
As Carlos pointed out the transportation and general engineering markets continued to demonstrate the strongest growth.
Globally these markets performed well including the strengthening of business in Europe and continued growth in Asia and the Americas.
Our Infrastructure segment sales of $257 million increased 26% from the prior-year quarter driven by organic growth of 22% and a 4% favorable foreign currency impact.
The organic increase was driven by a 24% increase in demand for earthwork products and 20% higher sales of energy in related products.
Regionally organic sales increased 29% in Asia 23% in the Americas and 13% in Europe.
Our earthworks business had a very good quarter given the construction season and mining activity.
Pricing for Central Appalachia's steam coal is trading at approximately 20% higher year-over-year and met coal continues to trade around the benchmark of $315 a ton with support planned mining activity.
And in the energy market the U.S.
and international rig counts are higher than the prior year by 21% and 3% respectively and the Canadian rig count is up 6% year-over-year and natural gas and storage remains at 2.5% below the 5-year average.
Now I'll touch on our operating performance.
Our reported gross profit margin increased 130 basis points to 38.3%.
This compares with 37% in the June 2010 quarter.
Our strong gross profit margin was a direct result of higher sales and price realization increased capacity utilization higher restructuring benefits and continued cost discipline.
Not surprisingly raw material cost particularly tungsten had an impact on our margin and leverage performance during the quarter.
Our operating expenses increased year-over-year by 16% or about $20 million to $143 million.
The primary drivers of the increase in operating expenses were employment cost including higher incentive compensation due to better operating performance.
Our operating expense as a percentage of sales was 20.6% for the quarter down 230 basis points from the prior-year percentage of 22.9%.
I'd like to take a moment to summarize our restructuring program which is now completed and as Carlos said ended with favorable results.
As you know we embarked on this initiative a few years ago to help improve our cost structure and our competitiveness.
So the final figures for the restructuring program resulted in total charges of approximately $150 million.
And more importantly annual benefits are expected to slightly exceed approximately $170 million and the combined footprint reduction including divestitures was 22 total facilities.
Our operating income increased to $115 million.
This compares to $61 million for the prior-year quarter.
Absent restructuring and related charges in both periods our operating income was $121 million compared with $74 million in the prior-year quarter.
We levered well again this quarter with a strong incremental margin of 30% and on a constant currency basis our leverage was even higher at 34%.
Our adjusted operating margin reached an all-time record of 17.5% despite all of the headwinds we had to address.
And I'm very pleased with the operating margin performance.
Looking at how the business segments operating performance happened.
The Industrial segment operating income was $77 million compared with $32 million for the same quarter of last year.
Industrial's operating margin increased substantially from the prior year to 18.7% from 12.8% last year.
And absent restructuring and related charges in both periods the Industrial operating income was $82 million compared with $43 million in the prior-year quarter.
And the primary driver is the increase in operating income with a higher sales volumes price realization improved capacity utilization and incremental restructuring benefits.
This was partly offset by higher raw material costs.
The Infrastructure segment operating income was $38 million and this compares with $31 million in same quarter the prior year.
Infrastructure's adjusted operating margin was 15.6% in the current quarter.
Absent restructuring and related charges recorded in both periods Infrastructure's operating income was $40 million in the current quarter compared with $34 million in the prior-year quarter.
Operating income improved due to higher sales volume and price realization increased capacity utilization higher restructuring benefits but offset by higher raw material costs.
Regarding our overall bottom line performance the reported fourth quarter fiscal 2011 diluted earnings per share were $1.04 and this compares to the prior-year diluted earnings per share of $0.49.
And then on adjusted basis our diluted earnings per share were $1.11 compared to the prior-year adjusted earnings of $0.61 a share.
Again this adjusted earnings per share of $1.11 is an all-time record.
And to put this into perspective we earned more earnings per share in the June quarter than we did all of fiscal 2010.
Our balance sheet remained strong and we improved our financial flexibility.
Our cash position increased to $205 million and remained focused on improving our working capital.
Looking at some of the metrics our DSO and IPO were flat in the June quarter compared to last quarter in the March period.
However we made further progress with our days payables which increased 4 days from March to June.
At June 30 our total debt was $313 million a decrease of approximately $4 million from the March quarter.
And our debt to capital ratio at June 30 was 15.9% compared to 20.2% at June 30 2010.
I'd like to point out that our senior unsecured notes are not reflected as current liabilities in our balance sheet and we are in the process of reviewing financing alternatives and I'll cover that in a second.
Furthermore our U.S.
defined benefit pension plan remained over 100% funded.
Our adjusted return on invested capital increased to 14.8% up significantly from 12.9% in the March quarter.
And as I previously mentioned our adjusted return on invested capital is an all-time company record.
Now let me turn to the outlook.
Our outlook for fiscal '12 assumes that the global economy and worldwide industrial production will continue to reflect moderate expansion and that the overall economic trends will remain in positive territory.
As a result we expect to experience positive growth in all our geographies.
The following are some additional assumptions encompassed in our outlook.
Global industrial production is anticipated to be in the mid-single digits for the full fiscal year.
Sales volumes and related capacity utilization are expected to yield favorable incremental margins and offset year-over-year cost increases.
Our net interest expense will increase in fiscal '12 by approximately $8 million.
This is largely due to the need to refinance the $300 million of the 7.2% 2002 notes that will mature in June of 2012.
Our expectation is to approach the public market this fall to take advantage of attractive market rates.
Proceeds from the new debt transaction can be used to call the existing bonds or be retained on the balance sheet to repay the notes at maturity before other general corporate purposes.
Our effective tax rate is projected to be around 23% for fiscal '12 and that's based on our anticipated global earnings mix.
And our earnings are expected to be consistent with our historical seasonal patterns with approximately 40% of earnings occurring in the first half and 60% in the second half.
Taking these factors into consideration we expect organic sales growth to be 10% 12% higher than fiscal 2011 and total sales growth to be higher by 9% and 11%.
This is in line with our goal of growing at least 2x the rate of increase in global industrial production.
We also expect earnings per share for fiscal 2012 to be in the range of $3.50 to $3.80 and the midpoint of this range represents a 22% increase from fiscal 2011 adjusted earnings per share of $2.98.
In addition fiscal 2012 guidance reflects our expectation of achieving our next milestone target.
And that's for you who know us.
That's 15% earnings before interest and taxes or EBIT margin and 15% return on invested capital.
And this is one year earlier than previously anticipated.
Our cash flow from operating activity is expected to be in the range of approximately $360 million to $380 million for fiscal '12.
Based on anticipated capital expenditures of approximately $100 million the company expects to generate between $260 million to $280 million of free operating cash flow for the full fiscal year.
At this time I'd like to turn it back to Carlos for some closing comments.
Thank you Frank.
Going forward we'll maintain our strong commitment to executing our strategies.
We will further balance our served-in [ph] certain markets business mix and geographic presence.
We expect to continue generating strong cash flows and will remain disciplined regarding our capital allocation process.
We'll keep driving our ongoing transformation to be an even more customer-focused enterprise and continue to deliver premier performance.
As evidenced by the June quarter and fiscal year 2011 results Kennametal continues to realize higher operating margins earnings and return on invested capital.
We achieved all-time record highs even with sales are even lower than prior peak levels.
For fiscal year 2012 our guidance reflects expectations of continued global growth and our ability to outperform industrial production.
Our fiscal 2011 EPS guidance in the range of $3.50 to $3.80 per share represents a 22% increase from fiscal 2011 adjusted EPS of $2.98 per share at the midpoint.
In summary our global team remains focused on achieving the next milestone target of 15% EBIT margin and 15% return on invested capital in fiscal year 2012 a year earlier than previously anticipated.
Our long-term strategies remain consistent.
We will advance even further along the path to premier by maximizing our strong financial position and deliver continued shareholder value.
Thank you for your time and your interest in Kennametal.
We will now take questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Adam Uhlman with Cleveland Research.
I was just wondering if we could talk about the infrastructure margins a little bit? It seems like the material cost have crept back up there.
Can you maybe go through the dynamics of the quarter? And then also your outlook for material costs for fiscal '12? Adam I'll start.
Yes and I think you hit on it right there as we said on our prepared remarks.
And raw materials continued to increase throughout the quarter.
And I know you guys follow the APT trends.
So they went up a little bit quicker than we had originally planned.
Good news is it seems like they have somewhat taken a pause here for a while.
So while the pricing was trying to catch up with the raw material cost they rose a little bit faster than we had anticipated.
But we should be able to get that back as we get into the new fiscal year.
So our outlook is to get that nothing better than our guidance going forward into fiscal '12.
Okay I got it.
And then Frank on the guidance for the year it looks like you're going to be better than even the 15% goal if my math is correct closer to 16%.
And I just wanted to check to see if that's correct.
And then secondly if when we said expect some new long-term margin targets given that you have a loan 3 years a year early? Again Adam I think directionally your math is correct.
You're spot on from that perspective given where we're at.
And as far as the next milestone we're not ready to talk about it yet.
I think we need to deliver the goal of 15 by 15.
As I said in New York no later than '13 which we're going to do next year.
Once we accomplish that we'll revisit and set the next milestone after that.
Yes this is Carlos.
This is subject most likely we're going to discuss at our September meeting.
Our next question comes from the line of Eli Lustgarten with Longbow Securities.
A couple of quick questions.
Just for clarification corporate expense turned out to be $500 000 in the quarter again I guess.
Can you give us an idea what's going on? And what that number would look like for next year? Yes nothing unusual.
And again we're trying to -- we will look at whether we had a little bit of a benefit last quarter that didn't come through this quarter.
But we're winding down some of our initiatives from last year that's why it tailed down in the second half.
And Eli I would tell you this next year it will probably if I had to take a stab at it it will be about $10 million for the year.
So roughly $2.5 million a quarter.
If you look at it so I would -- it's basically going to be flat.
So your margins I mean start touching but you got much better expected margin industrially you probably did somewhat disappointing margins in infrastructure turned out both for the year about the same.
Can we -- what would be a more normalized rate for industrial next year? I guess I can't believe it's going to stay at 18.7% and will we get those kind of margins in infrastructure next year which is sort a more norm? As far -- we're going to continue to do well.
I think some of the restructuring benefits most of the benefits were on the industrial side as opposed to the infrastructure.
So we're going to continue to watch the discipline.
We've got some key initiatives and some new products on the industrial side.
Particularly we like the relationship with the Fastenal arrangement so that's going to help us there.
So we think -- we don't expect much deterioration at all from that perspective.
And then I think we should see a little bit of a benefit on the infrastructure side as we catch up with the price increases and the raw materials.
Now you're referring to the deterioration from the year number? Or the fourth quarter number? From the fourth quarter.
So you expect you can keep the margins in the high teens industrially for early next year on a seasonal basis? Absolutely.
And Eli I'll remind you that the cycles of the 2 business are different.
So you'll see a time where the infrastructure margins are higher than the industrial.
And typically in the recovery the industrial margins are better.
And Frank can you talk about the debt refinancing that you're doing? You said higher charges of $8 million yet unless something really changes you're going to save a couple of hundred basis points on the debt refinancing.
So that $8 million all front-loaded in the first quarter first and second quarter because of the course of finance I mean it's hard to believe it's going to go up except for court charges associated because your cost will be lower on the same day? Yes you're exactly correct.
We will definitely be able to refinance the 7.2 notes much lower than where it's at today.
So the strategy really and the numbers actually the higher interest expense works out whether we do want them to approach as whether we do the May pole tender.
And then you could have a higher charge in one quarter and then you have much lower earnings.
So you got some seasonality that will skew the seasonality a little bit.
Or we issue it in the fall and we keep the cash on the balance sheet and repay it back in June of 2012.
Now we're going to have the higher carrying costs associated with the debts.
We're looking at a couple of different ways and what's more advantageous we'll look at it in the fall.
But should we spread the higher $8 million? The $8 million is $2 million a quarter effectively over the 4 quarters or front-loaded in the first half? I mean...
Yes I would assume that we would most likely try to do it in the second quarter.
So basically the $8 million goes in one quarter and the second quarter? Is that what you're saying? Or? No.
There's 2 different scenarios.
It depends on what we do.
So you can either spread it if we do the ladder scenario that I'd talked about.
If we would do the May pole you would probably have more in the second quarter and less in the second half.
Okay.
It's something like that.
One final question.
One of the benefits in cutting through -- I mean the Japanese tragedy also affected the #4 to #7 suppliers in cutting tools globally.
Did you see much benefit of that? Or are you hearing much from customers wanting to make sure they had supplies and give me some share? And will that sustain itself? Yes Eli this is Carlos.
I mean it's really hard to quantify because most of that would have come from WIDIA replacement.
And as you said earlier WIDIA for the year grew at 37%.
So clearly we have replaced some of those Japanese suppliers.
And -- but we can't quantify.
I would say they would most likely keep the majority of it.
Our next question comes from the line of Holden Lewis with BB&amp;T.
Are you able to give a sense I mean you've had a number of price increases both sort of big broad once as well as maybe more targeted smaller ones.
And then I think that they sort of can concentrate towards the back half of '11.
When you're talking about your revenue growth rates what are we assuming for price in that? And I guess I'm curious on what you achieved in '11 and if that carries forward you'd get a full year what that sort of implies about '12? Yes I mean I'll talk from '12 and Frank can fill in on the '11.
But we typically plan for a 1% to 2% price increase as we start the year.
All I can tell you that it is higher this year for 2012.
And obviously we're not going to get into very specific details for competitive reasons.
Frank '11? Yes.
Again I think we've -- Holden we don't want to necessarily give out as you know we do reflect prices in our organic growth rate.
But to Carlos' point it was above our typical average in the fourth quarter.
And that's all I'll comment on at this point.
But the raw material costs increase a lot faster.
And I know what you're trying to get at but at this point I'm not comfortable with the price given that assumption out of -- given the competition dynamics.
Okay.
So fair enough.
But on the price cost dynamic than looking at the 2 blended.
I think your thoughts were where tungsten was before that you'd sort of be behind on the margin in the second half of this just done fiscal year.
And then you'd be sort of at or above parity on the margin in the first half of fiscal '12.
Given what tungsten's done in your pricing actions do you still feel like you've sort of got back to neutral by the time you get into this Q1 period? Or is tungsten pushed to behind that a bit? We're close to that.
Let me just say it that way.
And by year end we'll be ahead if everything stays the same obviously.
Okay.
So things pushed in right a little bit.
And then last thing working capital looks like your inventory and receivables led up to fair bit any commentary on that? We finished with the strongest month of the year on the receivables side.
So very strong finish on the sales.
And then we had to buy some additional raw materials at higher prices.
So temporarily a little bit higher on the inventory side.
But I like the progress that our purchasing and treasury team have done with the payables.
So where -- we had a nice plan to get that back in the line.
So that will continue to increase as we go into next year and then to really focus in on the receivables and particularly or I should say more importantly our inventory turns as we go forward.
Our next question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell with Crédit Suisse.
This is actually Sheila on behalf of Julian.
A few questions for you on the incremental margins I know it was discussed that they were about 30% in the quarter.
I assume some of that was because of FX was such a big tailwind for the topline.
So a bit of a headwind on the margin.
On fiscal '12 that should accelerate.
But your guidance implies 30% at the low end 37% at the high end so the midpoint is accelerating from the Q4 level is that correct? Yes.
To start with your first point there the difference between the -- of constant currency and actual which is 32% point out and 34% if you put on a constant currency basis.
Currency when we look at that for the year I'll just use one currency to give you some kind of guidance.
We finished this year the average euro as we do it was about $1.36.
When you do your plan right we assumed $1.37 for the full year and now it's a little bit higher.
So you don't obviously lever at all or very little bit on the incremental margin.
So the way we did our plan FX shouldn't have a significant impact given that the euro's our biggest currency.
And we're looking at around the constant currency basis the $1.36 to $1.37.
I don't think at this point the way we did the plan and the guidance is going to have a significant impact.
But if the currencies get out of line we'll update at the end of every quarter as we typically do.
And also any change on order trends or demand trends from June to July? Can you comment on that? Outside of seasonality the orders are consistent with our guidance.
We feel good about it.
And last question on just a quick one.
Aerospace and Defense grew 8% in the June quarter.
Commentary around the Paris Air Show suggest that they should pick up as commercial aerospace accelerates in fiscal '12? Do you think that's accurate to assume? Yes absolutely.
I mean the orders by the time we ship take a little longer in the aerospace market.
But we feel very good.
And our aerospace business is starting to do very well.
Yes.
The only thing that I would add to that is we had our best quarter in aerospace in the June quarter.
And that trend's up from March.
So you can extrapolate that.
Your next question comes from the line of Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
It's Ingrid.
I'm just standing in for Ann.
I'm wondering if we could circle back to WIDIA.
What kind of growth expectation is in your guidance for WIDIA this year? And I guess what percent of that growth is driven by Fastenal building its inventory? Well I mean we are not going to publish how much our growth is expected obviously for competitive reasons.
But we expect WIDIA to continue to outpace all the areas in our business.
And the Fastenal is again really hard to predict.
As a matter fact this week we have probably 100 close to 170 people here getting training for -- from Fastenal.
So it's really hard to predict.
Our assumptions right now is the growth is going to be small.
But we'll see how it goes through the year.
So it's very difficult to predict at this point.
So Ingrid again that's -- the couple of comments there we like the growth opportunities particularly with Fastenal driving that in the Americas.
And I also like the opportunities we have in Asia.
So there's -- these are -- this is really starting to gain some traction on all geographies.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then just going back to the price increases and offsetting the cost.
Are you still expecting the 40% incremental operating margin target through the cycle? Or is there expectation around that changed at all? I think we took that into consideration with our guidance here if you look over the past 3 years.
We think we're pretty much in that because the prior year was very strong we've finished the year right around 40% this year.
And as some of the calls earlier somebody commented between 30 to mid-30s.
So that puts us right where we committed to previously.
Yes.
And I would expect that by mid-year again according to our guidance we are at a run rate of the peak.
So peak sales in the past.
So I would say that if you really look at and calculate that our 40% incremental margin through the cycle I believe we're going to meet or exceed that.
Your next question comes from the line of Walter Liptak with Barrington Research.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to ask about the seasonality.
And Frank I think you commented normal seasonality 40%-60%.
Looking back at this year there were some issues early in the year with the EPS coming in at I think 34% in the first half.
And I guess what are the puts and takes here? Pricing is probably in better shape than it was last year.
But we're -- it looks like some of the industrial regions are starting to slow a little bit.
Should we be cautious on the first half? I think we're a little bit more -- we look at -- your right Walt the driver's obviously it'll be what price does what industrial production does on a global basis.
That's how we kind of look at it.
And like anything else we put a stake in the ground at the end of the year.
We look historically how it's been.
We kind of rolled up.
I'm not going to try to get it too precise here plus or minus on the 40 and same thing with the 60 it could move a little bit higher it can move a little bit lower.
Depending on how at the second half of the calendar year.
But as you would expect fiscal '12 or the second half of our fiscal year's in calendar '12.
So as we get a little bit more visibility we'll update it as we go forward.
But that's our best estimate at this point.
Well industrial production for IPI for FY '11 was 5.9.
Current forecast for FY '12 is 5.2.
So it's going to go down from 5.9 to 5.2.
My point is though I'll be really happy with 5.2 and 13% growth 11% to 13% growth on top line.
Inc.</strong> Would you expect that like in the first second quarter that we're going to have equal quarters like 20 and 20? Or do you think the first quarter will because of holidays and things like that will be weaker than the second? If you take into consideration the debt I think the second quarter would be a little bit less because of higher interest expense.
But on the surface not exactly 20-20.
But the second quarter's on a normal basis is a little bit stronger than the first.
Our next question comes from the line of Andy Casey with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> A couple of questions.
First on free cash flow guidance.
At the midpoint of your fiscal '12 guidance you're expecting free cash flow as a percent of net income to be about roughly 90%.
That's up pretty strongly from this year's performance not adjusting for the restructuring.
What is changing to achieve that given you're looking for higher CapEx? Well I think the inventory growth was the main driver in the prior year.
Andy I don't we need  -- we won't need increase as much on the inventory side as we did in the past year.
So that was a I don't want to call it drag but kind of growth with the working capital on fiscal '11 versus '12.
We also did some strategic buys on the raw material because the raw material increased quite a bit.
So you had demand coming in.
And the growth in this 2012 as a percentage of growth is going to be lower.
So we've built the inventory to support FY '12 growth.
And we did some strategic buys on the raw material.
Andy I would add to your point on the CapEx which is up year-over-year.
That's really pretty fast it's kind of -- it's emerging I'll call it market expansion in Asia.
In a couple of areas the support for some new products that we have here that you and the guys all know about Beyond Blast.
And to further drive increased profitability we also put some equipment into productivity.
LLC</strong> Okay thank you for that.
Then if I can turn back on the prior demand questions clearly I'm sure you've seen other companies have talked about seeing demand soften in some regions.
You're really diversified and have above market growth prospects.
But I'm wondering if you're seeing any underlying market demand trend weakening recently in any region? Well I mean I think that I go back to the IPI I mean we're going from a 5.9 to a 5.2.
So there is what I would consider a little bit of a deceleration.
But is again included and implied in our guidance.
And we really haven't seen any weakness in any particular market at this point.
Your next question comes from the line of Henry Kim with UBS.
I wonder if you could talk a little bit about the mix shift from direct to indirect as we go through fiscal '12? Where do you expect to be as we exit fiscal '12 versus where we are today? Well I mean I think that we believe that we're going to continue to grow.
Or we will grow the indirect faster than that direct.
So I haven't actually looked at from a percentage we typically say that we're about 60%-40%.
I'm not sure what the impact in the overall percentage is.
So our growth in 2011 the indirect grew at a much higher pace than the company as a whole.
And I believe that it's going to be the same case this year 2012.
Is there a margin impact from that on the operating margin level? No.
If it's anything it's positive at the operating margin.
And one final one if I could could you walk through your latest thoughts on M&amp;A? I mean we have a healthy pipeline.
And we are always in discussions with the number of companies.
But as you know forecasting something is very very difficult.
So we are open and would do an acquisition that would make sense.
And we're always in talks with some companies.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Barger with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
As you've gone through some of the sensitivity analysis on your kind of forward look if you think about a slow to medium growth industrial production environment given your cost structure and how your operating now do you think your EPS growth rate on a normalized basis settles in at high teens a low 20% over time? So nothing about '12 just on a go-forward basis? Yes.
Absolutely.
I mean we always talked about 15% being sort of our next milestone.
We also talked about that we believe this business is the mid to high-teens EBIT margin business.
No.
I'm talking about earnings growth rate.
Yes.
The same.
Same thing? Okay.
And thinking about the overall goal of growing 2x global industrial production when you put together the current growth forecast can you tell us what the implied growth rate is in developing markets versus developed? And then how you see that kind of shaking out over the year? I'll give you a I mean a point of reference that again it goes back to the IPI.
The Asia Pacific area has an IPI of 8.7 versus NAFTA at 4.1 and versus the European union at 2.7.
So the developing economies are going to grow at a significantly higher pace than the developed economies.
That's going to continue.
So you look at that higher growth rate in the developed economies and I know market share can be hard to gauge in some of those markets.
Do you have share gain targets? And can you measure that versus just what the cycle gives you? No.
I mean it's really hard especially in developing economies because the data is just not there.
But my view is that if we are growing in 2-3x the IPI market I mean we have to be getting some market share right? Yes that's the reason.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Rayle with Northcoast Research.
Most of my questions have been answered.
I guess given the out-performance on the cost save at $170 million for the plant closures has that changed any way how you're approaching your thought process? I know you stated in the past that you'd go back to the more normal restructuring to the course of the cycle as demand comes through? But given the out-performance here does that change how you look at it at all? No I mean I think that we're at least from what we see for the 2012 guidance and where we see the growth to be is that we would not do any called out [ph]restructure.
If you look at it that way I mean we are constantly looking at our cost and adjusting our cost accordingly.
But the difference between the previous estimate and what we came out is 2 additional plants.
And I think at this point we feel very that we are sized properly for our going forward projections.
So I guess stepping back from just 2012 but longer-term.
You guys had historically closed one to 2 plants or rationalized facilities whatever euphemism you want to use.
Is that a pace that we should expect to be accelerating given the success of this program? Well I mean I wouldn't -- at this point there's a lot of as I can sense in the call.
And the economy there's a lot of share  around there.
So we will probably not going to do that much this year.
And I think going forward our view is if we continue to have the growth that we think we're going to have we'll go back to doing something like that going forward.
We want to do that but we would not accelerate that.
And I continue to remind everybody that's not a lot of square footage is just typically our very small plants that have fixed costs that we can eliminate by moving I mean to one of the larger facilities.
No absolutely yes the rationalization makes complete sense.
Your next question comes from the line of Holden Lewis with BB&amp;T.
A couple of things as it relates to sort of profitability going forward.
First with regards to where you feel you're sized to.
I think in the past you've talked about really not having to make any investment to support growth until you're about a $3 billion kind of business again.
Can you comment on that? And then secondly the SAP system that you rolled out I guess you're tweaking that through the March period or what have you.
You should have about a quarter now of really trying to run it and get the benefits and advantages out of it.
Can you talk a little bit about what you're doing with that and what the expected benefits and contributions should be from that? Yes I mean I'll talk about the SAP isn't really now 6 months.
We kicked it off in January 3.
And I think some of the benefits are already into the $170 million that we talked about.
So going forward I think we're going to have a better understanding of our customers.
We're going to have a better understanding of our markets in market share as well as some of our specific cost.
I think the visibility is very good.
And so we haven't really quantified any additional savings.
I mean again our margin continues to expand therefore the benefits are one of the drivers for the expansion of the margin is cost savings are coming from the SAP and how we run the business.
Relative to the $3 billion is we're still looking at that.
That is we don't have to make any major investments in our infrastructure to get there.
And again our capital is in line around the depreciation so we plan to continue in that pace.
And on the SAP things I mean you're not sort of attributing we think just broadly 50 basis points of annual improvement related to things that stem from the system.
There's no way to sort of quantify or put a range around with that benefit of farming that could be? No.
I mean our first priority with SAP and the changing of the organization was that we're going to make sure that $170 million were fixed permanent cost take-out and they wouldn't be coming back.
So we did things like we integrated all the payables into one area.
And receivables and so forth.
So all of that majority of that was part of the $170 million cost take-out.
Now what we're going to get forward is the SAP is going to get help us with growth.
Because it's going to help us to be more focused and so forth and understand our customers better.
And this concludes our Q&amp;A period.
Ms.
McGuire do you have any further remarks? Yes this concludes our discussion today.
Please contact me Quynh McGuire at (724) 539-6559 for any follow-up questions.
Thanks for joining us.
Ladies and gentlemen today's call will be available for replay beginning today at 1:00 p.m Eastern time.
It will run until midnight Eastern time on August 29 2011.
The numbers to dial to access the replay are 1 (800) 642-1687.
And for international callers (706) 645-9291.
The conference ID number for the replay is 79469605.
This does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.
Good morning my name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Kennametal's First Quarter Fiscal Year 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Regina.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us to review Kennametal's first quarter of fiscal year 2012 results.
We issued our quarterly earnings press release earlier today.
You may access this announcement via our website at www.kennametal.com.
Consistent with our practice in prior quarterly conference calls we've invited various members of the media to listen to this call.
It's also being broadcast live on our website and a recording of this call will be available on our site for replay through November 28 2011.
I'm Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations for Kennametal.
Joining me today for our call today -- joining me for our call today are Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Carlos Cardoso; and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Frank Simpkins.
Carlos and Frank will provide further explanation on the quarter's financial performance.
After their remarks we'll be happy to answer your questions.
At this time I'd like to direct your attention to our forward-looking disclosure statement.
The discussion we'll have today contains comments that may constitute forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve a number of assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information regarding these risk factors and uncertainties is detailed in Kennametal's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition Kennametal has provided the SEC with a Form 8-K a copy of which is currently available on our website.
This enables us to discuss non-GAAP financial measures during this call in accordance with SEC Regulation G.
This 8-K presents GAAP financial measures that we believe are most directly comparable to those non-GAAP financial measures and it also provides a reconciliation of those measures as well.
I will now turn the call over to Carlos.
Thank you Quynh.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I'm pleased to report that Kennametal again delivered strong results for the September quarter for fiscal year 2012.
During the period we had organic sales growth of 17% year-over-year.
This increase is on top of 34% organic growth in the prior-year period.
In addition to a positive economic environment we continued to successfully execute our strategies to realize additional sources of growth.
Those initiatives include enterprise selling new product introductions emerging market expansion pricing actions and our indirect channel strategy which includes the WIDIA brand deployment.
With global industrial production at 3.9% for the September quarter we are demonstrating that Kennametal's specific strategies drove our revenue growth at a pace that significantly outperforms the industrial production index.
During the quarter we continued to experience growth in customer demand across our served end markets and geographies.
This supports our continued expectations of a manufacturing lag [ph] recovery at least in the United States.
Our expectations are in line with recent data showing that U.S.
manufacturers grew faster than expected in September as production and hire increased.
Additionally there continues to be growth in emerging markets such as China India and Brazil.
At September 30 our rest of the world markets represented 26% of our total sales.
We are continuing to leverage our indirect channel strategy through the launch of our WIDIA brand.
We are increasing our presence in distribution channels and showcasing our market-leading technology capabilities.
WIDIA product sales increased 22% year-over-year reflecting continued strong growth.
Clearly we are increasing our addressable market moving into more of the white space and gaining share.
Regarding other key performance metrics for the September quarter Kennametal's operating margin reached 15.4% with earnings per share of $0.88.
Both of those represent all-time first quarter company records.
In addition adjusted return on invested capital was 16.2% which is an all-time company high.
While the macro environment reflected ongoing growth our business also continued to benefit from proven strategies as well as aggressive measures to control costs and build a more efficient streamlined enterprise.
Our initiatives have strengthened our foundation and further increased our focus on operational excellence providing Kennametal with the ability to achieve higher levels of profitability earnings and returns.
From a macro perspective a weaker growth outlook is forecasted but a recession is not expected according to the IHS Global Insight.
In the eurozone the GDP forecast for 2012 has been revised lower to 0.9%.
In U.S.
many manufacturers are thriving and the past 2 months' gains in the industrial production index are not consistent with an imminent recession.
In China inflation is showing early signs of easing but the Chinese government is expected to maintain its stance on monetary tightening for now.
Growth in the region is forecasted to slow from 10.3% in 2010 to 9.2% in 2011 and 8.3% in 2012.
At those projected growth levels China remains an attractive market for Kennametal.
Moving to the outlook in our served end markets.
In general engineering the future outlook for U.S.
exports of machinery remains strong although growth may moderate in the near term.
Investments in the industrial power and infrastructure sector are expected to continue in emerging markets such as China India and Latin America.
Exports have continued to be a bright spot but domestic demand has gained some downs.
In transportation replacement pressures have driven the recovery in commercial vehicles.
However truck buyers may be somewhat cautious due to the uncertainty in the near term.
According to IHS Global Insight U.S.
light vehicle sales averaged 16.8 million units per year from 2000 to 2007 before declining to 13.1 million in 2008 and 10.4 million in 2009.
Now in 2010 sales increased to 11.6 million units and are expected to grow to 12.5 million units in 2011 and with the forecast to reach 13.5 million units by 2013.
In aerospace commercial aircraft manufacturing activity is expected to reach a 7-year moving average production rate of 1 000 aircraft per year in the next 2 to 3 years twice what it was in 1991.
This production level represents a promising market environment for manufacturers in commercial aerostructures electronics engines and components and other suppliers in this industry.
In earthworks coal demand in 2011 will grow modestly according to IHS Global Insight.
The strong area for this industry is primarily in export demand.
Consumption is expected to remain relatively flat as the increases in the exports are mostly offset by the declines in electricity generation from coal.
Regarding road construction.
The Senate Appropriations Committee recently approved fiscal year 2012 funding for the highway and transit program at the same level as fiscal year 2011 just over $41 billion.
The bill also provides an additional $1.9 billion in emergency relief funding and $550 million for an economic recovery discretionary grants program as well as $100 million for high-speed rail.
As a result we anticipate road construction activity for the next season to be similar to the prior year period.
In the energy market U.S.
and international rig counts are higher than prior year by 20% and 7% respectively.
Canadian rig count is up significantly increasing 63% year-over-year.
North American inventories are on track to hit record levels as productivity gains in the shale region increases production.
The abundance of low-cost natural gas is expected to boost and mark the demand over the next 12 months.
At the same time the global manufacturing picture is mixed.
And there continues to be uncertainties related to the eurozone debt crisis.
The lack of clarity has resulted in slower production in parts of eurozone.
We realize that there are investor concerns related to the potential for a global slowdown.
However customer sentiment has been generally favorable according to our recent experiences.
For example Kennametal exhibited at the imX show in Las Vegas which is an Interactive Manufacturing Experience to provide customers with an opportunity to learn about the latest technologies.
This event took place in early September and it was sponsored by the American Machine Tool Distributors Association or AMTDA.
High-level buyers were paired with industry experts across all sectors to bring together powerful solutions.
Also Kennametal was represented in Germany at the IMO annual for 2011.
This was a leading international event for the machine tool industry featuring at least -- the latest machinery for all aspects of metalworking with more than 2 000 exhibitors from 41 countries.
At those events customer indicated that they remain upbeat about growth prospects and they expect production levels to continue to expand.
Kennametal's margin performance during the quarter reflects that we are successfully recovering raw material inflation costs related to tungsten.
We are committed to ongoing pricing action and maintaining our margin discipline.
We also continue to benefit from savings generated from our restructuring initiatives.
We are realizing $170 million of cost savings on an annualized basis.
Those are expenses that we have permanently removed from our cost structure.
Drivers of Kennametal's margin improvement can be attributed to strong top line growth together with company-specific initiatives such as cost reduction measures related to our restructuring program as well as an ongoing commitment to Lean operating principles.
We continue to believe that Kennametal's current footprint can support up to $3 billion in annual sales without any major capital investments.
Overall Kennametal continues to achieve higher profitability earnings and returns due to our disciplined focus and operating efficiencies.
As a result we achieved first quarter records of 15.4% operating margin and earnings per share of $0.88.
In addition our adjusted return on invested capital of 6.2% was an all-time company high.
I will now turn the call over to Frank and he will discuss our financial results for the quarter in greater detail.
Frank? Thank you Carlos.
I'll provide some comments on our performance for the September quarter and then I'll move on to our outlook for the remainder of our fiscal year 2012.
Some of my comments are non-GAAP so please refer to the reconciliation schedules that we provide in our earnings release and related Form 8-K.
So let me start off.
The September quarter highlighted our further progress toward our commitments we made regarding our goal of achieving 15% EBIT and 15% return on invested capital this year.
And as you know this is one year ahead of schedule.
We continue to drive our profitability by continuing on our focus on key metrics such as our strategic initiatives Lean productivity as well as realizing the benefits from our restructuring programs that I highlighted recently in New York at our Analyst Day.
As Carlos alluded to our September quarter was another record quarter and it included one solid top line growth as evidenced by 17% organic growth record operating margin earnings per share and return on invested capital despite uncertain macro conditions and significant raw material cost increases.
We did not have any restructuring charges.
I'd like to characterize it as a very clean quarter.
We strengthened our financial position and enhanced our operational flexibility.
And as I commented on in New York recently regarding our commitment to our priority uses of cash we purchased 2 million of our shares during the quarter.
Subsequent to the quarter we amended our revolving bank credit facility.
And we increased our dividend 17% to $0.14 per share or $0.56 share on an annual basis.
Now I'll walk you through some of the key items on the income statement.
Sales for the quarter increased $130 million or 25% to $659 million.
This compares to $529 million in the September quarter last year and the driver was -- increase was due to 17% organic growth 7% favorable foreign exchange and the effect of more business days.
Our sales growth was achieved despite stronger comparisons of double-digit organic growth of 34% in the prior year quarter.
This represents the seventh consecutive quarter of year-over-year sales growth.
We also continued to benefit from a better balance of our businesses globally.
And for the September quarter 54% of our sales were generated outside of North America with Western Europe at 28% and the rest of the world at 26% of sales.
Turning to the business segment sales performance.
Industrial segment sales of $418 million increased by 26% from the prior year quarter.
This was driven by organic growth of 17% favorable FX impacts of 8% and 1% increase due to more business days.
On an organic basis sales increased in all served market sectors led by strong growth in general engineering and transportation with increases of 22% and 14% respectively.
Aerospace &amp; defense also grew.
They were up 8% compared to the prior year quarter.
And regionally sales increased by approximately 24% in Europe 19% in the Americas and 7% in Asia.
The general engineering and transportation markets continued to demonstrate the strongest growth.
Globally these markets performed well including the strengthening of business in Europe and continued growth in the  Americas and Asia.
Turning to the Infrastructure segment.
Their sales came in at $241 million and increased 21% from the prior year quarter.
That was also driven by organic growth of 17% and the impact of foreign currency of 4%.
The organic increase was driven by 19% higher sales of energy and related products and 14% increase in demand for earthwork products.
On a regional view organic sales increased 25% in Asia 16% in the Americas and 14% in Europe.
Now I'll touch on our operating performance.
Our reported gross profit margin increased 240 basis points to 38.1% and this compares with 35.7% in the September 2010 quarter.
Our strong gross profit improved due to higher sales volume including price realization continued cost discipline and incremental restructuring benefits partly offset by higher raw material cost.
Our raw material cost as you know particularly tungsten had an impact on our margin and leverage performance during the quarter and on a year-over-year basis tungsten prices have more than doubled.
However these costs have stabilized recently although it is difficult to determine which way the trend will go.
Operating expense increased year-over-year by 17% or $21 million to $146 million.
And the primary drivers of the increase in OpEx were employment cost including higher sales incentive compensation due to better operating performance unfavorable FX and strategic initiatives related to trade shows such as IMO and imX as Carlos touched on earlier.
Our operating expense as a percent of sales was 22% for the quarter down 140 basis points from the prior year percentage of 24%.
Our operating income increased to $102 million.
This compares to $58 million last year.
Absent restructuring-related charges operating income was $62 million in the prior year quarter.
We levered well again this quarter with strong incremental margin of 31% and on a constant currency basis our leverage was even higher at 35%.
Operating margin reached the first quarter record of 15.4% compared to the prior year quarterly record for adjusted operating margin of 11.7%.
Looking at the business segments' operating performance.
The Industrial segment operating income was $73 million compared with $36 million for the same quarter last year.
Absent restructuring and related charges Industrial operating income was $39 million in the prior year quarter.
The industrial operating margin increased substantially to 17.4% from an adjusted operating margin of 11.8% in the prior year.
The primary drivers of the increase in operating income were higher sales volume including price realization and incremental restructuring benefits.
This was partly offset by higher raw material cost.
The Infrastructure segment operating income was $33 million compared with $27 million in the same quarter of the prior year.
Infrastructure's operating margin was 13.5% in the quarter compared with a prior year adjusted of 14%.
Absent restructuring and related charges the infrastructure op income was $28 million in the prior year.
Operating income grew primarily due to higher sales and volume which included price despite significant raw materials and incremental restructuring benefits.
On the tax rate front our effective tax rate came in as anticipated at 23% and regarding our bottom line performance we reported a record first quarter with diluted earnings per share of $0.88 compared to the prior quarter diluted earnings per share of $0.42.
And the prior year included restructuring and related charges of $0.05.
Turning to cash flow.
Our cash outflow from operating activities was $7 million compared with a cash inflow of $26 million in the prior year.
Net capital expenditures were $11 million for the quarter and free operating cash flow for the quarter was an outflow of $18 million compared with an inflow of $16 million last year.
The primary drivers of the outflow in the current quarter was an increase in inventory levels and incentive compensation payments partly offset by higher net income.
Our balance sheet remains strong.
Our cash position was $103 million at quarter end.
We remain focused on improving our working capital.
DSO and IPO were relatively flat in the September quarter compared to June.
However we made further progress with our days payable which increased 1 day from June to September.
At September 30 our total debt was $313 million consistent with the June quarter.
Our debt-to-capital ratio at September 30 was 16.4% compared to 15.9% at June 30.
We're also in the process of reviewing financial alternatives related to our $300 million 7.2 senior unsecured notes.
Furthermore our U.S.
defined benefit plan remains over 100% funded.
And as Carlos talked our adjusted return on investment capital increased to 16.2% that's up significantly from 14.8% in the June quarter and represented an all-time high.
More importantly the reported return on invested capital was 15.3% on a reported basis.
In October we further enhanced liquidity and strengthened our financial position by amending our existing revolving bank credit facility.
The amendment provides additional liquidity and increases the size of our facility from $500 million to $600 million and extending the terms to October 2016.
The amendment also provides for improved pricing.
Financial covenants and other key provisions remained unchanged.
We also remain disciplined in our capital allocation process to ensure we invest in the highest-potential initiatives.
As I said earlier our capital expenditures were $11 million with a focus on productivity capacity and internal expansion.
We also purchased 2 million shares under our repurchase program at a cost of $67 million.
We have purchased 3.5 million shares since the program was approved one year ago.
And as we also noted we increased our dividend by $0.02 per quarter effective with the November 2011 payment.
This is in line with our stated dividend strategy.
All these actions are consistent with our capital structure principles.
Now I'll touch briefly on our outlook and then I'll turn it back to Carlos for some closing comments.
Global economic conditions and worldwide industrial production are expected to continue to reflect modest expansion.
As such we have maintained our fiscal 2012 organic sales growth guidance range of 10% to 12% and total sales range of 9% to 11%.
We have increased our EPS guidance for fiscal 2012 in the range of $3.60 to $3.85 per share from the previous range of $3.50 to $3.80 per share.
The increase in earnings per share is primarily due to a lower share count.
Cash flow from operations is now expected to be in the range of $330 million to $360 million for fiscal 2012 as compared to the previous range of $360 million to $380 million.
And based on capital expenditures of approximately $100 million which is unchanged from the previous guidance we expect to generate between $230 million to $260 million of free operating cash flow for the full fiscal year revised from the previous range of $260 million to $280 million.
Now I'll turn it back to Carlos for some closing comments.
Thank you Frank.
As we move forward we will continue to execute our strategies in order to stay in the path to become a breakaway company one that can be profitable throughout the economic cycle.
We will capitalize on our strong foundation to maximize margins earnings and returns.
We'll continue to balance our served end markets business mix and geographic presence as well as manage our portfolio to maintain strategic relevance.
As proven by our September quarter results our top line growth continues to outperform the industrial production index.
In addition to benefiting from a positive demand environment we are successfully executing our strategies.
Kennametal is realizing additional sources of growth from initiatives such as enterprise selling new product introductions emerging markets expansion pricing actions and our indirect channel strategy.
In summary we will maintain a strong financial position to provide enhanced operation flexibility.
Also we'll continue to evaluate further opportunities to streamline our cost structure on an ongoing basis.
We will remain disciplined in our allocation of capital with priority uses of cash to include making acquisitions reinvesting in our business paying dividends and buying back shares.
Our global team remains highly focused on achieving our milestone target of 15% EBIT and 15% return on invested capital for fiscal year 2012.
Thank you for your time and your interest in Kennametal.
We will now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Steven Volkmann with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Curious are we still supposed to be thinking of this year as kind of 40% EPS in the first half 60% in the second? Let's see I'll start and then if you have any other questions.
That's the guideline.
And let me start off.
That's -- historically that's kind of how we've tried to position when we come out in fiscal -- the new fiscal year because we always have the second half coming in to a new calendar period.
So for example we said last year we expected approximately 40% 60% very similar to this year.
The last year ended up 35% 65%.
So that's just like a guideline that we're basically talking about at this point.
But it could be higher in the first half this year than the second half or it could revert back to the prior year.
So at this time it's really kind of a guideline.
And we're going to be in a tight band plus or minus 5% on the side.
That's reflected in our EPS guidance.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Let me just ask you another other way then.
If we hew to that rule the next quarter looks like it's down potentially fairly meaningful over this quarter and below I think what the Street's looking for.
I guess I'm trying to figure out if you're trying to send that message or if there's anything we should be thinking about about this next fiscal quarter.
Yes what'll be unique in the second quarter was the potential refinancing of the debt and we may have a lot more higher interest expense.
Kind of the make whole that we talked about in the last call.
So that would be something that could skew the -- I'll call it the past patterns.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay so that's in your forecast then? Correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just real quickly on share repurchase should I be thinking of that more sort of opportunistically? Or do you think this is just kind of a slow and steady continuing process? Opportunistic Stephen.
And I think that obviously we bought the million shares because we thought the price was great for us to buy.
Your next question comes from the line of Henry Kirn with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Good quarter but the infrastructure incremental margin was a little light of what we had modeled.
Could you talk a little bit about what you'd expect for flow-through with infrastructure over the next few quarters? Yes I'll start and then Carlos wants to add on something.
The driver there as you guys know is the infrastructure has higher I'll call it tungsten-content products.
So the driver there is most of the cost on the tungsten goes to the infrastructure side.
So it's a kind of a game where we think we're catching up on the price.
We put some pricing increases in the fourth quarter to try to position us to catch up to the raw material costs.
Now as I said in the script the tungsten has temporarily stabilized but we need to watch that going forward.
From a steady state now going forward we expect the infrastructure margins to continue to improve particularly with the stronger performance in the second half of the fiscal year.
Yes I will also add relative to the margins I mean the reason we have 2 businesses is for diversification purpose.
And so if you -- those 2 business act differently at different types of -- times of the cycle.
So if you look at the low end of the cycle the decremental margins in the infrastructure were a lot lower.
So the industrial were a lot higher.
So when we came back to the recovery the industrial margins the incrementals would be higher than the infrastructure.
And that's kind of -- that's been our 5-year strategy is to have 2 businesses that ideally when one is at the peak the other one can be in the bottom and vice versa so that we can continue to grow our margins.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And on Europe how did quoting activity trend over the last couple of months especially since your Investor Day? And how does that tie into your visibility at this point versus what you had a few months ago? Yes I -- our quoting activity on orders are in line or slightly better than anticipated.
I mentioned to you that I went to the imX show in Las Vegas.
I went to IMO.
I just came back from China this past week.
And the customers continue to be -- I met probably with about 600 customers in the 3 continents plus.
I haven't found a customer that is not consistent in their projections of moderate growth in the U.S.
and Europe and strong growth in the Asia area.
Your next question comes from the line of Eli Lustgarten with Longbow Securities.
Follow up and talk about margin.
You had a terrific margin in the industrial sector in the first quarter.
Now is that sustainable for the rest of the year? Or is that sort of a -- slows down in the rest of the year because it's sort of higher than I think we expected for the year and clearly much higher than anything we've seen in quite a while? Well let me go back to what I've said Eli.
I mean we expected in the recovery for the industrial businesses to have a higher incremental margin.
Obviously as they get to the peak those margins will start to moderate and the reverse on the infrastructure.
If you remember you and I talked about this during the downturn people were -- or in the previous cycle people were concerned about the industrial margins being low could we ever recover that.
So this is -- the businesses are operating the way we expect them to behave.
And the bottom line is that we delivered 16% EBIT margin I mean as a company.
I mean so the strategy is working.
Those business will not have the same margin at any one point in the cycle.
I mean that's been our strategy all along with this business.
And that's the good thing about the strategy is that we're delivering higher margins record margins and the 2 businesses are in different levels of delivering their potential.
Well I guess what I'm trying to get at is the profile on the next couple of quarters.
Is the 17.4% sustainable in the second and third and fourth? Or do we get down a little bit and then up a little bit because of seasonality? I mean what kind of profile should we expect in the industrial sector for the rest of the year? Yes Eli I would say I think you're pretty much on.
I would expect a little bit of a dip in the second quarter and then -- in second half just on a pure number of work days because of the seasonality there.
And as you may or may not remember every October 1 we put merit increases in place so we get a little bit a of cost in the second quarter with the less work days.
We typically have that.
And that's not unusual compared to our normal path.
And then we'll get the corresponding benefits from capacity utilization and the benefits in the second half.
Okay.
Just a clarification the number of shares outstanding your basis is down about what about 81.5 million or something like that for the year? Well yes.
Let me answer that 2 ways.
As you know in the press release it's 81.8 million I would say it's -- the actual shares at the end of the September quarter is probably 1 million less.
So you're a little under 81 million? Correct.
And now you expect that to stay that way for the year? Or there's some share creep because of stuff or...
Well I think as Carlos addressed these questions we'll be opportunistic and we'll evaluate consistent with our priority uses of cash.
We still have a large number authorized from last year.
I mean we got 8 million authorized and I think we've used 3.5 million so far.
So we have tons of flexibility.
And just one final question.
You talked -- Europe is probably the big concern 28% of sales.
I mean are you assuming that Europe really go through effectively very very slow growth as your growth -- as the ISM is indicating by the end of the fiscal year? Again if the ISM -- let me go back to the IPI because it's sort of -- if you go back to the IPI -- the new projected IPI is in line with our current guidance and with our plan.
I mean the IPI in Europe is about 1.2 forecasted for our fiscal year just to our fiscal year of 2012.
And again it is consistent with both our guidance our plan and our expectations.
Your next question comes from the line of Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Could you quantify the incremental profits in both segments? At least could you quantify the drag from higher input cost? Well Ann we typically don't put the breakdown between the 2 functions.
But with the infrastructure being a little bit more skewed with the raw materials they were a lot lower until the price catches in.
And then stating the obvious but the industrials were much higher on that one.
But I would say in the first quarter the infrastructure I would put it in the low double digits and the infrastructure higher to pull it up to the overall 31% range.
Research Division</strong> Right but you can -- you're not willing to quantify the negative impact of higher tungsten prices? No.
I mean it's so fluid.
And from a competitive standpoint we prefer not to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then my second question really is about DDI [ph].
Could you maybe characterize the 22% sales increase? How much of that was kind of dealer stocking versus pull-through by dealers because of their sales? It would be good for us to understand what's driving the 22% sales increase.
Is it just stocking the shelves at dealers or is it real pull-through? Yes Ann we have one distributor that carries the inventory.
You guys know all of that is MSC.
They represent 4% of our total sales okay? All the other distributors is truly pull-through.
As a matter of fact some of our distributors a lot of our distributors don't even carry inventory.
The product gets shipped right from our warehouse to the end customer.
So there is really no inventory that we know of in the shelf.
There's no pent-up.
Research Division</strong> So in other words the 22% sales increase or whatever absolute number that is that should be sustainable.
It's not like we should see a decline as we go through the end of the year.
No.
I mean it's just a matter of the comps.
I mean so the growth is there is the comps get harder obviously.
Research Division</strong> Totally but the absolute level should remain at least...
Yes absolutely.
Again I want to remind everyone that our -- as low as the number the IPI number the world number for our fiscal year is 4.0 okay? We just came out of a quarter that we outperformed by 4x.
So again even if that number comes down slightly our guidance is -- we still feel very comfortable and confident about our guidance.
Research Division</strong> Well Carlos that obviously begs the question then why didn't you have the confidence to raise your guidance by more than just the share repurchases? Because I'm damned if I do and damned if I don't okay? So if I raised the guidance then I have to deal with the fact that am I naive? Or if I don't I'm dealing with the situation that I'm dealing with now.
So obviously we are on the conservative side.
We've always done it and we'll continue to do that.
But again I don't know what else we can do.
I mean if you go back to every quarter during the recovery we outperformed the IPI by a significant factor between 4x and 5x.
And historically we can outperform that by 2x to 3x.
So I can't really give you any more confidence than that.
Our next question comes from the line of Adam Uhlman with Cleveland Research.
I guess just first with a clarification on tungsten cost.
The price increases that are out in the field now are those sufficient to offset the cost outlook that you have for the remainder of the year? Yes.
And I mean we said that in the -- sort of in the last the end of last -- at the beginning of the quarter most of our pricing actions had been deployed.
It was just a matter of recovery and achieving those.
Okay got it.
And then secondly the working capital targets for the year I might have missed it but it sounds like you're seeing some inventory creep.
Could you -- Frank could you maybe just go through why the cash flow outlook has come down? Adam you're spot on it's inventory.
And I want to take that inventory down by the -- throughout the rest of the next quarters.
And that's where I think we'll give some back to the overperformance in the quarter.
But it's solely isolated to the inventory and some of the raw materials that we wanted to take advantage of.
And I will continue to work that down as we get a little bit more efficient with some capital we put in the fourth quarter as well as leverage in the SAP.
We have some that we put in back a year ago.
So we're getting a little bit there.
Still some runway to go.
But that's the main driver.
It's solely related to inventory and we know what to do on that.
Yes it is a delicate situation.
Obviously the price of the tungsten is fluctuating.
I mean we have pricing in place and so forth.
Sometimes you have an opportunity to acquire more raw material than we actually need at a good price and we do some of that from time to time.
So -- and from quarter-to-quarter we'll see some fluctuation in the inventory.
Okay got it.
And then just a quick one.
Was there any earnings impact from currency this quarter? Yes.
The currency impact was about $0.02 from our guidance from the beginning of the year.
Can we move to the next person in the Q&amp;A queue please? Our next question comes from the line of Sheila Kahyaoglu with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So just to elaborate on Carlos' trip to China.
ABB said they saw soft orders this morning and some of the other industrials have also highlighted a big slowdown.
What's kind of metal seeing? And what are you seeing in the different end markets in Asia? Yes.
I mean if you look at the quarter that we just ended the order growth the sales growth in China during the past quarter decelerated a little bit.
However as I said I was there just -- I came back actually Saturday this past Saturday.
Our -- we feel that this quarter that we're in and potentially for the rest of the year we're going to see an acceleration in the industrial production there.
And we are actually seeing that in our orders.
It's reflected in our orders already this month.
So if you're talking about Q3 that we just ended we saw a little deceleration in the growth.
And as we go into this quarter -- only in industrial.
And as we look into the -- into this quarter that we're in we'll see the industrial coming back.
Research Division</strong> Okay perfect.
And then on the automotive customers what have you seen in terms of what your U.S.
automotive customers are saying to you? And then on the aerospace side just given the strong commercial aerospace number or OE [ph] numbers are you still projecting an acceleration from the 8%? Because it's been 6% to 8% for the last 2 or 3 quarters now.
Yes I'll start with the easy one which is the aerospace.
I don't think this year we're going to see an impact on the overall.
I mean we're going to grow in aerospace but the other markets are going to grow as well.
So we're not going to see that number change significantly one way or the other.
As the aircraft as we produce more composite aircraft going forward then you'll see that number accelerated.
And the 787 is really the big composite of aircraft and they just flew I think yesterday or day before yesterday.
So we'll anticipate that production is going to start kicking in and we'll see a positive effect on our revenues -- that you can see in the number.
It will change that number.
Relative to the automotive sector in the U.S.
we continue to feel that there's growth.
And as I said earlier on the Global Insight figures show continued increase both in 2012 and 2013.
So we continue to -- our quoting activity continues to be high.
We continue to see new projects for more efficient fuel-efficient engines.
Obviously those are great opportunities for Kennametal.
Research Division</strong> Perfect.
And then just one last question.
On balancing hiring needs and just higher compensation cost given the strong order rates how are you thinking about that for the rest of the year? Sheila I would say it's pretty much -- it'll be in line with our plan.
I mean one quarter may be a little bit ahead of the other but nothing that I'm worried about.
Your next question comes from the line of Walt Liptak with Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My question is basically on -- similar to what Ann was talking about with the revenue.
And so your organic volumes have been coming through this quarter surprisingly strong.
And when you -- so your guidance for organic volumes look conservative for the full year.
But so you're growing at 4x industrial production.
Why? I mean is it the channel strategy? Is it something competitive with Sandvik or Iscar? Or is it perhaps some other market share benefit that you're getting? Good question Walt.
I mean we talked about this and we actually had a chart at our Analyst Day in New York.
So out of the 5 -- out of the 6 drivers that we have for growth one of them is obviously the growth the economic environment.
But one of them was new products.
We're introducing new products at record times -- record numbers.
And our business is growing as a result of that.
We're gaining market share as a result of that.
Is the channel strategy the brands? Again WIDIA is going into places the white spaces that we didn't play before.
So it's only -- majority of it is incremental sales.
We talked about the continued balance of the geographies.
Again the developing economies continue to drive higher growth as you've seen by our results in here.
And so those are -- we have some very very specific strategies that are driving incremental growth to the economic growth.
So this is why my conversation even with them it is a fact that we've been able to get a multiple of the IPI growth.
And it is -- I believe that we'll continue to do that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Right those things are in place.
They seem controllable.
And so I guess to just address the organic growth for the full year again it's just basically damned if you do damned if you don't.
You're just being conservative.
But with the way these initiatives are trending you would expect higher revenue.
Yes.
I'm mean just think about December.
This second quarter is sort of a telling quarter because we don't know in December how many plants will -- if any shut down and all that stuff.
So -- and again the debt crisis and all that stuff in Europe.
But the bottom line is the IPI is at 4%.
We typically get 2% to 3% although we've been getting more.
So again if you go at 3x the IPI it's 12% and if you go at 2x it's 8%.
So we are pretty close.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay and just a second question on pricing I think it was in May the last time that you raised prices.
Are you expecting a price increase in January or sometime before that? I think in -- yes I think there was one in North America in October consistent with past practice.
And then what we typically do is we'll evaluate the situation in Europe obviously see what the competition does in January.
That's typically when a number of our competitors go so we'll watch developments quarterly.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Was the October price increase for -- across the board or was it North America infrastructure? More industrial.
Your next question comes from the line of Andy Casey with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Couple of questions.
On the gross margin pretty impressive 47% incremental.
Would you expect that to start coming back down towards the 40% 45% range through the year? You mean the incrementals in -- I think I said 30 mid-30s.
On the gross margin.
Oh gross margin yes.
Yes I would think a little bit Andy but I wouldn't say too much.
I think it's twofold now.
We'll take some inventory down.
But as Carlos talked about earlier we think with the pricing we have in place that should compensate for it as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Was some of the sequential inventory build responsible for that? You had a similar effect last year.
There's some in there.
There's always some in there.
I mean we wanted to make sure that we are opportunistic where we can and obviously we want to make sure that we can service our customers with a focus.
And then we'll have the normal seasonality as you know in the second quarter and then we get the benefits in the second half.
But I think you're in the ballpark.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then kind of a hypothetical on the tax rate.
Given all the macro stuff out there and your pan-European strategy if the growth shifts more toward North America does that cause the tax rate to drift up? In that scenario that would be correct.
That would be higher tax jurisdictions so that would be exactly correct.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Rayle with Northcoast Research.
Just when we think about the $3 billion target since most of the other questions have been asked the CapEx that's going to be required -- you say no more CapEx up to $3 billion.
How should we think about as revenue could potentially break that $3 billion revenue level which again is a first-class problem? What should we think about CapEx? Should it stay the same as a percentage of sales? Obviously you have maintenance CapEx.
How should we look at that? You should look at it as same as depreciation about $85 million.
But I think Brian you're right.
It's -- I mean post $3 billion I think we'll be in that 3% to 4% of sales kind of range.
That's kind of the -- unless there's a unique opportunity that we can take advantage of in an emerging market or something we want to do specific which we would call out.
But we think that's kind of about the right level to invest back in the business.
Okay.
So it wouldn't push above your historic range again? No no.
It's a first-class problem but if you went to $3.5 billion using the 3% or 4% range on CapEx would not be anything out of...
Correct.
It all depends how fast we get there right? Because every year we take about 6% -- 4% to 6% productivity out of our factories.
So that means 4% to 6% freed-up space.
So to the time -- if it takes us a little longer to get to $3 billion then we'll have some more free space so we don't have to invest as much.
If we go to the $3 billion overnight then it requires us to invest a little more.
Okay.
But within that 3% to 4% range is not unreasonable? Yes.
Right.
Your final question will come from the line of Joel Tiss with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> So just trying to clarify there's been a lot of questions about this.
I wonder if you can just help us and cut right to it.
The September order if you just -- you separated out the month of September and so far the month of October.
Can you give us an idea what that was just so -- because everyone's asking the same question about the trend and I think that would be very helpful.
Joel this is Quynh.
We typically provide the orders rate at a 3-month rolling basis.
So if we would have reported orders this month it would have been at the 17% organic growth because our orders trend is a very close proxy to our sales trend.
So that 17% of organic growth for sales would be exactly what we would've reported for the orders trend.
Inc.</strong> But on a rolling 3-month basis.
Correct.
Inc.</strong> So you can't separate it out for us just September...
We generally yes...
Inc.</strong> And October.
We can't quantify that no.
Inc.</strong> Is the tone of people's questions that the September order run rate was materially or noticeably lower than what we saw in August and July is that a fair sort of tone that people have in their voice? I would say if I'd characterize the quarter I would say July was the slowest.
It got better in August and September.
Now you would expect that typically with the European vacation in August September is always better on a daily rate.
So that held true to form.
But the one that was -- I'd say the unusual trend is that July was a little bit slower and August was much stronger so sequentially it got better.
Inc.</strong> And the follow-through into October still gives you guys confidence? Absolutely.
Inc.</strong> And then last just quick Carlos are you -- are acquisitions making more sense here valuation-wise?  Or do we still need to be sort of cautious and measured? No I think valuations are beginning to look better.
As we always say we have a strong pipeline but it's hard to predict or project when things happen.
But I would anticipate that things are getting a little better.
At this time there are no further questions.
So this concludes our discussion.
Please contact me Quynh McGuire at (724) 539-6559 for any follow-up questions and thank you for joining us.
Today's call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 p.m.
Eastern time today and lasting through midnight on November 28 2011.
The conference ID number for the replay is 12784135.
The number to dial for the replay is (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406.
This concludes today's discussion.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
I would like to welcome everyone to Kennametal's Second Quarter and Fiscal Year 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] At this time I would like to turn the conference over to Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations.
Ma'am you may begin your conference.
Thank you Nicole.
Welcome everyone.
I'm Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations for Kennametal.
Thank you for joining us to review Kennametal's second quarter of fiscal 2012 results.
We issued a quarterly earnings press release earlier today.
You may access this announcement via our website at www.kennametal.com.
Consistent with our practice in prior quarterly conference calls we've invited various members of the media to listen in to this call.
It's also being broadcast live on our website and a recording of this call will be available on our site for replay through February 26 2012.
Joining me for our call today are Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Carlos Cardoso; Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Frank Simpkins; and Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller Martha Bailey.
Carlos and Frank will provide further explanation on the quarter's financial performance.
After their remarks we'll be happy to answer your questions.
At this time I'd like to direct your attention to our forward-looking disclosure statement.
The discussion we'll have today contains comments that may constitute forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve a number of assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results performance or achievement to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information regarding these risk factors and uncertainties is detailed in Kennametal's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition Kennametal has provided the SEC with a Form 8-K a copy of which is currently available on our website.
This enables us to discuss non-GAAP financial measures during this call in accordance with SEC Regulation G.
This 8-K presents GAAP financial measures that we believe are most directly comparable to those non-GAAP financial measures and it provides a reconciliation of those measures as well.
I'll now turn the call over to Carlos.
Thank you Quynh.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I am pleased to report that for the December quarter of fiscal 2012 Kennametal once again delivered strong results.
For the period organic sales grew by 14% year-over-year.
This growth rate reflects strong customer demands and it is impressive giving strong comparisons of 31% from the prior year quarter.
In other key performance metrics for the December quarter Kennametal's operating margin reached 14.7% with earnings per share of $0.91.
Both of those represented December quarter records for the company.
Due to continued focus on operational excellence our profitability reflected strong year-over-year incremental margin of 36%.
In addition adjusted return on the invested capital was 17.3% which is an all-time company record.
Our top line growth for this fiscal year has been as we expected and it is trending consistently with the fiscal 2012 guidance of 10% to 12% organic growth on a year-over-year basis.
We continue to believe that manufacturing is leading the economic recovery currently underway.
In addition our results were attributable to our global team's successful execution of our proven strategies to outperform industrial production and improve our market position.
For the December quarter global industrial production increased by 2.1% indicating that expansion is still occurring in a number of end markets.
Along with the positive macroeconomic Kennametal -- environment Kennametal clearly benefited from our own growth strategies and initiatives which resulted in 14% of organic sales growth for the quarter.
For the 6-month period ending December 31 industrial production growth was 1.1% while Kennametal realized 16% organic sales growth for the first half of our fiscal year 2012.
Customer demand in industrial markets continue to show strength particularly in general engineering aerospace and transportation.
Infrastructure markets such as energy and mining also reported steady growth and we expect them to expand further as we move through the economic cycle.
We also saw increased activity across many of our served geographies with the emerging markets continue to show the fastest growth.
Currently our rest of the world markets represent 27% of total sales during the December quarter.
During the period we continued to implement our channel brand strategy.
For the first half of fiscal 2012 WIDIA product sales increased 27% year-over-year reflecting ongoing strength.
We'll continue to maximize opportunities to expand our presence in distribution channels and gain market share.
Let's now discuss end market trends.
In general engineering customers continue to increase efficiencies in order to lower labor costs.
This should allow capital expenditure programs to grow even through -- even though there are some uncertainties related to U.S.
tax and regulatory policy.
Overall the metalworking machinery industry has performed well due to general rise in industrial activity globally particularly in the U.S.
We expect this trend to continue for the next several quarters.
In transportation sales in the global light vehicle market are anticipated to grow to 103.7 million units.
Key markets that will outperform the global average includes South America China and South Asia.
According to a November 2011 report issued by IHS Global Insight worldwide light vehicle sales are higher by 3.6% compared with the prior year despite production and distribution -- disruption problems related to the Thailand flooding.
IHS forecasts global light vehicle production is expected to grow by 6% in 2012 to reach 81.1 million units boosted specifically by the recoveries in Japan Korea and Southeast Asia.
In aerospace the industry is looking for high productivity improvement and innovation.
Commercial airlines are expected to add more planes to their fleets to provide an opportunity to increase future revenues and address high fuel prices.
For example Southwest Airlines recently announced its order for 2008 of the redesigned and more fuel-efficient version of the Boeing's most popular plane the 737 model.
Our portfolio offers products for titanium and superalloy machining and other products that support the development of advanced manufacturing processes.
In the mining market metallurgical coal prices have stabilized in recent weeks but the overall outlook for 2012 is for further price decline driven by softening steel demand resulting from eurozone weaknesses uncertain U.S.
demand and slower growth in BRIC economies.
However the impact of further price softening is not expected to change the investment strategies for major mining firms as 2011 was a record year for mining activity and capacity expansion.
In highway construction activity in eurozone and U.S.
is forecasted to decline due to government austerity measures and funding issues.
However shipments for construction machinery through October 2011 increased significantly with order backlogs and new orders also increasing.
In energy the U.S.
Energy Information Administration or EAI (sic) [EIA] expects consumption of natural gas in 2012 to grow in all sectors particularly in the electric power market.
Those trends are expected to continue into 2013.
North America natural gas inventories are projected to reach record levels as storage injections are high in November according to IHS Global Insight.
In addition the usual warm winter weather combined with domestic production increases during the year resulted in high storage levels.
Because of continued gas production natural gas prices are expected to remain stable even with the higher demanding during the winter months.
Regarding cost reduction measures we continue to benefit from savings related to our past restructuring initiatives.
We are realizing annualized cost savings of $170 million.
Those costs have been permanently removed from our structure.
In addition other initiatives aimed at streamlining our business have both strengthened our foundation and improved our operating excellence.
As a result we are confident that Kennametal can support up to $3 billion in sales without significant additional capital investment.
Our stronger enterprise has also made Kennametal a safer place for our employees.
In November we were named one of America's safest companies by a leading environment health and safety industry publication.
Kennametal's margin performance during the quarter reflect our continued ability to recover inflation costs related to tungsten our primary raw material.
We continue to execute appropriate pricing actions and remain -- and maintain our margin disciplines.
As always we continue to successfully execute Kennametal's growth strategies.
As announced last week the pending acquisition of Deloro Stellite reinforces our strategy of acquiring technologies that strengthen our core business.
In addition we are leveraging our enterprise structure to gain additional top line growth from cross-selling.
We are increasing our presence in distribution channels through our WIDIA brand strategy.
We are showcasing our capabilities in technology and innovation and improving our customers' productivity through new product introductions.
We are expanding our presence in rest of the world markets.
As a result we are further extending our reach to penetrate new markets grow market share and capture new customers.
I will now turn the call over to Frank who will discuss our financial results for the quarter in greater detail.
Frank? Thank you Carlos.
I'll provide some comments on our performance for the December quarter and then I'll move on to our outlook for the remainder of the fiscal year 2012.
Some of my comments are non-GAAP.
So please refer to the reconciliation schedules we provided in our earnings release as well as our related Form 8-K.
So let me start off.
The December quarter once again illustrated strong progress towards our goal of achieving 15% EBIT and 15% return on invested capital this year.
As we've discussed previously this is 1 year ahead of schedule.
Our December quarter highlights included solid top line growth as evidenced by 14% organic growth record quarter earnings per share of $0.91 and operating margin of 14.7% an all-time record adjusted return on invested capital 17.3% and included in the release you'll the actual amount was 16.6% so very favorable.
Raw material cost continued to stabilize and our price increases are holding.
And as Carlos mentioned in January we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Deloro Stellite that will strengthen our core business.
Now let me walk you through the key items in the income statement.
Sales for the quarter increased $76 million or 13% to $642 million and this compared to $566 million in the December quarter last year and that's due to 14% organic growth offset by the effect of less business days.
Our sales growth was achieved despite stronger comparisons of double-digit organic growth of 31% in the prior year quarter and this represents the eighth consecutive quarter of year-over-year organic sales growth.
We also continue to benefit from an improved balance of our business globally.
For the December quarter 55% of our sales were generated outside of North America with Western Europe at 28% and the rest of the world at 27% of sales.
Turning to the business segments' performance.
The industrial segment sales of $410 million increased 11% from the prior year quarter.
This was driven by organic growth.
On an organic basis sales increased in all served markets led by strong growth in aerospace and defense of 16% general engineering of 12% and a 7% increase in transportation.
Regionally sales increased by approximately 15% in the Americas 13% in Europe and 1% in Asia.
As many of you know the growth we experienced in the prior year December quarter was exceptional and strong across all regions especially in the emerging markets.
For comparison purposes last year Asia grew 48% Europe was up 34% and the Americas grew 31%.
Our infrastructure segment sales of $232 million increased 18% from the prior year quarter driven by organic growth of 19% offset by the effect of less business days.
The organic increase was driven by 25% higher sales of energy and related products and 15% increase in demand for earthworks products.
Regionally organic sales increased 34% in Asia 16% in the Americas and 10% in Europe.
The infrastructure business also had very strong prior year growth with sales of 24% in Asia 21% in Americas and 12% in Europe.
Now a recap of our operating performance.
Our reported gross profit margin increased 70 basis points to 36.1% compared with 35.4% in the December 2010 quarter.
Our gross profit improved due to higher sales volume price realization and incremental restructuring benefits.
This was partly offset by higher raw material cost.
As I noted earlier while raw material prices have doubled compared to last year this cost continues to stabilize.
We'll continue to watch for developments with these materials.
Operating expenses remained relatively flat year-over-year.
In fact our operating expenses increased only 2% or $2 million.
We remain focused on controlling general and administrative costs and making select investments and selling related costs.
We are focused on controlling the G&amp;A portion to fund the selling expenses as we discussed at Analyst Day.
Operating expenses as a percent of sales was 21% for the quarter and this was down 200 basis points from the prior year percentage of 23%.
Our operating income increased to $94 million compared to $62 million in the prior year quarter.
Absent restructuring and related charges operating income was $67 million in the prior year quarter.
As Carlos has noted we levered well again with a strong incremental margin of approximately 36% on both an actual and constant currency basis.
Operating margin was a December quarter record of 14.7% and 290 basis points higher than the prior year quarter adjusted operating margin of 11.8%.
Looking at the business segments for operating performance.
The industrial segment operating income was $63 million compared to $42 million in the same quarter of the prior year.
Absent restructuring related charges industrial operating income was $46 million in the prior year quarter.
Industrial operating margin increased 290 basis points to 15.3% from an adjusted operating margin of 12.4% in the prior year quarter.
Primary drivers of the increase in operating income were higher sales volume and price realization partly offset by higher raw material cost.
The infrastructure segment's operating income was $33 million and this compares with $22 million in the same quarter of the prior year.
Absent restructuring related charges infrastructure's operating income was $23 million in the prior year quarter.
Infrastructure's operating margin increased 260 basis points to 14.4% from an adjusted operating margin of 11.8% in the prior year quarter.
Operating income grew primarily due to higher sales volume price realization despite significantly higher raw material cost.
Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 17.3% compared to 21.3% in the prior year quarter.
The current year benefited from a $4 million valuation allowance adjustment and from the impact of stronger earnings in our pan-European operations.
And regarding our bottom line performance we reported a December quarter record diluted earnings per share of $0.91 compared to the prior year diluted earnings per share of $0.52.
The prior year earnings per share included restructuring related charges of about $0.10.
Turning to cash flow.
Our cash flow from operating activities was $71 million compared with $67 million in the prior year.
Net capital expenditures were $33 million year-to-date compared to $14 million in the prior year period.
Free operating cash flow for the 6 months ended December 31 2011 was $38 million compared to $54 million in the prior year period.
Subsequently we had an improved December quarter performance for free operating cash flow compared to the September quarter.
Our balance sheet remained strong.
Our cash position was $129 million and was up from $103 million in the September quarter.
We remain focused on improving our working capital and DSO and IPO are relatively similar levels in the December quarter compared to the September quarter.
However we made further progress with our days payable which increased 2 days from September to December.
And we also initiated actions to better balance our inventory levels and demand for the second half as we discussed last quarter.
At December 31 2011 our total debt was $308 million down $5 million from the June quarter and our debt-to-capital ratio at December 31 was 15.9% and that's consistent with the June quarter.
We have been monitoring the bond market in anticipation of refinancing our $300 million 7.2% senior unsecured notes that are due in June of 2012.
With the public announcement of the Deloro Stellite acquisition and our upcoming 10-Q filings for the second quarter results we expect to become more active with respect to the refinancing transaction.
When the transaction is executed we'll use the proceeds for [Audio Gap] debt reduction and general corporate purposes and we expect to retire the June 2012 notes when they become due.
Furthermore our U.S.
defined pension -- benefit pension plans remain 100% funded and our adjusted return on investment capital increased to 17.3% up significantly from 14.8% in June and as we mentioned represents an all-time high.
As we announced last week we signed a definitive agreement to purchase Deloro Stellite from Duke Street Capital for EUR 277 million as Carlos mentioned.
And as a refresher Deloro Stellite has approximately EUR 220 million in annual sales 7 facilities and 1 300 employees.
This is in alignment with our growth strategy and positions us to further achieve geographic and end market balance.
The transaction is expected to be accretive in earnings in fiscal 2013 and we plan to fund the acquisition through existing credit facilities and operating cash flow and remain committed to our investment grade rating.
Regarding share buyback we were not active during the December quarter due to the ongoing discussions related to the Deloro Stellite transaction.
We will continue to be opportunistic in buying our stocks.
To date we have repurchased 3.5 million shares since the program was approved 1 year ago.
We have 4.5 million shares outstanding on the existing repurchase authorization.
And our priorities to cash remains consistent.
We will continue to evaluate share buybacks acquisitions dividends and capital expenditures.
Now I'll turn to our outlook.
As Carlos mentioned the global economic conditions and industrial production are expected to continue to reflect moderate expansion.
And this view is relatively consistent with what we provided at the start of our fiscal year.
As such we have maintained our fiscal 2012 organic sales growth guidance range of 10% to 12% an increased sales growth guidance to a range of 10% to 12% from the previous estimate of 9% to 11%.
Full year foreign currency impacts are now expected to be offset by the impact of more business days in fiscal 2012.
We have also increased our earnings per share guidance for fiscal 2012 to the range of $3.70 to $3.90 per share from the previous range of $3.60 to $3.85 per share.
Now I'll walk you through the factors of our increased earnings per share guidance from the prior midpoint of $3.72 per share to the new midpoint of $3.80 per share.
The factors include: One the effective tax rate as a result of the December quarter tax benefit of approximately $4 million coupled with a slightly lower overall effective tax rate in the second half.
We estimate a total positive benefit of approximately $0.08 per share.
Second interest expense.
Due to the timing of the bond refinancing we have concluded it no longer makes sense to offer the Mako [ph] premium which we originally planned to occur in the December quarter.
As a result we now expect our full year interest expense to be favorable by approximately $0.05 per share.
Foreign currency.
We anticipate the foreign currencies and in our case primarily the euro will become a headwind in the second half of our fiscal year.
At the first half of our fiscal year we benefited from a stronger euro which averaged about $1.41.
For the second half we expect the euro to weaken this is the first half and average in the high $1.20s.
This is anticipated to have an unfavorable impact of approximately $0.03 per share.
And lastly as a result of our plans to improve inventory levels in the second half we are now expecting an unfavorable impact on our margins of approximately $0.10 per share.
However we will offset a significant portion of this impact through improve productivity and pricing.
So on a combined basis this will have an unfavorable impact of approximately $0.02 per share.
Taking all these factors into consideration they add approximately $0.08 share to the midpoint of our full year earnings per share guidance.
And in the closing of the acquisition of Deloro Stellite which we expect the impact to our earnings per share of fiscal 2012 to be between $0.05 and $0.10 per share unfavorable which includes transaction cost for approximately $6 million.
This impact from the Deloro Stellite acquisition has not been reflected in our current EPS guidance.
And cash flow from operations is expected to be in the range of $330 million to $360 million for fiscal 2012.
Based on capital expenditures of $100 million the company expects to generate between $230 million to $260 million of free operating cash flow for the full fiscal year.
Now I'd like to turn it back to Carlos for a couple of closing comments.
Thank you Frank.
As we move forward we are forecasting an environment where demand is expected to grow moderately.
However we can continue to outperform industrial production by maintaining our strategies and growth initiatives.
Those growth drivers include enterprise selling new product introductions emerging market expansion pricing actions and our indirect channel strategy.
Additionally the pending acquisition of Deloro Stellite will advance our strategies by further diversifying our customer base products and end market and geographies.
We will also continue our transformation toward becoming a customer-focused enterprise and a market-facing organization that is well positioned to identify new opportunities.
We will capitalize on our strong foundation to maximize margins earnings and returns.
Those are the strategies that helped us transform Kennametal into a breakaway company one that is profitable throughout the economic cycle.
Financial flexibility in the current environment continues to be important and we remain committed to maintaining a strong financial position.
As always we will continually evaluate ways to streamline our cost structure.
Our priorities use of cash continue to include reinvesting in our business such as capital expenditures buying back our stock increasing our dividends and making acquisitions.
We will remain disciplined in our capital allocation process to increase shareholder value.
We have repositioned Kennametal to continue delivering improved margins and returns.
Our global team remains highly focused on achieving our milestone target of 15% EBIT margin and 15% return on invested capital for fiscal year 2012.
Thank you for your time and your interest in Kennametal.
We will now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
It's Mike Szeliski [ph] filling in for Ann.
Just a couple of quick ones for you.
I was wondering if you can tell us how much of your infrastructure business has been benefiting from onshore natural gas drilling.
I mean what is your outlook for that particular segment? The gas drilling is a strong portion of our energy business.
So obviously we have been benefiting from that and we anticipate that we'll continue to benefit from those activities.
Okay thanks.
Also on infrastructure maybe you could just give a little bit more color about the relative strength you saw in Asia in the quarter just with any particular area country business that you saw strength over in Asia.
It's really all around.
I mean again things change in a quarter-to-quarter basis as we know.
China is focusing on the infrastructure and building more infrastructure to offset summer decline in their industrial sector.
So there is really not any one particular area.
The only thing I would add to that is we did make some capital investments in the prior year one in China one in Australia.
And I think we're starting to see the benefits of our strategies with the top line.
Great.
And then finally a little bit more color maybe on Europe.
I know you had mentioned enough tax headwind but I was kind of wondering if you think -- it's definitely a headwind.
There's something there but has the organic growth have plans changed or the petition has changed for Europe? Actually I will tell you that Europe this quarter performed slightly better than I -- we anticipated.
I will emphasize that every geography for us this quarter grew at double digits.
So we continue to see strength in the industrial portion of the market in Europe.
Your next question comes from the line of Eli Lustgarten with Longbow Securities.
A couple of quick questions.
One you indicated tax rate in the second half is going to be lower than the first half.
Can you give us -- are we talking about a 21% tax rate in the second half? Eli okay -- Eli as you know the first quarter was 23%.
It's slightly lower.
It's probably going to be between 22% and 22.5%.
So it's probably almost likely going to be down about 50 basis points from that.
And that will get us to the full year a little bit over 21%.
Okay.
And the interest charge you say because of your change you're not going to have the premium.
Do we expect that interest charges to basically stay about $5 million $6 million between $5 million and $5.5 million for the rest of the year except for the acquisition I understand that? Excluding the acquisition now.
Because we won't be financing basically have 2 tranches outstanding.
So the interest expense I would say it's probably going to be about $28 million for the year.
So you're looking at anywhere about $8.5 million in the next 2 quarters.
So there's a big difference between expectations.
Then I guess the biggest surprise if I had to look at the quarter was the margins in industrial that occurred.
When -- in fact there's strength in the first quarter.
And I guess we didn't expect it to fall as much as it did.
Can you give us some idea of what should we expect for the rest of the year in the industrial margins? When you're 17 point first then you dropped to 15 plus in the second should we --  are we looking at blended 16 16.5 for the rest of the year? Or could you give us some sense of what is happening? Well Eli let me start talking about the top line and then I'll let Frank address the margin in particular.
Again at Analyst Day we talked about that we have 6 drivers -- 6 of the 7 growth drivers.
And this is why we will continue to outproduce the industrial sector.
We have 6 drivers that are not controlled which one of those is the distribution channel.
Again I emphasize WIDIA grew 27% while the company grew at 14%.
So again we continue to show that we can outpace industrial production and obviously that volume helps us all around.
That's not going to stop this quarter.
I mean we still have a lot of room because this WIDIA brand is addressing wide space that Kennametal was not playing in before.
So this is the reason why we'll continue to outpace industrial production by a significant margin.
Frank do you want to talk about the margins? Yes.
From a margin standpoint Eli your question is industrial going to have a stronger second half for the numbers you mentioned? Yes we believe so.
And I would say Q1 to Q2 it's -- I think the inventory was a little bit too high in my opinion in the first quarter.
So we started to ratchet that down in the second quarter.
So that volume impact was more pervasive on the industrial side.
So that's the driver.
Now I think we're going to have a better balance going forward.
And related to that you talked about bringing inventories down I guess in the second half of the year.
Is that mostly in industrial? Yes.
And that's where impact will be? So are we going to hold back profitability based on that? Well as I said obviously for the full year we think we'll be okay.
You got a little bit of benefit in the first half but I think we'll be able to offset that with some productivity and some select pricing that will get in the second half.
So it's going to be close.
And then a final question.
Can you talk about the margin outlook for infrastructure? We're still I guess below where we think the more traditional long-term profitability sector.
Yes we expect that margin to continue to increase from the second quarter.
The second quarter there is some seasonality factor with the construction period et cetera.
And some of the price increases that we put in in the second quarter we expect the third and fourth quarter to be improved.
One final question.
The acquisition of Deloro Stellite.
You gave us I guess a negative impact this year.
You sort of indicated -- you might give us some guidance for fiscal '13 of what kind of ballpark incremental accretion might look like.
I think what was assumed something of steady at $0.25 this year.
Is that an unreasonable number? Eli it's Quynh McGuire.
We're going to have to defer that the answer to that question until July when we provide guidance for the fiscal year '13.
Some of that will obviously -- could be part of the planning process.
Your next question comes from the line of Henry Kirn with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I guess first was there anything unseasonal in the fourth quarter? Was there any benefit from either a pull forward in advance the price increases or accelerated depreciation incentives on -- after your customers? Yes.
First of all let me correct.
That was our second quarter.
It was calendar year fourth quarter.
It's our second quarter.
We really don't see -- didn't see anything that was unusual from a pull-in perspective.
I mean a lot of people ask if the Tax Reform Act have any impact on a pull forward.
And we typically don't benefit from that.
We're selling consumables.
So we don't have the big capital-type equipment.
So it was pretty much as expected.
If anything we may have -- we probably finished the first quarter a little bit stronger in the month of September but the quarter progressively -- we got stronger November and December to be honest.
I want to emphasize one more time.
We gave guidance in June.
We are still and we are true to our guidance halfway through the year.
And our new guidance that we just gave is true to the original guidance that we gave in June for 2012.
So it shows that our model and forecast is working.
Research Division</strong> And on the Deloro acquisition.
What's been the reaction of the customers so far now you're over a week into it in terms of having that out there.
Have you gone to your customers and gotten any sort of initial feedback? Well our customers are a little more patient than Wall Street.
Our customers realize we haven't called yet but obviously the customers were -- our joint customers and our large customers have reacted positively at this point.
But again for regulatory reasons we have to be very cautious and really wait until we close before we start talking to customers in a more detailed basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Uhlman with Cleveland Research.
I would -- quick again to the industrial issue sales growth rate a little bit.
That was pretty flat for the quarter whereas the infrastructure business was up a lot I guess.
What's the -- there's a tough comp obviously but what's the underlying demand trends looking like there? And how are you thinking about that unfolding over the next couple of quarters? Yes.
I mean I just want to remind everyone that in the industrial side the comp was 48% growth.
I mean 48% growth is not going to happen every quarter for the rest of our lives here.
But in a quarter-by-quarter basis as China manipulates the -- or works their GDP between 8% and 10% there are shifts from infrastructure investment versus industrial investment.
And I want to tell you that last year was -- during this period we had a lot of projects.
In other words a lot of the investment in factories that are today online producing components.
So I would anticipate the rest of the year that China will come back and have a bigger percentage of growth in the industrial side.
And in total it's a great -- I mean it's a great story actually.
I'll remind everyone double-digit growth in every geography.
I mean that's one of the reasons why we have this geography balance sort of the reason why we diversify the business.
So that we are in this position.
We are going to have 1 market or 1 geography that is performing lower and we'll have 1 or 2 or 3 balancing that.
So that's the whole strategy of our company.
Okay I got it great.
And then speaking on growth investment you mentioned that expenses are up only 2% or so and while the investments that we made over the last year are helping drive some pretty good growth like in Asia with the infrastructure business.
I'm just wondering conceptually how you're thinking about hiring new sales guys or making other investments to support growth for next year? Well I mean we continue to make those investments.
I think that obviously we are -- as Frank said in his remarks we are taking away from G&amp;A to put it in the S.
So we're offsetting one with the other.
So the fact that we did all this restructuring back during the recession and we did a fixed risk -- fixed cost reduction and part of the variable cost we are continually looking at offsetting to increase our sales and the front end in investments.
And again I'll remind everyone on the line that we always said that this business  has -- is -- we can grow up to $3 billion without the major capital investment as well.
So we have some room to go.
Adam the only thing I would add to that and I agree with that is -- I think we actually have much improved/better visibility to our entire cost structure as a result of SAP particularly on the SG&amp;A side.
It's a way of you have to look at every single department much better than we've ever had in the past.
So we continue to find little things.
There's no home runs in there but I think we were talking about this in the past.
So we keep getting on base hitting a single here and there.
And over time they start to add up.
So I like the visibility that we have particularly with the structure.
Your next question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up really I guess on the China point specifically.
We saw yesterday Rockwell Automation obviously seeing sales down slightly in China in the December quarter.
And I guess aside from what the government might or might not do in terms of monetary policy what are your own kind of direct customers and the distributors kind of telling you how they're behaving? Has there been any changed trend in their behavior in recent months? Because I think on your Q1 earnings call you'd said that when talking to customers and so and there was evidence that maybe you were nearing a trough in short cycle industrial demand.
Have you seen sort of more or less evidence of that in the interim? No.
I mean we continue to feel strong about Asia -- about China.
I think that if you look at the forecast at IPI it continues to be in the 9% to 10% for our Q3 and Q4.
So again very very difficult comps specifically the comp for this quarter that we just finished.
But we feel all indication -- our customers our distributors at this point reflects -- or is reflective of our new guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess your new guidance on sort of sales what sort of trend does that embed for the Asian industrial business for March and June? I mean again there's sort of a flat performance in March and then a pick-up in the June quarter year-on-year.
Is that sort of the thrust of it? We typically don't provide specific growth colors related to specific -- our businesses are strong.
We're trying to gauge right now China.
China is just wrapping up the new year.
So we'll kind of continue to look on that.
But I'll tell you the second half of our business or the March and June quarter we typically do better.
So we expect the performance to continue as we originally guided.
And whether there's puts or takes that's embedded in our 10% to 12% organic growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a follow-up.
I guess for the full year fiscal '12 what do you think kind of the net impact on your earnings from kind of price and input cost dynamics taking everything together just for the full year as a whole? Yes we typically realize 1% to 2% and -- obviously we don’t go into a lot of specifics but I can tell you that our pricing is better than that this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Rayle with Northcoast Research.
Most of my questions have been answered.
The acquisition that you have pending it seems like it's going to be accretive.
I know you can't comment that on for next year.
But I'm just wondering does this put you on kind of a hiatus from working at acquisitions for a period of time as you integrate this? Or would you still be open to sort of smaller kind of bolt-on acquisitions? No.
I think that we are -- we still have a strong pipeline in the acquisitions.
Obviously it's very difficult to forecast acquisitions but we continue to be active.
And this acquisition as Frank mentioned earlier is not only accretive for 2012.
We think we're going to be able to pay for that within the -- in '13.
And so -- and our balance sheet -- so the debt-to-equity doesn't change that much.
So it leaves us -- we have a strong balance sheet.
It leaves us a room to make acquisitions further.
Yes.
I guess -- maybe I'll clarify that question.
Yes from a balance sheet standpoint obviously you have the dry powder that you need.
I guess from an operational standpoint what I'm trying to get my arms around is you guys have made fantastic cuts cut the cost.
But did that leave you with sort of the ability to go -- to handle more than something like this from an operational standpoint? Yes.
I mean this is -- this acquisition is going to require less integration because it's a new technology.
And then an acquisition that would be similar technology where we have to post plans and so forth.
And so this gives us more room if you want to put it -- more capacity in our organization to handle additional acquisitions.
Brian what I would add is prior to us taking ownership they just went through a comprehensive portfolio analysis and restructuring.
So they've divested a couple of businesses that we weren't of interest with and made some rationalizations.
So we'll continue to leverage their footprint as well and as Carlos alluded to take advantage of back office synergies purchasing et cetera going forward.
Yes this is a growth play.
This is a growth play.
Your next question comes from the line of Andy Casey with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
As indicated previously a lot of questions are already asked.
But if I could go back to the infrastructure U.S.
domestic exposure could you kind of walk through what you're seeing in both those nat gas and coal extraction demand? And really the essence of the question is I just wanted to make sure I understand the comments that you already made on the 2 markets.
Do you expect them to be when you go forward kind of above last year or more of a flat to good but flattening trend? It will be above last year.
I mean I think that will be moderate growth as we talked about earlier and we're still excited about the energy.
And obviously as we get this new acquisition that plays a big role in the energy side we continue to be very optimistic about what we can do.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay thanks.
And then again a clarification.
It's the last one for me.
You pretty much have been answering a few questions about China.
To be clear are you' expecting demand re-acceleration anywhere else? I don't fully understand.
LLC Research Division</strong> Oh I think in response to an earlier question sequentially typically you see China get better in the second half versus first half.
Correct yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is there any other region given all the macro news going on that you would expect that to occur? I would have imagined the U.S.
side.
Yes.
And I think that [Audio Gap] again I continue to remind everyone that our biggest markets and we continue to see -- the market still continues to be good for us.
In Germany I anticipate it to continue to be.
Again it's still decelerating but a positive growth.
Your next question comes from the line of Walt Liptak with Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask I guess a follow on to Eli's question about some of the margins.
Or maybe just talk generally about the gross margin which was a little bit below what I was looking for.
Was it the similar situation where you brought down inventory and that's why we saw a little bit lower gross margin? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just going further down the income statement.
Last year you have the cost out already.
In your SG&amp;A numbers levered really well.
Can you talk about -- is there continued cost out that's happening? And I guess what kind of SG&amp;A can we -- operating expense can we see for the year? I mean the first quarter is probably the peak Walt from -- on SG&amp;A because we actually have 2 shows both on IMO and imX and then we do our typical grand finale of stock compensation.
I would expect it to be 21% for the full year right now if I had to put a number on it for you around that figure.
Because like I said we're watching the G&amp;A very closely.
We did a lot of the heavy lifting to your point.
So we're fine in synergistic opportunities across both businesses and will continue to drive that kind of concept so that if we have to invest in selective markets whether it's sales or personnel that we're able to do it at a reduced cost because we're finding other ways to offset it.
And at the heart of everything is we continue to drive the leanest part of our KVBS business model.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And if we can go back up to the full year gross margin and your comments about the inventory.
So we'll continue to see -- my guess is that we'll continue to see some year-over-year pressure on gross margin.
Is that right? The margins will be up in the second half and that's going to be up year-over-year.
So let me just put in that perspective.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last one the revenue was a little bit light from the consensus and from my revenue number and you had 15% growth through November.
Did the December numbers slow anywhere I guess specifically in Europe? How are you getting double-digit growth with your figure I guess on recession? Yes first of all Walt the December did not slow down.
And again we have specific drivers that are controlled by Kennametal.
I talked about the WIDIA strategy the perfect example again.
Let's not forget 27% growth on WIDIA okay? So that is helping us outperform significantly not only the overall company growth but obviously the industrial production.
The enterprise selling we talked about.
By the way we continue to have more than 40% of our sales coming from new products.
Companies as things slow down look for more productivity.
They need to address their cost structure.
Therefore they are a lot more open to try new products and so forth pricing and our continuing expansion in Asia.
I mean we continue to have 27% 28% of our sales coming from the rest of the world which Asia is a big portion of that.
Those are drivers -- growth drivers that are above and beyond the global economic expansion.
So this is why we continue to outperform IPI by a significant factor.
And it's not going to change for the second half of the year.
We're going to continue to be on this pace.
The other thing there's actually over 3 less work days from the first quarter.
The way the calendar involves us here last year there was 2 last -- but the market obviously was a lot stronger.
This year there was almost 1.5 days less that changed on a year-over-year basis but over 3 from Q1 to Q2.
So that's probably why.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Tiss with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Just a quick clean-up any updates on pension? We've seen a lot of other companies have to lower their discount rate.
I know you're a different fiscal year so it might be coming.
But can you give us any updates on what you're thinking there or what you're seeing? Yes.
I mean next to your point we'll start looking at our discount rate assumption as we get ready for the fiscal '13 guidance.
But as I think I made the comment of our pension fund because we implemented the LVI [ph] strategy a few years ago because that proved to be very prudent and we don't foresee any issues for this fiscal year for us.
If then we'll get into next year we'll talk about the puts and takes.
Inc.</strong> And then any highlights you can give us on incremental restructuring like what else can you do going forward besides what's already in place? Or are you going to adjust more optimization of what you've already done? Yes.
We are not contemplating any major restructuring at this time.
However I'll remind everyone that we practice leaning this company and we drive cost reductions every year significant cost reductions.
So we're going to continue to do that.
And by the way those cost reductions also free up additional capacity.
Your next question comes from the line of Gregory Macosko with Lord Abbett.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Just a question regarding WIDIA growth.
Are the margins the same in that business just overall relative to the Kennametal brand? Our EBIT margins are the same.
So I mean we talked -- always talked about the fact that the direct sales has a higher cost to serve.
So they have a higher margin.
And so that is offset by the higher cost to serve where indirect product has a lower margin but has a lower cost to serve.
So we manage this company through the EBIT margin.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> So no real difference on the operating line is kind of what you're saying? Exactly.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And then with regard to Europe.
Basically you're saying that Germany remains strong and it clearly is.
And that is I mean because of I guess 10% organic growth does seem fairly -- sounds very good from a North American standpoint and just looking at the problems over there.
So you feel -- you continue to feel that way? Did you feel that way in December as well? Yes.
I mean we -- again we have -- again 6 of our 7 growth opportunities are Kennametal controlled.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> And finally the 36% incremental margin.
I mean is that something -- was there anything that affected that more or less in the quarter? No.
It's relatively consistent Greg.
We always said that.
When we gave our guidance in July we said it would be in the low 30s and we're tracking as anticipated.
Now the things that will drive some behavior there is that raw materials are higher pricing is better.
But on average it's been pretty much in line.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Barger with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of real quick ones.
Circling back to China kind of we've seen some of the emerging markets taking steps towards looser monetary policy to help kick growth another step back up.
Typically how long do you think it takes from a lag effect standpoint when India or China makes those moves? And what end markets do you think that might manifest in first? I mean China is -- typically it is very quick 30 days 60 days.
I don't have a good feeling for India.
India takes longer but China is pretty -- they move the economy back and forth pretty quickly.
So we expect that the -- to see a bigger positive in the industrial obviously.
We'll probably see a little bit of the opposite not that our infrastructure will decrease that much but we will see an acceleration on the industrial as a result of their most recent monetary policy changes.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Well and since there are more folks planning infrastructure right now I think you said is that taking the shape of roads or dams or airports or power plants? Which of those is best for you? What's the right mix to really drive growth for Kennametal on the infrastructure side? I think repairing overall.
I mean that type of -- the mining is very positive for us.
And obviously all the electric the power additions that they're going is very good for us as well.
Yes.
And if the rollout could accelerate I think they're getting their minister under control there.
So they may -- we could see some acceleration and that will benefit on both industrial as well as infrastructure.
Your final question comes from the line of Holden Lewis with BB&amp;T.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
The first I believe with WIDIA how much -- the 25% growth how much of the mix what sort of revenue base that you're getting that growth off of? What's the mix of WIDIA business? I would say there's probably more in the Americas secondarily probably Asia and third in Europe.
Because WIDIA has been established in Europe.
It's a European brand.
So I would probably say we're seeing a lot of it with the Americas.
And as we continue to work closely with Fastenal we hope that will continue to accelerate faster in the future.
Research Division</strong> That's always good to happen -- is that 27% that you're seeing kind of broad across the geographies? Or is that -- is Fastenal meaningfully driving that number at this point? Yes.
Fastenal is just starting so they're not meaningfully driving that but the sequence is as Frank said the most growth is coming from the Americas followed by Asia and lastly by Europe.
And the reason for Europe being last is not an economic issue.
It's the fact that WIDIA was a European brand and was established in Europe.
So the growth potential there is not if I as in the rest of -- in the Americas and the rest of the world where WIDIA has absolutely no presence at one time.
Research Division</strong> And then what percentage of revenues is WIDIA? Less than 10%.
Research Division</strong> Less than 10%.
Got it.
And then a couple of questions as well on the seasonality.
First it's seasonally unusual for your Q2 revenues to be below your Q1 revenues.
But I guess I would assume the fact that that happened during a period expansion.
It would have suggested some slowdown but you don't it suggests it's happening.
Can you give some color as to why you had such a seasonally unusual event in a period where it doesn't usually happen that way? Well first actually actuals.
The first quarter to the second quarter we average -- just using the euro euro averaged about $1.44 in the first quarter.
The second quarter was $1.37 and you know where is that now.
So the euro plays in there.
And believe it or not last year the work days' decline was only a couple.
This year was over -- almost 3.5 reduction in days.
We've got a combination of FX and days.
And this is relatively consistent with how we built our plant.
Yes.
I also want to emphasize that what we're saying is the growth is decelerating.
We said that when we gave guidance for 2012 we said that the growth was going to decelerate which is different than the bottom is falling out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one other thing as I see now.
Just taking your guidance it does imply revenue growth in the back half of about 3% to 6% which we're seeing kind of in line with IP perhaps as opposed to bidding it.
And it implies that your earnings should be anywhere from down 1% to up 9% in the second half which seems reasonably anemic again in an unreasonable growth environment.
Is that just conservatism? Or what's behind that? It is a forecast.
I don't know if you've been listening to this call.
Half of the population thinks that the world is falling apart and the other half of the population you're being part of that who thinks there's maybe some conservatism in our assumptions.
I mean it's the forecast as we see it.
It has puts and takes and that's the best that we can do at this point.
As I told you in last quarter we're damned if we do damned if we don’t.
There are no further questions at this time.
Are there any closing comments? No you can go ahead and announce the replay.
There will be a replay of today's conference available from today at approximately 11:00 a.m.
Eastern Standard Time through February 23 2011 at midnight.
The ID number to dial for the replay is (800) 585-8367 or (855) 859-2056.
The ID number to access the replay is 34264306.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
This concludes our discussion.
Please call me Quynh McGuire at (724) 539-6559 for follow-up questions.
Thanks for joining us.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Kennametal's Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Regina.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review Kennametal's Third Quarter of Fiscal 2012 Results.
We issued our quarterly earnings press release earlier today.
You may access this announcement via our website at www.kennametal.com.
Consistent with our practice in prior quarterly conference calls we've invited various members of the media to listen in on this call.
It's also being broadcast live on our website and a recording of this call will be available on our site for replay through May 25 2012.
I'm Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations for Kennametal.
Joining me for our call today are Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Carlos Cardoso; Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Frank Simpkins; and Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller Martha Bailey.
Carlos and Frank will provide further explanation on the quarter's financial performance.
After their remarks we'll be happy to answer your questions.
At this time I'd like to direct your attention to our forward-looking disclosure statement.
The discussion we'll have today contains comments that may constitute forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve a number of assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information regarding these risk factors and uncertainties is detailed in Kennametal's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition Kennametal provided the SEC with a Form 8-K a copy of which is currently available on our website.
This enables us to discuss non-GAAP financial measures during this call in accordance with SEC Regulation G.
This 8-K presents GAAP financial measures that we believe are most directly comparable to those non-GAAP financial measures and it provides a reconciliation of those measures as well.
I'll now turn the call over to Carlos.
Thank you Quynh.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I'm pleased to report that for the March quarter of fiscal 2012 Kennametal again delivered strong performance.
For the period organic sales grew by 8% year-over-year.
This growth rate reflects ongoing customer demand on top of the strong comparisons of 25% from the prior year quarter.
We believe that our results were due to our global team's successful implementation of our proven strategies to continue outperforming industrial productions and gain market share.
For the March quarter global investor production increased by 2.7% indicating that expansion is still occurring in all end markets.
In addition to favorable economic environment Kennametal benefited from our own growth strategies management discipline and execution capabilities.
For the 9-month period ending March 31 industrial production growth was 2.2% while Kennametal realized 13% organic sales growth for the same time frame.
Kennametal's served geographies continue to reflect increased demand year-over-year.
In our industrial segment both the Americas and Europe show strong growths.
In our Infrastructure segment all major regions demonstrated high demand with Asia reporting the strongest growth.
Currently Kennametal's rest of the world markets represented 25% of sales in the March quarter.
Customer demand in the industrial markets remain strong particularly in aerospace and general engineering.
Infrastructure markets continue to show growth in both our Earthworks and Energy business.
However we expect that some sectors may be impacted in the near term by lower production activities.
Overall Kennametal's diverse and market mix lessens our exposure to any single market.
As a result we have reduced cyclicality in our business.
Therefore we believe that we can continue to grow throughout the entire economic cycle.
During the March quarter we continue to implement our channel strategy through the WIDIA brands.
We continue to gain market share.
For the first 9 months of fiscal 2012 WIDIA product sales increased 20% year-over-year indicating the success of our strategy and the momentum of this brand.
Let's now discuss end market trends.
In aerospace Airbus and Boeing together received more than 2 200 net orders in calendar year 2011 which was twice the prior year level and significantly higher than 1 011 jets that were delivered.
Currently the 2 companies have combined backlogs that are equivalent to approximately 7 years of outputs.
Production increases are under way for both Airbus and Boeing and the growth cycle is expected to continue.
In transportation global demand is forecasted to continue with some unevenness in Western Europe due to the ongoing recession in the eurozone.
In the Americas annual North America light vehicle production increased to 13.5 million units in February representing the highest level in 3 years with further production increases expected.
In China while there was a weak start for auto sales in January and February passenger car sales increased 4.5% in March.
According to the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers deliveries of passenger automobiles combined climbed to 1.4 million units last month.
In Latin America Brazilian automakers are reporting that export demand and growth had been strong.
In the general engineering markets U.S.
new orders in industrial machinery are approximately 7% higher than the same period last year with production expected to moderate over the next couple of quarters.
U.S.
annual exports are at high levels and expected to further expand.
The Association of Manufacturing Technology reported that order showed an increase of approximately 9% from the prior months and grew 35% year-over-year.
Globally metalworking machining production is at a significantly higher level currently and more growth is expected.
This is driven by a modest re-acceleration in the worldwide economy.
In the underground coal mining the market is expected to be challenging for the remainder of calendar year 2012.
Weaker growth in demand for electricity generation and coal plant retirement are offsetting ongoing increasing exports.
Therefore coal production is expected to remain relatively flat and it is projected that supply will drop further than demand resulting in another year of contracting inventories.
In road construction highway funding is generally expected to decline in 2012 compared with the prior year.
In Europe the sovereign debt crisis and ongoing economic slowdown will result in lower construction activities.
However highway funding in the U.S.
is expected to benefit from the recent passing of certain stopgap legislation in Congress and should be at similar level as prior year.
In the energy market natural gas inventories in North America are expected to reach record levels by the end of calendar year 2012.
Currently natural gas prices are low and gas-directed rig counts are below 700 units.
According to IHS global insight production levels are expected to decline in the coming months.
In the near term residential and commercial consumption of natural gas is expected to be lower due to unseasonably warmer weather.
While production is expected to reflect slowing for now the longer-term infrastructure building continues.
Natural gas is expected to be the preferred fuel of the future which has been reinforced by domestic regulations creating new restrictions on carbon dioxide footprint on any new plant.
In the U.S.
there are 2 coal plants being retrofitted for natural gas and 12 plants are slated for future construction.
Regarding our cost-reduction measures we continue to retain savings from our restructuring initiatives realizing $107 million reduction of annualized expenses and have been permanently removed from our cost structure.
Also other actions to streamline our business have both strengthened our foundation and improve our operating excellence.
As a result we continue to expect that Kennametal can support at least $3 billion in sales without significant capital investment.
Kennametal's margins performance during the March quarter reflected our continued recovery of raw materials' cost inflation specifically tungsten.
We will continue to maintain our disciplined approach related to pricing actions.
I would also like to mention that Kennametal received an important recognition during the quarter.
We were named among the world's most ethical companies.
The Ethisphere Institute a leading international think tank dedicated to best practices in business ethics corporate social responsibility anti-corruption and sustainability selected Kennametal for exhibiting leadership in promoting ethical business standards through our global operations and for introducing better business practices.
The recognition helps to support Kennametal as an employer of choice which enabled us to attract the best talent in our industry.
In addition it helps make Kennametal a supplier of choice for our customers worldwide.
As always Kennametal's global team continues to execute our growth strategies to further increase our addressable market.
We continue to maximize our enterprise structure to drive organic growth as well as to evaluate potential acquisitions.
For example the recent announced Deloro Stellite transaction reinforced our strategy to acquire technologies that strengthen our core business.
We'll continue to expand our presence in the rest of the world markets and growing sales in distribution channels through our WIDIA brand strategy.
In addition we continue to improve our customers' productivity through new product introductions and by showcasing our technology and innovation.
As a result we are further expanding our reach to penetrate new markets and continually grow market share.
I'll now turn the call over to Frank who will discuss our financial results for the quarter in greater detail.
Frank? Thank you Carlos.
I'll provide some comments on our performance for the March quarter and I'll move on to our outlook for the remainder of fiscal year 2012.
Some of my comments are non-GAAP so please refer to the reconciliation schedules that we provide in our earnings release and related Form 8-K.
So let me start off.
I'd say the March quarter was very active.
Results were as expected operationally with below-the-line benefits related to interest and taxes.
We continue to deliver on our goal of achieving 15% EBIT and 15% return on invested capital one year ahead of schedule.
Our March quarter highlights included: organic sales growth was 8% which was essentially in line with our expectations; earnings per share were $0.93 a share which was a March quarter record.
Our reported earnings per share included transaction-related costs of $0.05 from the Stellite acquisition and was consistent with our integration plan.
The $0.05 per share is primarily transaction-related costs which are OpEx and some purchase accounting step-up costs for inventory and cost of goods sold and a minimal amount of net income contribution.
Our operating margin was 14.8% and adjusting for the Stellite acquisition our operating margin reached 16%.
We also issued new $300 million 10-year 3.875 public notes in February to refinance our existing term notes that mature in June and we closed the acquisition of Stellite on March 1 which allows us to strengthen our business.
And our adjusted return on invested capital of 16.9% was a March quarter record.
Now I'll walk through some of the key items in the income statements.
Sales for the quarter increased $82 million or 13% to $696 million compared to $615 million in the March quarter last year.
The increase in sales is due to our organic growth that I mentioned of 8% the impact of the Stellite acquisition contributed 4% more business days added 3% and this was partly offset by unfavorable foreign currency effects of 2%.
Similar to Carlos I'd like to point out that our organic growth of 8% was achieved on top of stronger comparisons to double-digit organic growth of 25% in the prior year quarter and this represents the ninth consecutive quarter of year-over-year organic sales growth.
Turning to the business segment sales performance.
Industrial segment sales of $419 million increased 7% from the prior year quarter.
This was driven by organic growth of 5% and the impact of more business days of 4% partly offset by 2% unfavorable foreign currency effects.
On an organic basis sales growth was led by Aerospace and Defense growth of 14% and General Engineering growth of 7% while Transportation end market sales remain at a relatively similar level to the prior year.
Regionally sales including workdays increased by approximately 12% in the Americas 11% in Europe and were relatively flat in Asia due to the strong comparisons for the prior year.
This trend is consistent with the December quarter.
As you know the growth we experienced in the prior year March quarter was also strong across all regions especially the emerging markets.
For comparison purposes last year Asia was up 32% Europe was up 29% and the Americas was up 23% last year.
Before I cover the Infrastructure segment I want to remind everybody that the acquisition of Stellite results are now included in the Infrastructure segment.
Please keep this in mind for comparative purposes.
Infrastructure segment sales of $278 million increased 25% from the prior year quarter driven by organic growth of 13%.
And the acquisition of Stellite contributed 10% of the growth.
Business days were also favorably impacted sales by 3% partly offset by 1% unfavorable foreign currency.
The organic increase was driven by 12% higher sales of Energy and related products and 12% increase in demand for Earthwork products.
Regionally sales including the workdays increased 24% in Asia 16% in Europe and 13% in the Americas.
By geography our Infrastructure business also had very strong prior year sales growth of 20% in the Americas 15% in Asia and 11% in Europe.
Now a recap of our operating performance.
Our gross profit margin was 35.4%.
Our gross margin also included one month of operating results from the Stellite acquisition which was dilutive to Kennametal's gross margins.
Excluding Stellite our margins would have been similar with the December quarter.
Gross margin percent declined year-over-year as a result of higher raw material costs consumed in the March quarter while pricing levels remained unchanged.
This had a dilutive impact on the margin percent.
Margin was also impacted by lower productivity due to our inventory reduction initiative.
Operating expense remained relatively flat year-over-year.
Overall lower employments and related costs and favorable foreign currency exchange effects were offset by acquisition and related costs.
We remained focused on controlling G&amp;A costs and making select investments in our selling-related costs.
And we continue to focus on controlling our G&amp;A to fund our selling expenses.
Operating expense as a percent of sales was 19.9% for the quarter down approximately 300 basis points from the prior year of 22.5%.
Note also that Stellite's operating expenses as a percent of sales are lower than Kennametal's and overall accretive to the percentage.
Our operating income increased to $103 million compared to $88 million in the prior year quarter.
Absent restructuring and related charges operating income is $93 million in the prior year quarter.
Our leverage was solid on a reported basis of 19 on both an actual and constant currency basis and was impacted by higher raw material costs and lower productivity than the prior year.
Operating margin for the March quarter was 14.8% and adjusting for the Stellite acquisition our operating margin reached 16%.
Turning to the business segment operating performance.
The Industrial segment operating income was $71 million compared with $54 million in the same quarter last year.
Industrial operating income included $2 million of restructuring and related charges last year.
Industrial operating margin increased 320 basis points to 17% the prior year quarter.
The primary drivers of the increase on operating income were higher sales volume price realization partly offset by higher raw material costs.
The Infrastructure segment operating income was $34 million compared with $36 million in the same quarter of last year.
Infrastructure's operating income included $6 million of acquisition-related costs.
Infrastructure's operating income also included restructuring-related benefits of $1 million in the prior year.
Infrastructure's operating margin was 12.3% compared to 16% in the prior year and operating margin excluding the impact of the Stellite acquisition was 15.1% for the March quarter.
Our operating income benefited from higher sales volume including price realization.
But this was offset by raw material costs and the acquisition-related costs.
The effective tax rate was 20.4% compared to 19.1% in the prior year quarter.
And I'll comment that the primary difference from our previously provided effective tax rate guidance of 22% was a benefit related to a valuation allowance adjustments which was a discrete benefit in the quarter.
And regarding our EPS we reported March quarter diluted earnings per share of $0.93 compared to the prior year diluted earnings per share of $0.77.
And the current year earnings per share included the impact of Stellite acquisition charges of $0.05 while the prior year EPS included restructuring and related charges of $0.06.
Turning to cash flow.
Our cash flow from operating activities were $164 million compared to $125 million in the prior year.
Our capital expenditures were $56 million year-to-date compared to $25 million in the prior year period.
And our free operating cash flow for the 9 months ended March 31 was $108 million compared to $100 million in the prior year period.
The balance sheet continues to remain strong.
Our cash position was $126 million and we remained focused on improving our working capital.
And DSO and ITO were at relatively similar levels in the March quarter compared to December.
However we made further progress with our days payable which increased 3 days from December to March.
We also initiated actions to better balance our inventory levels as we discussed last quarter and expect to make further progress in the upcoming quarters.
At March 31 our total debt was $641 million that's up $328 million from the June quarter due to the new bond issuance of $300 million and $29 million outstanding on a revolving bank credit facility.
Our debt-to-cap ratio at March 31 2012 was 26.9% and this compares to 15.9% at June 30 last year.
As I mentioned earlier we issued new $300 million 10-year 3.875 notes in February to refinance the existing like value and term notes that mature in June of this year.
The proceeds from the new bond issue will be used to pay down the existing notes when they mature at June 15 2012.
We're pleased with the favorable 1.875 credits spread we achieved.
The transaction was well received and multiple times oversubscribed.
This refinancing measure in combination with our October 2011 amendment extension and upsizing of the revolving credit facility to $600 million significantly extends our debt maturity profile and further enhances liquidity.
The all-in rate for the new bond is approximately 4.7% including the impact from our forward starting swaps and Kennametal realized annual interest savings with the new bonds compared to the all-in rate of 5.5% expiring notes including the amortization of gain from the 2009 swap termination.
Our U.S.
pension plans continue to remain 100% funded.
And as I mentioned earlier our return on invested capital on an adjusted basis was 16.9% up significantly from 14.8% in June.
Now I'll just give you a quick update on our acquisition of Stellite.
Overall the Stellite acquisition is progressing well and in line with our integration plan.
We completed the acquisition on March 1 at a cost of $383 million net of cash acquired.
We've established a full-time integration team that has been assigned and is working with the Stellite team to drive critical work streams to ensure a smooth transition.
Our day one activities were initiated across the organization to welcome the Stellite team and introduce them to the Kennametal culture.
We also launched their new enterprise brand Kennametal Stellite.
The initial focus on the integration has been on the financial processes purchase accounting compliance programs and safety.
We have also begun the investments necessary to convert their ERP systems to SAP.
The Kennametal and the Stellite growth teams have initiated synergy workshops to identify opportunities to further accelerate growth.
The impact of the Kennametal Stellite acquisition on the March quarter earnings per share was $0.05 a share and that was driven primarily by the transaction costs and purchase accounting effects I previously mentioned.
And we have reaffirmed that the Kennametal Stellite acquisition is expected to be approximately $0.10 dilutive to our fiscal '12 reported earnings per share.
Now turning to the outlook included in our release we have updated our fiscal 2012 organic sales growth guidance to a range of 10% to 11% from a range of 10% to 12%.
We also increased the total sales growth guidance to a range of 16% to 17% from our previous estimate of 10% to 12% due to the acquisition of Stellite.
Our earnings per share guidance for fiscal 2012 is now in the range of $3.80 to $3.90 per share up from our previous range of $3.70 to $3.90 per share.
We continue to expect global economic conditions and worldwide industrial production to reflect moderate expansion with manufacturing leading the recovery.
The increase to our prior guidance of 5% at the midpoint includes the following facts: first we tightened our top line growth slightly due to expected softness in our Mining and Energy sectors and near-term slowing in China related to the Transportation sector; secondly interest expense.
Now that we have completed our bond refinancing we expect interest expense to be lower than the prior guidance.
We estimate this will add $0.03 of earnings per share.
Our effective tax rate as a result of the March quarter discrete benefit this will add $0.02 per share and the full year tax rate guidance remains unchanged.
Foreign currency is not expected to have any significant impact in the fourth quarter and our inventory reduction plans remain in place for the June quarter but will be impacted by some market sectors slowing as reflected in our revised top line projections.
The acquisition of Stellite is expected to impact earnings per share by approximately $0.10 in fiscal 2012 and that includes transaction-related costs which occurred in the March quarter.
And this is consistent with our previously communicated guidance.
The impact of Stellite has not been reflected in Kennametal's current EPS guidance.
Cash flow from operations is now expected to be in the range of $300 million to $310 million for fiscal 2012.
Based on capital expenditures of approximately $100 million the company expects to generate between $200 million to $210 million of free operating cash flow for the full fiscal year.
At this time I'll turn it back to Carlos for some closing comment.
Thank you Frank.
As we move forward we'll continue to execute our strategies in ways that help us achieve our goals.
We'll remain focused on our commitment to outperform industrial production as has been consistently demonstrated by our results.
We'll also further balance our served end markets business mix and geographic presence.
As an example the recent acquisition of Deloro Stellite will advance our strategies by further diversifying our business.
In addition to those measures we'll continue to maximize opportunities to expand our progress in distribution channels and gain market share.
We have already streamlined our cost structure and we continue to be disciplined in our cost-reduction focus.
Most importantly we remain committed to being a customer-focused market-facing enterprise.
We believe this positions Kennametal to identify new revenue opportunities and increase our levels of profitability.
As always we remain disciplined in our allocation of capital.
Our uses of cash include reinvesting in our business making acquisition purchasing shares and paying dividends.
Our global team is highly focused on achieving our next milestone targets of 15% EBIT and 15% return on investment capital one year earlier than planned.
We have a strong financial position and we have repositioned the company for improved margins and returns.
Kennametal will continue to deliver our promise to be a breakaway company and enterprise that is profitable throughout the economic cycle.
Thank you for your time and your interest in Kennametal.
We'll now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Stephen Volkmann with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I guess the -- my question is kind of on the guidance here.
If I'm doing my math right I think the 4Q implied organic growth rate is something in the 3% to 4% range which is a pretty good step-down.
And I guess you've sort of mentioned Mining and Energy seeing a little bit of a deceleration.
But is that really the explanation here? And some of the other companies we follow have actually been sort of raising their domestic general industrial kind of forecast.
And I'm just wondering if we can kind of square that.
Yes Stephen.
First of all our guidance does imply mid- to single-digit growth.
And there is some headwinds in the first half of calendar year on the Energy and Mining and to a certain extent in China.
We also have to take in consideration that we come from very strong comps.
And thirdly this has been our plan all along.
So when we gave guidance 3 quarters ago this was reflected in our guidance.
So not much has changed.
I think we've seen strength in the Americas.
That is above where our expectations were.
We've seen strength in Europe which has been above our expectations.
And we've seen some weaknesses in China and now energy and coal which is below expectations.
But overall we're exactly where we thought and said we're going to be.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
How much of your business should I think is mining and energy related? Probably around 14% the most.
Yes.
Again roughly Steve if Infrastructure is 35% of the business that's over 1/2 of it though.
It's a pretty big impact.
So the change when you break it down what's really changed? To Carlos' point China was no big change from December to March.
And that was being -- really be an offset by the impact of the Americas.
And Europe's been pretty much in there.
But right now I would say it's been a warmer weather and kind of the pullback on the Mining side and well as the Energy side.
And that's really why we changed the top line particularly for the softness in the Infrastructure side of the business.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got it that's helpful.
And then just on Infrastructure again versus my model and this may just be my error but even without the Stellite cost the margin was a bit weaker than what I was looking for.
Would that be kind of the same drivers there? Is that pretty high margin kind of mix? Yes.
First of all I like the progress.
Yes I thought it would be a little bit better to be honest with you.
But I think part of it -- we probably had higher raw material costs consumed in the quarter from -- as our inventory turns there and we try to initiate the reduction that we've talked about last quarter.
That was the $0.10 I said we're going to give back because we're trying to balance our inventories.
But despite that we still made some sequential improvement.
And hopefully going in to a stronger period here in the fourth quarter it'll continue to pick up but not as much as we have initially hoped.
Your next question will come from the line of Adam Uhlman with Cleveland Research.
I guess a follow-up the guidance can you -- I believe last quarter we were talking about $0.05 to $0.10 dilution from Deloro and now it's looking like $0.10 or so.
Are there more one-time charges that are coming through in the fourth quarter? Adam the number is the same.
We said last quarter it will be $0.05 to $0.10.
So we actually had $0.05 in the March quarter.
So we're saying "Hey from a worst case we'd have another $0.05 in the quarter." So in the March quarter we had a couple of things.
It's transaction-related costs as we pay some of the bankers and a couple of things there.
And then we have a partial step-up in cost of goods sold related to the inventory step-up.
So as we go into the fourth quarter we'll have a bigger impact on the inventory step-up.
Now that'll be one-time in fiscal '12 because that will not repeat next year as we take that one time hit there.
And then we're going to have some integration costs associated with SAP and some other back-office stuff in the fourth quarter which will basically offset the contribution from an earnings perspective.
So as I said in the call we reaffirm the $0.05 to $0.10 now that we have March quarter done.
We're saying "Hey worst case in the last quarter we're going to have another $0.05 " which is exactly how we had anticipated it.
Okay.
And then the follow-up on the Energy question.
I guess what are you seeing in the order rates today? And should we expect the Energy and Mining business to be down year-over-year in the June quarter? Or what -- maybe just put a little bit more color on the deterioration in the business that's passing there.
Yes.
Near term I would say it's trending a little bit softer than we had anticipated.
The wildcard here is the way that the holidays fell with Easter.
It hit right in the middle and I think some of the mining companies and some of the -- they took extended vacation which is unusual.
So I don't want to try to read into early part of the month because I said the first part of the month was a little bit softer and it seems to be coming back towards kind of where we had expected but still a little bit softer particularly in the Infrastructure side.
We still expect some growth but not at the same rates -- at a decelerating growth rate.
Okay.
And then Frank just a clarification on the Infrastructure segment sales by geography the -- each one of the regions were above the total organic growth of 13%.
Is that only the selling days that you plugged in to the geographic growth or...
Yes that's exactly right.
Because I don’t want to put the finance organization through.
When you're stuck at workdays by -- we have 60 different locations.
That's the primary difference.
So as I said at the top of the house it was 3%.
So you could use that as a guidance.
And I think I broke it down in there but that's exactly right.
Your next question will come from the line of Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure I understand your guidance.
You have included the revenue from Stellite and the EBIT from Stellite but not the integration cost is that correct? No no.
First we've said Ann is it's all in there.
So the $0.10 that we provided includes some performance associated with the business but offset by one-time purchase accounting effects and transaction-related costs in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's no -- so we're not looking at apples and oranges that's what I just want to make sure.
Right we're apples and apples.
So what I tried to do is the $0.10 is all Stellite.
So what we tried to do is to give you guys -- to take that out of the equation so you could still get the base business.
The guidance that we provided in there with the midpoint of $3.85 that's kind of excludes the Stellite impact.
And then we're saying for 4 months we're going to have $0.10 and it's really purchase accounting and some of the transaction costs offset by some improvement from the results.
So it's apples to apples in the numbers.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I just wanted to make sure I wasn't misinterpreting that.
And then can you talk a little bit -- just 2 quick follow-ups on Stellite a little bit about when next year you might anticipate that trading accretive.
And then secondly are there any significant differences in mix or seasonality or anything else we should be aware of with Stellite just from a modeling perspective also? Yes I'll start.
It's going to be accretive as far as the kind of unusual mixes are different.
I think it's a more stable business where Kennametal is like a 40/60 as a rule-of-thumb guidance.
I think they're a little bit more stable.
So as we get towards July and we do the guidance we'll try to provide as much point whether seasonality in end markets because a lot of the markets they serve are the power generation and that's more of a stable business as opposed to some of the cyclicality effects that we have in other parts of our company.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just finally a real quick follow-up the Infrastructure business for Q4 is your guidance for organic growth to be negative? No no.
No.
We don't...
And again as I said earlier we're going to continue to have positive growth in all areas.
It's just at a decelerating growth.
Your next question will come from the line of Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question would be on the issue of price cost and what that did to your margins.
Because you mentioned that as a headwinds raw materials in both Industrial and Infrastructure.
So I wonder if you could give some idea of how the magnitude of price cost for total Kennametal in Q3 or any color by segment.
And also I guess to try to understand why that's happening.
I guess tungsten prices for the most part have been behaving themselves.
So what exactly is going on? And I guess what are you doing with your pricing to try and mitigate the headwind in the next few months? Yes.
On the price raw materials you're right on the margin percent.
A lot of this has to do with the -- how you calculate it.
Our raw material cost went up because as you know we have contracts that typically lagged.
So we're not going out -- so to your point where APT dropped on the spot market last week.
We don’t get that price immediately.
It takes a while.
We have contracts and you could have quarters of a lag.
So that's why we saw the higher raw material costs come in while pricing remained relatively constant.
So with a little bit of a bump here on the cost and pricing remaining across the organization because we're very disciplined on that it's dilutive to the margin percent.
And then compounding that is as we talked last quarter I wasn't crazy nor was Carlos about the inventory build we have in the first half.
So we continue to try to ratchet that down.
And as I said earlier or I should say the last call that we're going to take back $0.10 to try to reduce our inventories.
So the only thing I would add is as I spoke earlier we have on the upside our suppliers can not raise prices to us for a period of 3 to 6 months.
On the downside in other words when the raw material goes down they get to keep 3 to 6 months depending which contracts we have.
So it's as simple as that.
And the reason we do that is because it benefits us on the upside of being able to buy some time for us to be able to get price increase and minimize the impact.
The price to cost will be fully recovered by the end of this year.
Plus.
And we said that and we'll continue to talk about that.
Our strategy is unchanged.
We've gone with price increases.
We don't need anymore price increases just the timing to catch up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up.
In the Industrial segment your European business is still growing around 11%.
So currently it's a pretty similar run rates where you had year-on-year in the December quarter.
I guess sort of just any update around -- obviously the PMIs had been not good for 5 months plus.
What are you expecting for Europe in Industrial specifically over the next kind of 6 months or so? Well I mean we'll talk for the next 3 months which is the next quarter.
We anticipate that is to be about the same going forward.
Again somebody I think Stephen asked the question and said some industrials are raising their outlook.
I remind you that our quarter end is June.
And most industrials' quarter ends are the same as calendar year.
Clearly the IPI indicates that the second half of the calendar year 2012 is going to be strong.
And I'm talking about IPI.
I'm not talking about -- it's too early for us to give guidance.
So I want to make sure that as you think through and you're comparing us to somebody else that you're comparing apples to apples.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
But I guess your point is that European industrial in the June quarter could still be up around 10% 11% year-on-year.
And Julian just -- and I think our composition of businesses in Europe is pretty good.
We've done some investments strategically particularly in the Infrastructure side in Europe.
And then over 1/2 of our European business on the Industrial side is in Germany.
And Germany is still actually doing pretty decent.
So for the next quarter I can't see any significant change.
It may be down a little bit but pretty much in line.
Yes.
It'd still be in the high single to go around the double digit yes.
Your next question will come from the line of Henry Kirn with UBS.
Operator we can't hear the question.
[Technical Difficulty] Your next question will come from the line of Andrew Obin with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
What is driving on the flat transportation growth in the quarter? How much of this is de-stocking? Or how much is true end-market deceleration? I'll start off.
I would say it's flat as we said particularly coming out of Asia Pacific and in China because what we -- we have -- we did very well last year particularly with the domestic manufacturers the automotive manufacturers in China.
This would be like the DYDs of the world.
And we have significant growth in those accounts last year.
So it's a combination primarily of the China situation there.
Europe continues to be fairly well as the Americas but the big -- the comps compared to year-over-year particularly China is what's suppressing some of the growth.
Yes.
If you look at the production numbers in China in January and February as I said earlier they are below their expectations.
However March was already turning.
And so we've had positive growth in Europe positive growth in U.S.
and flat to negative in Asia specifically China.
We expect that to change.
Research Division</strong> You guys are one of the few companies that have sort of highlighted it but maybe things are turning in China just a little bit on the margins.
Why are you guys seeing any inflection points? Any color from what you guys are seeing in April in the region? Well I mean I think what we've seen and I think this is one of the things that we've been working with this company in diversifying this company.
I think in the last 6 months we saw that because of the Industrial environment export in China they put money to infrastructure.
So our Infrastructure has been extremely well as you can see by our results while our Industrial has suffered.
What we're going to see going forward and it's a question of the timing what is going to happen in the next couple of months or in the next 6 months is that we're going to see an inversion of that.
We're going to see the infrastructure in China picking up at a higher pace and potentially the infrastructure moderating.
And I think that the beauty of our business is that when you look overall in Asia we'll still have the highest growth coming from Asia.
When you look at the Infrastructure at this time they are leading.
If you looked at this same business about a year ago would be completely the opposite.
So we hope that in the next -- for the rest of the year -- calendar year that we'll see the same thing and overall Kennametal will grow.
Research Division</strong> But any color on April [indiscernible]? Or is it just too early to tell? It's too early to tell.
Your next question will come from the line of Andy Casey from Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you quantify the Stellite inventory impact in the quarter? I'm just trying to understand your progress in decreasing the core level.
And then if you said I apologize what was the driver of the reduced operating cash flow outlook? Again I don't want to get into breaking that out.
In the core most of the cost of the $0.05 were in the operating expenses.
There was a small impact in cost of goods sold related to the inventory step-up.
And that -- Andy that'll be much bigger.
If you just [indiscernible] which the business is a little bit most of that will flush through in the fourth quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Frank? I'm sorry I'm not asking about the P&amp;L.
I'm asking about the balance sheet.
Oh how much -- how much of the increase is related to Stellite? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
It's approximately $50 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you talk...
And as of the reduced cash flow it is related to our inventory reduction plan.
We didn't make as much progress as we would have liked in the I should say in the second half.
And that's primarily related to the deterioration.
LLC Research Division</strong> And is that related to the Energy and Mining markets? There's a small driver.
There's a small driver.
Some impact.
Some impact.
Your next question will come from the line of Joel Tiss with Buckingham Research.
Just one more question everyone asked everything else.
Just -- can you talk a little bit about any implications from Amazon coming in to the distribution business and what that might mean for margins and just how it impacts you guys? None.
I just think that Amazon plays at the products that are really not competition with us directly.
We really have not seen any impact of that.
As a matter of fact as I said the brand that would probably be most be impacted by Amazon will be WIDIA.
We still grew year-to-date 20% versus an industrial growth of like 2.7% so...
And if you think about that though is that going to be helpful to control the industry inventories? Guys like that moving in if the trend spreads.
Or -- and then do you have mechanisms in place that can help you make sure you control pricing no matter where the stuff is being sold? Yes.
I mean we do.
It's really not -- the Amazon is really not applicable.
We're not selling any product to Amazon.
I mean if you are aware of that or not I'm not sure.
Right but it could end up there somehow.
Yes.
I mean I think it's going to be difficult.
I mean we haven't seen one example of that so far.
Joel we think we'll do much better with our -- with Fastenal relationship.
These guys are doing it right.
They'll grow it.
They know how to play.
They're going to have some people versus just taking an order over the phone.
There's no technical application that Amazon is going to be able to add from a sale.
Your next question will come from the line of Brian Rayle with Northcoast Research.
Most of my questions have been answered.
One quick follow-up now that you've kind of had Stellite under the umbrella for a little while here any changes in what you think -- what you might be able to get from cost saves or integration margins for next year compared to what you originally thought? Yes.
I mean we're still in the process of looking at that.
All I can tell you is that we are very pleased so far with what we've seen and discovered.
And so -- we're in the midst of the planning process right now and it's really too early for us to do that.
So we'll be very specific when we announce guidance for 2013.
Okay can we interpret very pleased as sort of better than you originally thought? No.
I mean I think that typically when you're going to a situation like this you anticipate some negative surprises.
And we haven't seen any negative surprises.
So that's my point of being positive.
Your next question will come from the line of Dan Khoshaba with KSA Capital.
Could you just -- I don't know if you already gave this out.
But can you give us the financial impact of the 3 additional days in terms of revenue and maybe operating profit? I mean I think you can calculate it.
We gave the specific amounts there.
Outside the workdays they were 3% so...
It had an impact of about 3% on sales.
Correct.
And we don't provide that down on the -- on an earnings perspective.
It just gets -- it's too subjective.
Okay all right.
And then one last question.
With the recent decline in APT prices and I know you said that there was a little bit of a lag how does that affect your pricing that you have in the marketplace today? Presumably because your raw material costs have gone up right? And a lot of your customers can see that carbide prices or APT prices have been falling.
Does it make it more difficult? Or do you expect to kind of get the pricing only to have it then -- at least in some cases renegotiate prices lower because there has been this drop in raw material costs? Yes.
90% of our price increases are not correlated with tungsten okay? So this is one of the reasons why it takes us longer to get price increase which everybody gets upset about obviously.
But this is the point that we do not tie 90%.
So historically we haven't given price back number one.
Number two is the decrease in raw material has been just in the last month -- last week.
Okay.
It's too early for us to really declare victory.
I mean there's a little bit of excitement and hope.
But that's all we have at this point.
I mean I think we need a couple of more months to understand sort of what that is what's going on.
Well my question was really -- I mean is it a declare victory because if you -- a lot of your let's say your carbide inserts much of your carbide insert business is sold through distributors.
Some of them very much standard carbide inserts that get put into [indiscernible] and things like that.
Under those circumstances the distributor -- the customers do follow the price of carbide right? I mean so they -- ultimately they're going to say "Well look we know carbide prices are falling.
We buy extra amounts of inserts from you guys monthly." I mean there is a dynamic that goes in the other direction right? I'll tell you that first of all only 40% of our sales go through distribution.
And I want to tell you -- assure you that historical we have not reduced our pricing as a result of a lower tungsten prices.
Okay.
So your made your prices -- when tungsten prices are going up or when tungsten prices fall you're under no pressure to compete on the downside.
Well I agree with everything you said except the pressure part.
We are always under pressure.
Our customer always wants reduction.
But again historical we do not give up pricing as a result of tungsten prices being lower.
We're always trying to put new products in the marketplace that have an advantage.
So you have 40% of your products come from -- our sales come from products developed in the last 5 years.
We continue to push the productivity in a better advantage from the customer.
That counteracts just raw material cost prices going up.
We still have to deliver value to the customer and we continue to sell on value.
Your next question will comes from the line of Eli Lustgarten with Longbow.
I just have one clarification.
Your $3.80 to $3.90 guidance assumes $0.98 in the third quarter.
Yes that's excluding -- yes that's why I try to give the numbers both ways kind of the base business and then Stellite.
So the $3.80 to $3.90 guidance a year is $0.98 in the third quarter excluding Stellite.
Right.
I just want to make sure.
Can you talk a little bit what's going on with Fastenal at this point in time? And we just don't hear very much about it and how sales -- what were sales -- kind of quarter what kind of expectation we have? Yes.
We are not providing the sales publicly.
I mean because of their public company as well.
But I want to tell you that although their sales are exceeding our expectations year-to-date I would say that the opportunity is still tremendous.
And I think both companies are very excited about the opportunity.
I remind everyone I mean this thing has been -- this relationship is 6 months old.
And they're starting in the middle working from 0.
So they're gaining good momentum.
They're ahead of what we think they -- than where we thought they're were going to be.
And -- but the opportunities is -- we're just scratching the surface here.
And can you give the same insight of what's going on with sales to Boeing now that the 787 is starting to ramp up production? I don't right off the top of my head here but I can tell you there are aerospace businesses growing at a good pace.
And -- but I think that the productions again the 787 they're still not at full production rate.
So the best is yet to come with that.
So do you have any feel for how much aerospace sales were up in the quarter? Well we said -- probably I mean Industrial side was up 14%.
But it's hard to gauge Eli.
We have distribution in -- whether it's the West Coast or in the North East where you have concentrations of aerospace and related customers.
They've grown up much faster there.
Your next question will come from the line of Walt Liptak with Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back to the inventory question.
And did you start bringing down inventories this quarter? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And is it finished good inventories? Or is that raw material? It's mainly whipped and finished goods.
Raw materials went up and some carryover in the early part of the quarter but it's mainly focused on finished goods at this point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But it sounds like the inventory reduction is largely going to be in the fourth quarter.
How much do you expect to take down inventories? I mean I don’t know.
We're going to see how we go forward here.
But again I think it's going to be down from the current levels excluding the effect of Stellite.
But it's going to be more -- it's going to be down more than we have in the March quarter.
So I just don't want to throw a number out there because the way the business operates sometimes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Let me just ask about that gross margin and the impacts that -- any production cuts to the reduced inventories you may have on gross margin.
If you could put a target on what gross margin might look like next quarter.
Well I expect it to be up sequentially.
What I -- then again I think we'll have more of an impact in the fourth quarter because I said last quarter I think what I said is we're going to chew up a dime to try to get this inventory in line.
And then we're going to offset that with productivity and pricing.
We didn't get the productivity.
So were on track for that $0.10 impact it but I'm not getting the offset with the productivity that we have anticipated.
Yes I mean we're talking a lot about the gross margin and going to a lot of details.
I mean let's not forget that we delivered at 16% 16% 16% EBIT margin this quarter okay? This business has never -- by the way we're on target for making 16% EBIT margin.
The highest ever in the history of this company was 12%.
Here we are delivering 15% EBIT margin.
So we can -- you guys are doing your job I understand of looking at the EBIT margin on the Infrastructure.
But the industry is doing well.
And overall as a company we're delivering record record performance in spite of all this turmoil that we have in the macro.
So let's not lose sight of that.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I agree.
It's clear that you've had a lot of the success getting the operating margins up in general.
But we have a little bit of turbulence this quarter.
I'm just trying to see how much is -- how much of that is going to be a continuation how much goes away.
Sure.
I understand that but I still want to make sure we don’t lose sight of the bottom line which is to me a bottom line is the EBIT margin for the business.
This is Quynh McGuire.
There are several posts left in the Q&amp;A queue.
And in the interest of getting to everyone I would ask you to limit your questions to just one please.
Operator go ahead.
Your next question will come from the line of Henry Kirn from UBS.
Research Division</strong> As the growth slows down assuming it does does that open up some further restructuring opportunities that you couldn't get to when the markets were growing faster? I mean the theoretical answer is yes.
Again we don't see -- I mean when I look at mid single-digit growth with the base that we have -- the cost structure that we have we have still a lot of opportunities.
I mean you still can improve our margins.
EBIT margin is I'm talking about.
So I don't really -- looking at all the indicators I really don't think that we're going to see -- we're going to see that dramatic of a slowdown.
And again we streamline our operations every year.
We are a lean company.
We drive productivity every year -- so including this year.
So I mean again we're in the middle of the plan right now for 2013.
All the indicators are -- look positive to us.
Again and I'll remind everyone that 3 quarters ago we gave guidance between the time we gave guidance and where we are today the world and Wall Street fell apart about half a dozen times and here we are still pretty much where we said we're going to be.
And so we have a fairly good visibility to -- and good planning process.
So I think that we're going to continue to expand this growth.
It's not going to be at the 20% that we had last year.
But it's going to be in the single digit -- mid to high single-digit growth.
I mean that's kind of what we see going forward.
Your next question will come from the line of Samuel Eisner with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question here on the inventories I guess the associated utilization rates for the company.
What are you presently -- or I guess what was it in the third quarter versus the second quarter and what are you anticipating for the fourth quarter? It was probably in the mid-70s.
The fourth quarter we typically do a little bit better.
It's not going to change much Sam significantly one way or the other.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you still -- and have you changed what you anticipate the overall production to be in the fourth quarter based on inventories still being around 21% 22% of overall revenue? Yes.
We've been working at it over the last -- obviously the last quarter.
And we backed it in and we have weekly meetings.
We have [indiscernible]  Process where we're looking at demand plan as well as manufacturing.
So I think we have a pretty good handle on it.
Your final question will come from the line of Holden Lewis with BB&amp;T.
Research Division</strong> It seems like you're burdening the second half of this fiscal year in ways that should sort of end once you go into fiscal year '13.
I just want to make sure I have the moving pieces.
I mean it sounds like if you go to 2013 you're going to recapture the $0.10 one-time profits from Deloro.
It sounds like the $0.10 negative from inventory will go away.
Just tell me if that's -- if those are right or wrong.
But I'm kind of curious of the price cost side because it sounds like it's still diluting margin but you expect by the end of this year that you'll be neutral.
Do you have plans to raise prices again to sort of get there? Because it doesn't sound like you would see the benefit of softening tungsten until you get into the September quarter.
So directionally everything you said is right.
We have increased all the -- we don't need any more price increases.
If tungsten stays at the prices not of last week of the previous prices okay? So we don’t need to do that.
And so I think that there's 2 things.
Again let's talk about calendar year so it's not perceived as guidance at this point.
All the indicators if you look at the -- all the global indicators show that the second half of calendar year is going to be stronger than the first half of calendar year from an economic point of view.
So that will be a benefit.
I would say that we most likely will have our inventory in line with what we need to be.
And again it's hard to tell exactly where it is because we have to finalize the growth for next year.
And we are in good position with cost -- the price versus raw material even if raw material stays high as it was throughout the whole year.
And we are -- we will be fully recovered in a margin -- as a margin basis in the raw materials at the end of this year.
Research Division</strong> So do you still have tax price increases that are still sort of have yet to flow through? That's like -- because again you were margin negative I guess in the third quarter.
If you get the fourth quarter with no fresh price increases at the same tungsten you still have some stuff that flowing through is that how that works? Exactly I mean -- and the reason it's affecting Infrastructure is because the amount of material -- raw material in the Infrastructure is much higher.
So we put price increase 6 months ago.
If the customer doesn't buy that part until this quarter -- I mean the price doesn't get included until all of those sales go through right? So that's what's happening.
It takes us 12 months to recover.
This is the last quarter of recovery.
This concludes the Q&amp;A portion of today's call.
I will now turn the call back over to Quynh McGuire for closing remarks.
Thank you Regina.
This concludes our discussion.
Please contact me Quynh McGuire at (724) 539-6559 for any follow-up questions and thank you for joining us.
Today's call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today and lasting through 12 midnight Eastern Time on May 24 2012.
The conference ID number for the replay is 62719901.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Kennametal's Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2012 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Regina.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us to review Kennametal's fourth quarter and fiscal year 2012 results.
We issued our quarterly earnings press release earlier today.
You may access this announcement via our website at www.kennametal.com.
Consistent with our practice in prior quarterly conference calls we've invited various members of the media to listen in to this call.
It's also being broadcast live on our website and a recording of this call will be available on our site for replay through August 27 2012.
I'm Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations for Kennametal.
Joining me for our call today are Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Carlos Cardoso; Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Frank Simpkins; and Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller Martha Bailey.
Carlos and Frank will provide further explanation on the quarter's financial performance.
After the remarks we'll be happy to answer your questions.
At this time I would like to direct your attention to our forward-looking disclosure statement.
The discussion we'll have today contains comments that may constitute forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve a number of assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results performance or achievement to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information regarding these risk factors and uncertainties is detailed in Kennametal's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition Kennametal provided the SEC with a Form 8-K a copy of which is currently available on our website.
This enables us to discuss non-GAAP financial measures during this call in accordance with SEC Regulation G.
This 8-K presents GAAP financial measures that we believe are most directly comparable to those non-GAAP financial measures and it provides the reconciliation of those measures as well.
I will now turn the call over to Carlos.
Thank you Quynh.
Hello everyone.
Thanks for joining us today to hear about Kennametal's fourth quarter and fiscal year 2012 results.
I'm pleased to report that in fiscal 2012 Kennametal again made excellent progress in further implementing our strategies.
We outperformed our markets and set new performance records.
We established clear goals realized further improvements in operational efficiencies while successfully managing multiple headwinds.
As a result we more than delivered on our financial target exceeding 15% EBIT margin and 15% return on invested capital.
We achieved those measures a full year earlier than planned.
This performance represents the second year of all-time records for profitability and return levels.
For fiscal 2012 global industrial production increased by 2.9% demonstrating that a number of end markets continue to grow.
Yet by comparison Kennametal realized 9% organic sales growth over the prior year clearly outperforming the industrial markets.
In addition our company-specific initiatives such as geographic expansion new product development and complementary acquisitions continue to position Kennametal to achieve significant margin and earnings expansion.
In particular I want to thank Kennametal employees worldwide for their dedication and engagement at all levels to drive the performance of our company.
Our team demonstrated their commitment to continuing to deliver value to our customers shareholders and colleagues around the world.
We have made outstanding progress on priorities that contributed positively to our results.
This includes improved safety and productivity as well as utilizing standardized SAP to streamline our processes and maximize efficiency.
Thanks to those efforts and steps taking over the past several years to restructure and reduce our costs we realized $170 million in permanent savings on an annualized basis.
We continue to be diligent about cost reduction actions.
As always we are actively pursuing measures to continuously improve our operating excellence and further strengthen our foundation.
We finished the year on a positive note as well posting our 10th consecutive quarter of organic sales growth.
This reflects successful execution of our strategies across a balanced and diverse mix of served end markets and geographies.
We further increased sales and strengthened our business portfolio with the recent Stellite acquisition.
During the June quarter we did see some moderation in demand.
However the manufacturing sector continued to outgrow the overall economy.
We realized ongoing growth in industrial markets such as transportation and latest cycle aerospace.
For the Industrial segment on a regional basis both Europe and the Americas reported year-over-year sales growth while Asia declined versus a stronger comparison to prior year.
For infrastructure market sales are flat overall despite lower production activity in North America due to relatively high storage levels in mining and energy.
We view those as near-term challenges and expect to see growth return in the next 1 to 2 quarters.
Regionally for our Infrastructure segment sales were lower in the Americas but were strong in Asia and modestly positive in Europe.
Keep in mind that Kennametal's diverse mix of served end markets and geographies should help reduce volatility across economic cycles as demonstrated by this year's results.
In terms of geographic diversity Kennametal sales were 46% from North America 28% from Western Europe and 26% from the rest of the world markets for this year.
Another way we improved our sales mix is through our channel strategy for the WIDIA brand which continues to perform well and gain market share.
WIDIA is positioned as a premium brand in its addressable markets.
For fiscal 2012 WIDIA brand sales grew 12% over prior year reflecting the success of the strategy.
Further we continue to focus on developing new products for both the Kennametal and the WIDIA brands.
This supports our organic growth strategy while also maintains the market leadership position of our brands.
We generated 41% of sales from new products in fiscal 2012.
Innovation enhances our value in the marketplace.
And as our strong margin performance reflects we maintain pricing discipline to recover raw material cost inflation especially costs related to tungsten.
I would like now to share our perspective on end market trends that drive our outlook for the year ahead.
In aerospace the recent Farnborough International Airshow in London was reported to generate orders for 800 new aircraft totaling approximately $72 billion which represents a substantial increase from the same event 2 years ago.
Aircraft manufacturers now have a significant production backlog.
For example Airbus plans to establish a fourth A320 plant in the U.S.
while Boeing is expected to increase production by 30% to accelerate aircraft deliveries and reduce its backlog.
In transportation we continue -- production increases are expected in North America and suppliers remain relatively optimistic.
In Europe the economic uncertainty appears to be dampening demand suggesting further decline in auto production rates.
However the premium European carmakers where Kennametal has stronger presence are expected to hold production steady for the remainder of calendar year 2012.
In China vehicle production is expected to increase modestly in the near term.
In the general engineering market the outlook for production of machinery and equipment remains favorable.
In the U.S.
customers are cautious due to concerns about tax policy health care the election and regulatory climate.
We expect U.S.
exports of machinery to show continued growth in 2012 but at a slower pace while Europe is expected to weaken significantly.
In metalworking machinery manufacturers are benefiting from increased production of autos and commercial aircraft partially offset by slowing in Europe and key emerging markets.
In the underground mining the Energy Information Administration reports that year-to-date U.S.
coal production is 6% lower than prior year and it's predicting year-over-year declines of 9% for calendar 2012 and 4% for calendar year 2013.
Although coal share of the U.S.
electric power generation has been declining it is expected to grow modestly in calendar year 2013 with the likelihood of higher natural gas prices.
In China the coal market has slowed while increased exports in South Africa are expected to bring growth to the industry.
In the road construction the new 2-year $105 billion U.S.
federal highway bill that was recently passed should be favorable to the industry longer term.
Due to the wait time required state by state for upfront project work at various transportation departments this legislation will likely take until calendar year 2013 to benefit highway rehabilitation activity.
In Europe the construction outlook depends on the outcome of the debt crisis.
However Germany is expected to remain stable for the near term.
In the energy market the rig count in the Americas increased 5% year-over-year as increased oil drilling makes up for the decline in development of gas wells.
With the decline and unseasonal warm weather for 6 months to date in 2012 storage levels for natural gas have decreased and are closer to a 5-year average.
On a long-term basis natural gas infrastructure is continued to build and is viewed as the power supply for the next century.
In developing countries with increased middle classes energy continues to grow.
Behind those market sectors Kennametal's global team will continue to execute our strategies.
We deliver historically high levels of profitability and earnings by exceeding our target of 15% EBIT margin and 15% return on invested capital in fiscal year 2012 1 year ahead of schedule.
There is additional upside to our investment story and we continue to focus on growing our business.
At this time I would like to make another comment on Kennametal's record financial performance.
Results like these are due to sound planning and successful execution.
One of the key reasons can be attributed to our excellence in strategic planning.
During the June quarter Kennametal was honored by the Association of Strategic Planning with Richard Goodman Strategic Planning Award.
This recognition is awarded to those organizations that demonstrate strong analytical methodologies and sound processes in strategic planning.
It speaks to the fact that we have established an effective planning system to advance our strategies at Kennametal helping us to continually deliver the promise to our customers and to be a breakaway company one that can be profitable throughout the economic cycle.
To summarize we continue to pave the way for profitable growth.
We are diversifying our business both organically as well as through acquisitions such as the recent Deloro Stellite transaction.
Our guidance for fiscal year 2013 reflects organic top line growth of 5% to 7% which is approximately 2x the currently forecasted industrial production growth of 3.4%.
Including Stellite Kennametal expects total sales growth in the range of 7% to 10%.
We'll continue to execute our strategies for value creation and expect to sustain strong performance over the diverse cycles represented in our portfolio.
I now turn it over to Frank who will go into more detail on the financials.
Thank you Carlos.
I'll start off by making some overall comments on the full fiscal year and then I'll review the fourth quarter in a little bit more detail.
Some of my comments are non-GAAP.
So please refer to the reconciliation schedules provided in our earnings release and related Form 8-K.
Let me start off with fiscal '12.
I'd say that fiscal '12 was another record performance for sales profitability earnings per share and return on invested capital for Kennametal.
We more than delivered on our goal to achieve 15% EBIT and 15% return on investment capital 1 year earlier than our commitment.
We also enhanced our overall financial position liquidity and financial flexibility.
We refinanced our $300 million 10-year bonds at 3.875%.
And consistent with our priority uses of cash we reinvested into the business with $96 million of capital expenditures.
We acquired Deloro Stellite for $383 million.
We repurchased 2 million shares of stock and we increased annual dividend by $0.08 per share or 14%.
This is a great year on many fronts.
Turning to the June quarter.
Our results were also strong especially in light of moderating macro conditions.
Organic sales was 1% and was notable given the slowdown in energy and mining markets and softening macro concerns.
Our operating margin was 15.9% and adjusting for Stellite our operating margin was 17.6%.
Earnings per share were $1.08 excluding integration cost to nonrecurring purchase accounting charges and Stellite contributed approximately 4% per share operationally in the quarter and incurred approximately $0.06 of integration and nonrecurring charges for a net dilution of around 2% per share.
Foreign currency was a headwind in the quarter and our foreign currency rates had an unfavorable impact of approximately $0.08 per share compared to last year.
We also paid off our 2002 bonds at maturity on June 15 and we delivered strong free operating cash flow.
And we made further progress with our inventory reduction initiative.
And our adjusted return on investment capital of 16.3% was a June quarter record.
Now I'll walk through the key items of our income statement.
Sales for the quarter increased $45 million or 7% to $739 million and this compares to $694 million in the June quarter last year.
The increase is due to organic growth of 1% the Stellite acquisition contributed 10% and more business days of 1% significantly offset by foreign currencies which had an unfavorable impact of 5%.
In the June quarter we experienced moderating conditions and unfavorable foreign currency impacts and had a significant impact on total sales growth.
Despite the headwinds as Carlos noted this represented the 10th consecutive quarter of year-over-year organic sales growth.
Turning to the business segment sales performance.
Our Industrial segment sales of $421 million declined 4% from the prior year quarter.
This was driven by 2% organic growth offset by 6% unfavorable foreign currency effect.
On an organic basis the increase in sales was again led by aerospace and defense growth of 14% transportation growth of 6% partly offset by a 4% decline in general engineering.
And regionally our sales increased by approximately 7% in Europe 3% in the Americas and declined 9% in Asia due to decelerating market conditions in China coupled with strong comparisons from the prior year.
The Infrastructure segment had sales of $318 million and increased 24% from the prior year quarter driven in part by the Stellite acquisition which contributed 26% growth.
This was partly offset by 2% unfavorable foreign currency.
Organically sales modestly increased in earthworks which reflected a somewhat lower production in North America underground mining which began in April.
And the highway construction business got off to a relatively slower start.
In energy sales were slightly lower due to a decline in natural gas prices high storage levels and reduced drilling activity.
We believe these markets are currently at the bottom and expect improvements in the beginning of calendar 2013 as commodity prices move up and the benefits from the new highway bill begins to materialize.
Regionally sales increased by approximately 11% in Asia 3% in Europe while sales in the Americas were lower by 5% also due to stronger comparison in the prior year.
Now a recap of our operating performance.
Our gross profit margin was 35.8%.
Our gross margin also includes the full quarter of the operating results from the Stellite acquisition which had a dilutive impact to Kennametal's gross margin due in part to purchase accounting and related adjustments during the quarter.
Excluding Stellite our gross margin expanded sequentially from the March quarter by 150 basis points.
More importantly our gross margins improved sequentially as raw material consumption cost declined as anticipated and we had a better sales mix.
Additionally our inventory declined $21 million principally driven by a reduction in finished goods.
And our gross margin was down year-over-year due primarily to the Stellite acquisition and a lower volume.
Operating expense declined year-over-year again.
Overall lower employment and related costs and favorable foreign currency exchange were partly offset by the acquisition and related costs.
As always we remain very focused on controlling general and administrative costs in order to fund selective investments in selling-related areas.
Our operating expense as a percent of sales was 19.2% for the quarter down 140 basis points from the prior year of 20.6%.
Note also that Stellite's operating expense as a percent of sales are lower than Kennametal's and are overall are accretive to the percentage.
Our operating income was $117 million compared with $115 million in the same quarter last year.
Our operating income included $1 million of net acquisition-related loss.
The prior year operating income included restructuring and related charges of $7 million.
Our operating income benefited as a result of higher sales volume pricing and lower employment costs and restructuring costs partly offset by higher raw material costs.
Our operating margin for the June quarter was 15.9%.
And as I said earlier if you adjust for the Stellite acquisition our operating margin reached 17.6%.
Looking at the business segments' operating performance.
The Industrial segment's operating income was relatively flat at $76 million compared to the same quarter of the prior year.
Industrial's operating margin included $5 million of restructuring and related charges last year.
Operating income benefited from higher sales volume pricing lower employment restructuring cost offset by higher raw material costs coupled with lower absorption impacts driven by the inventory reduction.
Industrial's operating margin was 18.2% compared with an adjusted operating margin of 18.7% in the prior year.
Infrastructure segment operating income was $42 million and this compares with $38 million last year.
Infrastructure's operating income included $1 million of net acquisition-related loss versus $2 million in restructuring and related charges in the prior year.
Our operating income in this segment benefited from sales volume price realization lower unemployment and restructuring cost also offset in part by raw material costs and acquisition-related costs.
Excluding the Stellite acquisition impact Infrastructure's operating margin was 17% for the June quarter compared with an adjusted operating margin of 15.6% in the prior year quarter.
Interest expense increased in the quarter -- $3 million year-over-year I should say in the June quarter to $8.5 million due to higher debt levels attributable to the Stellite acquisition and the February bond issuance partly offset by lower bank revolver borrowing margins.
The $300 million June 2002 notes were paid off at maturity on June 15.
Interest expense increased $500 000 sequentially versus the March quarter due to higher debt levels attributable to the acquisition.
The effective tax rate was 20.3% and this compares to 20.8% in the prior year quarter.
And regarding our bottom line performance we reported the June quarter diluted earnings per share of $1.06 compared with the $1.04 in the prior year quarter.
And the June quarter earnings per share included acquisition-related dilution of $0.02 and an unfavorable impact of $0.08 due to foreign currency while the prior year earnings per share included restructuring and related charges of $0.07.
Turning to cash flow.
Our cash flow from operating activities was $290 million compared with $231 million in the prior year.
Net capital expenditures were $96 million compared to $74 million in the prior year.
Our free operating cash flow for 2012 was $193 million compared to $157 million in the prior year.
As noted earlier we have consistently generated a strong operating cash flow providing substantial liquidity and capital for growth.
We are highly disciplined in our capital allocation process and ensure that we invest in initiatives with the highest growth potential.
We also actively manage our business portfolio.
As Carlos said we invested approximately $383 million in the Stellite acquisition and have strong growth opportunities and we returned over $110 million to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends this year.
As I noted earlier we repurchased 2 million shares during the fiscal 2012 period and increased our dividend 17% in October.
Our disciplined and balanced investment approach is a key contributor for long-term returns.
Our balance sheet remains strong.
Our cash position was $116 million.
And we remain focused on improving our working capital including DSO inventory turnovers and DPO which were at similar levels to the June quarter compared to March.
As discussed earlier in the year we also continued with actions to better balance our inventory levels.
And as we get into fiscal '13 we expect to make even further progress.
At June 30 our total debt was $566 million down $75 million or 12% from March 31 due to strong free operating cash flow.
Debt was up $253 million versus the prior year and that's due primarily to the Stellite acquisition and the September quarter share repurchases.
During the June quarter alone our strong free operating cash flow enabled us to pay down 20% of the Stellite acquisition debt.
And our debt-to-capital ratio at June 30 was 25.3% compared to 15.9% last year.
Our U.S.
defined benefit pension plan remained 100% funded and our adjusted return on invested capital was 16.3% up significantly from 14.8% in the prior year.
Now I'll give you a quick update on Stellite.
The integration of Stellite is progressing well and it's in line with our plan.
In fiscal '13 we'll focus more tightly on aligning our functional organization enabled by the implementation of SAP at the principal Stellite operating locations.
For the quarter Stellite's reported dilution impact on earnings per share was approximately $0.02 and this included approximately $0.06 per share of purchase accounting and integration and related charges offset by Stellite's operational contribution of approximately $0.04 demonstrating a favorable trend in operating performance.
For the year Stellite's reported dilution impact on earnings per share was $0.09 which includes $0.13 per share of purchase accounting and integration of related charges and Stellite contributed $0.04 operationally for the 4-month period year-to-date.
Now I'll touch on our outlook.In summary our outlook for fiscal 2013 has earnings per share at the midpoint going over 10% from the prior year.
And as Carlos noted this assumes a 5% to 7% top line organic growth.
Also we'll continue to follow our priority use of cash.
We announced that we increased our dividend by 14% and expanded our share repurchase authorization program from 8 million shares to 12 million shares.
Our outlook for fiscal '13 also takes into consideration a moderation in industrial activity and short-term slowing related to natural gas drilling and underground coal mining in North America.
However we expect to WIDIA to continue to grow faster than the market.
The acquisition of Stellite realized benefits from synergies and our overall company-specific strategies will help us outperform the global IPI.
We still believe our margin opportunity potential has room to expand in long term as the markets are expected to continue to grow raw material prices stabilize and our strategies drive additional opportunities.
The following are assumptions also embedded on our outlook to help you with your model.
As I said earlier we're projecting 5% to 7% organic growth which is outpacing global industrial production.
Regarding the Stellite acquisition we expect operational earnings contribution in the range of $0.20 to $0.30 per share.
Integration costs primarily for the implementation of SAP are forecast to be approximately $6 million or $0.05 per share.
So on a net basis we expect Stellite will contribute earnings per share in the range of $0.15 to $0.25 in fiscal '13.
Foreign exchange is expected to be a significant headwind compared to the prior year and will have an unfavorable impact on operations which we estimate to be $0.20 to $0.25 per share.
Interest expense is expected to average approximately $6 million a quarter.
That's down $3 million -- or $0.03 per share due to our bond refinancing.
So that will be a favorable pickup.
And our effective tax rate is expected to be between 24% and 25% due to including the full year of Stellite's operations and an unfavorable jurisdictional mix which we estimate to be $0.20 to $0.25 per share lower than the prior year.
Earnings are expected to be somewhat consistent with our historical seasonal pattern with 40% of earnings in the first half and 60% in the second half of the fiscal year.
Consistent with our capital structure principles we plan to reinvest back in the business with CapEx between $115 million to $125 million for inclusion of expanding tungsten production capability growth productivity and some international expansion.
We also approved an increase to our dividend of $0.02 per quarter or 14%.
And we increased our share repurchase program to 12 million shares with 8.5 million shares available under the amended authorization.
We expect our free operating cash flow to approximate 80% to 100% of net income and this will become an objective for us going forward to move towards 100%.
And our compensation metrics have been modified to include free operating cash flow as a metric.
Based on these factors we expect earnings per share for fiscal '13 to be in the range of $4.10 to $4.40 per share.
The midpoint of this range represents a 10% increase for fiscal '12 adjusted earnings per share of $3.86.
At this time I'd like to turn it back to Carlos for a few closing comments.
Thank you Frank.
As demonstrated in this past year's results we believe that we can sustain and significantly grow profitability earnings and return levels.
We look forward to fiscal 2013 and remain committed to executing our strategies.
We continue to focus on balancing our served end markets business mix and geographic presence to more effectively manage risks associated with cyclicality.
We will also maintain discipline regarding our manufacturing footprint and cost structure.
Kennametal's fiscal year 2013 outlook reflects our continued expectation to outperform global industrial production to company-specific initiatives.
Our EPS guidance at the midpoint represents a 10% increase from prior year as Frank mentioned.
In addition we expect to continue generating strong cash flows which provide us with a stronger financial position enhanced operating flexibility and greater liquidity.
Most importantly we will remain disciplined in our capital allocation process and seek to maximize shareholder value.
Our priority uses of cash will be consistently applied to acquisitions to enhance our technology platforms reinvesting strategically in our business repurchasing shares and paying dividends.
As Frank said our board has approved expanding our buyback authorization to 12 million shares from 8 million shares and additionally approve a 14% increase in the dividend.
Both of those actions represent our commitment to shareholders as well as our confidence in Kennametal's strong cash generation ability going forward.
In summary we'll continue our journey of always improving our customer-centric enterprise as part of being a breakaway company one that is profitable throughout the economic cycle.
Thank you for your interest in Kennametal.
We will now take questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question will come from the line of Eli Lustgarten with Longbow Securities.
Can you -- can we talk a little bit about the guidance? You talked about 5% to 7% organic growth.
Can you perhaps give us some insight of the components of the 5% to 7% how much is Industrial how much you think is Infrastructure? Which markets are generating that kind of growth because it's really a mixed bag out there? And I assume -- and additionally geographically some idea where it's coming from.
Yes.
I mean we will not break it down in -- from Infrastructure and Industrial.
However I can tell you that the end markets are going to expect -- we expect to grow.
It's obviously aerospace.
It's automotive as you saw in the capital goods market today.
The automotive or transportation outpaced -- carried that growth.
We continue to see that.
We expect that the energy will come back in the second half of the year our fiscal year.
And we also think that the highway bill is going to help our business in the second half of the year.
And relative to geographies I think we'll see the North America market to continue to lead.
And perhaps the rest of the world is going to come a little better for us and then followed by Europe.
And again I want to remind you that we grew 3x IPI this year.
And our plan consists of growing IPI by 2x.
So the question is what happens if IPI is lower? We also have the fact that we can grow 3x IPI.
So we think that it's a pretty balanced outlook.
So is it fair to say that you're sort of expecting most of the top line to come in Industrial and Infrastructure will probably have a more difficult first half of '13 and to sort of improving second half? Is that sort of the profile you're looking at? Yes.
Eli I would say that particularly in the Industrial side I think -- we expect the first half to be a little bit softer particularly from Europe and China.
We expect us a bit of rebound there in '13.
And very similar to what Carlos said in the second half we also expect the construction bill the energy.
And Stellite will start to come into the organic calculation when we have it for the fourth quarter.
And we expect a little bit of an opportunity particularly into the IGT and some of the energy sectors that we were not in previously which opened the door with the Stellite acquisition from a platform perspective.
So we think that will help us in the second half as we go forward because that will be embedded in the organic growth.
And can you give us an update of what -- of how the -- your arrangement with Fastenal is working at this point? Are you seeing much -- do you have much in there for expectations in 2013? And how is the rolling out of the product into Fastenal system working? Yes.
I would say that we met all our expectations which were aggressive expectations with Fastenal for 2012.
Give us the -- some idea of how big it was in 2012 or what that means -- or what numbers looked like? I mean I think it's still small for us to quantify that.
However we have very high expectations going in 2013 with Fastenal and -- but again it's a low percentage but the growth percentage is tremendous the pin [ph] growth percentage.
Eli I would expect WIDIA sales to do better in '13 than they did in '12 if that helps you.
Okay.
And can you -- this will be my final question.
Can you talk a little bit about the ability to sustain profitability? I mean you're starting to get numbers that are quite respectable even in the softening kind of markets that we're seeing macro environment.
And what's your expectations on profitability? I assume it's basically just the whole profitability in '13 more than any major expansion.
So Eli I would start now -- I'll let Frank add.
I would by saying without Stellite our EBIT margin was over 17%.
So if we add 0 organic growth going forward we should be able to maintain the 15%.
Then when you put Stellite on top which is I mean -- we are pretty optimistic and confident that we can be at 15-plus percent EBIT margin even if we don't experience growth.
The only thing I'll add there we do have some investments Eli built in from both a combination of headcount and some cost from strategies.
We obviously can control those.
We can defer them to help -- if there is a further softening.
And I also anticipate raw material cost particularly in the second half should come down on a year-over-year basis.
So we should see that benefit come through in addition of what Carlos said just a couple of points there are.
Your next question comes from the line of Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Mike Shlisky filling in for Ann today.
So we've been seeing on few press reports recently about the potential lack of availability of tungsten coming out of China.
They have been [indiscernible] exports on certain rare earth materials.
Just wondering if you've seen any impact to your supply chain from those kinds of reports that have been coming out.
Yes.
First of all we have not seen any interruption or any difficulty in getting tungsten.
I also like to remind you that more than 50% of our tungsten that we buy you could go up to potentially -- even 75% of our tungsten that we acquire comes from western sources that rely significantly on working scrap in other words taking scrap and turning it to material.
So we do not see or anticipate an issue with getting raw materials.
Yes.
The only thing Mike I'd add to that is first there is talk in the U.S.
of releasing some strategic stockpiles [indiscernible] they are trying  to make some noise in the U.S.
But the blessing in disguise there is as you know we've been chasing our inventory down all year.
So we're focused on finished goods.
And we probably have an adequate supply of tungsten at this point.
So I don't see any near-term issues.
And if anything the price should continue to stay where it's at or potentially go down later on.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Just a second one here.
From your comments earlier about North American transportation I was wondering if you can perhaps break down for us which areas of that end market are kind of doing better than others? I mean the automotive in North America is going -- it continues to increase their production.
I mean we -- as you know we participate in the new projects yet to come.
Our facility is still in Ohio.
It is near capacity with new projects.
They are going to be deployed in the next 12 months which continues to show us -- and the quoting activity continues to show us that that market is going to stay robust.
And as I said in Europe we participate in high-end cars the German cars.
That is going to pretty much stay flat.
And we're starting to see a rebound in the automotive in China as well.
Your next question comes from line of Adam Uhlman with Cleveland Research.
Frank congrats on the -- on getting the inventory down.
I'm wondering if there was an additional earnings impact from that in the fourth quarter.
I might have missed it.
And then is there -- what's built into the guidance for this year in terms of inventory reduction both the impact to earnings and then what you think you can get absolute dollars down by? Yes.
I'll only start with the fourth quarter.
We're down 21 net I would say a combination of finished goods and some raw materials there.
And I would say that the second half impact was about $0.07 per share most of that -- which happened in the fourth quarter.
So we think that's pretty much behind from that perspective.
But as we go into fiscal '13 right now I want to reduce inventory at minimum 10%.
So I'm talking about $60 million approximately.
And the related unfavorable absorption is already built into the plants.
So there's no significant impact that I would call up.
But we'll continue to focus on reducing inventory.
And that's a big area for cash flow generation as we go forward.
I think from both the SAP system our internal processes and aligning free operating cash flow with the bonus metrics I think we'll get the desired behavior as we go forward.
Has there been any impact of fill rates from taking down the inventories? Yes.
Our fill rates have improved significantly.
Okay.
And then just a clarification on the tax rate how should we be thinking about the earnings progression through the year between the U.S.
and international earnings? It sounds like the domestic earnings is going to be a bigger chunk of the earnings this year unless there is some other type of an adjustment.
Frank could you just kind of walk through that how that plays out this year? Yes.
Again I think you're right.
I think with the benefit of our European structure being down a little bit and higher incomes and other jurisdictions it's going to put a little bit of pressure on it.
And I think we have that pretty well in line with the 40-60 split with our earnings off of the midpoint.
So we think that we should be in a -- can we get a couple of discrete benefits which we would call out maybe short term if we can resolve a couple of things which I wouldn't put necessarily in the guidance? And then the other wild card will be in the United States if they decide whether it's a lame duck session or after the election if they decided to do something with the RD&amp;E credit.
So I have not built anything in nor we allowed to build anything in the tax rate as we go forward.
So if you take the discrete items out the Stellite had an overall effect of higher tax rate or call it above Kennametal's.
So I'd say most of the 24% 25% reflects the impact of Stellite.
It expects the earnings switch there.
And if we have any potential upside it will be from some discrete items maybe in the first half depending on what happens with election.
Your next question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
It's Charlie Clarke for Julian.
It just seemed that the European businesses held up pretty well in the June quarter.
I just don't know if you can add any color on the last 3 weeks in those businesses.
I mean I think so far what we see is aligned with our guidance.
I want to say that if you guys follow our orders we put orders in the first 2 months of each quarter.
The orders are very -- we have -- as an example this quarter the first 2 months of the quarter were very challenging and June was a great month for us.
And so we try not to predict or react too much to 1 month to another because I think the customers are -- our fill rates are very good.
So the customers tend to get stuff from -- orders stuff when they absolutely need it because they know that we're here and we're going deliver for them.
So as a result of that we see within the quarter pretty good month and pretty bad month.
And this has taken place for the last couple of quarters.
So I wouldn't judge where we are today to -- I wouldn't read to much into everything -- to anything but we feel good about Europe.
And I remind everyone that the majority of our sales comes from Germany in Europe which is a blessing right now.
Germany continues to hold their own.
Yes.
I would -- Charlie I would add.
And I think some of the newer products and the strategies that the European leadership team is doing is continuing to drive very good results.
And I think as Carlos talked about some of the steel plants whether it was Solen or whether it's Lichtenau in Europe we've seen a lot more activity in the steel plants which is a very good leading indicator for us as we look at our business because when they're packed if we are making tooling they eventually are going to go into the energy market the aerospace transportation.
And later on you get the pull-through when you put the inserts in the pockets.
And given the automotive and transportation stuff that Carlos alluded to there is going to be an opportunity.
So I would think it's a combination of the transportation.
And believe it or not some of the business in the infrastructure is actually still hanging in there.
Okay great.
And I'm just curious to just kind of that IPI forecast that you guys put out there the 3.5% or the 3.4%.
Is it fair to say that if we kind of look at the IPI by region that your regional forecast are pretty similar to those as well kind of 1.5 to 2x like the regional IPIs or is there any kind of...
I'll start and Carlos could add.
I mean we looked at it.
I would say the Americas is a little bit below that.
We expect Western Europe to be flat to slightly negative particularly in the first half of the fiscal year and then it gets a little bit stronger in the March and the June quarter.
And then I would say Asia we're assuming for global industrial production like a 6-ish kind of number there.
So when you take Americas add a little less than 3% a slightly negative Western Europe front half loaded and the overall Asia of about 6 to 7 in that range.
That's we're getting into that 3.4% with -- at the sequential -- I would say the toughest part is the September quarter.
And then it's pretty much consistent as we go out with 1 or 2 offset in the other.
Yes.
And this goes to show you that our guidance already assumes that Europe is not going to do as well.
Your question will come from the line of Stephen Stone with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just a quick questions -- I have 2 questions here actually.
First can you speak more about raw materials? Have you caught up in prices? I thought you had already done it in Industrial? Yes.
I think we're pretty much aligned as we've said.
It probably was -- we probably were a quarter behind.
But as we entered the fourth quarter as reflected in the sequential improvement in the infrastructure margin we think we're pretty much where we need to be.
APT has been basically -- this is market not what we pay.
But the APT price has been in the range of 3 90 to 4 15 and this -- at this point it's been somewhat stable.
So we think we're where we need to be.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then can you just talk more about what you're seeing in the Asian markets I guess especially recently it looks like you're seeing a slower growth there as well? Yes.
I think that we experienced that in the fourth quarter and it's obviously reflected in our results.
Now I'll also remind that the comps from our fourth quarter I mean were very very high in Asia.
So we continue to see some growth.
Like Frank said when we look at 2013 we anticipate IPI to be about 6%.
So we feel that the automotive is going to continue to drive that -- the automotive industry so transportation as well as -- we think that the energy and mining is going to come back towards the second half of the year.
Yes I would say actually the Infrastructure business performed pretty decent in China.
That's both mining as well as surface mining which was a strategy to get into the adjacencies.
And why I'd say -- it was probably that the softer spot was I'll call it local manufacturing in China.
So the BYDs the Cherys the Geelys et cetera where we saw a little bit of an unfavorable mix there while the exports were good where we got the benefit in Europe.
We saw the domestic auto manufacturers a little bit softer and we expect them to pick up here when the new person takes over in China.
The new government.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Rayle with Northcoast Research.
Most of my questions have been answered.
But you guys had kind of said historically that you could do about $3 billion in sales with the current footprint.
It's a good problem to have but you're kind of getting close to that.
Is there -- does that theoretically move up from here? Or do you think you need to start adding more capacity? Yes.
So the -- we're forecasting 3-plus billion dollars in sales.
You got to consider 300-plus is in acquisition.
By the way it's probably -- the capacity utilization in the new acquisition is probably in the 50% to 60%.
So that gives us a little more there -- a little more.
So -- and every year through lean benefit we get about 4% to 6%.
We free about 4% to 6% in capacity.
So to the extent that it's going to take us until next year or the year after to get like $3.5 billion -- is sort of the new number that we're looking at as a result of the acquisition.
Okay got you.
So $3.5 billion total including...
Yes in total.
That way.
Yes.
Okay.
So basically since you -- I think you gave that number out in '08 the $3 billion number we can grow that at around the midpoint of say 5% a year since '08 to get kind of what the quarter or previous Kennametal with that? Yes.
I mean directionally right.
Yes.
Your next question comes from line of Steve Barger with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I've been jumping around on a couple of calls.
So if this has been asked just let me know.
But thinking about your sales in Asia or China specifically I know you expect to outgrow industrial production but will that growth by the same magnitude is what you did last year? Or is your relative growth rate changing in any of the regions? It is about the same.
I think the one area that is going to probably do better is India but not by much.
Yes.
The other thing we did put some investments in Australia as we continue to look at I'll call it the earthworks component whether it's mining.
We put a new facility up in Baotou China for drum.
So I think a combination we should see a little bit of a pickup there between surface mining as well as some of the drums on the earthworks side in Asia.
So that should be a little bit stronger as we get into a little bit more capacity into these smaller facilities.
But everything else I agree with Carlos.
Research Division</strong> So if North America were to moderate a touch more do you think you'd pick up share or just kind of maintain where you are relative to the cycle? Well I mean if -- one of the things is if we are outpacing industrial production that implies that we're gaining share.
And so our forecast going forward shows that IPI is going to be slightly lower in North America versus this past year.
So our growth will moderate in North America but we still are growing at least 2x IPI.
I would -- with North America piece as we talked earlier I think WIDIA should help us and grow faster on the WIDIA side with the Fastenal and kind of the value-added resellers.
And I would expect in the second half of '13 particularly some of the highway construction bill to pick up in there.
We're also seeing some signs of some life and some energy just looking at some of the I'll call it steel projects and some of the orders we're seeing relative to energy.
It's up.
So we think maybe that's either the -- I'll call the December quarter or early part of '13.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one last one.
Nice to see the increased buyback authorization.
Did you guys talked about a specific trigger that will cause you to get more aggressive? Or is this going to be more mechanical in terms of reducing share count? Did you already talk about that? No.
I mean it's going to be a combination of -- we're going to follow sort of our strategy of redeployment.
I mean obviously it has to do with where we are in the acquisition pipeline and where the share price is and so forth.
So again I encourage everyone to look at what we did in 2012 which was we bought 2 million in the first quarter and made a large acquisition in the third quarter so -- and by the way increased dividends last year.
We increased dividends this year again.
So we want to have the flexibility of -- if the acquisitions don't come through and the stock doesn't do better obviously we have the ability to go buy up to the full authorization.
Your next question comes from line of Justin Ward of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> You kind of answered my question which was what are you guys seeing that gives you the conviction that your sales to North American energy and mining markets have bottomed.
I think you just mentioned you're seeing some improved orders there.
Can you elaborate on that a little bit? Yes I mean I think our quotes are very strong.
I think our orders that are led to the sort of steel orders that lead into -- are indicated and lead into our insert sales and our stock are strong.
But I want to continue to remind everyone our models -- our forecast models are pretty good.
Last year we -- a year ago we forecasted our growth.
We are pretty close to our forecast even though the IPI and all this stuff is going on.
It went significantly down.
We still delivered 3x the IPI.
So we have a fairly good level of confidence in the guidance that we're giving.
And again -- and every one is consistent with our previous years 40% in the first half 60% in the second half.
It is mainly due to work days vacations in Europe and all that stuff.
That's pretty much historical.
LLC Research Division</strong> And that 40% to 60% does that apply to sales as well as EPS? No.
Sales is anywhere is from 47% 48% in the first half and then the remainder in the second half.
That's been kind of the split.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one last quick one.
You talked about the EPS impact of currency next year what are you expecting for the top line? Well I would say it's almost 4% of top line sales.
That's over $100 million.
It's a big impact.
Your next question comes the line of Doug Thomas with JET Investment.
But Carlos I think sometimes people investors analysts in particular lose sight of the big picture.
And I just -- I wanted to -- one other thing that's always impressed me about Kennametal in the years that I've covered the company is the direct alignment between compensation and performance the significant insider ownership and the fact that you guys spend money in general and make investments like it was your own money as opposed to many other companies out there.
And so I think maybe it might be helpful if you could just -- because a lot of guys don't read proxies and don't pay attention to much of this stuff.
And obviously with the stock having come in from where it was and trading at the valuation it's currently trading at I think maybe you should remind people about the fact that you do have direct alignment and that you are -- you guys are consistently acting in the best interest of shareholders when it comes to running the company.
Yes.
I mean the point is -- I mean that's a good point.
I mean obviously our compensation is very mechanical to be [indiscernible] formulaic.
And so if we -- whatever guidance it is our compensation depends on that guidance.
So we would not think of giving guidance that we did not have a very strong conviction to that guidance because at the bottom line it's going to cost us in our pocketbook significantly.
And for me personally as you can read in the proxy my compensation is close to 70% at risk.
So there is a big incentive for me to be very cautious about the guidance that I put out there.
So there's a lot of work that goes on too.
And like I said even if you look at last year we had the same question that we had last year and it was "we kind of don't believe your guidance is too aggressive growth " and all that stuff.
And guess what? And by the way it turned out to be much worse than what we talked back then that the whole economy and here we are.
We met all the objectives and so we feel very good.
And Doug I appreciate your words because that is so true.
Your final question comes from the line of Henry Kirn with UBS.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned that WIDIA grew 12% last year.
What kind of growth expectation is in the guidance for WIDIA for '13? And can growth rates remain at or above 2012 levels? Higher.
It's going to be higher than those levels.
And one of the reasons for that is that last year we also had some products that we moved from WIDIA to Kennametal.
So this year it's going to be a like-to-like and it's going to show us a higher growth.
But we're not going to specifically talk about that for competitive reasons the exact number but it's higher.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And forgive me if I missed this but what share count is the EPS guidance predicated on? It'll be down a little bit Henry because we have twofold -- as Carlos said we're probably by between 2 million to 2.5 million evenly over the quarters.
That's for planning purposes.
And then we typically issue -- it's a bit like 800 000 shares.
That happened in the first quarter.
So at minimum we'll be doing 2 million to 2.5 million.
That's what's in our plan and as Carlos said consistent with our priority uses of cash.
Pending all the acquisitions the timing we could accelerate it or we'll see how we best to play our funds.
Our Q&amp;A period is now complete.
I will now turn the conference back over to Ms.
McGuire for any closing remarks.
Thanks Regina.
This concludes our discussion.
Please contact me Quynh McGuire at (724) 539-6559 if you have a follow-up question.
Thanks for joining us.
Today's call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Kennametal's First Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Regina.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us to review Kennametal's first quarter fiscal year 2013 results.
We issued our quarterly earnings press release earlier today.
You may access this announcement via our website at www.kennametal.com.
Consistent with our practice in prior quarterly conference calls we've invited various members of the media to listen in to this call.
It's also being broadcast live on our website and a recording of this call will be available on our site for replay through November 26 2012.
I'm Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations for Kennametal.
Joining me for our call today are Chairman President and CEO Carlos Cardoso; Vice President and CFO Frank Simpkins; Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller Martha Bailey.
Carlos and Frank will provide further explanation on the quarter's financial performance.
After their remarks we'll be happy to answer your questions.
At this time I'd like to direct your attention to our forward-looking disclosure statement.
The discussion we'll have today contains comments that may constitute forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve a number of assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information regarding these risk factors and uncertainties is detailed in Kennametal's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition Kennametal provided the SEC with a Form 8-K a copy of which is currently available on our website.
This enables us to discuss non-GAAP financial measures during this call in accordance with SEC Regulation G.
This 8-K presents GAAP financial measures that we believe are most directly comparable to those non-GAAP financial measures and it provides a reconciliation of those measures as well.
I'll now turn the call over to Carlos.
Thank you Quynh.
Hello everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
As we enter the first quarter of fiscal year 2013 we expected to face some economic challenges.
However political uncertainty in the U.S.
sovereign debt issues in the eurozone pending leadership transition in China and slowing growth in emerging markets have curtailed demand in many of our served end markets more than we initially anticipated.
For the September quarter we reported earnings per share of $0.57 on $629 million of sales compared with prior year period of $0.88 on $659 million in sales.
Despite the effect of the decreased volume and low absorption of manufacturing cost we deliver an operating margin of 10.8% for the quarter when adjusted to exclude the Stellite acquisition.
This margin performance is due to our relentless discipline on controlling costs.
Also on an adjusted basis we maintained strong return on invested capital of 14.6%.
We have contingency plans to further reduce cost and maximize our cash flows.
Although market conditions make organic growth more challenging in the near-term we remain highly focused on cost control to deliver mid-teens EBIT margin for the full year.
Also Kennametal consistently generates strong cash flow each year throughout the economic cycle.
As end-user demand softened during the quarter particularly in the month of September it was further intensified by inventory destocking.
Our customers particularly distributors are working down their inventory levels.
We believe that those challenges are near term in nature fueled by uncertainty since we expect that pent-up demand to be realized in the future.
As a consumables business our products are required in manufacturing processes and must be replaced regularly.
Sooner or later customers need to replenish their inventories.
At the International Manufacturing &amp; Technology Show or IMTS held in Chicago in September we showcased innovative and new products for both Kennametal and WIDIA brands.
Registration for the show marked the highest level ever and machine tool builders reported seeing healthy level of customer interest.
We believe those are encouraging indicators for longer-term sentiment.
In the meantime we'll continue to execute our strategies to maintain high profitability financial flexibility and our strong balance sheet.
In addition to further reducing our cost structure we are deeply focused on maximizing cash flows.
Accordingly we have scaled back on our planned capital expenditures for fiscal year 2013 from the prior level of $115 million to $125 million to a new range of $95 million to $110 million.
At this time I would like to provide an overview of end market trends.
In aerospace IHS Global Insight expects commercial global production to increase 32% in 2012 and 16% in 2013 which suggests the aircraft production is back on track.
In general engineering the Institute for Trend Research reports that U.S.
capacity utilization has been high and increasing machinery inventories may suggest some overproduction.
Therefore manufacturers and distributors may be inclined to decrease inventories as industrial markets reflect a slowdown in the near term.
In transportation light vehicle sales in North America has benefited from improved credit conditions but the overall economic growth environment remains tedious.
Vehicle sales in North America are expected to grow moderately through the remainder of calendar year 2012.
In Europe production is expected to decline end of December quarter and this demand outlook was revised to reflect that 2013 sales are estimated to be lower than 2012.
European production is not projected to return to its 2011 high level for several years.
In China passenger vehicle production has higher but light commercial vehicle production decline year-over-year.
In India light vehicle production declined partially due to a local manufacturer's plant shutdown due to labor unrest.
Consumer confidence credit availability and pent-up demand will play key roles in strengthening auto demand.
In mining the 2012 year-to-date thermal coal consumption in the U.S.
declined by 27% from prior year.
This is primarily due to many utilities switching from coal to natural gas.
Currently the electricity sector coal stockpiles at all-time level and coal production has been lower year-over-year.
China and Australia also have an oversupply situation.
However there is modest growth projected in South Africa which is forecasting 3% year-over-year growth of imported coal.
In the oil and gas markets there has been measurable slowing in drilling activity with world rig count decreasing by 5% year-over-year.
Historically colder weather in the northern hemisphere during the winter months helps to deplete storage levels and encourage an increase in drilling activity.
Overall we are staying the course to build a global portfolio to generate revenues in equal terms from North America Western Europe and rest of the world markets.
Also we'll continue to diversify our mix of served end markets to reduce volatility and mitigate downside exposure in cyclical sectors.
We continue to make progress with strategic growth initiatives to increase our addressable market and gain share.
For example our distribution-exclusive WIDIA brand strategy increases our market presence and provides innovative solutions specifically generated to customers that buy through the indirect channel.
In addition we further increase our value proposition to the marketplace by consistently introducing new technologies and developing new products to improve customer productivity.
Kennametal has successfully managed through economic headwinds in the past.
We have never been in a stronger position than we are now having effectively executed our strategies to increase operating efficiencies and deliver improved profitability.
By executing our company-specific initiatives together with our strong balance sheet we'll continue to position Kennametal well for future growth.
I'll now turn the call over to Frank who will discuss our financial results for the quarter in greater detail.
Frank? Thank you Carlos.
I'll provide some comments on our performance for the September quarter and then I'll move on to our revised outlook for the remainder of fiscal 2013.
Some of my comments are non-GAAP so please refer to the reconciliation schedules provided in our earnings release and related Form 8-K.
Let me get straight to the point.
September quarter was a challenging quarter given the macro environment fueled by uncertainty in the U.S.
and Asia as well as fiscal concerns in Europe.
We experienced weaker-than-expected demand in most markets especially in our General Engineering and Earthworks businesses.
September which is typically our strongest month in the quarter broke from past patterns.
The month started off fine but deteriorated quickly as destocking continued and demand levels from transportation customers in Europe weakened further.
In addition there were further underground coal mine shutdowns and energy customers pushed out orders.
These factors led to a weaker-than-anticipated September.
And another headwind was foreign currency.
However that was as we expected.
On the other hand as Carlos pointed out positive in the quarter was that prior restructuring programs and cost containment measures helped deliver double-digit adjusted operating margin of 10.8% for the base business despite all the commercial challenges of the quarter.
We have initiated cost containment actions in all functions and are managing the business to market conditions while staying focused on our long-term strategies.
Now I'll turn to the income statement.
Sales for the quarter were $629 million compared to $659 million in the same quarter last year.
Sales were down by 4% driven by a 7% organic decline 5% unfavorable foreign currency effect and 1% from fewer business days partly offset by the acquisition contribution of 9% from the Stellite business.
Looking at individual segments our Industrial segment sales were $353 million and they declined by 15% in the prior year quarter.
This was driven by 9% organic decline and a 6% unfavorable effect from currency exchange.
On an organic basis sales declined 15% in general engineering and 1% in transportation partly offset by sales growth of 7% in our aerospace and defense unit.
General engineering was unfavorably impacted by lower sales to the indirect channels due to continued inventory destocking as a result of the slowing macro environment.
Our expectation was that destocking at distributors would end in August especially in the United States.
However distribution inventory levels grew in September and distributors continued to reduce purchasing activities in an effort to burn down their inventory.
Transportation was also impacted by higher unit inventory levels at dealerships.
The big 3 inventory levels were at 67 days in North America compared to a normal level of around 60.
In Europe Germany and Southern Europe slowed and implemented extended shutdowns.
Many European customers implemented short-term work programs given the weakening demand rates.
And on a regional basis our sales in industrial segment decreased by approximately 13% in the Americas 7% in Europe and 1% in Asia.
We believe that there is pent-up demand and the indirect channel sales can reaccelerate quickly once there is more certainty in the overall macroeconomic outlook.
Our Infrastructure segment sales were $276 million and they increased 15% from the prior-year quarter driven by the Stellite acquisition contributing 25% growth.
This was partly offset by a 5% organic sales decline 4% unfavorable foreign currency and 1% fewer business days.
On an organic basis sales declined by 6% in both Earthworks and energy.
Earthworks continues to be impacted by weak underground coal demand in North America.
Although we saw an improvement in this sector in August many major U.S.
underground coal companies idled mines and announced additional closures in the middle and latter part of September.
This negative outlook was reinforced at the recent MINExpo show in Las Vegas.
Energy is being affected by lower global demand as customers have temporarily postponed orders and have also been destocking inventory.
However they are now forecasting an improvement in the March quarter.
And regionally our sales decreased by 11% in the Americas 7% in Europe and Asia sales were 5% higher.
Now a recap of our operating performance.
Our gross profit margin was 33.1% compared to 38.1% last year.
The decline was due to lower sales volume lower absorption manufacturing cost and the inclusion of Stellite in the business.
However the prior year gross margins benefited from strong organic growth and pricing as well as favorable absorption of manufacturing cost hence the challenging comparison.
Operating expense continues to be a good story and they declined 7% year-over-year.
Overall lower employment and related compensation cost favorable foreign currency were partly offset by the Stellite acquisition operating expenses.
Operating expenses as a percent of sales was 22.1% for the quarter down 10 basis points from the prior year of 22.2%.
And amortization expense was 5.1 for the quarter and that's up from 3.5 last year due primarily to the Stellite acquisition.
Operating income of $64 million compared with $102 million last year.
Operating income included $3 million of Stellite-operated income contribution for the quarter.
Operating income decreased as a result of lower sales volume lower absorption of manufacturing cost and unfavorable foreign currency impact.
Our operating margin for the September quarter was 10.2%.
And adjusting for the Stellite acquisition our base business operating margin was 10.8%.
The Industrial segment's operating income was $35 million compared with $73 million in the same quarter last year.
Industrial operating income decreased due to lower sales volume lower absorption of manufacturing cost and unfavorable currency impacts.
Industrial's operating margin was 10% compared with 17.4% in the prior year.
The infrastructure segment operating income was $32 million compared with $33 million in the same quarter of the prior year.
Infrastructure operating income benefited from the Stellite operating income of $3 million which were more than offset by the effects of organic sales decline and lower absorption of manufacturing cost.
Infrastructure's operating margin was 11.5% for the September quarter compared with 13.5% in the prior year.
Interest expense increased approximately $0.5 million year-over-year in the September quarter to $6 million due to higher debt levels attributable to the Stellite acquisition partly offset by lower bank revolving borrowing cost and a lower bond coupon rate.
The effective tax rate was approximately 21% compared to 23% in the prior year quarter.
The current year rate reflects a net benefit from the effect of the settlements of an income tax audit in Europe partly offset by the impact of stronger earnings in the United States where the income tax rate is higher.
And regarding our bottom line performance we reported September quarter diluted earnings per share of $0.57 compared with $0.88 in the prior year.
And the September quarter earnings per share included acquisition-related contribution of $0.01.
Turning to cash flow our cash flow from operating activities was $3 million compared with a cash outflow of $7 million in the prior year.
Net capital expenditures were $15 million compared to $12 million in the prior year.
Free operating cash flow for the quarter was $12 million or an outflow compared with an outflow of $18 million in the prior year.
We remain committed to our priority uses of cash.
During the September quarter we purchased 706 000 of our shares and we continue to be highly disciplined in our capital allocation process to ensure that we invest in initiatives with the highest shareholder returns.
Our balance sheet remains strong.
Our cash position was $111 million.
We'll remain focused on improving our working capital and our DSO ITO and DPO were at relatively similar levels in the September quarter compared to June despite the substantial decline in economic activities.
This demonstrates that our operating model has become more adaptable to the dynamic market environment.
Inventory increased approximately $32 million from June.
The increase is almost entirely attributable to raw material purchase commitments.
This is related to the sales decline in the September quarter.
And as we have previously stated we still remain committed to reducing our inventory by $60 million for fiscal 2013.
At quarter end our total debt was $601 million up $35 million or 6% from June due primarily to share repurchases of $26 million and a free operating cash flow outflow of $12 million partly offset by lower foreign exchange.
That was up $288 million versus the prior year due to the Stellite acquisition.
And our debt-to-cap ratio at September 30 was 26% compared to 25.3% at June 30.
And our U.S.
defined benefit pension plan remains 100% funded and our return on adjusted capital was 14.6%.
Now I'll give you a quick update on our acquisition of Stellite.
The integration of Kennametal Stellite continues to proceed well with focus turning to further alignment of business processes with Kennametal standards.
Most noteworthy is the project to implement SAP or integrated business operating system which was launched last quarter.
This project will further enable the efficiency in growth synergies between our organizations.
The integration team reports that 49% of all work streams are complete at quarter end slightly ahead of our plans.
During the quarter Stellite experienced similar weaknesses in its core end markets particularly the construction market in Asia as well as automotive softness in Europe.
Cost control measures have been implemented to mitigate the short-term effects of the weaker commercial environment.
We remain committed to our aggressive integration plan and our cost control measures will not impact initiatives critical to achieving synergies in fiscal 2013.
In the first quarter Kennametal Stellite sales were approximately $60 million and Stellite contributed $0.01 per share to the Kennametal results.
Now I'll turn to the outlook.
When revising our guidance for fiscal 2013 we took into consideration the effects of the global uncertainty as well as the potential for additional inventory destocking by our customers.
We believe that customers are waiting for better clarity pending the outcome of the U.S.
elections and decisions regarding the fiscal cliff situation the ongoing fiscal and monetary challenges in the eurozone and finally the position that China's new leaders will take on any new economic stimulus.
While underlying fundamentals suggest the resumption of growth beginning in calendar 2013 particularly in the U.S.
and Asia we have revised our expectations with a more conservative scenario.
In addition we remain focused on cost reduction initiatives that are within our control.
In response to these many factors Kennametal has lowered its fiscal 2013 total sales growth range from 3% to 6% to a flat to negative 3% organic sales from the previous sales growth of 7% to 10% with organic sales growth of 5% to 7%.
As a result of the lower sales now expected we reduced our earnings per share guidance for fiscal 2013 to a range of $3.40 to $3.70 from the previous range of $4.10 to $4.40.
We expect to generate approximately 35% of earnings in the first half and approximately 65% of earnings in the second half of the fiscal year.
Included in this revised earnings outlook are the following assumptions: First the accretive contribution of Stellite acquisition still expected to be in the range of $0.15 to $0.25 per share net of integration cost.
Second foreign currency is still forecasted to be a significant headwind compared to the prior year and will have an unfavorable impact on operations estimated in the range of $0.10 to $0.15 per share.
And lastly our effective tax rate for fiscal 2013 is expected to be approximately 25% due to the year fully included Stellite as well as unfavorable jurisdictional mix and the combined effects which are now expected to be 20% to 25% per share lower in the prior year.
We now expect to generate cash flow from operations in the range of $320 million to $385 million in fiscal 2013 versus the previous range of $425 million to $475 million.
Based on lower anticipated capital expenditures of approximately $95 million to $110 million we expect to generate between $225 million and $275 million of free operating cash flow for the full fiscal year down from the previous range of $300 million to $350 million.
We continue to expect our free operating cash flow to approximate net income and our incentive compensation metrics continue to include free operating cash flow as a factor.
In summary we have demonstrated in the past that we have successfully navigated challenging economic times.
We are confident that we will weather the soft patch and continue on our path to premiere financial performance.
At this time I'll turn it back to Carlos for closing comments.
Thank you Frank.
As we move forward we will execute the same strategies that have transformed Kennametal into a company that can deliver profitable growth throughout the economic cycle.
We'll continue to meet the demands of our customers by further balancing our served end markets business mix and geographic presence.
We'll continue to adhere to our cost control strategies maintaining our reduced cost structure and further driving business efficiencies.
In addition we'll continue to capitalize on our strong balance sheet to increase shareholder value.
We'll remain disciplined in our capital allocation process with priority uses of cash to include stock buybacks acquisitions capital expenditures and dividends.
In summary we will continually evaluate changing economic conditions around the world.
We have always acknowledged the risks related to the macro uncertainty.
We'll make tough decisions as needed related to capital expenditures manufacturing production and headcount.
In the meantime we'll continue to focus on maintaining operational excellence in every area of our business.
Thank you for your interest in Kennametal.
We will now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Stephen Volkmann with Jefferies and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick things if I may.
It sounds like things really did sort of step down pretty meaningfully in September.
We've heard that from other companies as well.
I guess the first question is is that continuing into October as far as you can see? And I'm curious how long you think this destocking kind of lasts and I guess that’s the first question.
Yes Stephen I think that you are correct.
Things kind of especially in the last 2 weeks of September really declined unexpectedly.
And it's really too early relative to October.
I mean a lot of activities.
Just like in September the last 2 quarters were the weeks that surprised us.
It's too early to tell in October.
It's definitely not getting worse but too early.
Relative to the stock we did a look at this last quarter.
And typically in the U.S.
we thought that our distributors were carrying about 60 days worth of inventory.
I mean this is an educated guess in Europe about 90 days.
And that was at the rates that at the growth rates that we have projected.
So with the lower growth rates we probably had a month to each one of those areas.
And again this is another educated guess.
So I would say that we probably have -- starting in September probably had about 3 months with the new growth rate in the U.S.
channel and maybe 120 in Europe.
So I mean that's kind of the best guess we can have at this point.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I guess given the sort of the downshift across what sounds like most of the company based on your comments Carlos about end markets do you change your view of cash utilization at this point? Does share repurchase become more or less interesting given the uncertainty? Do the acquisitions get tougher to do? Do you sort of try to sit on your cash for a little while and make sure things don't get worse? Or am I thinking about it the wrong way? All of the above.
I think the acquisitions are now going to get tougher.
I think that this is -- we haven't seen really a change in sort of in the mode and in the space of the acquisition.
Certainly again as I said we have a strong balance sheet.
We have committed to doing 2.5 million shares versus in this year.
And we have -- as you know we expanded our authorization.
So we are willing and capable of doing more if that's the best -- in the best interest of the shareholders at this point.
Yes.
I would add we have the balance sheet as you know to handle both buyback as well as acquisitions.
And stock buyback could become more of a priority if the acquisitions -- if we can't tie them right? So we'll continue to be aggressive with both.
Your next question will come from Eli Lustgarten with Longbow Securities.
Just a clarification on the tax rate at 25% for the year.
Should we assume 25% every quarter? Or are you going to average 25% and therefore you got to be by 26% 27% somewhere out there? Yes to make it easy it'll be 25% for the year and will probably as best we know 26% for the quarter 2 to 4 based upon the mix we have right now.
So that's why it basically stayed at 25% despite the benefit in the first quarter.
Okay.
And how big was the gain the adjustment that you got in net settlement in the quarter? About $3 million.
Now can you just help us a little bit on your organic growth outlook as you sort of interpreted? The first quarter was not exactly pretty down 7% but you had real ugliness in industrial.
I guess industrial was way down 15% I think it was in that.
Can you give us some idea of these segments how you see the organic growth unfolding for the next couple of quarters? I mean I assume the second quarter will be a little bit better than the first quarter in industrial but not -- still probably down double digits.
Is that sort of the way we should think about this then? Yes I would think the second quarter.
It actually also has 1 more workday year-over-year but sequentially it's almost down 1 to 2 days the way the calendar fell this year.
So yes I would expect a slight improvement and that's why we looked at the 35-65 but when you really take it into consideration we expect a little more growth in the second half and that's due to some of the things that we've talked about WIDIA construction kicking in in the March quarter.
And we don't think destocking will go past in December there may be some -- I don't want to call it restocking but we think that cycle will be worked through.
U.S.
should pick up a little bit in a couple of other sectors particularly with the aerospace and defense.
Stellite will have a stronger second half.
They start flipping into the organic growth numbers and then we expect -- the cost controls that we've put in place could lower our material costs as well as lower interest expense across the board to help us drive particularly stronger earnings in the second half.
And can you also maybe give us some help on operating profitability.
I mean if you want to make a mid-teens EBIT with the second quarter probably again a little bit better than the first quarter looking we are talking about over -- north of 15% in both sectors in the second half of the year I mean is that sort of the way the focus of the cost-cutting will be? Yes.
And by the way that's normal.
I mean if you look at our -- for previous year -- years I mean the percentage margin grows every quarter sequentially.
I mean the worst the lower percentage is always in the first quarter and the highest percentage is always in the fourth quarter.
It's historical.
Yes.
The other thing I'll add to that too Eli particularly in the fourth quarter this year we actually have 2 additional workdays.
We'll get some additional benefits as sales slowly pick up we'll get some additional absorption benefits in the fourth quarter.
So the fourth quarter will be a little bit better profitability-wise/margin.
And my final question has pricing been held up throughout this whole process? Or any pricing issues taking place as we go through the weakness in the marketplace? Absolutely staying.
The pricing is stuck.
So pricing is flat I mean there's no change in pricing? I mean to this point? No.
Your next question will come from the line of Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about where exactly both by end market and by region where you saw the greatest surprise in decline in demand as we went through September? So by region the highest decline was North America followed by Europe and we actually had slightly positive in Asia.
By end market the worst decline was at general engineering followed by Earthworks and then energy and transportation and aerospace is actually positive.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Carlos we are now in October 23 and just to follow-up on Steve's question it doesn't seem like we're too early in October given that you get daily order rates.
Why do you feel like it's too early to tell how October is looking at this point? Because in September we experienced the largest decline in the last 2 weeks of the month.
So I mean that -- we would have a better idea if there was not this destocking phenomenon going on.
So I mean as Frank said we think that sequential -- the second quarter is going to be better.
It's not getting worse but I'm hesitant to talk about knowingly that just in September -- actually when we started the September month we were -- our indicators were still showing us that we're not going to be too far from where we needed to be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up to that given that you have excess raw material inventories your customers are destocking and your decrementals were quite weak how should we think about modeling the decrementals by segment going forward? Well I think that decrementals will be more pervasive in the industrial side but I don't think Ann we’ll have as much destockings we experienced in the industrial sector in the September quarter.
It should start subsizing in the December quarter but we don't get the big benefit on the infrastructure side given the larger material content product.
But if -- when we have the volume I would say it's a little bit stronger in the industrial side particularly for the whole year compared to what we have in the first quarter if things don't improve.
We're looking at cost cutting across the organization.
And with the little volume given our restructuring programs that we did we should see a quick turnaround if we get a little bit of a benefit.
Again I continue to emphasize that at the current levels that we deliver -- sales level in the quarter which was very low we still were around 11% EBIT margin.
And the first quarter is always the lowest quarter the lowest margin quarter.
Research Division</strong> Yes but then the issue is that going forward your compounding the problem with having excess inventories.
Most of the inventory in the industrial sectors in such where you saw most of the destocking? Yes.
Your next question will come from the line of Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> So just a follow-up on the point on industrial decremental margins and thinking about the incremental in the second half.
So I guess you did about a 58% decremental or something in industrial in Q1.
If you think about Q2 it sounds like sales will be down a bit decrementally and it maybe more like 40% because with the underabsorption related to inventory destocking is less severe as a headwind and then you're looking at kind of 30%-plus incremental for the second half as sales start to rebound.
Is that a reasonable view of what your expectations are for the industrial business? I don't think it's unreasonable to that point but you can get the guidance number right? What we took down you can see the sales so it was a pretty big haircut from where we're at but it should improve particularly in the second half.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But I guess the key point is I mean you're saying that that 58% decremental I mean is a function of a lot of underabsorption because of destocking and also I guess the cost-cutting measures haven't started to come through yet.
I mean did you start to take cost out measures in the September quarter itself or those are things that you're mulling over now to put in place in the next 6 months? Yes they really started I would say late in the September quarter.
It's starting to gain some traction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then just in terms of the -- I guess the regional expectations you've given your organic sales growth outlook for the year globally.
Could you just give a little bit color on each region just very top down I guess Americas Europe and Asia? Okay.
So I'll give you the rationale for the year.
We expect North America to be slightly positive for the year.
We expect Europe to be negative and we expect Asia to actually have mid-single-digit growth.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess just a final follow-up.
You talked about the -- the slowdown was pretty severe almost significant U.S.
general engineering there's a subsegment in the second half of September.
And the drop-off I guess there was nothing obviously from the outside that you could see.
I mean issues in Europe and China have been going on for sort of 6 to 9 months.
The PMIs in the U.S.
had taken a leg down already back in July.
So could you -- what sense did you get from the distribution channel as to why suddenly the second half of September something changed? Well I mean again 80% of the orders that we get in a month we ship within the month.
So it just gives you an idea that we really don't have other than the leading indicators in the model that we have I think everyone was surprised -- and as you heard the earnings from the calls already that took place.
So I mean I don't know how to explain it any other way that the orders as a result of destocking people just got really nervous and they'll go down and they'll go up at the same speed actually.
That's why it's hard to tell how quickly -- we believe there's pent-up demand.
The question is is it going to come this quarter is it going to come next quarter or -- all the indicators that we see is that things will come back in the second half -- in our second half of the year probably not very strong but...
Your next question will come from the line of Andy Casey with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I want to follow up on a component of some previous questions specifically the gross profit contribution margin.
If I'm correct -- and I'm going back a couple of years but I think you provided a longer-term incremental gross profit margin target of about 40% for both up and down demand environments.
And the reported quarter number was basically a little more than triple that but there was a lot of stuff going on in the quarter.
So if we adjust currency acquisition and destocking out of the performance what was the core gross profit incremental? I would say it's north of 35%.
I have to go back and factor in the currency impacts on a couple there but Stellite would add over 100 basis points itself.
And the destocking is always tough in the quarter because of the European holiday in the month of August.
So this quarter is a little bit unusual on a standalone basis but it would be north of 35%.
It would probably be 200 to 300 basis points better off the top of my head.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the cost control actions I'm just curious how you're going about it given that you have within your guidance you're expecting kind of another weak quarter in front of us and then some improvement in the second half.
What sort of cost control actions are you putting in place? Well the first thing that you do is you take direct labor right? Because it's -- you man for the volume that you have.
So that's the first thing that you do and we've done that.
And so we have adjusted -- we are adjusted for the current forecast that we have.
And then due to things like -- all the controllable expenses you look at that and you reduce those and those are pretty straightforward to do.
That would include hiring freezes moving investments postponing -- looking at all the discretionary stuff within your control and then longer-term looking at the structure of the business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly and I don't mean this in an overly negative way but given the choppiness of the environment right now I'm just curious as to why you didn't do what some other companies did and just assumed no improvement for the fiscal second half? Well because I mean we have our models Andy and our models work 95% of the time.
So I mean we just can't go out and do what other companies are doing.
We got to do what our models are telling us to do.
So we have very robust models.
And again you can question well the models didn't work for this quarter.
But generally speaking we are on 95% of the time.
So we've got to continue to obviously improve those models but stick with the models that have worked for us.
The next question will come from the line of Adam Uhlman with Cleveland Research.
I'd like to address the industrial segment sales decline maybe a different way to try to better understand the destocking that you're seeing.
Is there any way to divide the decline that you saw between the sales decline seen as direct customers versus the distribution channel? Yes we really don't have that broken down.
I mean it's hard to tell from the -- we don't get all that data from our distributors to be honest with you.
And I guess your sales into the distributors so was it something that the distributors were off 20% 30% then the direct customers were down only less than half that? Well I think the...
We know the distribution was down higher.
I don't know what that number is.
Okay.
And do you have what the WIDIA performance was in the quarter? Yes the WIDIA performance was mid- to high-single digit growth.
By the way it proves that our WIDIA strategy continues to be good.
And then just to get back to the inventory question I guess tungsten's down quite a bit in the stock market.
It looks like you guys ramped up your raw material inventories a lot.
How should I think about the earnings contribution from that as you start to work through those inventories? We have I mean it's not that we -- we have purchase commitments that we have to honor with our suppliers and it is the lifeblood of our manufacturing organization but we've tried to factor in our $60 million reduction that was in our original plan and that was more focused on the finished goods in the [indiscernible].
Raw material doesn't go bad and over time we don't pay for what the market price is immediately so our lag was at 1 quarter in the past maybe it's 1 to 2 quarters as we work through the raw materials.
And by the way the raw materials -- we're going to have a build in the raw materials from lower cost in the second half that I would think that would have offset the -- or more than offset any inventory reduction impact.
Your next question will come from the line of Walt Liptak with Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the guidance and the 65% second half 35% first half.
So it looks like you're thinking that this is going to be the low EPS quarter for the year and that we continue to move up on EPS basis second quarter and then in the back half? Correct.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the inventory destocking is something changed -- we saw a destocking back in '09 too that was pronounced.
Is this the same sort of a phenomena or do you think something's changed with the way that distributors and OEs are stocking and looking at their cutting tool inventory? Well I think that our -- the supply chain always after a recession always gets more efficient.
So I think there is less inventory in the supply chain.
But I think that one of the things that's different now versus 2009 2009 was just a recession driven by consumer and all that stuff and financial crisis and so forth.
I think that there is a lot of uncertainty now.
So I think there's pent-up demand.
So once the elections are over and we're probably going to see some positive coming back starting 2013.
But again everyone has an opinion and it's our view.
Walt on the destocking I think we also had an unusual quarter.
Let me say it one of our large key distributors bought a lot last year because of the acceleration.
We were removing some private label so some distributors had to take that into consideration and some had to deal with the transition out of the WIDIA brand.
So on a year-over-year basis that large distributor I think we had a large and unfairly comparison year-over-year which we don't expect to recur as we go out -- so we know that that destocking should push itself through.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay I understand.
So but -- in general you think the -- maybe starting in the third second quarter and probably in the third quarter we start to see inventories build back up that's sort of what -- that's what's in your model? Correct.
Yes.
Your next question will come from the line of Brian Rayle with Northcoast Research.
Most of my questions have been answered but I guess we can go through the process of -- obviously you guys lowered your cost structure in the first quarter where that is is that -- are we're almost done with that or are we going to see that carry into the second quarter.
And then I guess on the optimistic side how quickly can that ramp up? I mean what kind of parameters exist for orders going either positive or negative on how you can ramp your overall production base? Yes.
We have not reduced physical capacity okay? So we took our -- we have laid off hourly people.
And obviously if things -- if demand starts coming back in January I mean we'll bring those people back.
So capacity is there so we can ramp up and we don't intend or have plans to reduce capacity at this point.
So we would be very flexible and be able to ramp up pretty quickly.
Yes.
And all the discretionary items on a previous question we started in the first quarter they will continue to gain momentum as we go in the out period.
And if we need to add people because business comes back that’s a relatively easy comparison because the key thing is here we didn't let our cost creep back into the organizational infrastructure.
We did take out the fixed cost that are permanent.
And if we take out the Stellite acquisition our headcount is basically where it was at the end of 2009 so we're purposely cautious on adding people back so we don't have the same situation that we've gone through the past cycles.
So we think the cost control the discipline we have now will pay dividends as we go out.
Your next question will come from the line of Stephen Stone with Sidoti &amp; Company.
LLC</strong> Just I guess a quick question.
Most of my questions have been answered but as far as the WIDIA how large of a percentage of revenue is that? About 10%.
LLC</strong> 10%.
And the relationship with Fastenal how's that progressing according to plans? Did this destocking -- any of that's changing this or?? No we are… It’s going the other way.
It's actually above our expectations.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Any...? It's just -- Steve on -- at Fastenal they had a pretty good first quarter.
If you look at the numbers and they continue to focus on the [indiscernible].
We have a good relationship there as well.
As they continue to grow faster they will be definitely a pull through.
And I think to Carlos' point it was a little bit faster than we had anticipated.
So that's a positive as we go forward.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Any plans on more distribution with WIDIA pushing out Fastenal increasing that relationship anything with that? Yes that's the plan.
I mean we have -- both Fastenal and Kennametal together have very aggressive expectations for the future.
I think we have a lot of runway left.
Your next question will come from the line of Steve Barger with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Did you give the September monthly order number? Sorry if I missed it.
We didn't provide the stand-alone September number but it's a high-single digit decline.
Research Division</strong> High-single digit decline and that's the rolling 3 right? Or is that standalone? That's the standalone which contributed to the negative 7 organic decline.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just to go back to that growth -- the negative 7% another way it was -- I know it's hard to quantify but was half of that end-market decline versus destocking or is there any way you can frame up the magnitude of the 2 kind of buckets? Yes I think we'll be speculating at this time.
It's really hard to quantify.
I mean I would tell you that 40% of our sales as a company goes through distribution and the destocking was higher in the distribution side.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just one last one you have a target of growing in 2x to 3x global IPI as you plugged the numbers into your model at the end of the quarter what was your estimate for global IPI in year 1Q.
Just trying to get a sense for how much you underperformed in the sense that that might mean reverting? I would say in the first quarter we basically have very low single-digit growth.
Very similar to fourth quarter that's how we had our plan built for organic 1.
We basically -- we're at pretty much the same point in the first quarter.
And then we hit the -- what drove the overall business down was obviously what happened as we said on the call with the Earthworks side particularly the underground coal mining and that destocking particularly at one of our large customers that Kennametal that’ll dissipate as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And -- but do you have an estimate for what global IPI itself was? I mean obviously industrial production comps were positive in the U.S.
in the first quarter how are you thinking about what the total IP number was? We were just looking at those numbers I mean I don't have that [indiscernible] global insight yet.
And when we looked at -- when we developed the plan it was on average between 2 to 3 global IP.
And that's how we got to 5% to 7% outlook for the year.
But we don't have the actual quarter-to-quarter yet.
Your next question comes from the line of Samuel Eisner with William Blair.
Research Division</strong> Just had a couple of quick questions here.
Could you maybe tease out what your utilization rates were either on the corporate whole or at least across the 2 segments? Yes I would say in the low 70s.
Research Division</strong> And how does that compare I guess to where they were last quarter? On the fourth quarter we have a lot more workdays I would say they were in the high 70s.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And then when -- if I look at kind of your mid-teens EBIT margin target for the year is there a way to kind of parse out how much volume recovery I guess is embedded in getting there from the 10% that you have -- or I guess 10 and change that you have right now how much is price and I would say how much would be internally driven? Price will be not much on average I think we said at the beginning of the year maybe 1%.
And then it will be volume as the main driver and then our cost discipline and actions we initiated.
Well there are certain inherent costs that happened in the first quarter that does not take place in the rest of the year.
Stock comp and all that...
Yes.
You can always go look at historicals and you'll see the natural gains from sequential quarter-to-quarter.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just lastly on the cost programs that you got I guess you put in place towards the end of this quarter how much would you say would be fixed versus variable or is everything variable where it’d come back on volumes coming back? Everything is variable at this point.
Your next question will come from the line of Holden Lewis with BB&amp;T.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask about a couple of items that sort of impact -- was there any sort of purchase accounting or integration expense that was unusual related to Stellite in the quarter? No.
I mean we provided the 15 to 25 net of some of the integration costs that was in that program.
Everything is going pretty much on track.
To your point they will subside or will get lesser in the second half that's why we have Stellite stronger earnings contribution 2 half have versus 1 half.
But we're going through the purchase accounting and it's pretty much done.
The amortization's there the step-up in inventory has been burned through so the only thing you really have left is amortization and the integration costs which are pretty much on-plan at this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I wanted to ask about you kept the guidance for Stellite's accretion the same yet it was I think $0.01 in the quarter and you did note that perhaps the revenues were coming in less than expected.
Was there just some conservatism built in there to overcome the revenues or are you doing less in terms of maybe not being as aggressive from a cost standpoint given the environment? How do we maintain it? Well on the high end of the range we would have with the volumes that we were anticipating we would have been potentially north side of that.
But we've done some good restructuring things in the fourth quarter that are paying some benefits here going forward.
And as we start to rationalize the ERP system with a better visibility we think there's further cost benefits in the second half that are going to come in.
So we've compensated top line softness with a little bit ahead on the synergies going through the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second piece was sort of the -- you anticipated reducing inventories in this quarter that was your original goal.
Obviously it went up it looks like work in progress more than anything else -- raw materials more than anything else but has this kind of -- as the dynamics in your inventories that you still want to comp but didn't make progress in Q1 does that mean that we sort of pushed out the negative effects on productions so now instead of maybe first half of the year it's going to drag throughout the year? Is this -- is that how that dynamic is going to work? I don't think it's going to have a major impact.
As Carlos said if the prices are down we'll get a little bit more benefit on that side.
But the raw materials of the entire -- I said it's almost entirely raw material so what we factored in before I think still holds true.
Your next question will come from the line of Eli Lustgarten with Longbow Security.
Just a quick follow-up guys.
And it goes back to the inventory -- taking out inventory at the firm.
How much below sales do you expect to produce in the second quarter or rest of the year? Can you give us some idea of what the impact will be why you're taking inventories out because -- it's quite a program that does have an impact on absorption? Eli I don't have that number off the top of my head.
We'll have to get that offline for you.
Next question will come from the line of Tim Bui with Third Avenue Management.
LLC</strong> Could you please address the tax rate issue? How long can you keep it at 25%? Will it go up in the future year? Based upon the structure and the model we have today we think 25 I'd like to say it's higher over time.
As Europe comes back that will drop it down.
We have other components in our portfolio like Stellite that's not included in the model which will help as we get out to fiscal '14 and beyond to help mitigate any potential weakness there.
But we feel pretty confident based upon the mix of our business portfolio that worst case mid-20s is a reasonable number.
The 25% is in the high end we expect it to be lower than that.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Uhlman with Cleveland Research.
My question was answered.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Volkmann with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up I think you've gotten 2/3 of the way there but I was just trying to get a sense of the cost-cutting benefits in the second half and I guess we haven't really put any numbers around that yet.
Is that something we can do? We haven't provided that.
We typically don't.
I mean this is just normal numbers.
Yes normal like Frank said we don't travel as much all that stuff which is really like-- we adjust the cost to the level of business that's why it's indirect cost.
We feel really good about our fixed cost.
And again this is another thing our fixed cost is driving.
Stephen you know that before at this level of sales we would never been at double-digit EBIT margin and that is a testimony to our fixed costs.
So we feel good about the fixed cost and the variable cost is variable cost.
I mean it's adjusted to the level of sales.
At this time there are no further questions.
This concludes our discussion.
Please contact me Quynh McGuire at (724) 539-6559 for any follow-up questions.
Thank you for joining us.
Today's call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today and lasting through midnight Eastern Time on November 24 2012.
The conference ID number for the replay is 31340376.
The number to dial for the replay is (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406.
This concludes today's discussion.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
I would like to welcome everyone to Kennametal's Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Quyhn McGuire Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Brad.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us to review Kennametal's Second Quarter Fiscal 2013 results.
We issued our quarterly earnings press release earlier today.
You may access this announcement via our website at www.kennametal.com.
Consistent with our practice in prior quarterly conference calls we've invited various members of the media to listen to this call.
It's also being broadcast live on our website and a recording will be available on our site for replay through February 25 2013.
I'm Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations for Kennametal.
Joining me for our call today are our Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Carlos Cardoso; Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Frank Simpkins; and Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller Martie Bailey.
Carlos and Frank will provide further explanation on the quarter's financial performance.
After their remarks we'll be happy to answer your questions.
At this time I would like to direct your attention to our forward-looking disclosure statement.
The discussion we'll have today contains comments that may constitute forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve a number of assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information regarding these risk factors and uncertainties is detailed in Kennametal's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition Kennametal provided the SEC with a Form 8-K a copy of which is currently available on our website.
This enables us to discuss non-GAAP financial measures during this call in accordance with SEC Regulation G.
This 8-K presents GAAP financial measures that we believe are most directly comparable to those non-GAAP financial measures and it provides a reconciliation of those measures as well.
I'll now turn the call over to Carlos.
Thank you Quyhn.
Hello everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
In the December quarter we continue to experience challenges similar to those of the prior quarter which included lower sales volumes as demand slowed globally.
Political and economic uncertainties led to spending deferrals and inventory destocking by customers.
Those conditions resulted in a weaker-than-expected global investor production across certain end markets and geographies.
In addition our sales were unfavorably impacted as a number of customers who extended shutdowns year end holidays.
This trend was more severe in Europe but it occurred in North America as well.
Accordingly we made further adjustments in our business as we expected those challenging conditions to continue for the near term.
Even so we still expect to realize sequential quarter-to-quarter improvement in the second half of our fiscal year.
Although economic projections call for global industrial production to expand it is likely to grow at a more modest rate than previously forecasted.
What positioned Kennametal well is that we serve a diversified mix of end-market and geographies which helps to lessen volatility over economic cycles.
We remain highly focused on further growing and balancing our global presence to generate revenues in equal parts from North America Western Europe and the Rest of the World's markets.
In line with our geographic expansion strategy we announced earlier in December quarter that we plan to invest in an advanced carbide recycling facility in U.S.
while expanding tungsten cobalt blended partner operation in our China facility to serve the Asia-Pacific region.
Both projects focus on strengthening our tungsten sourcing for both technology and cost perspectives while increasing our access to raw materials.
We remain encouraged by the long-term growth opportunities in our served end markets.
On a global basis demand for energy power generation vehicles commercial development new materials and increased requirements for customer productivity remain the key growth drivers in our industry.
In addition our WIDIA brand and general [ph]  strategy is creating opportunities for us to grow our presence in industrial distribution.
Our proven strategies enable us to effectively navigate economic headwinds and deliver our goal of driving profitable growth and doubling our revenues over the next 5 years.
We have implemented contingency plans to reduce costs to match the current environment.
During the December quarter we further sharpened our focus on expense control in both manufacturing operations and administrative functions.
Our team maintained the discipline that has long been part of Kennametal's culture to achieve additional savings over and above permanent structural improvements made from prior initiatives.
Importantly we accomplished this without sacrificing ongoing development of talent and technologies that depreciate Kennametal in the marketplace.
At this time I would like to provide an overview of trends we are seeing in our served end markets.
In aerospace U.S.
commercial firms continue to lead the way in growth.
Boeing finished the year with 601 commercial jet deliveries surpassing their projection of 590 units.
Although its 787 Dreamline fleet was recently grounded the issues do not seem to be related to manufacturing processes and production has not been negatively impacted at this time.
Embraer recently released its forecast for Chinese markets during Airshow China in November.
It predicts significant growth in the number of aircraft carrying 30 to 120 passengers from 125 today to more than 1 000 jets in 2031.
In General Engineering which primarily reflects trends in the indirect channel the latest Industrial Supply Association economic report indicates that distributors are optimistic despite current headwinds.
Distributors generally reported experience of steep declining businesses in the last 2 weeks of December.
In addition they noted that inventories remain relatively high in the channel suggesting further destocking in the near term.
In transportation light vehicle production in North America is expected to decline over the next several months but should resume modest growth through the remainder of calendar year 2013.
Based on that OEMs and major tier suppliers continue to make investments to increase capacity.
In Europe the transportation sector declined 18% year-over-year in vehicle production and lower levels are expected to continue for upcoming quarters.
In China 2013 production is expected to increase 9% over prior year to 20 million units.
In India vehicle production is forecast to grow 8.4% in calendar year 2013.
Kennametal can provide productivity improvement for this market with our portfolio of standard products as well as our highly-engineered customized solutions.
In the energy market continuous flowing in oil and gas drilling activity is reflected in a 5% decline in world rig count year-over-year.
While oil prices have improved they remain relatively low and gas prices have stalled as well.
Demand for natural gas is expected to rebound by year end of calendar year 2013 with investments being made globally including land purchases in U.S.-based Marcellus shale and exploration reserves in the North Sea.
In addition renewable sources of power generation are projected to grow globally 5% per year which increases Kennametal's addressable market opportunities.
In mining U.S.
coal production was down nearly 7% in 2012 contracting most significantly in Central Appalachia with the 16% year-over-year decline.
As of December coal prices seem to have stabilized in U.S.
In Europe coal demand increased year-over-year despite a sluggish economy and imports from South Africa Russia and U.S.
typically favored over high-cost coal produced in the European Union.
China's coal production declined due to weak economic conditions and government mandated shutdowns of small mines in preparation for the transition to the new political leadership.
Longer-term China plans to add significant coal-fired electricity generation capacity increasing current annual production of 4.9 billion tons to 7 billion tons annual by 2020.
In road construction the U.S.
federal Highway Bill will allow some states to fund more highway rehabilitation in calendar year 2013 which should benefit Kennametal beginning in the spring giving us strong leadership position in this market.
In Europe highway rehabilitation markets are expected to be flat while modest growth is expected in other regions such as South Africa Poland and Russia.
On the whole world growth is expected to stabilize in 2013 then hold steady at 2.6% according to IHS Global Insight.
In addition a modest declaration of growth is expected in the later part of calendar year 2013.
This cautiously favorable outlook is based on the expectation that the monetary stimulus put in place in many key economies will have some positive effect on growth and uncertainties related to the U.S.
and the eurozone and China will become less intense.
Therefore it's anticipated that the risks facing the global economy will be more balanced.
Over the past 12 months the risks were more skewed to the downside.
Following the great recession consumers and businesses have been cautious about spending.
There is some evidence that this process may be winding down especially in the U.S.
and parts of Asia.
Looking ahead those are encouraging signs of a recovery although it appears to be delayed by 1 to 2 quarters.
Our global team remains agile and we will -- we are very well-positioned to serve our customers when growth resumes.
We have successfully managed through the much more severe downturn and we are a stronger company today.
We have a playbook to align our cost structure with current market demand.
As always our company-specific initiative enable Kennametal to protect our profitability and deliver a double-digit operating margin even in a challenging macro environment.
I will now turn the call over to Frank who will discuss our financial results for the quarter in great detail.
Frank? All right thank you Carlos.
I'll provide some comments on our performance for the December quarter and then I'll move to the revised outlook for the remainder of fiscal 2013.
The December quarter was more challenging than we originally anticipated as most of our served end markets experienced weaker-than-expected demand.
This panel was evident in our monthly order rates that we provided during the quarter.
Continued soft demand in destocking plagued our General Engineering market transportation was particularly slow in Europe due to extended plant shutdowns in December at automotive manufacturers and customers further delayed their projects in the energy market.
Our previous expectation assumed that activity would begin a rebound at the beginning of calendar year 2013.
It now appears that the recovery has been deferred for at least 1 maybe 2 quarters.
That said I'll point out that we're managing that business very well the factors we can control and near-term headwinds do not overshadow strong future growth opportunities and the execution of our strategies.
Further despite the sales challenge in the near term we again delivered double-digit operating margin we also demonstrated exceptional cost control throughout the company and managed to reduce our finished goods and WIP inventory by approximately $17 million from September despite a demand environment that was much softer than we had anticipated.
Lastly we enhanced our liquidity and strengthened our financial position by issuing $400 million of 2.65% bonds due in 2019.
Note that our proactive cost reduction measures as well as our more efficient organization structure helped deliver double-digit adjusted operating margin of 10.7% for our base business despite the market challenges of the quarter and our inventory reduction efforts.
We have cost containment actions in place at all functions and are managing our business to market conditions while staying focused on our near-term cash flow objectives and long-range growth strategies.
Now I'll walk through the key items in the income statement.
Sales for the quarter were $633 million this compares to $642 million in the same quarter last year.
Sales declined by 1% reflecting a 10% organic sales decline and a 1% unfavorable effect from currency partly offset by 9% increase from Stellite and a 1% increase for more business days.
Industrial segment sales were $361 million and they declined by 12% from the prior year quarter.
This was due to 10% organic decline and a 2% unfavorable effect from currency exchange.
On an organic basis sales declined 15% in general engineering and 8% in transportation partly offset by sales growth of 10% in aerospace and defense.
General engineering was unfavorably impacted by lower sales to the indirect channel due to further inventory destocking while transportation experienced lower volume lower vehicle production rates and extended plant shutdowns particularly in Europe and Asia.
Aerospace and defense sales benefited from the increase in commercial aircraft production.
And regionally sales in the industrial segment decreased by approximately 15% in Asia 9% in Europe and 8% in Americas.
Turning to the infrastructure segment our sales of $272 million increased 17% from the prior-year quarter driven by Stellite contributing 26% growth partly offset by an 8% organic sales decline and a 1% unfavorable effect from currency.
On an organic basis sales declined by 13% in energy and 6% in the Earthworks market.
Energy customers continue to delay orders due to ongoing decline in the North American oil and gas rig count and weak underground coal demand in North America as well as additional mine closures affected our Earthworks business.
Regionally sales decreased by 12% in the Americas 3% in Asia and remained flat in Europe.
Now turning to our gross profit margin.
Our gross profit margin was 31.5% compared to 36.1% last year.
The decline was due to lower volumes and lower absorption of manufacturing cost resulting from both the lower sales as well as our inventory reduction efforts as well as an unfavorable sales mix.
The inventory reduction had an unfavorable impact of approximately $5 million or 100 basis points on gross margin.
This quarter's results also includes the effect of Stellite which has a lower gross margin versus the Kennametal base business.
The prior-year gross margin benefited from strong organic growth a favorable business mix and pricing as well as absorption benefits of manufacturing cost.
Our operating expenses declined $7 million compared to last year.
Overall lower employment and related compensation cost containment of discretionary spending and favorable foreign currency exchange were partly offset by the Stellite acquisition operating expenses.
Operating expense as a percent of sales was 20.2% for the quarter down 80 basis points from the prior year of 21%.
This represents ongoing cost discipline from our global team coupled with the affect of Stellite which has a lower SG&amp;A percentage versus the Kennametal base business.
Amortization expense was $5.2 million and that's up $3.3 million from last year and the increase is all due to the Stellite acquisition.
Operating income of $66 million compared to $94 million last year operating income included $5 million of Stellite operating income contribution for the quarter.
Our operating income decreased as a result of lower sales volume the unfavorable mix and lower absorption of manufacturing cost.
The operating margin for the December quarter was 10.5% an adjustment for the Stellite acquisition our base business delivered an operating margin of 10.7%.
Looking at the business segment operating performance industrial segment operating income was $37 million compared with $63 million in the same quarter of the prior year.
Industrial operating income decreased due to lower sales volume and lower absorption of manufacturing cost and an unfavorable sales mix.
Industrial's operating margin was 10.4% compared with 15.3% in the prior year.
The infrastructure segment operating income was $31 million compared with $33 million in the same quarter last year.
Infrastructure's operating income benefited from the Stellite operating income of $5 million which was more than offset by the effect of the organic sales decline and lower absorption of manufacturing cost and an unfavorable sales mix.
Infrastructure's operating margin was 11.5% for the December quarter compared with 14.4% the prior year.
Excluding Stellite the adjusted operating margin for the infrastructure business was 12.3% in the December quarter.
Interest expense increased approximately $1.7 million year-over-year in the December quarter to $7 million due to higher debt levels attributable to the Stellite acquisition and our recent 7-year $400 million bond issuance partly offset by lower bank revolving borrowing cost and a lower coupon rate.
Our effective tax rate was 26.4% compared to 17.3% in the prior year.
The increase was primarily driven by a valuation allowance adjustment in the prior year and lower current earnings outside of the United States.
And regarding our bottom line performance we reported December quarter diluted earnings per share of $0.52 compared with $0.91 in the prior year and December's quarter earnings per share included $0.02 accretion of Stellite.
Turning to cash flow our year-to-date cash flow from operating activities was $54 million and this compares with $71 million in the prior year.
Net capital expenditures were $34 million compared to $33 million in the prior year and our free operating cash flow year-to-date was $21 million compared with $38 million in the prior year.
We also remain committed to our prior uses of cash during the December quarter.
We purchased almost 600 000 of our shares totaling 1.3 million shares year-to-date approximately 7.2 million shares remain available under our current share buyback program.
We continue to be highly disciplined on our capital allocation process to ensure that we invest in initiatives with the highest shareholder returns.
Our balance sheet also remains strong.
Cash was $217 million and we remain focused on improving our working capital.
DSOs ITOs and DPOs were at relatively similar levels in the December quarter compared to both September and June despite the substantial decline in economic activities.
This demonstrates that our operating model has become more adaptable to the dynamic market environment.
As we have previously stated we remain committed to reducing approximately $60 million of inventory in fiscal 2013 primarily from finished goods and WIP inventory.
As I said earlier in November we issued a new $400 million 7-year 2.65% note to take advantage of favorable borrowing rates and proceeds from this new bond issuance were used to pay down our revolving credit facility.
At December 31 2012 our total debt was $707 million up $141 million or 25% from June 30 due primarily to share repurchases of $47 million and the new bond issuance.
That was up $399 million versus the prior year due primarily to the Stellite acquisition and our debt-to-capital ratio at December 31 2012 was 28.8% compared to 25.3% at June 30 2012.
And our U.S.
defined benefit pension plans remain 100% funded and our adjusted return on invested capital was 12.5%.
A quick update on Stellite.
The integration of Stellite continues to be on track including the implementation of SAP.
Four key operating locations are expected to be on our global ERP system in the June quarter.
We expect to implement the remaining 3 Stellite locations in early fiscal '14.
During the second quarter Kennametal Stellite also experienced some softness in its core end markets particularly in its energy end market in North America construction market in Asia and continued softness in automotive in Europe.
We also took aggressive cost control measures to be in line with the weaker commercial outlook.
We expect the delayed recovery in critical end markets for Stellite will impact this contribution in fiscal 2013.
In the second fiscal quarter Kennametal Stellite sales were $60 million and Stellite contributed $0.02 per share to the Kennametal results.
Now I'll turn to our revised outlook for the remainder of the fiscal year.
As I previously noted as well as Carlos the December quarter proved more challenging than we had anticipated due to continued demand softness in general engineering energy and transportation.
We have revised our outlook to reflect the situation which include the following assumptions: In terms of general engineering we assume now that the destocking will most likely end by the end of the June quarter; in terms of energy our customer order books are building and activity is expected to pick up in our second half; and in transportation we are projecting an increase in activity in Europe and Asia in the second half.
And then a positive note is that our monthly order rates that we provide have -- remain steady during the past several months and it appears that we have reached the bottom.
As a result we have adjusted our full year outlook.
We now expect fiscal '13 sales to be between negative 2% and negative 4% with organic sales ranging from negative 7% to negative 9%.
Therefore we're reducing our earnings per share guidance for fiscal '13 to a range of $2.60 to $2.80 per share.
Included in this outlook is the accretive contribution of the Stellite acquisition which is now expected to range between $0.10 and $0.15 per share net of integration cost.
We expect to generate cash flow from operations between $290 million and $325 million for fiscal '13 based on anticipated capital expenditures of between $90 million to $100 million we expect to generate between $200 million to $225 million of free operating cash flow for the full fiscal year.
Some additional factors to note include our expectation of sequential growth over the remaining 2 quarters of the fiscal year with the strongest sequential growth coming in the June quarter.
The March quarter will have 2 less work days this year due to the Easter holiday.
The June quarter will have 2 additional workdays and we anticipate the rebound in activity to be more evident at this time.
We now expect to generate approximately 60% of our earnings in the second half following a 40-60 split for the full fiscal year.
We are on track to reduce our inventory primarily finished goods and WIP by $60 million in fiscal 2013 despite the top line softness.
And we expect this inventory reduction initiative to have an unfavorable impact on gross margin of approximately 100 basis points in the second half and full fiscal year.
Overall we're managing the business very well for the factors we can control to deal with the near-term headwinds as needed.
And we continue to focus on our many growth opportunities and consistent execution of our strategies.
Now I'll turn it back to Carlos for a few closing comments.
Thank you Frank.
As we advance into the second half of fiscal 2013 we'll continue to respond quickly to changing economic conditions.
We will continue to follow our demonstrated playbook by maintaining and streamlining cost structure adjusting manufacturing operations as needed and implementing ongoing contingency planning.
As always we'll weather the challenges to protect the profitability and deliver double-digit margin performance.
In the meantime we'll continue to execute our proven strategies that are consistent with the company's long-term growth goals of diversifying our business mix expanding our addressable market and balancing growth around the world.
As we have consistently demonstrated Kennametal has generated steady cash flows throughout the economic cycle.
We'll continue to leverage our strong balance sheet and remain disciplined with [ph]  capital allocation process to build on our strong financial position.
Thank you for your interest in Kennametal.
And we'll now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ross Gilardi with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just have a couple of questions.
First could you comment a little more on the pricing environment? Are you seeing intensifying price pressure in any of your weaker areas in particular if you could just comment on a few of the key end markets? Obviously there's always pricing pressure in this industry.
However we continue to stay strong with our pricing and we are looking at strategic areas where we can actually still get some price and not give up any pricing or any other areas.
Research Division</strong> Overall would you think this pricing going up or down? I think -- will be flattish to slightly up.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the free cash flow outlook it seems like you reduced it by less than the earnings outlook.
What's happening there? Yes Ross primarily the second half we typically -- if you go back we always generate a lot more of our earnings in the second half as well as the focus on the inventory reduction particularly with the finished goods and WIP.
And I'll comment with some additional focus on our working capital from both receivables as well as payables.
But the inventory is going to be the big driver in the second half.
Research Division</strong> And then just last one.
In terms of cash flow prioritization so forth that you still got this 5-year objective of doubling sales.
Does the slower outgrowth outlook mean that you've got to get more acquisitive to fulfill that objective? When we look 5 years out based on our presentation in New York a few months ago I think we're still pretty consistent on -- we still feel that the balance between organic and acquisition is still the same.
Majority of the growth is going to come from organic basis.
But it's an opportunity to accelerate if we get the right timing.
Your next question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell with Crédit Suisse.
This is Charlie for Julian.
I apologize if you've addressed this already I've been between calls but just a quick question.
It seemed like the demand from Asia was weak in both segments it has been weak.
Some of the other companies we have been speaking with have seen a pickup in China.
I'm just wondering why you guys haven't seen a pickup in China or if anything's kind of changed in January? So in generally -- so if you think about it in a sequential basis we have seen an uptick in Asia.
However it's still year-over-year a negative growth.
So I think it's consistent with what other companies are seeing.
And we are -- we believe that Asia is going to generate a positive growth first before any other geography.
Yes.
Charlie the only thing I'd add is I think we're doing a little bit better in the Earthworks side of the business from some of the investments we made both in Australia and China particularly on the coal side and some opportunities with the construction with the surface mining as well.
So we did a little bit better there.
And then we're starting to see a little bit of a pick up here in January particularly with the domestic auto production because the aerospace will be fine.
And then the general engineering will typically lag a little bit on the transportation.
So if the transportation domestic stuff starts picking up we'll see the pull forward as well potentially with the general engineering.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Uhlman with Cleveland Research.
Frank can we go back to the inventory part? I believe you said it was $17 million reduction.
That was 100 basis points of margin headwind in the quarter.
When I look at the balance sheet it's like $5 million of inventory that's lowered or something like -- an accounting difference there but the big question is this $95 million $100 million of inventory that's going to be coming out in the back half of the year.
I'm wondering why that would be worth 100 basis points as well? Well it's underfinished.
[ph]  You don't have the currency or the raw material increase because raw materials are still up in the first half.
They were up a lot more in obviously in the first quarter and they continue in the second half.
So the $17 million -- the related upon inventory reduction impact on that in the quarter I said was about $5 million.
And as we continue to go towards the $60 million in the second half we're obviously going to have some additional impacts in the second half by pulling the inventory down coupled with the negative organic.
So it makes it a little bit more challenging because overall raw materials I think we're doing a better job of controlling that but when your larger content material products in the Earthworks and energy had a slower point in the first half we try to hit the brakes where we could on the raw materials.
I think we've got a better handle on that for the second half and now it's really focusing on the finished goods and WIP inventory getting towards that goal of $60 million in addition to the $17 million that we had here on this last quarter.
Okay.
So the $60 million starting point is from December? Well it's really from -- we said at the beginning of the year we were going to reduce $60 million it was flat in the first quarter the finished good and WIP with the primary increase coming in the form of raw materials.
Fast forward we didn't come up with that goal we took finished goods and WIP down to $17 million so we have the remaining what I'll call balance of that reduction initiative of 60-plus in the second half of the fiscal year.
So it was really raw materials and we didn't get any progress in the first quarter.
Okay.
And then on the guidance for the year through the back half of the year the organic revenue growth is expected to remain -- the decline is pretty similar to what we saw in the first half of the year and you walk through some of the markets that you thought Europe and Asia might be getting better and orders are steady right now.
I was just wondering if you could highlight the big pluses and minuses that keeps the decline at a similar pace to what we've seen recently.
Yes going forward I mean to your point we have a negative volume.
And when you have -- you've got to factor in the mix there because our most profitable pieces of the company the gen eng and energy were down the most.
So you've got to count the double whammy you got the regular decline and you got the mix coupled with the inventory reduction.
So a lot of the stuff we believe is temporary.
So I think we're moving in the right direction.
But as we go forward as I look at Earthworks we're not anticipating anything significant on the undeground coal because you could look at Appalachia but some of the international markets are doing well.
We're seeing as we anticipated an uptick on the construction side so we're starting to see some nice orders come in there and that's -- there's some housing-related effects here in the Americas and then we're well positioned on that in the international market.
We feel the energy and the general engineering destocking.
The good news it does end.
And based upon what happened in December it looks like it got pushed because people shut down a little bit further.
So we're anticipating a little bit of a pick up sequentially in the March quarter in general engineering as well as energy.
And we're watching the rig counts and with the cold weather that obviously will have some help there.
And then by the fourth quarter we think that this thing will pickup a little bit and we'll start seeing much stronger sequential growth and we're also trying to factor in the number of workdays with the Easter holiday being in here.
Because the quarter when you look at it with New Year's ending on a Tuesday you kind of lost that first week.
So it kind of spilled and pushed things a little bit to the right.
And then with Easter towards the end of March it's going to be a tight workday quarter and we think when business activity picks up in transportation in Europe and the couple other markets that I mentioned I think we'll start seeing some nice growth or directionally the growth in the fourth quarter compared to the March quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You noted that both in industrial and in infrastructure that you've experienced some unfavorable mix.
Could you just talk about what the impact on mix was in each of those businesses? And then which -- should we expect any change in that mix going forward for seasonal reasons or anything like that? Yes if you look at the industrial the real mix was the general engineering business.
Because aerospace and defense it's a good profitability and that's been relatively constant from a growth perspective.
So yes I don't anticipate anything.
Transportation was okay in the Americas a little bit softer in Europe and Asia and I'll expect that to come back.
But the real driver because we're sown in to the small and medium accounts through distribution we've done a good job on distribution that continues to be the market in the industrial side that was down the most you can look at the first quarter the second quarter the sequential change.
And that's where the very profitable piece as well as that goes down fast that could come back just as quick.
And I think we're trying to take a realistic assumption here looking at kind of our visibility.
But as quick as the general engineering goes down which is the most profitable piece that can come back very strong in a relatively quick period.
So we have the general engineering on the industrial side which is the high-margin stuff.
And conversely if you look at the infrastructure side the energy is the more profitable piece there compared to the underground coal mining and some of the IGT stuff that Stellite as that continues to come up but we also feel that that's kind of temporary.
So we haven't really experienced the energy and the general engineering piece of the company being down both the same amount.
But based upon the weather and the rig counts and some of the order book information that we're getting from our sales force we think that that energy should come back by the fourth quarter.
So it's those 2 sectors.
I just want to add that the one that is affected the most was general engineering in the first half and followed by energy.
And general engineering fell the quickest in the shortest period of time closer to the second quarter we believe that general engineering is going to come back the fastest in the second half.
And trailed by energy at its lower growth rates than general engineering.
And those are the 2 areas that are most profitable for us.
So that will be the mix change going to the second half.
The real question is how much of it is going to be in the third quarter how much of it is going to be in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Yes that make sense Carlos.
And in terms of activity drives demand and distribution.
Carlos just a follow-up on that really with the flash PMIs coming in pretty gosh darn strong this morning both in the U.S.
and China that would support your pieces of perhaps we get a swing back in demand in general engineering.
Are you seeing anything like that? I know you're obssessed over your daily order rates et cetera but are you guys seeing any signs of improvement in -- either in the U.S.
or in China in terms of just industrial activity or is it too early to tell? Well I'll tell you that so far this month the orders are coming in per our revised guidance and I can tell you that in a sequential basis it's slightly positive.
So it really is demonstrating and is being led by the general engineering as we spoke.
I'll also give you a data point.
I mean we have data that was back 20 years that when the PMI hit 50 in this situation which has hit about a few months ago and just recently is about a 6-month lag before we see some really really good growth.
So historically it validates -- so we see it and again as we said we think our second quarter came in at a 1 to 2 quarters delay.
And so it's just a -- when is it going to come back within the third quarter or the fourth quarter and to the magnitude.
If it comes back in the third quarter then we'll have an even better fourth quarter.
But that's...
Research Division</strong> And the catalyst for that would be the general and industrial side you think? Yes correct.
Yes.
Your next question comes from the line of Andy Casey with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> I apologize if you already addressed this first point.
Just a clarification what tax rate do you expect for the year? And the gist of the question is weaker Europe so far and then any impact from R&amp;D? Andy last time I think we guided 25% because the first quarter was a little bit less than 21% so we'd have a little bit higher about 26% for the remaining outquarters.
Given the change I think the tax rate is now going to be 24% versus the 25%.
So we'll probably pick up 100 basis points.
But the tax rate being a little bit softer or lower favorably in the third quarter and then a little bit higher in the fourth quarter.
But we'll finish the year about 24% I would expect it to be in the low 20s in the third quarter for the discrete catch up relative to the R&amp;D credit and then a little bit higher in the fourth quarter just because of the jurisdictional mix even though we're going to get R&amp;D credit will be about 25% in the fourth.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if we could revisit a couple of things that have been touched on.
The channel destocking in addition to the 100-basis-point gross margin headwind that you're expecting from the internal inventory initiatives is there any way to quantify what that destocking is doing to your margins? Well I can try to help you in total because we don't -- to the point I made in the second quarter the pure inventory reduction that we undertook to drive down the $17 million of finished goods and WIP I said that was about $5 million okay? Then I would say the related volume impact was about the same in the quarter.
Combined it was about a $10 million impact of the volume and the inventory reduction initiative at Kennametal.
LLC Research Division</strong> And is there any way to look into the field and see what the destocking actually did? No.
I mean we have -- I mean we have point of sale and all stuff to the largest distributors.
We're very very much aligned with MSC and Fastenal and all that stuff.
But then we have a lot of small distributors it's really hard to tell.
Because you'll have the Northeast from aerospace is doing well versus -- that depends on the sectors that they're serving.
So it's just too hard to quantify.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then at some point the destock reverses and I'm just trying to gauge if all of that comes back or if you're seeing any issues with any of your indirect distribution partners like market share erosion or something else that would limit a 1:1 return? I would say that you guys can read that MSE script that was put out last week.
I think our market share at MSE continues to increase.
And so I think that will come back at least a 1:1 the distribution when they start stocking.
And I just want to make a point of our strategy.
Our WIDIA during this period first half of the year was slightly positive year-over-year.
Which really -- and by the way they've play primarily in the general industry which was down almost 16% they were slightly positive.
Just shows you that our channel strategy is really working and again in -- when it comes back we're going to have quite a bit of a tailwind.
Your next question comes from the line of Eli Lustgarten with Longbow Securities.
Let me just one clarification.
We're still going to do $60 million of inventory reduction in the next 2 quarters and how would that split between the 2 quarters? Eli so it would be $60 million for the full fiscal year and $17 million out in the December quarter.
So we have $43 million to go? Yes.
That would be at minimum $43 million right.
And if we can do a little bit better we'll take advantage of it.
And it will evenly be split between the 2 quarters? I would think it'd be a little bit stronger in the fourth quarter but not much different.
Okay.
And you're talking -- you had 60 -- 40-60 was the earnings for the year.
Can you give us some idea of how you expect the third and fourth quarter split -- it looks like that's also going to split like 45-55 in the second half of the year in the third and fourth quarter just on the basis of where your guidance is going.
Yes.
Again that's why I'd tried to give you with the workdays.
It will be much stronger in the fourth quarter because we're going to pick up 2 additional workdays.
So we're going to have flat -- the workdays are going to work out to be about the same specifically in the December quarter.
So about in the low-60s and then we'll pick it up in the fourth quarter.
So I would imagine the improvement will be nice sequentially but it will be much stronger in the fourth quarter and then I'll calculate that and get it to you here shortly.
Okay.
And incremental margins we look to the second half of the year we're still talking about with the somewhat better volume the 30% plus incremental margins and we're really talking about profitability which is in the low double-digits getting back to maybe close to the mid-double digits in the second half of the year is it still an attainable target? You're talking sequentially it's not year-over-year right? Yes right.
I'm just talking about -- your profitability is in a little over 10%.
Currently 11% and 12% in the different quarters.
Are we talking -- can we get margins in the second half of the year in both divisions close to mid-teens that was question.
I would say by the fourth quarter that's a true statement.
And so it's really -- it's all leveraged into the fourth quarter at this point or so.
And in case [ph] of the tax rate can you quantify how big the R&amp;D tax credit benefit will [indiscernible] you guys? Right now it's about $3.5 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Volkmann with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just one quick cleanup question.
You guys mentioned a couple of times in the presentation that you had done some business adjustments to get your cost under control and we didn't really quantify that maybe it's just sort of the ongoing kind of stuff but I'm wondering in the spirit maybe of Andy's question did some of that come back onto the cost structure as business starts to come back or what's the right way to think about that? No.
I mean that's the regular stuff traveling and all discretionary.
So yes that portion of it will come back.
The other part is the direct labor.
I mean obviously we shed direct labor as our volume goes down and the direct labor will come back.
But we'll expect high leverage with that it's not a 1:1 right? LLC Research Division</strong> Have you done anything that is more permanent? No.
Our goal is we believe that the business is going to come back and we are maintaining the capacity which we've talked about the $3 billion-plus capacity without Stellite.
And that's where we really get the leverage as the business comes back.
Your next question comes from the line of Gregory Macosko with Lord Abbott.
Abbett &amp; Co.
LLC</strong> Just one brief question regarding Stellite.
What was the core growth that you talked about the 20-plus percent? Give me some color on that core growth within that group.
The core group Gregory we didn't own the business until March of last year.
So we don’t have -- it may divest [indiscernible]  business on the year-over-year but I'll tell you sequentially the sales growth was up a little bit from the first quarter about 1%.
But we're also starting to see some nice IGT orders the industrial gas turbine something we secured in the second quarter which are a little bit longer lead time.
So we'll expect those to kick in earliest toward the end of the fourth quarter and then beginning into fiscal '14.
That's with the Alstoms the Siemens.
So we're starting to see some nice improvement with those areas there.
And then we expect the fourth quarter to give you an idea we expect that that will be up close to double-digit by the fourth quarter on a year-over-year base bid.
Our final question comes from the line of Walt Liptak with Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about your thoughts on the return on invested capital which we've had a pretty good drop in organic volumes and the returns are looking a lot better than they would have 4 or 5 years ago.
And then kind of along those lines I wondered we're still seeing pretty big under absorption.
And is there anything that you're doing on the factory floor to try and get more variable cost in there? Or try and reduce absorption when we get these sort of downdrafts in volumes? Yes I mean I think obviously we continue to look at that.
The balance that we have to make what Walt is the balance that one being prepared because we can see a very very fast turned up be prepared for us to have the ability to deliver and risk losing market share because we cannot deliver to the speed and the volume that is expected in the turnaround.
So that's the balance we're trying to make.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Is there more that you can do to try and take cost out on the manufacturing floor get more variable cost in? Yes yes.
I mean we continue to -- I mean we have a lean program that takes on average 3% to 4% of cost out every year.
So for every year that goes by we continue to do this and obviously when we have low volume it's a better opportunity for us to look at those things in a more focused way.
We have no further questions in the queue.
I'd like to hand it back over for any closing remarks.
This is Quyhn McGuire.
This concludes our discussion.
Please contact me at (724) 539-6559 for any follow-up questions.
Thank you for joining us.
Thank you.
As a reminder beginning approximately 2 hours after today's call there will be a replay of the call available until February 24.
You can access the replay by dialing (800) 585-8367 from the U.S.
or (404) 537-3406 internationally.
You will be prompted to enter the conference ID number of 84051962.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Kennametal's Third Quarter and Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Regina.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us today to review Kennametal's third quarter fiscal 2013 results.
We issued our quarterly earnings press release earlier today.
You may access this announcement via our website at www.kennametal.com.
Consistent with our practice in prior quarterly conference calls we've invited various members of the media to listen to this call.
It is also being broadcast live on our website and a recording will be available on our site for replay through May 24 2013.
I'm Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations for Kennametal.
Joining me for our call today are Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Carlos Cardoso; Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Frank Simpkins.
Carlos and Frank will provide further explanation on the quarter's financial performance.
After the remarks we'll be happy to answer your questions.
At this time I would like to direct your attention to our forward-looking disclosure statement.
The discussion that we'll have today contains comments that may constitute forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve a number of assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information regarding these risk factors and uncertainties is detailed in Kennametal's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition Kennametal has provided the SEC with a Form 8-K a copy of which is currently available on our website.
This enables us to discuss non-GAAP financial measures during this call in accordance with SEC Regulation G.
This 8-K presents GAAP financial measures that we believe are most directly comparable to those non-GAAP financial measures and it provides a reconciliation of those measures as well.
I will now turn the call over to Carlos.
Thank you Quynh.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us.
Today we are hosting this call from our Kennametal Europe office in Neuhausen Switzerland.
Earlier this week our Board of Directors and some members of the senior management team were in Milan Italy to visit 2 of our manufacturing operations a facility that produces metal cutting tools and a satellite plant that makes investment casting components.
In addition the team who [indiscernible] Switzerland to see our facility that provides customer solutions and services primarily for the energy markets.
Kennametal has a strong brand recognition in Europe and this region represents a key market for our business.
During the March quarter economic conditions remain challenging globally.
As persistent fiscal concerns and uncertainty affected customer demand for our served end markets.
U.S.
has slow growth the eurozone is still contracting somewhat and certain emerging markets underperformed.
As a result global industrial production was negatively impacted as customers delayed spending and held back from inventory restocking.
As expected the decline in customer demand reduced sales year-over-year.
However we realized the sequential increase in revenues with 3.5% sales growth in the March quarter over the December quarter.
In addition and very important our daily order rate reflects sequential growth in each month since December.
Overall we remain positive about Kennametal's long-term growth prospectus given our diverse served end markets.
While infrastructure sectors such as mining and energy faced near-term challenges.
We expect growth construction activity to ramp up with the arrival of warmer weather and continue into the summer and fall.
Regarding commercial markets the transportation sector is beginning to see some improvements and commercial aerospace continues to show strength.
In addition we expect that our general engineering business will experience a ripple-effect benefit when demand returns.
Last week Kennametal participated in bauma 2013 in Munich Germany which is a machinery and equipment trade show related to industries such as construction mining energy and building materials.
The event had a record-breaking number of exhibitors as well as attendees.
There were approximately 530 000 attendees from more than 200 countries and more than 200 000 of those were from outside Germany.
This is the largest international representation in this event's history.
We believe the high-order activity reported by bauma 2013 is an encouraged indicator of longer-term sentiment for the industry.
In the meantime we continue to increase our addressable market through implementing our WIDIA brand channel strategy as well as integrating our Stellite acquisition to realize sales synergies long-term.
We will continue to invest in innovative technologies to depreciate Kennametal products in the marketplace and improve productivity for our customers.
And now I would like to provide an overview of trends that we see -- we are seeing in the served end markets.
In aerospace production is going strong and many programs are increasing production rates with potentially more to come.
According to IHS Global Insight the worldwide commercial production is expected to grow approximately 14% in calendar year 2013.
In addition Boeing recently announced that it has completed testing in the battery used in its 787 Dreamliner planes and is waiting FAA approval.
Although this testing affected plane deliveries the manufacturing activities are still maintained at a high level.
In general engineering distributors continue to be cautious and are keeping inventory levels low.
Looking forward business sentiment indicators are trending more favorably in the U.S.
The eurozone is still weak.
In emerging markets such as China India and Brazil customer demand trends have moved up and down but remain positive.
In transportation auto production was lower in most geographic regions with a year-over-year decline of 8.5% globally.
However overall production levels for calendar year 2013 are forecasted to grow approximately 3%.
Currently the average age of light vehicle fleet in the U.S.
has increased to a record 11 years.
This is proof of pent-up demands.
And eventually aging vehicles need to be replaced.
Low interest rates and an improving housing market may influence some customers to borrow for big-ticket purchases again.
For Western Europe the outlook for 2013 will be challenging for manufacturers who are closely tied to eurozone domestic markets.
Automakers with broad geographic diversity and exposure to premiere export markets will perform better.
In China a more favorable economic environment is expected as it is forecast to increase 10% year-over-year reaching 20 million units in calendar year 2013 and suppressing Europe to become the leading manufacturer of light vehicles.
Moving to the energy market.
The world rig count decreased by 5% year-over-year.
At the end of March natural gas prices in the U.S.
steadily increased to around $4 per MBtu which is the first time at this level since September 2011.
Another favorable indicator is that the storage level of natural gas decreased 2% below the 5-year average which is a significant depletion from the prior month's storage of 16% above the 5-year average.
Natural gas from existing wells that have been capped will add to supply levels first and then drilling activity will ultimately increase.
Longer term pipeline construction remains robust as producers are expected to add 30 billion cubic feet per day of capacity by 2016.
Since 2012 more than half of this build has taken place in the Northeast region of the U.S.
representing approximately $2 billion in capital investment.
Regarding the mining industry coal production reflects further slowing worldwide.
U.S.
production is projected to contract approximately 2% for calendar year 2013.
It has been a challenging market with 87 mine closures over the past 12 months and additional closures are anticipated to the remainder of calendar year 2013.
However demand is expected to stabilize and modest growth of approximately 3% is forecast for calendar year 2014.
In the near term the downturn in domestic production can be partially offset by overseas exports to China or increased production in countries such as Australia and South Africa.
Going forward coal continues to be an important market for Kennametal as it is a significant part of electricity generation steel production and other manufacturing processes globally.
In the road construction and rehabilitation sectors state governors -- governments in the U.S.
are focused on spending for maintenance work rather than new projects.
With funding available from federal highway bill hoarding activity continues to build.
However the construction season was delayed due to cold weather and winter storms extending into the end of March and through part of April.
In Europe highway rehabilitation markets are expected to remain relatively challenging due to fiscal issues.
From a geographic perspective the recent news on the U.S.
economy has been more positive and the fiscal threat of reaching a federal debt ceiling has been.
However the impact of spending sequesters remains and IHS Global Insight has estimated that a full sequester would cut half a percentage point from real GDP growth in calendar year 2013.
In the eurozone recessionary forces are diminishing but significant growth is not yet in sight.
After contraction in the December 2012 quarter the eurozone economy expected to see flat activity through calendar year 2013 and will likely begin a slow recovery in 2014.
Fiscal austerity high consumer debt levels rising unemployment and political uncertainty are all contributing to subdued economic outlook.
In China real GDP growth strengthened to 7.9% year-over-year in December 2012 quarter reflecting an increase from 7.4% in the September 2012 quarter.
This modest acceleration the first in 7 quarters was led by consumer spending and exports.
In the March 2013 quarter however China's economy grew 7.7%.
So there is a continued caution due to the fragile nature of recovery.
Kennametal has successfully managed through stronger headwinds in the past.
As always our global team made business adjustments as needed continued to execute our company-specific strategies to further strengthen our enterprise and deliver double-digit operating margin even in a challenging macro environment.
We further streamlined our business by employing lean initiatives identifying outsourcing opportunities and implementing cost-containment measures for both manufacturing and operating expenses.
Those initiatives are aligned with our corporate culture and will continue to position Kennametal for future growth.
We remain focused on balancing our global presence to generate revenues equally from North America Western Europe and rest of the world markets.
We continue to diversify our mix of served end markets to generate growth opportunities lower volatility and migrate risk to downside exposure in cyclical industries.
In addition I'd like to mention that we celebrated 2 major milestones during the March quarter.
One is that we celebrated our 75th anniversary as an industrial technology leader with a record of delivering productivity and innovation worldwide.
The second milestone is that Ethisphere Institute named Kennametal for the second consecutive year as one of the world's most ethical companies.
This is a strong testament to our commitment to our code of ethics investment in innovation and sustainable business practices as well as activities designed to improve corporate citizenship.
Most importantly it is a great honor and tribute to the Kennametal's employees worldwide.
I'll now turn the call over to Frank who will discuss our financial results for the quarter in greater detail.
Frank? Thank you Carlos.
I'll start with a summary of the March quarter followed by a review of the quarter details and I'll close with the current view on our outlook for the remainder of fiscal 2013.
As Carlos said on balance we delivered solid results with improved profitability from the December quarter despite a mixed macro environment for our served end markets.
Looking at our market analysis for sales by region we experienced the most negative impact in North America.
This was mostly driven by infrastructure end markets where there were softness in North America underground coal mining including additional mine closures coupled with project delays in our energy business.
General engineering is also down in North America as customers continue to operate at low inventory levels.
However it's important to note that throughout the March quarter both our Industrial and Infrastructure segments saw sequential growth in each month since December.
Also a few other items to highlight as we again delivered double-digit EBIT margin of 11.2% and excluding the Stellite acquisition our EBIT margin was 11.8%.
We have strong free operating cash flow in the March quarter led by our inventory reduction initiative in which we reduced finished goods inventories by approximately $30 million.
Although this initiative lowered our EBIT margin by 110 basis points it was consistent with our long-term strategy to maximize cash flow.
We further enhanced our liquidity and debt maturity profile by amending and extending our revolving credit facility at favorable pricing.
We completed the sale of 13% of shares in our India subsidiary resulting in net proceeds of approximately $27 million and I'll touch on this in a bit more detail later.
And lastly Stellite's acquisition was accretive to our results by $0.02 per share despite the headwinds in its served markets.
Note that our proactive cost-reduction measures as well as our more efficient organization structure helped us deliver double-digit adjusted operating margin of 12.1% despite the continued market challenges in our company's inventory reduction efforts.
We continue to have cost-containment actions in place and are managing our business to market conditions while staying focused on near-term cash flow objectives as well as the long-term growth strategies.
Now I'll walk through the key items in the income statement.
Sales for the quarter were $655 million and this compares to $696 million in the same quarter last year.
Sales decreased by 6% reflecting a 6% organic decline a 5% decline from fewer business days and 1% unfavorable effect from currency exchange partly offset by a 6% increase from Stellite.
And that's 2 additional months in the quarter compared to last year since we acquired Stellite on March 1 in the prior year.
Turning to the segments' business review.
Our Industrial segment sales of $374 million declined 11% from the prior year quarter.
This was due to 5% organic decline a 5% decline from fewer business days and a 1% unfavorable effect from currency.
On an organic basis sales declined 12% in general engineering 2% in transportation and this was partly offset by sales growth of 14% in aerospace and defense.
General engineering was unfavorably impacted by lower demand levels as both direct and indirect customers continue to operate cautiously maintaining lower-than-normal inventory levels.
Transportation experienced lower vehicle production rates in most geographic regions and aerospace and defense sales continue to benefit from the increase in commercial aircraft production.
Regionally sales in the Industrial segment decreased by approximately 12% in the America's 10% in Asia and 9% in Europe.
Our Infrastructure segment sales of $282 million increased 1% from the prior year quarter driven by Stellite contributing 15% growth partly offset by an 8% organic sales decline and a 6% decline from fewer business days.
On an organic basis sales declined 15% in energy and 6% in the Earthworks markets.
Energy customers continue to delay orders due to ongoing decline in the oil and gas rig counts primarily in North America and weaker underground coal demand in North America as well as 3 additional mine closures during the quarter and a delay in the start of road construction season due to inclement weather in March affected our Earthworks business.
Regionally including the 1 month of Stellite organic growth sales increased by approximately 18% in the Americas 6% in Europe and remained relatively flat in Asia.
Now a recap on our operating performance.
Our gross profit margin was 31.8% compared to 35.4% last year.
The decline was due to decreased volumes and less absorption of manufacturing costs resulting from both the lower sales as well as our inventory reduction efforts.
The inventory reduction had an unfavorable impact of approximately $6 million or 110 basis points on a gross margin for the base business.
This quarter's results also includes the effect of Stellite which is as I've said in the past is a lower-gross-margin business versus the Kennametal base business.
The current year gross margin benefited from -- the prior year gross margin benefited from strong organic growth of 8% in the prior year.
Our operating expense declined $11 million year-over-year due to the containment of discretionary spending lower employment and related compensation costs and favorable foreign exchange.
Operating expense as a percent of sales was 19.6% for the quarter down 30 basis points from the prior year of 19.9%.
This represents ongoing cost discipline from our global team coupled with the effect of Stellite which has a lower SG&amp;A percentage versus the Kennametal base business.
Our operating income was $75 million compared to $103 million in the same quarter last year.
Our operating income included $2.9 million of Stellite operating income contribution for the quarter and Stellite net operating loss which included acquisition-related costs totaled $4.6 million in the prior year.
Operating income declined due to lower absorption of manufacturing costs related to the sales volume and our ongoing inventory reduction initiative partly offset by lower operating expenses.
And as I said earlier our operating margin for the March quarter excluding the acquisition of Stellite was 12.1%.
Looking at the business performance by segments.
The Industrial segment's operating income was $45 million compared to $71 million in the same quarter of the prior year.
Industrial's operating income decreased due to the lower absorption of manufacturing costs related to the sales volume and the ongoing inventory initiative to reduce inventory.
Industrial operating margin was 12% compared with 17% in the prior year.
The Infrastructure segment operating income was $32 million compared with $34 million in the same quarter last year.
Infrastructure's operating income benefited from the Stellite operating income of $2.9 million and Stellite's net operating loss as I said prior totaled $4.6 million loss in the prior year period.
Operating income decreased due to the effects of the organic sales decline and the lower absorption of the manufacturing costs.
And Infrastructure's adjusted operating margin was 13.4% for the March quarter compared with 15.1% in the prior year.
Now I'll walk through the rest of the income statements.
Despite higher average debt levels attributable to the Stellite acquisition our interest expense decreased by $500 000 year-over-year in the March quarter to $7.5 million.
This decrease was due to favorable effects from the refinancing of our 7.2% notes that matured last June which will replace lower interest of 3.875% 10-year notes maturing in 2022.
Our effective tax rate was 18.5% for the quarter compared to 20.4% in the prior year.
The decrease was primarily driven by the extension of the credit for increase in research activities contained in the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 that was enacted during the current quarter partly offset by higher relative U.S.
earnings in the current year relative to the rest of the world.
Regarding the bottom line performance.
We reported the March quarter diluted earnings per share of $0.67 compared with $0.93 in the prior year quarter.
And as I said earlier the current year earnings per share includes $0.02 per share accretion from Stellite while the prior year earnings per share included $0.05 per share of acquisition-related costs.
Turning to cash flow.
Our year-to-date cash flow from operating activities was $150 million and this compares with $164 million in the prior year.
Cash flow benefited from our ongoing inventory reduction initiative which reduced finished goods and WIP by approximately $40 million on a year-to-date basis.
Our net capital expenditures were $52 million compared to $56 million in the prior year and our free operating cash flow year-to-date was $98 million compared with $108 million in the prior year.
We continue to focus on further improving our cash flow metrics and are making significant progress towards achieving our goal of 100% conversion of net income to free operating cash flow.
In fact on discrete basis our March quarter free operating cash flow was 144% of net income.
We remain committed to balancing our priority uses of cash.
During the March quarter we purchased 786 000 shares of our stock totaling 2.1 million shares on a year-to-date basis.
And we have approximately 6.5 million shares remaining available under the current stock buyback program.
Also during the March quarter we sold shares in our subsidiary in India in order to comply with the Securities and Exchange Board of India stock exchange rules which require a minimum of 25% public float.
Prior to the sell-down we owned 88% of our India subsidiary.
In accordance with the rules we sold 13% of our shares and received approximately $27 million as a result.
We now own 75% of the Indian subsidiary and there was no P&amp;L impact on the transaction except for the noncontrolling interest going forward.
We continue to be confident in our strong cash flow generation and we'll stay consistent to our capital structure principles.
We have investment-grade ratings and stable outlooks from all 3 rating agencies and remain committed to maintaining them.
We continually strive to balance key priorities by prudently deploying cash in strategic growth investments and acquisition opportunities returning excess cash to shareholders and reducing debt.
For the year-to-date period we returned 81% of our net earnings to share owners.
The combined payout ratio reflects $78.5 million in share repurchases and $38.4 million in dividends.
Our net income before noncontrolling interest was $144.7 million and combined share repurchases and dividends represent 119% of our year-to-date free operating cash flow of $98 million.
As always we remain active on the acquisition front to identify and develop potential candidates.
We continue to be highly disciplined in our capital allocation process to ensure that we invest in initiatives with the highest share owner returns.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Our balance sheet remains strong.
As we've previously stated we remain committed to reduce an approximately $60 million of inventory in fiscal 2013 primarily from finished goods and work in process inventory.
During the quarter we reduced finished goods inventory including WIP by approximately $30 million and this is in addition to the $17 million that we reduced in the December quarter.
At March 31 2013 we had just $47 million in short-term debt leaving availability of liquidity of more than $0.5 billion on our revolver.
Total debt was $751 million and Kennametal had total cash of $322 million with the majority of this cash residing presently overseas.
Our net debt was $429 million at quarter end a decrease of $61 million versus the December quarter due to strong free operating cash flow and approximately $27 million from the Kennametal India share sale proceeds partly offset by share repurchases and our March quarter dividend.
Our debt-to-cap ratio at March 31 was 30% compared to 25.3% at June 30 and our adjusted return on invested capital was 10.8%.
We continue to actively manage our pension plans and enjoy the benefits of our adoption of a liability-driven investment strategy over 6 years ago and as a result our U.S.-defined benefit plans remain 100% funded.
In April we took additional steps to further enhance our liquidity and capitalize upon current market conditions to extend our debt maturity profile.
We amended our existing $600 million syndicated revolving credit facility to extend the maturity at April 2018.
We felt it prudent to move forward at this time to lock in current favorable pricing and reduce exposure to future market uncertainty.
This transaction closed on April 5 and represents a third event over period of approximately 2 years and a series of key strategic financing initiatives which began with the refinancing of our $300 million 10-year notes that matured last June.
We went to the bond market twice in the last 14 months and took advantage of the current low-interest rate environment to place attractive fixed-rate debt issuances for Kennametal.
Our November 400 million 7-year 2.65% public note issuance significantly increased our liquidity and generates an attractive weighted average overall interest rate of 3%.
Kennametal's debt maturity profile has been effectively diversified and extended.
Our nearest debt maturity is now 2018.
Quick update on the acquisition of Stellite for you.
The integration of Kennametal Stellite continues to be on track.
The June quarter is an important period for the integration as we cut over 4 of the principal operating locations onto SAP.
The SAP implementation will accelerate future synergy opportunities both costs and revenues.
During the June quarter or during the third quarter Kennametal Stellite also experienced weakness in its core end markets particularly its energy and end markets in North America the construction market in Asia and continued softness in the automotive in Europe.
We continue to manage operating and integration costs to partly mitigate the adverse effects on our operating results.
The delayed recovering served end markets for Kennametal Stellite is impacting its contribution in fiscal 2013 and in the fiscal third quarter Kennametal sales were $61 million and Stellite contributed $0.02 per share.
Now let me turn to our outlook for the remainder of the fiscal year.
We have revised our forecast in consideration of the global economic conditions and customer demand patterns that Carlos touched on.
So the assumptions that are included in our guidance include a benefit from 2 additional work days in the June quarter compared to March in the prior year quarter.
Weak conditions will likely persist in North America underground coal mining.
However we expect increased activity in highway road construction slightly improving energy activity with drilling activity expected to remain flat in the June quarter.
Longer-term the industry is preparing for growth as natural gas prices rise and storage levels continue to be depleted.
Improving sales for transportation and general engineering with limited effects from destocking now that customers have lower inventory levels.
We believe destocking has slowed in the Americas and Asia is beginning to show positive signs.
Our noncontrolling interest expense will increase due to Kennametal's India stock sale.
We now own 75% of our subsidiary compared to 88% previously.
And the effective tax rate for the full year is now expected to be approximately 23%.
We're on track to reduce our finished goods inventory and WIP by approximately $60 million for the fiscal year and we again expect to deliver strong free operating cash flow in the fourth quarter in excess of net income.
Positive note is that our monthly order rates reflect a sequential increase over prior quarter and we expect continued modest improvements particularly in our industrial end markets.
As a result of these factors we now expect our fiscal '13 sales to decline in the range of 5% to 6% with organic sales decline ranging from 8% to 9%.
We are reducing our earnings per share guidance for fiscal '13 to the range of $2.45 to $2.55 per share and included in this outlook is the accretive contribution of the Stellite acquisition net of integration costs which is now expected to be a range of $0.05 per share to $0.10 per share.
We expect to generate cash flow from operations between $260 million and $280 million for the remainder of the fiscal year and based on anticipated capital expenditures of $90 million to $100 million we expect to generate between $170 million and $180 million of free operating cash flow for the full fiscal year.
Overall we're managing the business very well for the factors we can't control or deal with and the near headwinds as needed and we continue to focus on our many growth opportunities and the consistent execution of our strategies.
Now I'll turn it back to Carlos for some closing comments.
Thank you Frank.
As we move forward we'll continue to execute the same strategies that have transformed Kennametal into a company that can deliver profitable growth throughout the economic cycle.
During this fiscal year we have consistently delivered double-digit operating margin performance despite the challenging market conditions that impact sales growth and lower cost absorption due to our inventory reduction efforts.
The results validate our company-specific initiatives to grow sales invest in operational efficiencies and maximize profitability.
In addition we'll continue to capitalize on our strong balance sheet to increase shareholder value.
Kennametal has a track record of generating strong cash flows we'll remain disciplined in our capital allocation process to include stock buyback acquisitions capital expenditures and dividends.
In summary we'll continue to serve customer demand by further balancing our served end markets business mix and geographic presence.
We'll remain focused on maintaining operational excellence throughout our company.
Our goal is to drive profitability and returns while doubling revenues in 5 years and maximizing cash flows.
Thank you for your interest in Kennametal and we'll now take questions from you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wondered on the issue of production versus sell-through.
The gross margin went up I guess 30 bps sequentially in Q3.
Assuming it's sort of a flattish SG&amp;A-to-sales ratio in Q4 sequentially suggests your guidance maybe has it up about 100 bps or so in Q4.
Is that roughly correct? And if you could just give a broader update on production versus sell-through and at what point do you think we should see the 2 match up again? Yes Julian.
This is Frank.
I think you're right sequentially Q2 to Q3.
We had originally anticipated taking out the remaining inventory reduction of about $47 million.
So we did a little bit more in the March quarter the $30 million not that it was going to be equal last quarter of $20 million and $20 million give or take.
But I think the fourth quarter gross margin will be a little bit better.
We will have some additional benefits from the line [ph] from the additional work days so less of a drag on the capacity utilization.
We're also experiencing slightly lower raw material costs now that we flushed through some of the higher cost in the fourth quarter and there'll be a slight bump-up as well in my opinion on the Stellite acquisition from some of the sales synergies and some of the integration activities that we started on previously.
So I expect it to be up a little bit higher than what you anticipated in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> And then just on a -- within the industrial business the Americas seems to see a sort of an accelerated decline in Q3.
I think they were down 12% organically year-on-year versus down 8% year-on-year in the December quarter.
And yet if you look sort of globally and so on the PMI just slightly better in the Americas versus other regions.
So maybe just give an update on industrial Americas.
And do you think that we should see that minus 12% improve much in the June quarter? Yes I think we will see it.
I think it's -- it was a little bit more pervasive with the destocking.
I think that has somewhat subsided.
And then even though it's in the industrial the slowness in the energy also has a ripple effect on the general engineering side and I think just some of the fiscal concerns and some of the cautious in the third quarter as people get a little bit more comfortable with the payroll cut and the debt sequester.
I think we'll see a little bit more activity going forward.
And it was basically the same between our direct and indirect but we continue to see the daily rate in the industrial business gain a little bit of a steam and we see a strong correlation as well as transportation starts to pick up a little bit.
The general engineering portion of our business tends to lag a couple of quarters so we're starting to see a little bit more activity start to come through on that side as well.
So I expect it to be a little bit better in the fourth quarter all being we do have a little bit easier comp in Q4.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly the cash balance I mean your cash balance has tripled in 6 months just the gross cash.
What -- I mean are you anticipating a sort of accelerated buyback run rate from here.
I guess year to date you've been running at about 700 000 shares per quarter on average year to date.
Are you anticipating an acceleration in that run rate? I'll answer it this way for you.
We committed to the beginning of the fiscal year to repurchase 2.5 million shares back.
We will do at minimum that amount.
And I'll remind everyone that we still have a 6.5 million authorization left so we have flexibility.
Next question will come from the line of Eli Lustgarten with Longbow Securities.
Can you give us some idea of what's going on and versus end markets? One clarification we have what $13 million more of inventory to take out in the fourth quarter if you're going to get to $60 million.
You're at $47 million.
I know I should [ph] but can you...
Yes I'll start on the inventory question.
So Eli let me give you the numbers.
Like we said last quarter we would take out $60 million of which we did $17 million in the quarter and we did another $30 million.
So the last 2 quarters we did $47 million but in the first quarter inventory in those categories was up $7 million so I -- in the script I said year-to-date we're at $40 million so this would imply $20-ish million in the fourth quarter.
Now the caveats there is as we continue to see some of the faster moving items particularly in the industrial side the A items turn [ph] we'll monitor our fill rates.
And if we think we need to increase for the second half any of the fast-moving items we may not hit that but the goal still remains to do the $60 million.
Of which $20 million will occur in Q4.
And Eli what was your question relative to the markets? Yes I was just trying to get some characters some color on what's going on in the underlying markets.
I mean industrial markets are sort of in a status quo but the inventory seemed relatively low at this point.
So you're just prodding along with current activity.
And that's what you'd expect to happen until the market change.
I guess my concern is the infrastructure where energy remains quite weak or so and we have more inventory liquidation to be taken out in the end markets and that part of the business.
And is that year-over-year comparison improvement delayed till sometime in the middle of fiscal '14? Well I mean I think that we have seen sort of the destocking and really this month this past month we've seen that activity sort of end as far as we can tell at this point.
And one of the proofs is that we've seen sequential in the daily rate sequential growth.
We at this point anticipate that the industrial will come back faster but maybe by a quarter or so and the infrastructure to follow that.
And what's driving the infrastructure is going to be around the construction.
So the construction was expected the activity to start really this quarter but because of the harsh winter the weather again we have the quotes.
I think the municipalities are ready go.
I think we'll see that activity right now in the next few weeks.
I mean I...
[indiscernible] yes the one thing I would add on the energy side I don't think there's a lot of inventory in the energy pipeline of any magnitude.
And it's just very -- some are quick [ph] we see the -- with the gas prices where they're at.
we know storage levels are down.
And what could really be an inflection point if we have a hot summer because we have a normal winter and if you get a normal summer this thing can snap back a lot quicker as you know.
Okay.
And can we just have some commentary what's going on in pricing in the industry? Of course is there any material change in pricing whatsoever given the weakened industry conditions? And maybe an update on what's going on with Fastenal and the video line and versus seeing some inroad from Amazon in the marketplaces? Yes I mean I would say there has been no change in the pricing so we'll continue to get -- obviously we have -- the pricing that we are getting is the tail end of the pricing that we had in place last year.
So there was -- we have not given price in any areas.
And I think our Fastenal business continues to grow at a significant pace.
The base is small and we are both myself and Will are very excited about the potential of this brand.
And the Amazon is not really going to affect this brand because people need to help need help in utilizing applying sort of the principles of this brand.
I mean you're going to see Amazon more in the high-speed steel and some of the more standard type of products.
Your next question will come from the line of Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is Damien Fortune on for Ann.
Could you guys expand on the sequential improvement in orders? Was most of it being driven by improvement from the OEMs? Or is it more distribution? It's really both.
I mean we're seeing improvement all around in the daily orders sequentially.
And at the last call we said that we believe that the bottom had been in November December time frame.
We now have a basically 3 months to validate that and I can tell you right now that the current month seems to be in the same -- going the same path.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And could you guys give us just a sense of what you're thinking over the cadence of orders over the next call it 6 months or so? We're not going to get into fiscal '14 because we're going to be wrapping up our year.
I think you guys can look at the normal seasonal patterns.
But as we go forward as you know the sales comps as we get into fiscal '14 will be relatively easy to compare to.
And some other items that we're contemplating going forward is we shouldn't have the inventory reduction issue next year.
We should continue to have a tailwind from some raw materials.
Stellite should pick up compared to this year from an integration contribution and we expect to have a better mix as we get into the next fiscal year as we continue to be challenged this year with the destocking and the inventory burn.
All those items should not necessarily recur in fiscal '14 but as far as the outline I think you guys can look at all the global GDP and the industrial production numbers.
It's in theory setting up for a decent year but we'll be a little bit cautious and be able to update you when we get to the July call.
Your next question will come from the line of Adam Uhlman with Cleveland Research.
I'm wondering as you've done a good job pulling back your SG&amp;A expenses because demand's been pretty weak I'm just wondering as we start to see some of the volumes recovering next year what your confidence level of holding that expense growth down as volumes improve.
Well I mean I think traditionally we have been able to do that.
I mean we have demonstrated that we did that in the last -- coming out of the last recession.
So there was nothing that really would be abnormal and unusual.
And by the way in the last recovery the recovery was higher and faster than I think it's going to be going forward.
So I think we have a better chance to do it.
It was more difficult to do it last time than it is going to be now.
Yes Adam the one thing that I'll add as we continue to start going for you probably will start seeing additions to the sales force.
So we're willing to -- we're going to make some investments particularly in Americas to help us take some additional share as we get into fiscal '14.
And as we stated what our top line to grow faster we're going to start making some investments to help accelerate the top line growth particularly around the direct field sales organization and adding select distribution.
Okay.
Got it.
Actually could you expand on that comment a little bit more Frank? The strategy in the last couple of years has been to expand the presence and distribution.
And I guess that seems to be kind of a big change of what we had been thinking [ph].
No I think...
No no it's not a big change.
I mean I think that our distribution is growing at a much faster pace than our direct sales.
It's going to continue to be that way still our strategy.
We didn't change anything.
But sooner or later as we get bigger and bigger we got to add to the sales -- direct sales force even though we're going to continue to grow indirect at a higher pace.
Nothing's changed.
It's just...
Okay.
Got it.
And then just quickly I think I heard $6 million gross margin from the inventory reduction.
Could you clarify that.
Is that -- that was just in the quarter? Is that year to date? And then Frank could you give us the impact of the inventory reduction by business perhaps? Yes.
The $6 million was basically the March quarter alone.
That's in addition to the $5 million that I called out last quarter.
I'm not going to break it down overall by business but there's probably a little bit more inventory reduction on the industrial side than there was on the infrastructure because infrastructure has a little bit more raw material content products in there and the focus was really more on the industrial side.
So the $6 million is in addition to the $5 million.
The first quarter we had a benefit of about $1 million and change so that would put us basically at about $11 million year-to-date impact on the gross margin with the bigger hits being in the December and March quarter.
Your next question will come from the line of Ross Gilardi with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk just a little bit about when you look at your different end markets and the weakness in coal I think is well understood.
But if you think about sort of the year-to-date declines you've seen in demand how much of that would you characterize as just cyclical versus structural? And then I guess when we think about you getting back to a 15% margin at some point in the next couple of years hopefully is there a detrimental impact on mix from some of these changes in the demand patterns that might inhibit you from getting back to that level of margin? No I would say that the decline is due to the cyclicality of the business.
I mean I think that as the supply chain is a lot tighter now so I think it is going to take -- as we see the IPI and we see the PMI getting better then as the serious put [ph] inventory in their stock and so forth we'll see that coming back.
And I would say that even with the inventory reduction in place we are harboring around 12%.
So we have a lot of capacity.
So as this thing comes back we're going to experience a substantial incremental margin improvement.
So we are -- we feel that we are very well positioned for the growth.
Research Division</strong> But what do you think is the risk though that some of the energy markets some of the markets you're talking about in Europe in the transportation sector what you're referring to a lot of destocking and restocking type dynamics but what's the risk that these markets are just kind of dead for a while from here? Well I mean I think that if you look at -- we're not anticipating that coal is going to come back soon.
I mean -- and I think that as we said for example the automotive in the U.S.
on average 11 years is the life of a car.
I mean sort of there's a lot of pent-up demand that is going to come back.
And so I think the only risk that we have that we can see of taking a while to recover is in the coal.
And the coal -- and is probably primarily in U.S.
and I think that's a smaller percentage of our total sales.
So I think we can experience good growth starting this quarter or next quarter I mean.
Yes.
The general engineering should get better as Fastenal gets a little bit more engrained.
Particularly in North America we expand that.
That's in the sweet spot with a good margin business.
Aerospace continues to have a long cycle as you know.
That's going to grow.
If it was a little bit bigger we continue to focus products in that area.
And at your point energy is a good market and I think with our focus strategy just not the focus on the drilling and taken all related aspects there's a much bigger sandbox that we can drive a lot more value to our customers with our full product portfolio not just our industrial side.
So I think the risks are somewhat limited there but I think the industrial continue to go stronger.
And as Carlo said mining's going to be what it's going to be but it's still a good market longer term.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Stellite you gave some detail there some of the dynamics with sales and profits.
But are the challenges that you've had with Stellite would you say are they just purely demand and end market related? Is there anything going on operationally with the business or distribution of other products? It's a 100% market driven.
As a matter of fact in the cost side of the integration we are actually ahead of plan and we're really a year into this integration.
And as I said the board visited one of their largest sites.
And we are extremely excited about having Stellite as part of our family.
We could use a couple more.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly your Infrastructure segment your profits at least on a year-on-year basis were fairly stable almost flat despite the decline in sales.
I know  some of that was related to Stellite but do you think you can actually turn positive in the Infrastructure segment this quarter on a year-on-year basis from a profitability standpoint? Yes.
That's a good question.
It's going to be close.
It'll depend on how construction kicks in here sequentially and if we don't get -- every time we say we think minings somewhat bottom we see some additional mine closures.
So it'll really depend if we have less closures or no additional closures going forward.
Construction kicks in a little bit here.
Depending what happens with the energy side we could potentially in a best case yes definitely get there.
Your next question will come from the line of Joel Tiss with Bank of Montréal.
It seems like a lot of people are dancing around this question.
How big is mining? Can you give us a sense in terms of revenues or operating profits? 5% to 6%.
Of revenues right? Yes.
That's the U.S.
Okay.
And it's fair still to assume that that's more profitable than the overall company right? No.
No not at all.
No.
Oh okay.
Well good.
And then can you -- just 2 like bigger picture things.
Are you seeing anything changing on the competitive landscape front? And also can you give us your sort of -- Frank gave us a little hint of capital allocation or reallocation.
Can you give us more of a sense do you think in the next 12 months we're more likely to see acquisitions or share repurchase and/or combination? You make a good prosecutor Joel.
I think I mean the answer depends obviously.
We can't forecast the acquisitions.
I mean we are constantly talking to people and as I mentioned before it -- we negotiated for Stellite for over a year and we thought there we're going to be closer.
And every time we were close enough something happened because we are very disciplined about our acquisitions.
And the other question was relative to the market? Yes yes about the competitive landscape.
Is it -- is anything changing there? Nothing really changed.
I mean we really don't see I mean don't see anything that really is worthwhile noting to be honest with you.
I mean I think we continue to make inroads into the distribution and the indirect channel.
We're happy with that and our partners are happy with that.
So I think that as the market comes I think we can accelerate the indirect sales more so than we did before because we're better positioned with the -- in directional than we ever been before.
Next question will come from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Now that you're starting to see some of these sequential increases in orders just wondering how you're thinking about cost-reduction activities.
And it sounded like your answer to Adam's question earlier was that you've now shifted to investment mode rather than cost-reduction mode.
Is that the right way to think about it? Yes.
Yes and we're going to stay disciplined obviously until we see a better -- I mean the incrementals are not exciting enough at this point for us to make some measured shifts.
But in reality is that we're going to continue to exercise the discipline that we've had and we are going to start to make investments in the marketplace.
Yes and Steve when we look at -- we're definitely going to make the investments where we need it to be in the sales force-related area.
But as we've been saying along the first thing we have to do internally is we talk about trying to fund this S in the SG&amp;A with the G&amp;A reduction.
So we continue to maintain that discipline as your underlying theme where we're trying to trade off dollar for dollar.
And we if feel that we have opportunities to launch some additional initiatives to drive the top line we're going to make some of those investments.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then it sounds like the U.S.
highway constructions off to a slow start even through early April.
How long do think it's going to take to really pick up to the full seasonal run rate? And then what have you assumed for that for the June quarter? Yes.
We think it'll maybe kick in in late May June-ish in the time frame there.
And you got to remember too -- there's another factor there.
The longer they delay to repair the roads and the tougher the winter is the more repairs they're going to need to make.
So we're going to continue to monitor this one.
I think we've got through most of the snow for -- with the exceptions of like in Minnesota and a couple of those other areas but we think it should start to pick up here in May.
This will conclude today's question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
This concludes today's earnings call.
Please contact me Quynh McGuire at (724) 539-6559 for any follow-up questions and thank you for joining us.
Today's call will be available for replay beginning at 12:00 p.m.
Eastern Time today and lasting through midnight Eastern Time on May 25 2013.
The conference ID number for the replay is 28030042.
The number to dial for the replay is (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406.
This concludes today's discussion.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Kennametal's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal Year 2013 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Regina.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us to review Kennametal's fourth quarter and fiscal year 2013 results.
We issued our quarterly earnings press release earlier today.
You may access this announcement via our website at www.kennametal.com.
Consistent with our practice in prior quarterly conference calls we've invited various members of the media to listen to this call.
Also it's being broadcasted live on our website and a recording will be available on our site for replay through August 26 2013.
I'm Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations for Kennametal.
Joining me for our call today are Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Carlos Cardoso; Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Frank Simpkins; and Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller Marti Bailey.
Frank and Carlos will provide further explanation on the quarter's financial performance.
After the remarks we'll be happy to answer your questions.
At this time I'd like to direct your attention to our forward-looking disclosure statement.
The discussion we'll have today contains comments that may constitute forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve a number of assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information regarding these risk factors and uncertainties is detailed in Kennametal's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition Kennametal has provided the SEC with a Form 8-K a copy of which is currently available on our website.
This enables us to discuss non-GAAP financial measures during this call in accordance with SEC Regulation G.
This 8-K presents GAAP financial measures that we believe are most directly comparable to those non-GAAP financial measures and it provides a reconciliation of those measures as well.
I'll now turn the call over to Carlos.
Thank you Quynh.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
I'm pleased to report that Kennametal again delivered strong EBIT margin performance 13.1% for the June quarter despite mixed conditions in the macro environment.
In fact we achieved double-digit profitability for every quarter of fiscal year 2013 resulting in 13.3% EBIT margin for the year.
We also generated all-time record free operating cash flows of $204 million this year representing nearly 100% of net income.
In other company-specific actions we further strengthened our balance sheet accelerated our share buyback program and increased our dividend.
During fiscal year 2013 we returned cash to shareholders at 83% of earnings and 84% of free operating cash flow.
The June quarter reflected 2.4% sales growth compared with the prior quarter a sequential increase that was in line with expected seasonality.
Moving forward we are beginning to see favorable indicators of demand growth particularly in our Transportation and General Engineering business.
Although market conditions were challenging during the past 12 months it is important to note that Kennametal delivered substantially better results in fiscal 2013 than we have in past down cycles.
We demonstrated agility and elevated our base performance in terms of profitability earnings cash flows and return on invested capital.
We also expect to realize strong operating leverage on the upturn because fundamentally both operationally and financially Kennametal is stronger than ever.
And now I would like to provide an overview of trends that we are seeing in our served end markets.
In the aerospace industry at the Paris Air Show in June OEMs announced order commitments of 1 258 aircraft.
Airbus confirmed the highest number of aircraft sold at 466 units reflecting the success of the reengineered A320neo.
Boeing however had higher activity in terms of dollars at an estimated $57 billion of orders mainly for its new 787Fs.
As the commercial aerospace market continues to grow the supply chain is being redefined.
Kennametal is focused on supporting the development of new aircraft technologies enabling the entire supply chain to increase its manufacturing throughput of titanium parts.
General Engineering which primarily consists of distribution channel customers but also includes smaller manufacturing shops is expected to see modest growth for machinery production for calendar year 2013.
In the near term domestic demand is expected to increase first with exports regaining some momentum in calendar year 2014.
Recently the Association of Manufacturing Technology reported that while U.S.
orders year-to-date through May 2013 were down approximately 7% from prior year there was a sequential increase in May from prior months.
In Transportation NAFTA light vehicle production is expected to increase modestly at 4.5% in calendar year 2013 to 16.1 million units.
Demand is being helped by an aging vehicle fleet and recovering housing market.
Long term the industry continues to make ongoing investments such as the General Motors announcement that it will invest approximately $69 million in its manufacturing operations in Mexico.
In Western Europe light vehicle production is estimated to decline further by 3.7% in calendar year 2013 to 12.1 million units.
In India production is projected to be flat in calendar year 2013 but it should increase to 4.4 million units in calendar year 2014.
Market conditions in China are expected to improve in light vehicle production forecasted to increase 10% in calendar year 2013 to 20.4 million units.
Regarding the energy market natural gas inventory levels were within the 5-year average but 70% lower than prior year.
Currently average prices are higher than $4 per MBtu and expected to benefit from decline in natural gas inventory.
In oil drilling world production rose by 1.9 million barrels per day with U.S.
production increasing by 1 million barrels per day.
However the world rig count is down 5% to 6% year-over-year.
This continues to validate the trend of ever-increasing levels of production per drilled well.
As each well ages and produces higher volumes of oil and natural gas conditions are expected to become more demanding.
Kennametal can bring value to its market by adding longevity to a well in our many solutions from underground claddings to surface coatings.
Our portfolio is well suited to address the needs of the energy market by providing wear technologies as well as drilling products.
In the mining industry coal production is expected to be lackluster globally for at least the next 6 to 9 months.
U.S.
coal prices continue to be relatively flat.
Metallurgical coal pricing has become more competitive as steam coal demand is stable but remains low.
In China coal imports from the U.S.
and Indonesia are increasing.
However its domestic production will likely remain at current levels but should begin to recover in calendar year 2014.
For the road construction and rehabilitation sectors the U.S.
Census Bureau of the Department of Commerce estimated that in the first 5 months of calendar year 2013 year-to-date construction spending was approximately 6% higher than prior year.
However road construction activity continues to lag due to the weather-related issues in the early part of 2013 especially on secondary roads.
Due to all the delays so far there is a potential for this year's season to complete existing projects in remaining calendar year 2013.
From a geographic perspective the general outlook is essentially unchanged according to IHS Global Insight.
However underlying growth patterns have shifted to reflect the slightly more upbeat view of developed economies and a bit more downbeat view of big emerging markets.
In the U.S.
there have been multiple headwinds and it has been difficult for the economy to gain momentum.
The government spending sequester is expected to hold back growth through the end of calendar year 2013.
Looking ahead consumer spending combined with business investments should provide a solid foundation for expansion in calendar year 2014.
In the Eurozone the recession has now spread to a number of Northern European countries.
However German economic growth is expected to improve during the remainder of 2013 and continue in 2014.
In emerging markets China's near-term outlook is soft due to weak external demand.
And economic growth in India is bottoming out with a shallow recovery expected in the near term.
Overall given the more favorable macro indicators from the U.S.
and Europe recently the world economic -- economy seems to be in a soft recovery mode.
Behind those economics factors we continue to enhance our organizational structure to better position our company for growth in core end markets.
Effective fiscal 2014 we aligned our management team with customer-facing products and technology platforms to further increase cross-selling opportunities.
This operating structure supports Kennametal's growth objectives across diverse market sectors preserves the focus on customers increases product innovation and simplifies acquisition integration.
We'll continue to report results for our Industrial and Infrastructure segment by served end markets along technology-based sales for each segment.
For fiscal year 2014 our guidance reflects organic top line growth of 5% to 7% which is approximately 2x the currently forecasted industrial production growth of 3.3%.
We expect to continue generating strong cash flows and will remain consistent with our capital allocation strategy.
Our confidence is reflected in our board's approval of a 12.5% dividend increase to $0.18 per share quarterly.
In addition the board increased our share repurchase authorization.
We currently have 10.4 million shares remaining under our payback program.
As always we remain focused on maximizing shareholder value.
We'll continue to execute our strategies to manage our portfolio for growth.
We successfully completed the integration of Stellite and we continue to seek acquisitions that complement our core business and further strengthen our technology platforms.
Kennametal has an established record of introducing innovative new products at a market-leading pace.
In fiscal year 2013 we generated 45% of revenues from new products.
We'll also look again -- look to gain further market share by increasing our presence in distribution channels with the WIDIA brand and growing our business in emerging markets.
I will now turn the call over to Frank and will -- who will discuss our financial results for the quarter in greater detail.
Frank? Okay.
Thank you Carlos.
Consistent with the past I'll start by making some overall comments first on the fiscal year and then I'll review our fourth quarter in more detail.
And some of my comments are associated with non-GAAP metrics.
Consistent with what Carlos said overall we delivered solid results with double-digit profitability throughout fiscal 2013 despite a challenging macroeconomic environment.
We met expectations in the June quarter for both sales and earnings per share and this was our strongest quarter of the year reflected a 2.4% sequential sales growth from the prior quarter.
In addition we realized an all-time company record for free operating cash flow.
This cash flow achievement was driven by improved efficiencies in working capital and represented nearly 100% conversion of net income for fiscal 2013.
Regarding balance sheet actions we further strengthened our financial position enhanced our liquidity and extended our debt maturity profile and I'll provide some more details later on the call.
Moving on to our uses of cash we remain consistent with our capital allocation principles.
We reinvested in our business approximately $80 million of capital expenditures.
We repurchased 1 million shares in the quarter and 3.1 million shares of stock buyback for the full fiscal year.
And for the third consecutive year we increased our dividend by 12.5% this time to $0.18 per share on a quarterly basis.
Turning to the June quarter we experienced improved sales trended in our early cycle Industrial business which continues to gain momentum.
However the Infrastructure business which is generally mid to late cycle continued to lag as mining and energy markets remained weak globally.
Despite these market conditions we again delivered double-digit EBIT margin with the June quarter at 13.1%.
We maintained our ongoing cost discipline as shown by operating expenses at below 20% of sales.
And it's important to note that our continued proactive cost-reduction measures as well as an even more efficient organizational structure helped deliver this double-digit adjusted operating margin of almost 14.6% despite the continued market challenges.
Now let me walk through the key items in the income statement.
Sales for the quarter were $671 million compared to $739 million in the same quarter last year.
Our sales decreased by 9% reflecting an 8% organic decline and a 1% unfavorable effect from currency exchange.
Looking at the business segments the Industrial segment had sales of $384 million and declined by 9% from the prior year quarter.
This was due to an 8% organic decline and a 1% unfavorable effect from currency.
On an organic basis sales declined by 8% in the General Engineering group 7% in Transportation and 6% in aerospace and defense.
On a geographic basis and including the effects of work days sales decreased year-over-year by approximately 12% in the Americas 6% in Europe and 5% in Asia.
The Industrial segment grew sequentially by 3% from the March quarter driven by improved end market demand in the general engineering and transportation sectors particularly in Asia.
Infrastructure segment sales of $288 million decreased by 10% year-over-year driven by an 8% organic sales decline and also 1% decline from fewer business days and 1% unfavorable effect from currency.
Organically sales declined by 12% in energy and 6% in the Earthworks businesses as weak market conditions continued in both natural gas drilling and underground coal mining.
Geographically and including the effects of work days sales decreased from the prior year by approximately 11% in the Americas 8% in Europe and 3% in Asia.
On a sequential basis the Infrastructure segment grew 2% compared to the March quarter as Earthworks sales improved over the March quarter resulting from increased demand from the road construction season which typically starts at that time.
Now a recap on our operating performance.
Our gross profit margin was 34.1% compared to 30.8% last year.
The decline was due to lower sales volume and unfavorable inventory valuation adjustments primarily related to LIFO and E&amp;O adjustments and this was partly offset by absorption benefits associated with the slightly higher inventory in the quarter.
Our operating expenses declined $9 million year-over-year due to employment and related compensation costs containment of discretionary spending and favorable foreign currency.
Operating expense as a percent of sales was 19.8% for the quarter and this represents ongoing cost discipline from our global team combined with the effect of Stellite which has a lower SG&amp;A percentage compared with Kennametal's base business.
Our operating income was $91 million and this compares with $117 million last year.
The decrease in operating income was due to reduced sales volumes unfavorable inventory valuation adjustments partly offset by lower OpEx absorption benefits associated with slightly higher inventory.
And the operating margin for the June quarter excluding the effect of Stellite was 14.6%.
Looking at the operating income performance by business segment the Industrial segment's operating income was $56 million and this compares with $76 million in the same quarter of the prior year and this is due to reduced sales volume and unfavorable inventory adjustments also offset by favorable OpEx and absorption benefits associated with slightly higher inventory.
Industrial's operating margin was 14.6% compared with 18.2% in the prior year.
Sequentially the Industrial operating income improved $11 million or 240 basis points from $45 million in Q3 and the improvement was due to increased sequential sales growth driven by General Engineering and Transportation.
The Infrastructure segment's operating income was $35 million and this compares with $42 million in the same quarter last year.
Operating income decreased due to the effects of the organic sales decline and unfavorable inventory adjustments also partly offset by lower OpEx and the benefits associated with slightly higher inventory.
Infrastructure's adjusted operating margin was 14.8% for the June quarter compared with 17% in the prior year.
Infrastructure's operating income improved $3 million sequentially from $32 million in the March quarter due to the increased sales volume related to road construction activity and our Earthworks business as well as improved gross margins.
Our interest expense decreased $1.4 million year-over-year in the June quarter to $7 million.
This decrease was favorable due to the effects from the refinancing of our 7.2% notes that matured in June of 2012 with lower interest of 3.875% 10-year notes that mature in 2022 and lower average debt levels during the quarter.
Our effective tax rate was 23.9% in the quarter compared to 20.3% in the prior year.
The increase was driven by a favorable European audit settlement in the prior year.
And regarding our bottom line we reported the June quarter diluted earnings per share of $0.76 compared with $1.06 in the prior year.
Looking at cash flow our full-year cash flow from operating activities was $284 million compared with $290 million in the prior year.
Cash flow benefited from our ongoing inventory reduction initiative which reduced finished goods in WIP by approximately $41 million for the fiscal year.
During the June quarter we felt it was appropriate to shift our focus from inventory reduction to further improving order fill rates as we prepare to serve higher levels of customer demand particularly in the industrial markets and that's consistent with our discussion last quarter.
Net capital expenditures were $80 million compared to $96 million last year and year-to-date free operating cash flow was an all-time company record of $204 million and this compares with $193 million in prior year.
And as I said earlier we achieved our goal of approximately 100% conversion of net income to free operating cash flow.
We also remain committed to balancing our priority uses of cash.
As I said earlier we repurchased 1 million shares in the June quarter and 3.1 million for the year.
We also amended the share repurchase program in July and now have approximately 10.4 million shares available for purchase under the program.
We remain confident in our ability to continue to generate strong cash flow and we will stay consistent to our capital structure principles.
We have investment grade ratings and stable outlooks from all 3 agencies and are committed to maintaining them.
We continually strive to balance key priorities by prudently deploying cash in strategic growth investments and acquisitions opportunities and returning excess cash to shareowners as well as reducing debt.
For fiscal 2013 we returned 83% of our net earnings to shareholders.
The combined payout ratio reflects $121 million in share repurchases and $51 million in dividends.
And net income before noncontrolling interest was $207 million.
In addition share repurchases and dividends combined represented 84% of our fiscal year free operating cash flow of $204 million.
As always we remain active on the acquisition front to identify and develop potential candidates.
We signed a definitive agreement in May and anticipate closing on the transaction in early August to acquire tungsten processing operations in Bolivia which furthers our strategy to balance our metallurgical sourcing.
We continue to be highly disciplined in our allocation process to ensure that we invest in initiatives that have the highest shareowner returns.
Our balance sheet remains strong.
During fiscal '13 we reduced finished goods in WIP by $41 million although our original goal was $60 million of inventory reduction.
As I said earlier we felt it was prudent at this time to focus on improving our fill rates that support increasing customer demand in the industrial sector.
At June 30 we had $44 million in short-term debt and available liquidity of more than $0.5 billion on a revolver.
Total debt stood at $748 million and our cash balance was $377 million with the majority of this cash presently residing overseas.
So net debt was $371 million at June 30 a decrease of $58 million compared to the March quarter due to strong cash flow generation partly offset by share repurchases and the June quarter dividend payment.
Debt-to-capital ratio at June 30 was 29.2% compared to 25.3% last year and our adjusted return on invested capital was 9.5%.
We continue to actively manage our pension plans and enjoy the benefits of our adoption of the liability investment strategy over 6 years ago and our U.S.
production plan remains over 100% funded.
In the June quarter we also took additional measures to further enhance our liquidity and capitalize on favorable market conditions to extend our debt maturity profile.
We amended our existing $600 million syndicate revolving credit facility to extend the maturity to April of 2018.
We felt it prudent to move forward at this time to lock in attractive pricing and reduce exposure to future market uncertainty.
And as a reminder we issued $400 million 7-year 2.65% notes in November of 2012 which significantly increased our liquidity and generates a weighted average interest rate of about 3%.
As a result of these strategic initiatives our debt maturity profile has effectively diversified and extended and our nearest debt maturity is now 2018.
A quick update on Stellite.
The integration of Stellite continues to be on track.
We achieved a critical milestone in the integration as we cutover 4 key operations sites on SAP on May 1.
The implementation will allow us to accelerate future synergy opportunities both on a commercial and operational side.
Similar to the served end markets of our Infrastructure segment Stellite continued to experience demand weakness in the fourth quarter.
We continue to manage operating and integration costs to partly mitigate the adverse volume effect on our results.
And as we complete the first year of ownership of Stellite we remain focused on driving further synergies into fiscal '14.
Now I'll turn to the outlook for fiscal '14 and I'll provide additional assumptions to help you with your models.
For fiscal '14 our outlook reflects expectations of continued macroeconomic improvement with worldwide industrial production building momentum.
While manufacturing and industrial sectors are projected to expand over the next year underground coal mining will likely remain weak globally as well as some near-term project delays in the energy markets.
In fiscal '14 we expect organic sales growth to range from 5% to 7% and total sales to grow between 4% and 6%.
This growth rate is expected to outpace global industrial production through company-specific initiatives.
Our fiscal '14 outlook is based on the following assumptions.
We're projecting 5% to 7% on an organic basis which is double the forecast of global IPI.
Weak conditions will likely persist in underground coal mining globally however we expect increased activity in U.S.
highway road construction to kick in.
Our operating expenses include approximately $10 million of investments related to pay-as-you-go restructuring productivity and sales force additions for long-term growth.
I also want to point out that our operating expenses also include fully restored incentive compensation which was significantly lower in the prior fiscal year.
Foreign exchange is expected to be a headwind compared to the prior year and will have an unfavorable impact on operations which we estimate to be about $0.05 per share.
Our effective tax rate is expected to be between 24% and 25% due to an unfavorable geographic mix.
As you know the prior year effective tax rate benefited from a European tax settlement and the extension of the RD&amp;E credit a year ago.
We estimate the higher tax rate will affect earnings per share to the effect of $0.08 to $0.10 per share lower than the prior year.
We also expect our earnings to be consistent with historical seasonal patterns with approximately 40% in the first half and 60% in the second half.
And I'll also point out that our noncontrolling interest expense will increase due to Kennametal India stock sale.
We now own 75% compared to 88% previously.
Consistent with our capital allocation principles we plan to reinvest back into the business between $130 million to $150 million of capital spending.
And approximately $50 million of this CapEx range represents previously announced strategic long-term investment which includes expanding tungsten production capabilities growth initiatives productivity and international expansion.
Our board also approved the 12.5% increase to our dividend by 2% to 18% per quarter.
And we expect to repurchase between 2 million to 2.5 million shares in fiscal 2014.
As Carlos noted we recently increased our share repurchase program to 17 million shares with 10.4 million shares available under the second amended authorization.
Based on these highlighted factors we expect earnings per share to range from $2.90 a share to $3.10 a share in fiscal '14.
The midpoint of this range represents a 19% increase from the earnings per share of $2.52 in the prior year.
And regarding cash flow we expect to generate from operating activities ranging from $330 million to $380 million in fiscal '14.
Based on anticipated capital expenditures of $130 million to $150 million we expect to generate between $200 million to $230 million of free operating cash flow for the fiscal year.
This level of free operating cash flow represents 80% to 100% of net income and this is aligned with our long-term objective of realizing 100% conversion of net income.
We will continue to manage our business for the factors we could control to deal with and the near-term market headwinds will come as needed.
In addition we remain focused on many growth opportunities and a consistent execution of our strategies.
At this time I'll turn it back to Carlos for a few closing comments.
Thank you Frank.
As we move forward we'll continue to execute strategies consistent with our long-range growth plans.
First our diverse end market mix provides additional growth opportunities for Kennametal and lessens volatility throughout the economic cycle.
We'll also further balance our business between our Industrial and Infrastructure segments.
And finally we'll continue to expand our geographic presence so that we are represented equally North America Western Europe and the rest of the world markets.
Kennametal's fiscal year 2014 outlook reflects our continued expectation to outperform global industrial production through company-specific initiatives.
Our EPS guidance at the midpoint represents a 19% increase from prior year.
In addition we'll remain disciplined in our capital allocation process and stay true to our priority uses of cash to investment in our business to better meet customer demands make acquisitions in existing and adjacent markets repurchase shares and pay dividends.
Our board has approved expanding our buyback authorization and additionally approved an increase in the dividend.
Both of those actions represent our commitment to shareholders as well our confidence in Kennametal's strong cash generation ability going forward.
In summary our global team will continue to execute our strategies to further strengthen our business and drive growth and profitability.
Our 5-year aspirations include doubling revenues while delivering improved profitability and returns.
We believe our goals are achievable.
We have the right strategies technology platforms product portfolio management operating system and the right culture.
Kennametal is well positioned for the future and this is an exciting time to be shareholders.
Thank you for your continued support.
We'll now take questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Eli Lustgarten with Longbow Securities.
I got a couple of questions going on.
One can you talk about business conditions as you went through the fourth quarter particularly for June and maybe just kind of how it's spilled over into July? And it looks like things weakened a bit in June -- a little bit in June or so versus the 3-month rolling and what we saw in your orders for March April May which I think were a little bit down a little bit less.
Can you give us some idea what's going on in conditions as we went through the quarter and into the New Year? I would say that – Eli this is Frank.
I would say that June came in pretty much in line maybe a little bit better for the month.
And then as far as July is going I would say July is pretty much dead on with our plan as we rolled out with the top line guidance.
So July is trending pretty much in line.
It seems like industrial sector is doing a little bit better than the infrastructure particularly as we pointed out the underground mining and some of the delays with the energy.
But we'll see how much the pent-up demand is on the highway construction with some of the delays that we had with the weather early on.
So everything is -- I'd characterize it it's trending in line and we probably finished I would say slightly better in the month of June with a little stronger finish on the industrial versus the infrastructure in total.
And Eli I will also add that we are definitely not seeing any destocking at this point that -- and I think the timing is probably September -- because of the shutdowns and summer breaks and all that stuff we'll have a better idea to the restocking I think that there's a possibility of seeing some restocking in the general engineering starting in September sometime.
And as we -- you talk about guidance of top line of 5% to 7% organic before that.
How did that split between the 2 basic businesses between Industrial and Infrastructure? I assume that you're not thinking of both -- are you assuming both the same or is Industrial a little stronger and because of the mining and the energy relationship the infrastructure weaker? How do you think about it? The recovery is definitely going to happen in the Industrial just like the down cycle came more severe in the Industrial and the destocking happened in the Industrial.
So the restocking that we see coming -- taking place is going to happen in the Industrial.
So the Industrial will be -- it will be higher than the Infrastructure.
So you're thinking industrial will be up in the high single digits and Infrastructure in the low single digits is that sort of the split? Is that what makes up this forecast? Yes we're -- Eli don't typically disclose that information but it's directionally where you are.
And can you talk a bit about the improvement in profitability you expect in the business or so? Margins were a bit under pressure for the year.
They came in very similar in the 2 groups.
I mean we can't X out Stellite anymore so you got to keep it in there.
Are we looking at basically the same improvement in margin? Can you give us some idea what's going to happen in profitability as we look out? Yes as we look forward I would expect continued gross margin expansion.
The factors I would point to would be the benefits associated with the volume.
We got the absorption there.
But right now we'll see what happens.
A little bit of a benefit on the raw materials.
We're not going to be reducing inventory to the magnitude we did last year.
And then as Carlos pointed out with the industrial being a little bit stronger particularly in the general engineering that's a little bit favorable so you're going to get a mix benefit from both the gen eng side as well as the energy side in Infrastructure.
So they're the drivers there.
But also OpEx will be up a little bit higher so the growth will be higher than typically.
And I tried to call that out in the call.
Half that was really related to restoring incentive comp.
And then we're doing some restructuring and productivities that we're basically adding some people in the number so we're going to have a little bit higher on operating expenses.
But the growth and the margin for the strategies that we put forward we think will more than compensate for the investments we need to make.
Your next question will come from the line of Steve Volkmann with Jefferies and Company.
Research Division</strong> I had another question.
But Carlos I was intrigued by something you just said about the potential for maybe a little bit of restocks starting in September.
Would you mind just expanding on that a little bit? Well I mean I think things have been slowly moving into the right.
So typically when we see the destocking the period that starts to restock is not -- is a little longer this time.
And I think one of the reasons is because of the vacation and the shutdowns that take place.
So we're starting to see a little bit of activity and -- for the industrial or for the general engineering side of the business.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then is that part of the reason that you guys outperform industrial production next year or maybe you can put in some bins some of the sort of internal stuff that you're doing to drive that outperformance? So I think there's a number of things.
One of them is continue the WIDIA strategy that -- again the restocking is going to take place in the -- primarily in the distribution area.
So -- and WIDIA is well positioned for that.
So that continues to be one of our growth strategies.
The other thing that we are expecting is the -- we have a number of new products that are -- have been specifically designed to the aerospace the titanium parts so to the extent that these new aircraft are taking place they're growing at a faster pace than the rest of the traditional aircraft.
I think we'll have great opportunities there.
And some other areas of new products I mean we're going to IMO in September.
We have a great deal of new product that we're introducing there.
They're going to generate sales in the second half of the year.
And obviously from a position that we have in the globe where we have the infrastructure we are -- have the support in China and India.
Primarily in India I think we're going to see an uptick here in the second half of calendar year '13 and definitely in 2014.
So those are some of the examples of some company-specific drivers.
Your next question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to focus a little bit more on the margin outlook for fiscal '14.
It looks as if at the midpoint you're looking for around about sort of a mid-30s incremental operating margin or so.
And then maybe that implies I guess what flat SG&amp;A to sales in '14 versus '13 and around a 50% incremental gross margin.
I just wondered if you could confirm if those broad numbers sound about right.
And also just curious within the sort of the shift on inventory strategy which you've talked about in the prepared remarks it sounds inventory was up sequentially.
Is that because you hit your inventory reduction target early on in the quarter then you saw better trends in general engineering and that caused you to start to build inventory back up as underproduction ended? Or what's the update on that please? Yes.
So let's talk about the leverage.
If your leverage is a little light I would say it's in the 35% to 40% with a stronger increase in the gross margin.
And the way we have it laid out right now SG&amp;A would actually be higher on a year-over-year basis.
And the drivers there is adding back incentive comp where that's basically nil in fiscal '13.
Some of the restructuring I talked about and the addition of the sales force that's another reason why industrial -- just to go back to Steve Volkmann's question -- we're going to add some people in the industrial area to help grow that even faster.
So those are the drivers there.
And then the inventory we did hit the fill rates where we needed to be more so in the industrial side.
And we didn't want them to drop too much because as things start to improve there's a strong correlation with the fill rates and sales.
So we rebalanced and we think we're at the right level as we exited the year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then within I guess the Americas portion of your Industrial business even though we saw the comps year-on-year get significantly easier as you went through fiscal '13 your organic year-on-year declines stayed about the same throughout the whole year.
I just wondered the sort of the confidence you have on the near-term domestic industrial recovery where is that coming from? Because it's not evident just looking as we went through the last 12 months that we've seen any change in trend in your business.
Yes I mean I would say that the sequentials from quarter to quarter have gotten better.
I mean we clearly have seen the destocking started to end in December January time frame.
And we are beginning to see a slight uptick in the general engineering which is where the restocking is coming back.
And to be honest with you I mean we're looking at -- and talking to the customers we see the IPI forecast.
And September -- July month-to-date is in line with our expectations so far with the order intake and -- but September is the biggest month for us for the quarter.
So September will be sort of the month that will give us even more confidence if it comes in the way we think it's going to come in.
Yes we're not expecting Julian again we finished last year -- the month of June last year was very strong given where we finished the record years.
So that's the comp at the quarter.
So when you look at the underlying business it is moving directionally with the early cycle business.
So we feel directionally we're moving in the right area.
We don't have very strong growth in the first half.
I would say it's a little -- the growth is a little less in the first half than in the second half.
So we feel we're balanced to where we need to be.
Your next question comes from the line of Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is Damien on for Ann.
Could you guys talk a little bit about the behavioral differences you're seeing between the OEMs and the distributors? Are the distributors picking up orders and the OEMs kind of pulling back? Or are they both kind of similar? Well I mean I think the distributors react to the OEM demand right? So I would say -- and you have to think about the supply chain gets whipped around.
So to the extent that the distributors destock as they start getting orders in place from the OEMs they are going to get ahead of the orders because I think one of the challenges is that if the distributors don't have the stock available when the OEM needs it they lose.
The OEM goes to another distributor.
So and this is why they stock so that they have availability.
So that's kind of the -- what happens is that in the upturn the distributor actually grows at a faster rate than the OEMs.
But they're filling the bucket.
We anticipate that the -- the anticipation is that OEM is going to continue to grow.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And just quickly turning to Stellite.
Can you give us some sort of color on what the end markets look like there for Stellite and how that business is doing? Yes I think we said in the call the driver for Stellite is also very aligned with energy side particularly in the IGT side.
And that's obviously a little bit softer in the Americas.
And that's what we experienced in the quarter.
So I'd say there's a little bit of a hangover with Stellite associated with the energy.
That's the bigger drag for those guys.
And consistent with that we expect the energy to pick up a little bit in our second half of the fiscal year so early calendar '14.
Your next question comes from the line of Andy Casey with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm trying to understand just looking backwards for a second the $20 million inventory reduction variance from the $60 million goal was that about $0.03? No.
It would probably be a little bit higher than that but you also got to factor in LIFO and E&amp;O reserves that more than offset that going the other way.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So neutral impact all-in? No I would say it's slightly negative actually.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Then on the 2014 guidance is the $10 million restructuring spread evenly throughout the year? I would probably say like -- probably like coincidentally 40-60 I would say.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then do the internal initiatives -- same sort of question.
Do they spread evenly through the year? Or are they somewhat tied to the end market meaning is it weighted to the back half as well? I would say they're evenly throughout the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Uhlman with Cleveland Research.
Just a couple of clarifications.
First of all why were the aerospace sales their revenues down this quarter.
Could you expand on what you're seeing from that end market? Just the comp we had a very strong finish in the fourth quarter last year but we have a number of projects going on there a couple of defense orders particularly last year that anniversaried so we'll continue to look at those but it's mainly the comp.
Okay.
And what was the WIDIA sales growth or decline in the quarter? Less than ours.
I mean we don't give the number but the WIDIA continues… Less than the total right Yes than the total because they continue to gain market share.
Okay.
And then switching back to the margin outlook could you maybe talk about what you're seeing in tungsten prices? It looks like they ticked up maybe a little bit.
Do we still have carryover from last year's decline that'll carry over into the fiscal '14 earnings or maybe just expand a little bit on that? Yes.
We have a slight benefit built-in.
It started off we thought it was going to be much higher.
But as you appropriately point out where APT was I'd call it in the 350s to 360 in the March timeframe has accelerated to the spot prices are about 405 right now.
So what we've -- we compensate a part of that with the benefit from the Emura acquisition is going to help us nicely there as well.
That's accretive right off the bat.
But we have to watch what's going on here.
I don't know if this is a head fake or a continued trend.
And if it continues to run we'll be quick to go forward with price increases expeditiously.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned some energy project delays.
I wonder if you can just give us some color on what types of projects you're seeing those delays on and where regionally.
Are these all in the U.S.
or is it more broad? Yes I would say it's not one specific.
It's obviously with the Big East.
And for us gets reflected because I would say about 2/3 of our business gets captured in North America from a point-of-sale perspective.
But it's pretty much the global delays from the drilling activities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the road-building side just wondering what you expect to drive that activity higher.
Is it really just state budgets improving? I mean it seems like the states there have been kind of slow to obligate their funds to projects.
So I'm just wondering if you have any insights on why that is as well.
Yes for us is -- our construction is in road rehabilitation.
I think in the past municipalities invested in fixing bridges and so forth.
This year I think that their spending although is the same as previous years is going to be more tilted into the road rehabilitation which is kind of our sweet spot.
Your next question comes from the line of Ross Gilardi with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just want to clarify Frank you were clear that the sales trends should improve as the year goes forward.
But at what point what quarter do you think we actually start to turn positive on a year-on-year basis? Well I like to hold my fingers.
The first quarter is going to be close to slightly positive I think if I had to take a guess on it because of the destocking that we have there and that's kind of what the trends imply.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And can you quantify what you're assuming for mining in your full year outlook with respect to the 5% to 7% organic growth? I mean naturally I would think it'd be below that but are you actually assuming an additional decline? No it's below.
I mean to your point your intuition is correct.
But I would say that that's going to be offset with some -- the business we've offered Tricon which is for kind of surface mining.
We've got a couple locations in in Australia South Africa.
We have one going into Chile.
So we'll start to see some benefits that will offset it but the underground coal mining we're expecting that to be on its back for a while.
Yes.
Part of our initial initiatives I mean is that Tricon is actually offsetting any decline.
And we anticipate that to be kind of a flattish with the company initiatives.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And just related to mining and just some of the areas where you are seeing continued softness I mean do you see a further need to consolidate your manufacturing footprint? And hence potential for any larger couch restructuring costs that could be pent-up for later in the year? Yes.
Not -- from the plants that are manufacturing stuff for the mining also manufacturing stuff for the construction road rehabilitation.
So at this point we are now going to -- I think our footprint is where it should be.
However we are doing a little bit of adjustment to the Stellite business which is in the energy business.
But it's primarily – it's not in the manufacturing.
It's primarily in the support areas.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly could you just comment a little bit more about what you're seeing in pricing in some of the key areas? And then in your 5% to 7% organic growth for '14 how much of that is just price versus volume? It's primarily volume.
And relative to the pricing I mean I think we still finish the year with a slightly net positive pricing in 2013.
So the environment is difficult but we really are not giving price.
Research Division</strong> And do you think at the margin did it get -- was it getting better or worse as the year -- the fiscal year unfolded? Was -- or was it pretty much unchanged? It was unchanged.
It was in line with when we do the price increases and how long it takes to get the pricing.
So it's pretty much the way we thought and the way we planned it.
Your next question comes from the line of Walt Liptak with Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones.
On the seasonality I think typically you're 40-60 40% in the first half 60% in the back half for EPS.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Is that what we're thinking about for 2014? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the Stellite business you have that disclosure in the press release.
I think when you bought it it was running around $300 million in revenue.
And we got the numbers that are in the press release and the margins are lower than I think half of what they were before.
Is that about right? And with the restructuring that you're doing can you get them -- where can you get the margins in Stellite with the revenue coming back? Yes I mean I think the Stellite is where we need it to be I mean where we've planned it to be.
However they serve the energy business as you know and the energy business is challenged.
So -- and our plan was that in 3 years that the Stellite is -- was going to be at the same EBIT margins or close to our EBIT margins that the rest of the company had.
So we basically lost a year in that because of this year.
I mean so we are -- I would say that it is going to take us 3 years to get that business up to the level that we had planned on to begin with.
Great acquisition.
We're still very happy and we -- again if it wasn't for the energy business the industry being down we would be delivering everything that we said we're going to deliver.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then in the past you talked about the SAP system and leveraging that and getting some benefits.
Were the benefits in 2013 or those to come in 2014? They're to come.
They're to come.
Yes we just -- literally just -- some of the facilities just went on a couple months ago so.
Your next question comes from the line of Samuel Eisner of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just I want to attack the margin question maybe from a different way.
I'm curious what your utilization rates were in the fourth quarter and kind of what your expectations are for your manufacturing levels throughout the course of the year.
Well they're up given we had 2 additional work days in the fourth quarter so just on a pure work days basis.
They're probably up 2 to 3 points.
I don't know if they're in the low 70s.
Maybe got to the mid-70s.
On an aggregate basis what I would say the industrial plant's a little bit better and a little bit softer on the infrastructure side.
Research Division</strong> And then heading out into next year I mean how do you guys think about that in regards to kind of inventories and certainly how that's going to benefit your profitability going forward? I think we're in the right place.
We're focusing on the fill rates as we said earlier with the infrastructure.
The first quarter is always challenging because of the summer shutdowns and the European vacations so nothing unusual or out of line from that perspective.
But we've put some good capital in the business.
We're focused -- we think we're focused on the right metrics to have a better balanced scorecard from a metrics.
We're not going to be reducing inventory to the magnitude we did last year.
We put a couple of patches on our demand planning.
So we think we're pretty much in line with where we need to be in the guidance.
And if a thing got stronger we could handle it.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on -- in terms of market share I mean any major changes on market share either within WIDIA or with your kind of -- your base Kennametal business? I mean as we always talk about market share is always difficult to -- in our business to point out.
But WIDIA is growing faster than the rest of our business so they are definitely getting market share out there.
And I think that our -- we -- obviously if we're growing faster than the IPI we're getting that from market share gains.
But I think that the big players continue to have the balance on their market share.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just lastly and I think you hit it on this but I might have missed it.
The incremental $50 million that you guys are spending in your CapEx budget what specifically are those long-term investments that you guys are making? And how does that kind of flow throughout the course of the year? Yes I mean those are in accordance with some of the press releases that we did before.
So one of them was to acquire tungsten processing operations in Bolivia.
We're going to do some upgrades in the area in that new business.
We also announced an investment in tungsten-cobalt blend powder operations in the U.S.
And we're going to do some additional investments in Stellite.
So it's a combination of strategic investments that are going to pay throughout the -- have a payback past 2014.
So and those are pretty much evened out throughout the year.
And we have one other one in India that we put out that we're modernizing our facility in Bangalore.
Yes.
Our final question comes from the line of Steve Barger with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Tejas filling in for Steve.
Most of my questions have been taken.
Just a few more here though.
With regards to your EPS guidance for 2014 what's the assumed share count? I mean you guys put out an increase in the repurchase limit so I'm just wondering what the assumption there is? I think I said this in the outlook that we've purchased between 2 million and 2.5 million shares.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then correct me if I'm wrong but maybe I caught this incorrectly but you said incremental operating margins are to be in the 30% to 35% range? I said 30% to 35% to 40% in that range.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
Okay that makes sense.
And then just with regards to ROIC stepped down to single digits first time since 1Q '11.
And you kind of talked about Stellite not being where you thought it would have been.
But just kind of looking forward especially given that you're lowering your capital base is 15% by '15 still the goal? Or can you just talk a little bit about that? Our goals remain mid-15%.
We haven't changed that.
And as you're pointing out when you make an acquisition of size it does have an impact on your denominator it's just the way it is.
And plus we're going to put a little bit more higher CapEx here.
But we think we have the right plans so when earnings come back we'll get the numbers where they need to be.
But our overall financial metrics from a long term have not changed.
And this concludes today's Q&amp;A session.
This concludes our discussion.
Please contact me Quynh McGuire at (724) 539-6559 for any follow-up questions.
Thank you for joining us.
Today's call will be available for replay beginning at 1:00 p.m.
Eastern time today and lasting through midnight Eastern Time on August 25 2013.
The conference ID number for the replay is 15004628.
The number to dial for the replay is (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406.
This concludes today's discussion.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jennifer and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Kennametal's First Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jennifer.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us to review Kennametal's first quarter fiscal year 2014 results.
We issued our quarterly earnings press release earlier today.
You may access this announcement via our website at www.kennametal.com.
Consistent with our practice in prior quarterly conference calls we've invited various members of the media to listen to this call.
Also it is being broadcast live on our website and a recording will be available on our site for replay through November 25 2013.
I'm Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations for Kennametal.
Joining me for our call today are: Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Carlos Cardoso; Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Frank Simpkins; and Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller Martha Bailey Fusco.
Carlos and Frank will provide further explanation on the quarter's financial performance.
After the remarks we'll be happy to answer your questions.
At this time I'd like to direct your attention to our forward-looking disclosure statement.
The discussion we'll have today contains comments that may constitute forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve a number of assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information regarding these risk factors and uncertainties is detailed in Kennametal's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition Kennametal has provided the SEC with a Form 8-K a copy of which is currently available on our website.
This enables us to discuss non-GAAP financial measures during this call in accordance with SEC Regulation G.
This 8-K presents GAAP financial measures that we believe are most directly comparable to those non-GAAP financial measures and it provides a reconciliation of those measures as well.
I'll now turn the call over to Carlos.
Thank you Quynh.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
For the September quarter Kennametal again achieved double-digit profitability as a result of our company-specific initiatives and ongoing cost discipline.
We delivered an operating margin of 10.6% on an adjusted basis despite persistent macro uncertainties.
Global industry production trends during the September quarter began to show pockets of growth and increased activities in certain areas particularly in early cycle markets.
For Kennametal those trends led to higher demand in our Industrial segment.
In addition orders activity in the distribution channels continue to reflect higher volumes.
Our WIDIA brand products realized organic growth of 4% year-over-year representing increases in every geographic region.
In addition we completed the acquisition of the Bolivia-based tungsten processing operations called Emura.
The addition of Emura also enhances Kennametal strategic tungsten-sourcing capabilities to serve our global growth.
As always profitable growth remains a top priority for Kennametal and acquisitions have historically been a key part of our strategy.
During the September quarter we signed a definitive agreement to acquire the Tungsten Materials Business from Allegheny Technologies or ATI a leading producer of tungsten powders and tooling technologies and components.
This acquisition offers excellent growth opportunities for Kennametal.
It aligns with our long-term growth strategies extends our presence in aerospace and energy end markets and further augments our tooling portfolio.
It also accelerates our strategy to expand capacity and develop an advanced tungsten carbide recycling facility in U.S.
to serve global markets.
The transaction represents a winning business combination that enhances our talent base provides complementary strategic assets and further balances our portfolio.
We expect the ATI deal to close within the next 30 days.
Innovation also continues to be central to Kennametal's growth strategy.
In fact for 75 years innovation by our global team has been a key competitive advantage.
Our dedication to innovation resulted in a significant recognition during the September quarter when Kennametal was named to the 2013 InformationWeek 500 list of the top information technology innovators in the U.S.
for the second consecutive year.
And now I would like to provide an overview of trends that we are seeing in our served end markets.
In the aerospace industry production remains on track as nearly all existing programs are producing at higher rates.
Although there's been some issues with the Boeing Dreamliner 787 manufacturing schedules have been increased to deliver 60 Dreamliner planes by the end of calendar year 2013.
General engineering which primarily made up of distribution channel customers but also includes smaller industrial job shops has benefited from continued growth in manufacturing from OEMs particularly in the transportation and aerospace sectors.
In addition production and demand for the machinery market is expected to improve in calendar year 2014 and '15.
As the general economy accelerates capital spending in the industrial sector is expected to increase.
In transportation NAFTA light vehicle production remains strong.
For 2013 it is projected to grow 7% from prior year to reach 16 million units and expected to increase further in calendar year 2014.
In Europe the light vehicle production forecast has been repriced slightly upwards for 2013.
Although concerns remain monthly European build has outpaced continuous expectations for the past 8 months.
In Greater China light vehicle production remains at 20 million units for calendar year 2013 and expected to grow approximately 10% from prior year.
Regarding the energy market natural gas prices have been steady near $3.50 per MBtu.
And oil pricing has remained at around $100 per barrel.
The rig count was relatively flat as drilling efficiencies continue to improve.
Some dormant wells have been reopened for production but generally do not require high volume of drilling activity.
From a supply perspective natural gas inventory remained relatively unchanged in the quarter.
While there have been recent increases in horizontal drilling industry projections show that meaningful growth is expected to begin in calendar year 2014.
In the mining industry coal production is expected to be flat for the next 18 months as the increase in consumption is offset by the cuts to current inventories.
In the U.S.
Appalachian coal operations have more expensive geology and continue to be under pressure with competition from Western coalfields like the Illinois and Wyoming coal basins.
This provides Kennametal with opportunities to support those mining operations by providing a wide range of options that include surface mining and wear solutions as well as earth-cutting products.
For the road construction sector the continued need for maintenance and rehabilitation projects along with moderate weather has resulted in continued growth.
Even with the U.S.
government shutdown approved funding is expected to continue until October of 2014.
From a geographic perspective the global economy is improving despite some mixed data according to IHS Global Insight.
While there are risks such as geopolitical pressures and oil prices budget issues in U.S.
the economic instability in the Eurozone and further weaknesses in the emerging markets the fundamental still reflect a gradual acceleration world economy and the near-term outlook for global growth is essentially unchanged.
In the U.S.
there have been various concerns but the economy has weathered fiscal budget issues and tax increases as well as the federal spending sequester.
Business conditions continue to be tentative but confidence seems to be improving and the foundation of a recovery remains strong.
The Eurozone's economy is improving after an extended recession that lasted 6 quarters.
Although the recovery is not expected to be strong or broad-based it should continue through 2014.
China's economy is expected to improve as July and August data on industrial production exports business sentiment and car sales showed a gradual pick up in activity.
Recent gains are due to the modest stimulus as a result of a positive support from the central government.
In other large emerging markets there are still challenges for India's growth outlook although Brazil's projected growth rate was recently upgraded slightly.
As the economic climate improves Kennametal will continually look for opportunities to accelerate our growth strategies.
For example a few weeks ago at EMO in Hanover Germany we launched a cloud-based software solution for smart production called NOVO.
No matter how complex the part or assembly NOVO goes beyond conventional tooling selectors to determine the best process to make each part online.
This innovation integrates 75 years of Kennametal expertise in material science tooling and application engineering to help customers optimize their manufacturing process.
The EMO event was very well attended with 145 000 visitors from over 100 different nations.
Overall the balance of incoming data is more positive and the pace of the recovery is expected to pick up in calendar year 2014.
In September the global PMI reflected a 27-month high and was the third consecutive month of acceleration in manufacturing activity with growth primarily concentrated on the developed world.
As we look ahead we expect improved customer demand in the second half of fiscal year 2014.
Both industrial production and purchasing managers' index are trending upwards primarily driven by strong growth in motor vehicles.
While challenging conditions are expected in the near term we remain focused on maximizing shareholder value as always.
We'll continue to execute our strategies and manage our portfolio for growth.
I'll now turn the call over to Frank who'll discuss our financial results for the quarter in greater detail.
Frank? Thank you Carlos.
Consistent with the prior discussions I'll start by making some comments and then I'll review the first quarter and additional detail.
And as always some of my comments are related to non-GAAP metrics.
As Carlos pointed out despite a challenging macroeconomic environment we delivered solid profitability during the September quarter with earnings per share of $0.48 per share which included our nonrecurring charges of $0.05 and operating margin of 9.5%.
The nonrecurring charges included a physical inventory adjustment of approximately $6 million and ATI acquisition cost of approximately $1 million and has unfavorably impacted our margin performance by about 110 basis points.
In the September quarter we experienced improved sales trends in our earlier cycle industrial business which continues to gain momentum.
However the infrastructure business which is generally mid-to late cycle continued to lag as the underground mining sector remains weak globally and the energy market is still seeing some demand softness in the near term.
However I think it's important to highlight that the month of September is the first time in 15 months where Kennametal realized year-over-year sales growth.
Also for each month during the quarter the daily order rate increased sequentially and in addition our WIDIA products realized a positive year-over-year growth in all geographies.
We also generated $20 million of free operating cash flow during the quarter compared with a $12 million outflow in the prior year.
The September quarter is typically our seasonal low in terms of free operating cash flow generation.
However the current quarter generated the highest September quarter free operating cash flow in the past 10 years due in part to our improved efficiencies and cash management strategies.
As Carlos briefly mentioned we also entered into an agreement for $605 million to acquire ATI's Tungsten Materials Business which aligns our long-term growth strategies.
This is expected to accelerate our plans for an advanced tungsten carbide facility in addition.
And we expect them to close the transaction in the next 30 days.
Also regarding our priority uses of cash we remain consistent with our principles.
We reinvested a combined $43 million in our business with $25 million of capital expenditures and $18 million in acquisitions primarily related to the Emura transaction to acquire tungsten processing operations in Bolivia which furthers our strategy to balance our metallurgical sourcing.
We also reduced our debt by $42 million from June 30.
We have a $14 million payout on our dividends.
And with anticipation of the ATI transaction we tempered our share repurchases during the quarter to $4 million which were approximately 100 000 shares.
We will continue to balance going forward with respect to our investment and shareholder return policies.
Now I'm going to walk through the key items in the income statement.
Sales for the quarter came in at $620 million and this compares to $629 million in the same quarter last year.
Our sales decreased by 2% and reflected 3% organic decline partly offset by a 1% favorable impact for more business days.
And as I noted earlier the September month was the first time in 15 months that reflected positive year-over-year growth.
We are seeing improved demand from customers in our industrial end markets and distribution sales for the month reflected double-digit growth from prior year.
These factors are encouraging.
Looking at the individual business segments our Industrial segment sales of $338 million increased by 1% from the prior-year quarter due to a favorable impact of more business days and on an organic basis it was flat.
Sales were up 2% in general engineering 2% in transportation and 1% in energy offset by a 2% decline in aerospace and defense.
General engineering increased due to improvements in demand from distribution channels.
The transportation market benefited from increased demand in light vehicle markets in Europe U.S.
and China.
And our energy sales reflected increased activity in industrial applications.
The decline in aerospace and defense is due to the timing of orders on a year-over-year basis.
On a geographic basis our sales increased year-over-year by approximately 6% in Europe remained flat in the Americas and decreased by 5% in Asia primarily driven by softness in India.
As previously mentioned WIDIA sales grew 4% organically which reflected year-over-year increases in all geographic regions.
Our Infrastructure segment sales came in at $282 million in the quarter and they declined by 4% from the prior year and that was driven by a 6% organic sales decline partly offset by a 2% favorable impact for more business days.
Sales declined by 8% in earthworks 4% in energy 1% in transportation partly offset by an 11% increase in general engineering.
Earthworks sales declined from persistently weak underground coal mining markets in China and the U.S.
And this was partly offset by highway construction sales growth of 6% due to increased demand in all 3 regions.
Further energy sales decreased due to lower drilling activity in oil and gas in the U.S.
partly offset by gains in production and completion applications.
General engineering and transportation reflected higher volumes from integrators as well as distributors.
And geographically sales grew 3% in Europe offset by decreased sales of 7% in Asia and were 7% lower in the Americas.
Now turning to our operating performance.
Our gross profit margin was 32% and this compares to 33.1% last year.
Gross margin benefited from lower raw material cost but was offset by lower organic sales and unfavorable mix and a nonrecurring physical inventory charge of $5.7 million related to our mining business.
This inventory charge unfavorably impacted our gross profit margin by about 90 basis points.
Our operating expenses declined $5 million year-over-year due to containment of discretionary spending partly offset by the ATI acquisition charges which were about $1 million.
Our operating expenses as a percent of sales was 21.7% in the quarter which is 40 basis points lower than the prior year.
And this represents continued cost discipline globally from our team.
Our operating income was $59 million compared to $64 million in the same quarter last year.
The decrease in operating income was primarily due to the factors already mentioned.
Our margin was 9.5% for the September quarter and nonrecurring charges unfavorably impacted our operating margin by 110 basis points.
Looking at the operating performance by business segment.
Industrial segment's operating income was $40 million compared to $39 million in the same quarter of the prior year.
And the Industrial operating margin was 11.8% compared with 11.7% in the prior year.
The Infrastructure segment's operating income was $22 million and this compares with $28 million last year.
Our operating income decreased year-over-year due to reduced organic sales and a nonrecurring physical inventory adjustment of $5.7 million related to our mining business.
Our infrastructure's operating margin was 7.7% for the quarter compared with 9.4% last year and the nonrecurring physical inventory adjustment unfavorably impacted the margin by 200 basis points.
Interest expense was up $1 million year-over-year in the September quarter to $7 million.
The increase was due to higher borrowing rate for the 2.65 notes as compared to our bank revolver partly offset by lower year-over-year borrowings.
And we have full availability on the $600 million revolver as of September 30 2013.
Our effective tax rate came in at 24.6% for the quarter compared to 20.7% last year.
The increase was primarily driven by a favorable effect tax audit settlement in Europe in the prior year while the current year rate reflects a lower relative U.S.
earnings contribution and a valuation allowance adjustment related to a state law change.
And regarding earnings per share we reported diluted earnings per share of $0.48 compared to $0.57 in the prior year and the current year included nonrecurring charges of $0.05.
Cash flow from operating activities for the September quarter was $44 million compared to just $3 million in the prior year.
Cash flow benefited from a year-over-year decrease in working capital.
Our capital expenditures on a net basis were $25 million compared to $50 million in the prior year.
And as I said earlier our free operating cash flow was $20 million in the quarter compared with a $12 million free operating cash outflow in the prior year.
So a $32 million swing year-over-year.
We also purchased 100 000 shares of our outstanding shares and as previously mentioned we were not active in the market during the quarter due to the anticipated ATI transaction.
But to date under the amended repurchase program we have purchased 6.7 million shares and approximately 10.3 million shares remain available for purchase under the program.
We now expect to repurchase approximately 1.5 million shares in fiscal 2014.
We remain confident in our ability to continue generating strong cash flow and we'll stay consistent with our capital structure principles.
As always we remain active on the acquisition front to identify and develop potential candidates.
We continue to be highly disciplined in our capital allocation process to ensure that we invest in initiatives with the highest returns.
Our balance sheet remains strong.
At September 30 we have $3 million in short-term debt and full availability of our revolver of $600 million.
Total debt stood at $706 million and our cash balance was $333 million with approximately 2/3 of the cash presently residing overseas.
So on a net debt basis our net debt was $373 million at quarter end consistent with the $370 million at June 30.
Our debt-to-cap ratio was 24 -- 27.4 compared to 29.2 at June 30 and our adjusted return on invested capital is 8.9%.
We continue to actively manage our pension plans and enjoy the benefits of our adoption of a liability-driven investment strategy over 7 years ago and our U.S.-defined benefit plans remain over 100% funded.
Turning to our outlook.
We have slightly refined our full year outlook due to a slower-than-anticipated recovery in our served end markets globally in underground mining as well as oil and gas markets.
However it's worth noting that order rates have reflected increased activity primarily in the industrial end markets and distribution channels.
Based on the current quarter and our fiscal 2014 forecast we now expect the Industrial segment to perform slightly better than originally estimated while the Infrastructure segment is anticipated to lag more than prior projections.
So now our current guidance for total sales growth reflects a shift from organic growth due to the anticipated currency impacts.
As such we expect fiscal 2014 sales growth in the range of 5% to 7% with organic sales growth ranging from 4% to 6%.
Previously we had forecasted sales growth ranging from 4% to 6% with organic sales growth of 5% to 7%.
Based on a revised segment performance and the nonrecurring inventory charge for the first quarter we narrowed our EPS guidance for fiscal 2014 to range from $2.90 to $3.05 versus the previous expectation of $2.90 to $3.10.
We still expect to generate cash flow from operations between $330 million and $380 million for all of fiscal '14 based on anticipated capital expenditures of approximately $130 million to $150 million.
And now we expect to generate between $200 million and $230 million of free operating cash flow for the full year.
And our earnings are still expected to be somewhat consistent with our historical patterns with approximately 35% to 40% of earnings in the first half and 60% to 65% in the second half of the fiscal year.
And please note that our outlook does not reflect any impact related to the planned acquisition of ATI's Tungsten Material Business.
We will continue to manage our business for the factors we can control in the near term.
We remain committed to protecting our profitability as well as maximizing our cash flow and returns.
And in addition we will remain focused on many growth opportunities and consistent execution of our strategies.
Now I'll turn it back to Carlos for a closing comment.
Thank you Frank.
As we move forward we'll maintain our focus on profitability earnings and cash flows.
We remain committed to our aspirations of doubling revenues over the next 5 years.
Along the way Kennametal's global team will continue to execute company-specific strategies to achieve our goals and further strengthen our business.
As always we'll continue to seek diversity in every aspect of our business by expanding our global presence to generate revenues equally from North America Western Europe and Rest of the World markets.
At the same time we'll continue to work towards a more balanced mix of served end markets and business segments.
Kennametal's diversification strategies will provide additional growth opportunities and lessen volatility throughout the economic cycle.
In summary our global team will continue to execute our strategies and follow the principles of our Kennametal value businesses system a proven management operating system.
We'll continue to strengthen our financial position and remain disciplined in our capital allocation process.
We will invest in capital expenditures to better meet customers' demands make acquisitions in adjacent markets as well as bolt-on business continue share buybacks and pay dividends.
Thank you for your continued support.
We will now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Ross Gilardi with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question about Europe.
Europe's run positive in both the Industrial and the Infrastructure segments.
Can you just talk about what it feels like in a business it feel like it's sustainable going forward.
Yes.
I mean I think it is.
It's driven once again by a strong economy which is Germany as we always mention.
Germany is our largest market in European arena and it is driven primarily from their exports in the automotive-related businesses.
So we continue to see that's trending although at a very slow pace.
And EMO is a really good indication.
EMO is the largest tool show in the world and was very well attended with 140 000 people.
And the feeling was very positive.
And that took place just about a month ago.
So we feel that we'll continue to see growth in Europe.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then could you just talk a little bit more about the pricing environments and what you're seeing competitively? And if Industrial production continues to recover do you think you can leverage that on the pricing side? Yes.
I think if I Ross -- if I break it between the 2 I think the key industrial side is pretty much in line with the plan nothing noteworthy there.
The competition everybody saw sitting on the sidelines right now as far as moving.
And consistent with our past practice we'll evaluate looking at something in January particularly on the industrial side.
On the infrastructure side I would say it's pretty much holding but probably a little bit more pressure for us on the mining side as you would anticipate it.
So net-net maybe slightly down.
Nothing significant with the industrial being kind of flattish and a little bit pressure on the mining side.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly I want to ask you about your inventories.
Your inventory to 12-month trailing sales looks a little high relative to history.
Is there anything going on in the business specifically tied to the Bolivian acquisition anything like that? Are you kind of happy with your production relative to the current environment? Are you building inventory in anticipation of some restocking any color you could give on that? Yes there is some -- from the Bolivia approximately $20 million of inventory came in with the acquisition of Emura in the month of August.
And then as we talked about in the fourth quarter and this is one of the points why we chose not to try to take down inventory anticipate with some of the trends we saw and really focusing particularly on the industrial side on fill rate to get the fill rates on the high movers higher.
We wanted to make sure that we have the right inventory in line because we know that demand is picking up.
We're seeing it in distribution.
It's not to the effect of restocking.
It's kind of current demand.
But we need to make sure that we have the products on the shelf for the customers.
And I'll remind everyone that the profile is that about 35% to 40% of sales in the first half and the balance is -- the second half is a higher level.
So we really need to be prepared for that.
And your next question comes from the line of Julian Mitchell with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just firstly on the sales guidance.
I just wondered if it embeds a big sort of restocking at some point in the year or if it's based solely on slightly improving end-market demand? Yes.
At this point it's slight improving on the end-market demand.
I mean we again when we look at where we are today we see the increase in the rates the daily rates.
And with the -- having the same profile of 35% to 40% in the first half versus the second half it's consistent with the natural seasonality of the business.
So at this point we're not anticipating a huge restocking.
Obviously at this rate of 5% to 7% growth it's hard for us to know how much of that is restocking versus just increasing in activity.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Thanks.
And then the guidance that you say it's implying I guess about underlying $0.10 increase sequentially in EPS in Q2 from Q1.
Are you expecting the revenues in both Industrial and Infrastructure to be up sequentially in the December quarter or just Industrial? We typically focus on the full year guidance.
That's why we tweaked that in.
Overall from a top line growth based upon the trends I think so far October's pretty much in line with our forecast.
So definitely the Industrial side is going to be I believe up sequentially as well as maybe slightly on the Infrastructure side.
So things are moving in the right side.
And on the underground coal mining well it's a little bit of a drag.
That eventually in the emerging markets may come a little bit quicker.
But we're still looking at the surface mining applications that Carlos alluded to.
We're finding some niche so it's not necessarily underground maybe more hard rock.
And then the energy is we're seeing a little bit more quoting activity so the energy could be a pleasant surprise as we go forward.
Research Division</strong> Thanks.
And then just a final quick one.
You talked on the last call about $10 million of sort of OpEx or SG&amp;A investments on productivity and restructuring.
The SG&amp;A is actually down year-on-year in Q1.
Is that $10 million number still likely or that's been trimmed back a bit? No that's the pay-as-you-go on a number we talked about.
We have some restructuring cost in there and I would say that that will kick in and probably more force here in the second quarter.
And your next question comes from the line of Adam Uhlman with Cleveland Research.
Just a follow up on the guidance question.
More broadly when you think about the sales trends for the year between the 2 different segments and the revision to the growth outlook is the Infrastructure business expected to grow this year or just remain somewhat flat? Just a little bit more color that would be helpful.
Yes we expect both business to grow on a year-over-year basis with a little bit stronger growth Adam coming out of the Industrial as you would expect.
We're offsetting you know particularly when you look at the segment and try to look at Earthworks when you typically look at it it's only down slightly because part of the underground coal mining was offset by highway construction pretty much in all geographies.
Plus we're seeing some additional activity in foundation work trench work so we're trying to find some additional opportunities to offset some of the softness in the Infrastructure side.
So the Infrastructure is not going to grow overall as fast as Industrial and that's why we kind of a made a little bit of a tweak.
So we think a little bit on the plus side on the Industrial and a little softer in the Infrastructure.
Okay.
And then I thought it was interesting the comments about the sales to distribution were up double digits on the Industrial side.
I guess I'm just wondering what the prior trend was.
I guess you indicated that there's not too much destocking but any color commentary on the order rates would be helpful.
Yes the double-digit in the distributor was for the month not for the quarter so although the quarter was positive.
And I mean we said that we basically saw the destocking in the December quarter timeframe.
So we feel this is consistent with our expectations and it makes us feel good from the point of view that it's typically a leading indicator.
The distributors start ramping up their purchases as they gain confidence and as the OEM start buying stock.
So it is consistent with our forecast.
Your next question comes from the line of Eli Lustgarten with Longbow Securities.
One clarification.
The $2.90 to $3.05 slight trim in guidance does that include $0.48 in the first quarter? In other words [indiscernible] we'll take the $0.05 out that you or? No we let that fall.
That's why we took it off to the back end.
I mean so the $2.90 to $3.05 is based on $0.48 in the first quarter? Yes.
$0.49.
Really.
$0.49 rounding it.
But basically -- so it basically changes the $0.05 write-off that you took effectively? Yes I mean the simple way of looking at it the Industrial is doing a little bit better on the top line.
The Infrastructure is a little bit less.
We got a little bit of a currency benefit.
So they're kind of washing each other out.
And then the nonrecurring inventory charge it's one of those things it is what it is.
We book it and we're going to move on.
But if you take those factors if you take the inventory change out we're saying at the guidance we tweaked it down a little bit.
And if we get a better mix from a profitability standpoint we should be able to make up the second half where we have a little bit weakness on the Infrastructure side.
And we're finished with the inventory adjustments at this point? Yes.
Yes that was a one timer.
And can you give us some insight you talked we got a pretty good feel for the mix of the top line.
Can you give us some insight on what you're expecting on the bottom line in profitability corporate wide and particularly by segment.
I mean Infrastructure numbers are somewhat disappointing.
I'm not sure they can change very much as long as mining stays under the pressure it's under.
Yes clearly we typically don't give out the numbers as you know you Eli but there's going to be a better incremental margin.
As volume returns to Industrial they're going to lever very nice because of the way we restructured the business and kind of the standard products.
Infrastructure I would expect the second half to be a little bit better.
And we're assuming in that case energy starts to increase a little bit.
Now if we do get an improved energy scenario in the second half which we're trying to put it down the middle of the road well then that's rough and Infrastructure will do much better than we have forecasted but it depends on what's going to happen particularly on the energy side.
And I think we got the Earthworks side nailed pretty well from both a mining above and underground as well as some of the highway construction activities.
So the upside for us could be potentially around the energy.
It's all volume Eli.
I mean as the plan says we're going to have a higher volume in the second half.
Therefore as usual we lever pretty well.
And all the numbers you're talking about this has nothing with ATI in it? Yes that's correct Eli.
And that was the point I made when we did it.
And we'll most likely if this thing we assume that's going to close.
In the near-term here we'll provide kind of an update at our Analyst Day.
Your next question comes from the line of Steve Volkmann with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just -- I think most of them has been asked.
But I guess I'm just curious.
As you think about your balance sheet and your cash flow post ATI and I know Frank you said you guys have lightened up on the share repurchase pending this acquisition.
Should we look at you guys to sort of integrate pay down a little bit of debt before we do anything else with cash flow be it share repurchase or even additional acquisitions? Or how do you just think about that? Yes Steve I think it's a good question.
I think we're going to generate some nice cash flow.
And ATI actually is pretty efficient from the cash flow generation standpoint.
So we're going to have some additional cash there.
So we will continue to balance priorities.
We're going to put the CapEx in the business we make.
Accelerate some of that that's why we're pulling back on some of the repurchases that we want to really try to get at the synergies sooner rather than later particularly on the metallurgical side.
And then the wild card is we always have a couple acquisitions.
I wouldn't say anything to this magnitude near term but there's always the $50 million to $150 million type of revenue companies that are top time.
So we'll walk the dance and if we think it's a little bit closer but I would say all intentions are really to focus on this acquisition make it a home run really integrate it quick and then get back into the regular process.
Your next question comes from the line of Walt Liptak with Global Hunter.
LLC Research Division</strong> I want to ask you to go back to the inventory charge that was for Emura inventory right the $0.05? No that was from a different piece of our business on the inventory related to the surface mining.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Was there a charge related to Emura? Was there any purchase accounting or anything that ran through? No.
That was a relatively small one.
And as I said we said it was accretive immediately.
So that was one of our suppliers in the past that we bought so.
That would get lost in a rounding in a month or 2 since we basically acquired it August 1.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I think you said that ATI you're expecting a close date in a month is that right? Yes we said within 30 days on the call.
Hopefully we'll get the HSR filing relatively soon here.
And the German cartel given some of the European presence but we don’t anticipate any issues.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And can you walk us through just the financial mechanics the amount of cash you'd use the bank credit that you'd use on getting the deal done and any charges that you're anticipating related to purchase accounting or other write-offs? Yes.
As far as -- the purchase price as you know is $605 million.
We'll probably use about $150 million of cash.
And we'll use the remaining $450-ish million give or take on the revolver going forward.
And then what we said on the call back in September we think it would be neutral depending when it closes.
Obviously the shorter the time frame the harder it is.
But we'll start evaluating potential synergies.
Once we close the deal we really can't comment on it.
And when we get up to -- once we close on a deal we'll come forward with kind of our proposed plans to align the business consistent with Kennametal.
But when we factor in those another high level and then forget about the top line issue we said it should be neutral in fiscal '14.
Your next question comes from the line of Andy Casey with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> First question on the revenue guidance.
With the start of the year I think it was 3% organic drop in the first quarter.
Does the full year revenue guidance for organic imply if I'm doing the math correct 6% to 14% for the combined rest of the year? And is that really being driven by an expectation that the current trends continue to progress along normal cyclical manners? I would say it's always tough when you come out of a recession.
Obviously we have a growth built into our numbers.
I don't -- I'm not sure I had caught the numbers you said Andy.
But we expect obviously growth in the second quarter.
And it to be strong in the second half consistent with the quality of work days that we get.
We always have the pickup in the quality of days less holidays going forward.
So this is pretty much trending as we had anticipated.
As you'd come out as I said earlier when we look at our performance as we typically come out of a lull of a year-over-year negative growth and I'm not saying the great recession is back.
But if you go back in time the pattern looks like it's our top line goal of 4% to 6% organic is in line with what we would expect coming out of a recession.
So it's consistent with seasonality of the business it's consistent with the last 2 months of the quarter and the current month October is very consistent with our outlook.
And it's consistent with our previous models.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could -- I'm going to get granular.
Again I apologize.
But the $0.02 decrease the earnings guidance midpoint for the year includes the deduction of $0.05 offset by $0.03 coming from higher contribution elsewhere.
Again I know it's granular.
But is the $0.03 coming from operations or is it coming from somewhere else? Well I think the $0.03 when we started off we're getting a little bit of a lift in the currency.
Now as you know you don't lever well when you translate your profitability but we're getting a little bit of a lift from FX.
Okay Andy this is Quynh and we can go over that off-line if you'd like.
And your next question comes from the line of Rudy Hokanson with Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of questions just clarifications and I'll just give them to you sort of in line.
There's 3 of them.
One I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the timing on the aerospace and if you can be a little bit more specific about what programs or what size that appears to be? The second has to do with the distribution positive results that you've been getting.
And you talked about it being around the globe.
And I was wondering if this is something that truly is global and uniform or if it's just maybe positive around the globe but there's a stronger pocket rather than others such as Europe and so the real focus would be more Europe.
And the third question gets into the energy area and you said you're having an increased activity in terms of bidding right now.
I was wondering if you're getting any sense as to the plans of your customers in terms of their CapEx for calendar 2014 versus what they spent in 2013 especially as it relates to your market.
Those are my 3 questions.
Okay.
Let me address that and Frank will pipe in.
The aerospace we don't break down into the program.
As we've said we are starting to see activity in general including the 787 production.
Again they've had some issues but they have continually increased the production.
And relative to the distribution the distribution we are seeing growth everywhere.
I mean the biggest areas are Europe and the U.S.
And it's consistent with the recovery and I think we're starting to see that in China as well in this quarter.
And typically that's a leading indicator for us.
And somebody mentioned 10% it was 10% for the month of September.
So it's a very good view.
And maybe Frank can talk about the energy a little bit.
Yes the energy obviously we don’t share what our customers tell us.
But obviously we're down whether it's drilling production completion and our teams typically work closely with the big energy companies you would expect on a global basis.
The other interesting dynamic here will be as we close on the deal of ATI 2 of the key end markets that we really like there was the aerospace that they play in particularly some of the products they have indexable milling and milling products.
And their energy side some of the products and manufacturing that they have as it relates to the energy.
So I think Carlos hit the main points there as well.
But I think ATI is going to give us additional opportunities and insights once we acquire the company in the next 30 days.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Tiss with Bank of Montréal.
Can you talk a little bit about pricing and inventories? Just what we're seeing for us for the rest of the year and where are we in inventories? Joel are you asking about Kennametal's inventories? Yes and also in distribution too.
Well I mean the Kennametal we talked a little bit earlier about the Kennametal inventory.
I mean we had an uptick with the acquisition of Emura and we also are building some inventory to support the growth in the second half of our year.
And relative to the distribution I mean I don't -- we don't see any increase of inventories in the distribution in particular.
So we assume that as we said the restocking had stopped.
And they are just meeting the demand.
We haven't really seen a restocking.
So that's from an inventory perspective.
And the price I think as I said earlier I think the Industrial has no real change there.
And we'll evaluate this is what we do in January.
And then I would expect more of the same on the Infrastructure side.
The interesting is APT prices have since kind of come down at the beginning of the year when we provided guidance.
It started to run higher it's since settled back into kind of our norm or what we had expected.
So we think we're pretty balanced for the rest of the year from a pricing perspective.
Yes by the end of the year our pricing will be flat to slightly positive overall.
And then just on a big picture view.
What is the sort of vertical integration -- what does it do to the return on capital and return on assets of the overall company? Even just sort of like looking 2 years out? Yes let me address the vertical.
The business is not 100% vertical.
It brings $360 million of sales okay only a portion of it is vertical.
So I just want to make sure that we understand that as well.
From the capital perspective Frank maybe you can.
Yes Joel I think the vertical it comes in on the math [ph] side and you've got to put the Emura piece in there as well where we don't own a mine but we own the ore coming out of the mine and we process it down there.
So as opposed to us going out and having to source that material and be dependent upon the swings on APT we've somewhat mitigated that and the ability to take both ore as well as hard and soft scrap with the ATI recycling capabilities.
It gives us obviously good returns from an overall profitability.
It significantly reduces our cost to get the raw materials that we use in our products.
So it helps us with the top line new customers new markets.
It balances our risks from a point of view of the sourcing and reduces our costs of raw materials because they bring with the processing they have to bring a lower cost to us.
Your next question comes from Holden Lewis with BB&amp;T.
Research Division</strong> In the last few weeks I'm just sort of asking again about the distribution commentary.
We've heard from companies like Grainger and Fastenal and Motion Industries and WESCO and Anixter we've seen results from all these guys.
And no one would have mistaken any of their results for being positive.
And obviously it's a short-cycle business.
Those are some big players none of whom are sort of talking about the sort of improvement in the distribution channel that you seem to be alluding to.
And so I'm just trying to get a sense of where is the disconnect between what the distributors are saying and what you're saying? Yes Holden I'm going to jump in.
You got to remember last year -- I don’t want to call it a relatively easy comp but I'll call it an easy comp.
As you know last year when we're going through the destocking we started to see a pretty strong in the month of September going forward.
So that's one of the main drivers as far as the performance as we highlighted in the month of September.
And then just kind of repositioning and working it and continuing to execute our strategies.
This is a natural supply chain phenomena.
So when the distributors start destocking their sales are not going down as much as our sales to them.
The opposite happens in the upside.
In other words their sales out are lower than our sales to them.
It's just a normal supply chain.
I mean you can through any recession and heavy recovery the lines cross at the bottom and cross at the top.
Research Division</strong> Sure but I guess what I'm wondering is should we be looking at the improving distribution numbers as a function of an improving market or is it a reflection of one or both of easier comps.
Or the fact that as you said they were probably purchasing below demand because of their inventories and just by the act of stepping up once their inventories just sort of got them where they want to they would step up just by virtue of sort of normalizing that demand.
I'm just trying to -- it sounds like you're being very positive about it.
I'm trying to figure out if we're just talking about sort of a comp and normalization of spending or whether we're talking about actual demand in the distribution market getting better? Both.
Both.
I mean one is a function of the supply chain which is as I explained.
The other one is a function of the market.
And your final question comes from the line of Steve Barger with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Just a related question.
A quick follow-up.
To that distribution point.
Is the activity that you're seeing making you think the end users changing their attitude towards holding inventory or increasing safety stock or is this still just tracking the end market with the same inventory buffer? And do you think that provides an opportunity going forward to outgrow the market? Yes I don’t -- we don't see anywhere where either the OEM or the distribution is building inventory at this point.
Okay so what we see -- we see that the OEM as production goes up they are buying to those levels.
So to the extent that the growth is going to be -- the IPI is going to be where we think it's going to be it's going to take until the second half of the year for us to see restocking.
Research Division</strong> And just to that point following what happened in 2009 and what's happened over the prior year do you think there's been any kind of permanent change in customer attitude towards holding things? Will they always have the distributor hold more inventory? Or do you think that the end user will start to rebuild that safety stock at some point? I mean I will believe through the last 20 years of recessions I believe that the whole supply chain always gets better with every recession.
So which means that people don't hold as much inventory.
Everybody gets more efficient.
So there is a level of efficiency that is going to come out of this one to the extent that how much of that is real.
I mean we'll tell you in another year when we look back and say "Okay this is what it looks like." But there's no doubt that the OEMs and the distributors coming out of this are going to be more efficient.
They're going to hold less inventory but they have to have some inventory.
Thank you.
And we have no further questions at this time.
And I would like to turn the call back over to our presenters.
Thank you.
This concludes our discussion.
Please contact me Quyhn McGuire at (724) 539-6559 for any follow-up.
Thank you for joining us.
Thank you.
Today's call will be available for replay beginning at 1 p.m.
Eastern Time today and lasting through midnight Eastern Time on November 24 2013.
The conference ID number for the replay is 77099289.
The number to dial for the replay is 1 (855) 859-2056 or (404) 537-3406.
This concludes today's discussion.
Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
I would like to welcome everyone to Kennametal's Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Denise.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us to review Kennametal's second quarter fiscal 2014 results.
We issued our quarterly earnings press release earlier today.
You may access this announcement via our website at www.kennametal.com.
Consistent with our practice in prior quarterly conference calls we've invited various members of the media to listen to this call.
It's also being broadcast live on our website and a recording of this call will be available on our site for replay through March 3 2014.
I'm Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations for Kennametal.
Joining me for our call today are Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Carlos Cardoso; Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Frank Simpkins; and Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller Martha Fusco.
Carlos and Frank will provide further explanation on the quarter's financial performance.
After the remarks we'll be happy to answer questions.
At this time I'd like to direct your attention to our forward-looking disclosure statement.
The discussion we'll have today contains comments that may constitute forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve a number of assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information regarding these risk factors and uncertainties is detailed in Kennametal's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition Kennametal has provided the SEC with a Form 8-K a copy of which is currently available on our website.
This enables us to discuss non-GAAP financial measures during this call in accordance with SEC Regulation G.
This 8-K presents GAAP financial measures that we believe are most directly comparable to those non-GAAP financial measures and provides a reconciliation of those measures as well.
I'll now turn the call over to Carlos.
Thank you Quyhn.
Hello everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
In the December quarter we realized organic growth for the first time in 6 quarters.
On an organic basis sales for our Industrial segment increased 6% year-over-year which was consistent with our expectations.
This was driven by higher activity levels in our Transportation and General Engineering business which included double-digit sales growth from distribution customers.
Revenue growth in our Aerospace unit was mixed depending on the geographic region.
We believe that it was related to certain project delays as the industry's 2013 backlog reflected a 5-year high.
Regarding markets served by our infrastructure business the energy sector has now rebounded and production levels are still weak for both underground and surface mining activities.
From a macro perspective we are encouraged that global industrial production is gradually improving and the economic indicators remain positive.
This increase in manufacturing activity has been largely driven by inventory buildup consistent with business expectations for calendar year 2014.
Although the Appalachian mining industry continues to be under pressure the rig counts for oil and gas remain slightly higher and the oil and gas extracted per rig has been on the rise.
Also the commercial aerospace industry remains strong and the light vehicle production market continues to expand.
While demand is increasing it is important to note that customers have exercised continued caution in terms of spending over the past 6 months.
To a certain extent the recovery seems to be delayed.
But considering that our order rates bottomed in December of 2012 business conditions are much better than 1 year ago.
Consistently we still expect to realize sequential quarter-to-quarter growth as well as year-over-year improvement in the second half of our fiscal year.
In the near-term we'll continue to make adjustments to our business as needed depending on demand levels.
We'll streamline our cost structure to ongoing deployment of Lean and Six Sigma initiatives.
We also seek to maximize our use of advanced technology.
Innovation is a quality that continues to be strongly linked to Kennametal.
We were recently named to the 2013 InformationWeek 500 list making the second consecutive year that Kennametal has been ranked among the nation's most innovative technology users.
As always our global team will execute company-specific strategies to further strengthen our business.
For the December quarter we reported solid profitability although margin expansion lagged the rate of top line growth.
This was partially due to softer-than-expected demands in our infrastructure markets in particular energy.
However results for our industrial business reflect the resumption of growth and accordingly we dedicated greater resources to serve customers.
This is a reversal from prior year where we aggressively tightened spending due to market contraction.
Since our forecast calls for continued demand in momentum in the second half of fiscal 2014 we are ramping up for the right reasons.
Our goal is to ensure a sustainable growth as well as expanded our 2 cycle margin levels just as we demonstrated during the prior growth cycle.
During December quarter we completed the acquisition of ATI's Tungsten Materials Business a leading producer of tungsten metallurgical powders tooling technologies and components.
The integration plan has been initiated and is expected to realize significant cost synergies.
Also this acquisition has expanded our presence in the aerospace and energy end markets further augmented our tooling portfolio and accelerated our plans for advanced tungsten carbide facility.
We believe that this transaction represents a highly complementary fit in terms of product portfolio strategic assets and talent base.
We will continue to deliver productivity improvements and outstanding service to our customers which now include those of the acquired business.
We are very excited about the prospects of our combined companies.
In addition our WIDIA brand and channel strategy continues to further grow our presence in the industrial distribution markets.
Those proven strategies provide a firm foundation to weather economic headwinds and they deliver on the overarching goal of profitable growth.
Kennametal continues to be well-positioned because we serve a broad array of industries across a diverse geographic base.
The business mix helps to migrate volatility over the economic cycles.
As we move forward we'll execute our growth strategies to further balance our global presence with the goal to generate revenues equally from North America Western Europe and the Rest of the World markets.
Now I would like to provide an overview of trends we are seeing in the marketplace.
In the aerospace industry growing demand in emerging markets and fuel efficiency programs are driving new aircraft orders.
Strong order rates for the A320 and the 737 plane models have caused Boeing and Airbus to ramp up manufacturing activities.
In addition production rates for the 787s have increased to meet delivery commitments.
Overall demand is robust as global commercial production expanded by 10.2% in 2013.
On the other hand production of military planes increased less than 1% and procurement of defense-related applications is lower due to government budget constraints.
In General Engineering growth is expected to reaccelerate in 2014 for the capital equipment market related to new orders of metalworking machinery.
Distributors are benefiting from higher volumes throughout the manufacturing supply chain including the automotive and aerospace sectors.
In addition demand for multi-channel capabilities is expected to continue to increase.
More distributors have introduced e-commerce platforms which include computers tablets and mobile phones to serve this growing customer need.
In the transportation market there have been unprecedented investments worldwide in technology.
This trend is being driven by the downsizing of internal combustion engines and the lightweightening of vehicle structures to meet current and future fuel economy and emission regulations.
Globally light vehicle production was 84 million units in calendar year 2013 and year-over-year growth for 2014 is being forecasted at 3 million units or 3.6% increase.
Key growth drivers are low interest rates and stable fuel prices in developed markets as well as continued growth in emerging markets.
In Earthworks IHS Global Insight noted that coal production increased by 0.7% in 2013 the first increase since 2011.
Furthermore Central Appalachian production is predicted to expand in 2014 for the first time since 2008.
Regarding road construction new legislation was recently proposed to phase in a $0.15 per gallon fuel tax over the next 3 years to generate needed revenues for the Highway Trust Fund.
Also McGraw-Hill Construction Industry Confidence Index which measures sentiment in the U.S.
was favorable for much of calendar year 2013.
Survey results indicated that participants expect the business environment to continue to improve.
In the Energy sector North American natural gas markets have had relatively high supply levels in 2013 although inventory has decreased below 2012 levels.
In fact extremely cold temperatures in January have led to record high storage withdrawals.
This situation should drive up prices and eventually increase production.
Going forward supply growth will likely be driven by recent well productivity new pipelines and expanding capacity in gas processing.
Overall the global economy is improving and world growth is projected to accelerate in 2014 according to IHS Global Insight.
In the U.S.
recent data suggests a stronger economy and the industrial production index or IPI is trending higher.
It is encouraging that the manufacturing component of the index has been strong.
In the Eurozone after a weak October the November IPI rebounded in its strongest month-over-month pace of growth since 2010.
In China the economy has shown some recent weaknesses.
However the central government seems to have shifted its policy stance to support growth.
Regarding the emerging markets many economies have improved during the past several months.
The problem still remain in countries such as Brazil and India which are on the IHS Global Insight's watch list.
We'll continue to closely monitor those economy trends and be ready to adjust our business accordingly.
Our global team continues to be agile and remain ready to serve our customers.
As the macro environment improves we continue to expect to realize greater leverage to further expand our profitability.
Now I will turn over to Frank who will discuss our financial results for the quarter in greater detail.
Frank? All right.
Thank you Carlos.
Consistent with my prior discussions I'll start by making some overall comments and then I'll review our second quarter in more detail.
Some of my comments are related to the non-GAAP metrics.
So to summarize the December quarter we delivered solid profitability while focusing on necessary actions to drive further customer service improvements.
In addition we began to integrate our acquisition of ATI's Tungsten Materials Business.
Highlights of the quarter included as Carlos pointed out the trend of the year-over-year sales growth that began in the month of September continued during the December quarter -- for the December quarter where we realized organic growth for the first time in 6 quarters.
Organic growth was led by improving demand in our transportation and General Engineering businesses which tend to grow faster earlier in the cycle.
Aerospace &amp; Defense was slightly lower due to delayed timing of orders.
Our Industrial segment achieved 6% organic growth in the quarter.
In our Earthworks business we still experience weak demand in underground mining particularly in the U.S.
and in China.
In Energy order activity remains softer than anticipated but it is showing signs of modest growth.
We completed the acquisition of the Tungsten Materials Business or TMB for $607 million and immediately initiated restructuring plans for the combined businesses.
And I'll go into much greater detail in a few minutes.
We continue to generate strong free cash flow and we delivered adjusted earnings per share of $0.52.
As Carlos said we will continue to balance investments related to improving the customer's experience with our shareholder return priorities.
And as always we continue to evaluate strategic investments to grow our long-term enterprise value.
Now I'm going to walk through the key items in the income statement.
Sales for the quarter were $690 million compared to $633 million in the same quarter last year.
Our sales grew by 9% reflecting a 2% organic increase and a 7% increase from the TMB acquisition.
I want to point out that we completed the closing of the TMB transaction on November 4.
This included 2 months of sales in our results with the shortened month in November due to the closing date.
In addition compared to the rest of the year as you know November and December have fewer work days due to the holiday period.
And as we touched on earlier the December quarter is the first time in 6 quarters where Kennametal realized organic sales growth.
We are seeing improved demand from customers in our industrial end markets and distribution sales for the quarter reflected double-digit growth over the prior year.
Those factors are encouraging.
Looking at our sales performance by business segment.
The Industrial segment sales of $371 million increased by 10% from the prior year quarter due to a 6% organic growth and a 5% growth related to the TMB acquisition partly offset by 1% decline due to fewer business days.
Industrial sales increased in all served markets this quarter.
Excluding the TMB acquisition sales increased by 8% in Transportation 7% in General Engineering 5% in Energy and 2% in Aerospace &amp; Defense.
Transportation benefited from increased demand in the light vehicle markets worldwide and General Engineering increased due to improvements in demand from distribution channels.
Energy sales reflect increased activity in industrial applications.
Sales were up in all geographies.
Our regional basis sales increased 12% in Asia 7% in Europe and 2% in the Americas and that excludes TMB.
On the Infrastructure side our sales came out at $319 million which increased 7% from the prior year and that was driven by a 10% organic growth or 10% growth related to the TMB acquisition partly offset by a 2% organic sales decline and a 1% unfavorable impact from fewer business days.
Excluding the TMB acquisition sales increased 1% in Energy 1% in General Engineering offset by decreases of 12% in Transportation and 5% in Earthworks.
Earthworks sales decreased due to persistently weak underground coal mining markets in the U.S.
and China but this was partly offset by continued strength globally in highway construction sales.
Energy sales were slightly positive year-over-year reflecting some improvement in oil and gas drilling activity in the U.S.
coupled with gains in production completion and process application.
On a regional basis sales grew 8% in Europe offset by decreases of 7% in the Americas and 4% in Asia.
Now a recap of our operating performance.
Our gross profit margin was 30% which included the impact of the acquisition of TMB and acquisition-related charges.
Excluding the impact of these items our gross profit margin was 32% compared to 31.5% last year.
The margin benefited from lower raw material cost and organic sales growth in the Industrial segment but was partly offset by higher manufacturing spending.
Our operating expenses increased $21 million year-over-year.
Excluding $7 million of operating expense from the TMB acquisition and $2 million of acquisition-related charges our operating expense was $11 million higher year-over-year.
The $11 million increase was driven by employment cost related to our annual employee merit increase higher sales commissions and additional headcount investments to further grow our businesses.
Operating expenses as a percent of sales was 21.5% which included the TMB acquisition and was 130 basis points higher than the prior year.
Additional spending in the current year represents our investment in long-term growth and consistent with our sales aspirations of $5 billion to $6 billion.
Our operating income was $50 million compared with $66 million in the same quarter last year.
Excluding the TMB acquisition operating results acquisition-related charges and the restructuring charges our adjusted operating income was $62 million.
The decrease in adjusted operating income primarily reflects higher employment and related cost partly offset by favorable effects of organic growth and lower raw material cost.
Our operating margin was 7.2% and adjusted operating margin was 9.6% compared within our operating margin of 10.5% in the prior year.
Looking at the operating performance by segment.
Industrial segment's operating income was $33 million compared to $41 million in the same quarter of the prior year.
Industrial operating income included TMB operations and was lower due to purchase accounting acquisition-related charges and restructuring charges.
Industrial adjusted operating margin was 11.6% compared with 12.1% in the prior year.
The Infrastructure segment's operating income was $19 million and this compares with $28 million in the same quarter last year.
Infrastructure's operating income also included the TMB operations and was lower due to purchase accounting acquisition-related charges as well as restructuring items.
Infrastructure's adjusted operating margin was 7.8% compared with 9.4% in the prior year.
Our interest expense increased $1 million year-over-year in the December quarter to $8 million.
The increase was due to higher year-over-year borrowings for acquisitions and higher borrowing rate for the 7-year 2.65% notes that we issued last year in November of 2012 versus the bank revolver.
Our overall liquidity remains strong and we have approximately $360 million outstanding on our revolver of our $600 million revolver as of December 31 2013.
And as you know our nearest maturity debt is April of 2018.
Effective tax rate for the quarter was 40.8% in the quarter compared to 26.4% last year.
The increase was primarily driven by a onetime tax expense of $7 million related to the repatriation of certain overseas cash.
The impact of this charge was partly offset by a lower relative U.S.
current earnings contribution compared with the rest of the world where tax rates are lower.
And as highlighted in the press release our reported earnings per share were $0.30 and this included $0.09 for the impact related to the TMB purchase accounting which primarily related to the inventory fair value step-up acquisition-related charges of $0.02 restructuring and related charges of $0.02 and a tax repatriation expense of $0.09 resulting in an adjusted earnings per share of $0.52.
Turning to our cash flow.
Our year-to-date cash flow from operating activities was $85 million an increase of 56% compared with $54 million in the prior year.
Net capital expenditures were $48 million compared to $34 million in the prior year.
Free operating cash flow year-to-date was $36 million compared with $21 million in the prior year reflecting our continued focus on improving working capital efficiencies.
We remain diligent in our focus on generating strong cash flow and are committed toward capital structure principles.
We continue to be highly disciplined on our allocation process to ensure that we invest in initiatives with the highest value returns.
Our balance sheet remains strong.
At December 31 we had $110 million of short-term debt and total debt was approximately $1 billion.
Our cash balance was $163 million with the majority presently residing overseas.
Net debt was $982 million at December 31 compared to $370 million in the June quarter and the increase was due to the Tungsten Materials acquisition.
Our debt-to-cap ratio at December 31 was 37.6% compared to 29.2% at June 30.
We remain vigilant in the management of our pension plans and continue to enjoy the benefits of our adoption of a liability-driven investment strategy over 7 years ago and our U.S.
defined benefit pension plan remains over 100% funded.
Now let me give you a quick update on our acquisition of the Tungsten Materials Business.
Overall the Tungsten Materials Business acquisition is progressing well and in line with our integration plan.
As previously announced we completed the acquisition on November 4.
We have established a full-time integration team that is working with the Tungsten Materials Business team to drive critical work streams to ensure a smooth transition.
Our day 1 activities were initiated across the organization to welcome the TMB employees and introduce them to the Kennametal culture.
The cost synergy plan activities are underway and are on track to be fully realized within the next few years.
Kennametal and TMB technology and marketing teams have evaluated the product portfolios and identified key synergies that will result in exciting new product platform launches in the very near future.
Initial focus of the integration has been on financial processes purchase accounting human resource processes and maintaining key commercial relationships including the successful assignment of all major contracts to Kennametal.
The impact of the TMB acquisition on the December quarter earnings per share was $0.09 dilutive driven primarily by purchase accounting and acquisition-related charges.
For fiscal 2014 the TMB acquisition is expected to be dilutive to reported earnings per share by approximately $0.32 to $0.36 and I'll provide more details in the outlook sections in a minute.
Also we previously outlined restructuring actions that will be implemented within the next 3 years.
We expect to incur pretax restructuring charges of approximately $40 million to $50 million related to these initiatives.
During the December quarter we incurred $2 million of restructuring charges.
We expect to generate annual savings of approximately $35 million to $45 million once these initiatives are fully implemented.
And these initiatives consist of: concentrating our footprint by consolidating operations and driving productivity improvements with standard processes reducing administrative overhead and leveraging the supply chain including raw material cost procurement and streamline manufacturing and distribution.
Now I'll touch on the outlook for TMB.
Our guidance previously stated that we expect sales to range from $200 million to $220 million for the TMB acquisition and we are currently within this range.
Originally we believed the acquisition will be EPS-neutral.
However based upon purchase accounting more value has been assigned to inventory than originally anticipated.
This higher-value inventory will be amortized over 4 terms or in our case 2 quarters compared with intangibles which have a longer amortization period of 15-plus years.
The acquisition process was confidential and very competitive therefore Kennametal had limited access until the transaction was closed.
Thus the purchase accounting step-up for inventory was greater-than-expected and we are taking the step-up over 4 terms and it will be then behind us after the March quarter.
That said the TMB base operations including purchase accounting will be accretive in the June quarter.
Our current EPS guidance for the Tungsten Materials Business as noted in the press release is: we expect the TMB base operations to be between 10% to 15% accretive inventory purchase accounting of $0.14 depreciation and amortization related to fixed and intangible assets accounting step-up and acquisition-related charges will be a deduction of $0.09 to $0.13 restructuring-related charge of another $0.10 to $0.15 and the tax repatriation expense of $0.09 resulting with the net dilutive impact of $0.32 to $0.36 for fiscal 2014 and that's highlighted in detail in our press release.
Now for the outlook of the remaining company.
We updated our full year outlook for the fiscal year 2014 to reflect the results of the acquisition.
Also we lowered our organic sales growth forecast due to a slower-than-anticipated rebound in our served end markets globally in the oil and gas markets as well as still weak conditions in the underground mining in the U.S.
and China.
However we remain confident regarding customer demand growth projected in served industrial end markets as well as distribution channels.
Based on our revised 2014 forecast we expect the Industrial segment to continue to realize strong growth while sales volumes will remain weak in the industrial or the Infrastructure segment.
Accordingly we now expect fiscal 2014 sales growth in the range of 12% to 13% with the TMB acquisition contributing 7% to 9% growth and organic sales growth ranging from 2% to 4%.
Previously we had projected total sales growth ranging from 5% to 7% with organic sales growth of 4% to 6%.
Based on these factors we now expect fiscal 2014 EPS to range from $2.60 to $2.75 compared with our previous outlook of $2.90 to $3.05.
These ranges exclude the TMB acquisition acquisition-related charges restructuring and related charges as well as the tax repatriation expense.
As I said earlier the TMB is estimated to have a net dilutive impact of $0.32 to $0.36 per share for fiscal 2014.
We also now expect to generate cash flow from operations between $280 million and $310 million based on anticipated capital expenditures of $130 million to $140 million and we now expect to generate between $150 million to $170 million of free operating cash flow for the full fiscal year.
We will continue to manage our business for the factors we can control to deal with in the near-term headwinds as needed.
We're focused on protecting our profitability as well as maximizing our cash flows and returns.
In addition we'll remain focused on many growth opportunities and the consistent execution of our strategies.
Now I'll turn it back to Carlos for a few closing comments.
Thank you Frank.
Moving ahead we'll continue to execute strategies consistent with our long-term growth goals which include doubling revenues over the next 5 years.
Additionally we will stay focused on maximizing growth in top line earnings and cash flows.
Furthermore we will continually streamline our cost structure throughout the enterprise including the recently acquired Tungsten Materials Business.
As we have previously discussed we plan to align manufacturing processes as well as functional services to realize significant cost synergies.
As always we'll remain disciplined in our capital allocation process.
We will continue to evaluate opportunities to further invest in our business to best serve our customers' demand make acquisitions repurchase shares and pay dividends.
In summary our global team continues to focus on increasing shareholder value by delivering profitable growth in the existing and adjacent markets demonstrating ongoing cost discipline achieving improved profitability and generating strong cash flows.
In addition we are further balancing our served end markets business mix and geographic presence.
Kennametal is well-positioned for the future and we have an enterprise-wide commitment to succeed.
Thank you for your continued support.
We will now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Ann Duignan of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Damien on for Ann.
Can you guys talk about how order rates have progressed so far this quarter? Yes I mean January is in line with our new forecast.
However due to cold weather we are not sure how much -- we definitely lost some work days but we're not sure at this point how many work days totally we lost.
But we anticipated some of that in our current forecast.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just on the oil and gas weakness that you were talking about earlier I know you said the U.S.
was a little bit better but can you talk about oil and gas regionally outside of the U.S.? I would say probably almost 2/3 Damien of our businesses resides in the U.S.
So that's obviously impacting our profitability as well as our sales given the composition.
But outside of that the -- both the European as well as the Asian platform is doing well.
Our next question will come from Adam Uhlman of Cleveland Research.
Frank you were talking about this $11 million of expense growth in the quarter.
You broke it down into merit paid the sales and then the headcount additions.
I was wondering if you could divide that up for us and then also talk about what's in the outlook for the second half of the year.
And then just to build on that if maybe you could talk about your expectations of payback from the headcount additions that you're making into the business.
Is this a short cycle payback or is this something that's going to take some time? Yes.
First of all you're right.
The increase sequentially are -- I can't remember if you asked year-over-year.
And year-over-year we did obviously add some people and the base we're going off of -- I just want to ground everybody I think Carlos said this.
Last year we we're clearly in a decelerating decline as far as the overall macro.
So we were watching everything.
We had stuff locked down very tight.
So obviously we were able to maintain very strict cost controls last year.
As we go forward we typically have our merit increases every October 1.
We added some people.
And then on the Industrial side we have some of the sales force because they were up obviously 6% and of course we're paying some sales commissions.
Adam without getting too specific I would say that it was probably an equal increase across those with the headcounts the merit and some of the sales commissions.
They're the main drivers.
But it's always like a Catch-22.
You can't wait until you have growth to start adding people.
So we started adding people obviously towards the end of last year into the first quarter in both businesses.
I think you see a bit quicker payback on the Industrial side given the early cycle and I think we're looking at that closely as well as some of the opportunities on the Infrastructure side.
Now that's a little bit softer but they're a little bit longer projects.
So it takes a little bit longer.
You don't get significant payback quicker.
So we'll see a little bit more of a return faster on the Industrial side going forward.
And with a little bit -- maybe longer but we still think we need the right investments as it relates to the Infrastructure side of the house.
So the payback will be a little bit different.
I think it will be quicker on the early cycle than the later.
But we think longer-term some of the bigger projects and the growth that's fragmented there will be opportunistic.
And then we'll see how the TMB acquisition can help fill some of those gaps going forward.
And the only thing that I would add is that we've seen already in the second quarter some of that benefits on the top line which was I mean the Industrial business grew at 6%.
But I want to point out that in the month of December the Industrial business grew at double-digit rate which is a really good leading indicator for our business.
The next question will come from Stephen Volkmann of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to drill in a little bit on Infrastructure and I had sort of a 2-part question and I'll just give it all to you at one time.
I'm just wondering -- there's a lot of sort of numbers that are being thrown around.
I'm just wondering if you could expand a little bit on the Transportation driver there.
I think you said Frank that was down 11% to 12% or something which was bigger than I think the decline you saw on Earthworks and I just thought that was sort of interesting.
So maybe a little bit of detail there.
And then the second part is just on the margin.
It was quite a bit lower in that segment even adjusted for all the onetime items.
And how should we think about the -- what's impacting that margin and how that should look going forward? Yes Steve.
First on Transportation it's not like-for-like.
Obviously we serve different industries.
The lion's share of our Transportation the light vehicles in the Industrial side and I think that's kind of reflective of what people are seeing from the automotive builders.
And then we have -- it's a very small one we reorganized and kind of transferred a couple of things.
We have like Extrude Hone.
We make some of these machines that are going into the automotive.
So they're a little bit spotty from the -- overall quarter.
But that number even if it was plus-12 it's not going to be a significant driver on the profitability.
The infrastructure is still going to be driven by the energy as well as the Earth cutting.
So as far as the profitability right? Energy we had expected it to be a bit stronger.
It's still a little bit weaker in the industry gas turbines that Stellite provides there.
I would say the underground mining continues to be challenging but we don't expect it to get any worse from this period out.
Now we will see a sequential lift because our December quarter for the Infrastructure business is typically our weaker because of the construction and the holiday period.
So as we go into the March quarter we'll start seeing a little bit of a pickup with the energy side both coal as well as energy.
And then we'll start to see some of the orders start for the highway construction projects as that typically kicks in in the March period.
And we'll be -- we'll talk about that when we're out at CONEXPO but we're looking forward to see what type of information we have going forward.
So we expect it to be a little bit stronger as we get into the second half which is typically our best period and the seasonality impacts kick in.
But the challenge for us really in the quarter was the energy side on the Infrastructure and the 12%.
The transportation is a small thing so I wouldn't read too much into that.
The next question will come from Andy Casey of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a few more margin questions.
X the TMB dilutive impact it looked like you had about a 80-basis-point decline in margins 1% core growth in the first half.
Is it fair to say that you expect second half roughly 4% to 8% core growth and 14% plus or minus operating margins? Yes.
I think Andy the second half we'll definitely do a little bit better.
I think we have our inventory pretty much in line to your point the year-over-year change.
Obviously we have additional labor and we have some additional maintenance costs.
We're trying to get our fill rates up for our distribution partners and it's a combination of higher costs there.
We did have the negative volume impacts associated with the infrastructure that was not completely offset in the Industrial side.
And then last year we're still burning down inventory particularly throughout the period.
So particularly the December quarter or really the big drop was in the March quarter of last year.
So we think our inventory is pretty much in line from that perspective.
And then from a raw materials -- we don't see much change from the current levels but it may be up slightly on a year-over-year basis.
But yes we do expect the margins to improve in the second half compared to last year.
And particularly in the March quarter last year we have the significant inventory reduction of about $35 million.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay thank you for clarifying.
And then just to play Devil's advocate a little bit if we get into the second half we're all expecting improvement.
But if for some reason that does not show up do you have contingent structural cost plans in place to get to those higher margins? Yes.
I mean yes we started that obviously in the quarter.
And obviously with the acquisition and restructuring opportunities we'll try to accelerate that even quicker or pull more opportunities into play.
So yes we think we have both normal contingency plans as you would expect on discretionary stuff and then we also have structural stuff ready to go.
The next question will come Eli Lustgarten of Longbow Securities.
One quick question on the outlook.
With your 2% to 4% organic growth in the second half of the year are you effectively extrapolating the trends that you saw in December quarter into the second half of the year? I mean you're expecting mid-single-digit growth in Industrial and flat-to-down -- I don't know if it's plus or minus I guess in infrastructure.
Is that sort of the structural framework that you're looking at? Yes I think that's fair.
Okay.
So moving on so you're not expecting any changes.
And in your profitability I mean your numbers are well below where you sort of -- what we used to think of the profitability of the businesses.
And it's clear that I guess Industrial will be much more profitable than Infrastructure for a while.
Can you give us some idea of -- is pricing more competitive? Are these cost for investments that you have also have some element of competitive response in the marketplace because demand is so slow that will limit margin recovery in the second half? No.
Our pricing actually for the year and overall is going to be slightly positive.
There was no pricing moves taken at the beginning of the year? No there were some in select markets on certain geographies Eli.
Like Sandvik went up in a couple of areas.
We did as well.
So it's all positive.
Yes.
More on the Industrial side than the bigger material content side because raw materials on that side has been relatively kind of flat.
And then a follow-up question on the ATI acquisition.
So you obviously had a big surprise in inventory that almost changed the whole -- your lookout for this year.
Can you talk a bit about versus expectation was inventory the only surprise? And do we still talk about -- not so much in '14 that year we understand you gave us the restructuring impact.
But will '15 still be accretive in the 20% 25% range or 15% 20% whatever number you want to pick that you sort of have been talking about when you made the acquisition? Good question.
And I'll start off by saying the base number that we put in there Eli the 10% to 15% there's no restructuring benefits in there yet.
Even though we're starting -- but we still -- maybe we can do a little bit quicker here in the fourth quarter.
But you're right.
The major difference when you take a step back everything is pretty much on track.
We had limited access to get in there.
And at the end of the day the entire difference is solely related to inventory.
It was basically double what we had anticipated.
So if I take that out of the equation and I'd rather have more value assigned to a tangible asset than an intangible asset.
And given the terms that they have for I'm glad that we're getting -- we have more inventory there so more tangible assets so we can serve our customers.
It's going to be done by the March quarter.
So when I get to the June quarter this business the base business including purchase accounting is accretive and are relatively quick.
So that's why we feel pretty good about it.
And I'm not even talking about trying to accelerate any restructuring activities.
If we can do it great.
We'll do a little bit better.
But I like how the fact that we're trending the right way.
No real surprises.
The culture we have the top leadership Carlos myself and 2 other EMC men.
We visited all the U.S.
locations and Carlos also visited the international.
And these guys are very very happy to be part of Kennametal.
So I see huge benefit.
And the one thing I will also remind everybody is we have no sales synergies at all built in.
And we think this would to be some opportunities as we get into the '15 going forward.
So as far as I'm concerned this thing is a great acquisition and everything's on track.
The only thing I'll add to that is that I think this is going to be -- turn out to be the best acquisition we've made in the last 10 years.
We really are excited about this business.
The next question will come from Walter Liptak of Global Hunter.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about in one of the charts you've got TMB base operating results and the operating profit looks lower than I think we expected going into it looks like a 4% operating profit margin.
And I thought it was high-single digits closer to 10%.
Is that -- was there production cuts to reduce inventory that went on? Why was that so much lower? Well first of all they were on a 4% 4% or 5% closing period under the prior one.
So right away we lost the first week in November.
Then we had to shut the place down to do the physical inventories the fixed assets.
So we lost another day there.
And this is how we built it in.
And then you have the holiday periods.
So when I take a step back it was profitable to your point.
But the worse 2 months maybe they don't have as big as a footprint as we do in Europe.
But we have the worst 2 months ownership right now and we still made money.
So to me I think everything is pretty much on track.
This is as expected.
And to your comment the double-digit still there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So in the second half what are you assuming for operating margin for TMB? We haven't got it out but you kind of alluded to what we think it's going to be and that's without restructuring.
So this is kind of looking at the base and the purchase accounting.
We're going to have a nice second half.
Let me leave it at that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
With the -- ISM's picking up and you've talked about General Industrial looking better.
Are you seeing distribution or -- in customer inventory build yet? Or is it still too early? Yes.
I don't think we -- that the inventory buildup is taking place yet.
I think that this is due to demand.
Everything that we've seen there are 6% organic growth.
And as I said double-digit in the month of December is still at least we feel we don't have -- I mean we can't really.
Just like we couldn't tell how much of the decline was coming from the inventory reduction.
We -- it's hard for us to see all the way down.
But our gut feeling that tells us that there's no inventory buildup yet.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
But at some point we should see that right? Yes.
Not as much as -- every year -- every time there's a downturn we always get more efficient.
But yes.
Yes.
And then that's why we talk to distributors out there.
That's we've been focusing on the fill rates because we do expect that if you look at the global PMI all the economic indicators or if you just look at the U.S.
obviously they're strong.
So we want to make sure we maximize our opportunity when it comes forward.
And this is why we added a cost in the first half of the year is to -- with the anticipation that the Industrial business was going to come back strong in the second half.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one what tax rate are using for the third quarter and fourth quarter? Well if you exclude everything out I would use about 24%.
The next question will come from Julian Mitchell of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Jon Shaffer for Julian.
I just wanted to check on Industrial.
It sounds like December was a good standalone month up double-digits and that Asia was kind of one of the strongest drivers of growth.
Is that kind of 12% growth in Asia sustainable for the rest of the year? I mean I'm not sure if that is sustainable but I think that we're going to see an improvement in growth in North America versus where we have been right now.
And I think that Europe is going to continue to stay kind of at a nice growth rate especially in Germany where we have a large presence.
And I think the concern -- the only concern that we have to watch is really Brazil and India as I talked.
India is coming up for a -- national election is coming up.
Things are not going to happen that much until that election takes place.
But we feel very good about them about our forecasted growth for the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> And then just quickly on the Infrastructure side specifically to Earthworks.
It sounds like there's now bottoming in that market.
Is there any suggestion on when you could actually see revenue turn positive again? Is that a kind of next year event or possibly at the end of this year? I mean it's interesting right? With this cold weather it will -- well it does have an impact.
Cold weather obviously is good for the energy whether you're doing oil and gas or coal so we'll watch how this thing plays out as we go forward.
Out Achilles heel has been obviously we have a good market shares in Appalachia as well as China.
I would expect China to come back before Appalachia but it may be slow.
But construction has been very good.
So while we have negative and mining is a little bit bigger than our construction but our highway construction was low double-digit growth.
So the highway construction stuff continues to bode well.
And if we get a little bit of an improvement here in our second half we go into the highway season.
And if the weather stays cold and we see what kind of prices natural gas does there could be swing there.
But I think it's a little bit too early for us to get excited on it.
The next question will come from Samuel Eisner of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of housekeeping items here.
You said that the inventory step-up on TMB was about double what you're expecting.
I'm just curious about -- with the $100 million sequential increase.
How much of that is TMB and how much of that is actual base business? Sorry I didn't follow you Sam there 100% -- what was that? Research Division</strong> The step-up in inventory.
The total inventory is about $100 million on a sequential basis.
How much of that is TMB and how much of that is base business? Yes the base business was about $4 million.
Everything else was TMB.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And the timeline for the annual savings that you're doing from the restructuring I think you called out about $35 million to $45 million.
So just curious when those start to flow in and how they do flow in over future periods? We really have them coming in towards the end of the fourth quarter.
We'll see how quick we can get those into the base business.
So I'm not counting on a lot into that number I provided the $10 million to $15 million.
So if we can accelerate a couple of these because it does take some time moving things around.
But hopefully we can go a little bit quicker and they'll start coming in in the June quarter.
But really we'll start seeing it in '15 in earnest.
Research Division</strong> And is there a way to get a base utilization rate on the base business at the moment x TMB? Well if you -- I'll give you just a rule of thumb.
We said that we were capitalized for $3 billion on the upturn okay of the base business.
We bought Stellite after that and we now bought TMB.
Between the Stellite and TMB the run rate of the business is about...
$3 billion I think? Yes.
So that -- so we -- our base business is still below the high levels that we were before significantly.
I would say they're below the 2 acquisitions.
So I'll say that our business in general base business is probably running at I guess about 70% to 75%.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just lastly on the double-digit strength that you saw in the distribution market.
Is that primarily because of easing comps or are you actually seeing sequential growth? I know you called out December was obviously up double digits in all Industrial.
Just curious how the Industrial distribution piece is working.
Well I mean I think it's the combination of both and we really can't -- I mean we don't have -- don't know how to break that down to be honest with you.
And I don't have a number.
Actually I didn't look up the number for distribution but obviously distribution is a big factor of driving that double-digit.
And distribution is always -- comes in -- comes out first.
So...
Comps are helping us and there is actual growth.
The next question will come from Holden Lewis of BB&amp;T.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to understand I guess the guidance a little bit more.
So I mean for revenues you are sort of indicating that total sales growth is going to be 12% to 13%.
That obviously includes the TMB contribution.
Right.
Research Division</strong> When you get to the bottom line of $2.60 to $2.75 that includes nothing from TMB no base ops no depreciation and amortization step-up nothing at all? Right.
The $2.60 -- that's kind of like-for-like.
That is akin to the prior guidance that we had the $2.90 to $3.05.
And really when you take a step back it's a combination of the top line being a little bit softer some investments that we accelerated to grow the top line and some of the manufacturing expenses that we had in the quarter.
That's all base-to-base.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then when you look at the pieces and obviously the inventory step-up it was done pretty quickly.
That kind of seems like non-recurring.
But the depreciation and amortization step-up you talked about that's sort of a long -- that's going to be with you for a long time.
That's just the standard right? Yes.
On an annual basis I'd ballpark that $0.06 to $0.09 annually.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So if we're looking to sort of line up the EPS along with the revenue guidance so that's truly like-to-like with the revenues includes -- revenues include the acquisition the EPS is.
We should probably be using the TMB base ops and the D&amp;A step-up which are kind of offsetting I guess.
But is that the way that we should be looking at it in terms of trying to make the top line and the bottom line be apples-to-apples with the acquisition? Yes I think that's about right.
Research Division</strong> Okay excellent.
And then I guess the second question I have is kind of related to your comment about being down 70% to 75% of peak level.
You talked about all these new costs but as an organization obviously you've had -- you've been in a much higher organic revenue base.
You have plenty of capacity.
The recovery seems to be very early and a bit weaker than you anticipated.
Why are we ramping expenses now given all of that? Why don't we sort of farm the infrastructure a bit be sure of the trend behind the end markets and then kind of sort of get ahead of -- getting to peak.
It just seems like it's premature to be adding these expenses so soon.
Well the first thing that I'll tell you is it takes a very experienced sales guy about 6 months before they can be productive and it takes about a young junior salesperson about 1.5 year before they can be efficient for instance just to give you an example.
So it's a trade-off.
Do you want to grow double-digit in the month of December or you trade off some expenses and grow less than double-digit and then lose market share in the process? Research Division</strong> Okay.
But these sort of investments that you're making these are kind of new to the story.
It's not something that you were aggressively doing 1 2 quarters ago.
It's kind of something you're stepping up now with your rising confidence? Yes.
I mean -- and by the way you've got to -- you also have to realize that in a year-over-year basis last year we were taking some of these people that were not as efficient out with the understanding that we would have to replace them at the right time so that we can accommodate the accelerated growth.
Yes.
If you go back to the July call we try to highlight 2 facets Holden.
One was about $0.10 we said with kind of investments.
And then we said "Hey we're going to have another $0.20 coming back for incentive compensation." All those type of progress is coming back.
So some of those stuff is coming back and we kind of had to build that in.
And then there are some investments.
And we talked about NOVO we talked about people but we think these are the right things longer-term to help us to grow the top line quicker.
Yes.
The bottom line is you've got to manage this business for the year not for the quarter.
And our final question will come from Joel Tiss of BMO.
Everything's been answered.
I just had one kind of curious question.
Is there any chance that the buildup in inventory in the acquisition resulted in higher revenues and operating profits during the period that you were looking at that might impact like it might impact the growth rate longer-term or medium-term? No.
No.
Okay.
So just more stuff came out of the ground but it wouldn't flow through into the revenues and the earnings.
Yes.
Just kind of the value.
I mean we couldn't get in there Joel and do something.
These guys ran a tight auction unfortunately.
Everything we had and good news to me is I'd rather have more tangible than intangibles as I said earlier.
And this is good stuff.
Yes.
Yes it's all stuff you need anyway.
So...
Yes exactly.
Not cabbage.
Ladies and gentlemen this will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call back to Quynh McGuire for closing remarks.
This concludes our discussion.
Please contact me Quynh McGuire at (724) 539-6559 for any follow-up questions.
Thank you for joining us.
To access a replay of today's conference you may dial toll-free (877) 344-7529 or (412) 317-0088 and enter the conference number 10038411.
You will be asked to record your name and company.
The replay will be available at approximately 1 hour.
The Kennametal conference call has now concluded.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome everyone to Kennametal's Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Please note this event is being recorded.
It is my pleasure to turn the call over to Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Denise.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us to review Kennametal's third quarter fiscal 2014 results.
We issued our quarterly earnings press release earlier today.
You may access this announcement via our website at <a href="http://www.kennametal.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.kennametal.com</u></a>.
Consistent with our practice in prior quarterly conference calls we've invited various members of the media to listen to this call.
It is also being broadcast live on our website and a recording of this call will be available on our site for replay through June 2nd 2014.
I'm Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations for Kennametal.
Joining me for our call today are Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Carlos Cardoso; Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Frank Simpkins; and Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller Marty Fusco.
Carlos and Frank will provide further explanation on the quarter's financial performance.
After the remarks we'll be happy to answer your questions.
At this time I'd like to direct your attention to our forward-looking disclosure statement.
The discussion we'll have today contains comments that may constitute forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve a number of assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information regarding these risk factors and uncertainties is detailed in Kennametal's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition Kennametal has provided the SEC with a Form 8-K a copy of which is currently available on our website.
This enables us to discuss non-GAAP financial measures during this call in accordance with SEC Regulation G.
This 8-K presents GAAP financial measures that we believe are most directly comparable to those non-GAAP financial measures and it provides a reconciliation of those measures as well.
I'll now turn the call over to Carlos.
Thank you Quynh.
Hello everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
I'm pleased to report that we delivered on our commitment in the March 2014 quarter.
Although extreme weather conditions in North America hindered our topline growth to some extent we delivered solid financial performance.
As always we'll stay focused on further improving margins and cash flows.
During the recent quarter we achieved higher volumes in both direct and distribution channels in sectors such as Transportation and General Engineering.
Sequentially March quarter sales showed 5% organic growth from the December quarter in line with our typical season patterns.
Our Industrial segment reported total sales were up 13% year-over-year with 5% organic growth in the March quarter.
Generally our Industrial business has a high correlation with the rate of global industrial production.
For this quarter IHS Global has estimated global IPI up 3.5%.
In a slow to recover economy where we're still early in the cycle our Industrial segment performed that mix by about 1.5 times.
We expect to further increase that ratio as demand cycle continues to expand.
Furthermore when IHS adjusts the estimates to the weighted average that specifically reflects Kennametal's market mix it shows a relatively flat rate for growth from prior year.
That accounts for mix conditions in our Infrastructure segment with additional weaknesses in underground mining but better conditions in energy and road construction markets.
Even this environment is encouraging that March quarter total sales increased 15% from prior year with organic growth of 3% on a consolidated basis.
This suggests that Kennametal remains in a position to outperform IPI by two to three times over the economic cycle.
Kennametal's solid results during the quarter showed the resumption of growth in certain end markets as well as the realization of greater cost efficiencies.
This underscores our ongoing focus to maximize profitability earnings and cash flows.
It also highlights our commitment to maintain our through the cycle margin levels.
Also we are on track with the integration of TMB our Tungsten Materials Business.
We have started to consolidate and combine the best of both businesses and to right-size facilities and headcount.
To date the restructuring program included the announcement of two facility closures one in Lyndonville Vermont and the other in Gland Switzerland.
Those operations will be consolidated into other locations in the U.S.
and Europe.
While those actions are necessary we understand the effect that will have on our employees and we're committed to providing the necessary resources for a successful transition.
As a result of those previously announced integration initiatives we expect to achieve considerable synergies.
We're streamlining our cost structure and driving higher productivity as well as identifying future growth opportunities.
Those actions are concurrent with ongoing efforts to align our manufacturing and supply chain logistics within growth regions of the U.S.
as well as abroad.
Specifically we continue to refine our footprint to accommodate geographic shifts in customer demands.
Going forward we expect to see continued demand growth in our served industrial end markets and across distribution channels.
Although not immediate we anticipate improvements in markets related to our Infrastructure segment as well.
Meanwhile we're reaping the benefits of our WIDIA brand strategy which is gaining market share.
The strategy to diversify our market mix presents broader growth opportunities while reducing volatility throughout the economic cycle.
Additionally I would like to note an honor that speaks to our culture of performance throughout the company.
The third consecutive year Kennametal is named one of the World's Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere Institute.
This is a leading independent organization dedicated to advancing and recognizing best practice in business ethics.
Kennametal was one of only seven manufacturers worldwide to earn the distinction.
This achievement was due to a strong commitment from our employees around the world who uphold our ethical standards and they exemplify the values and beliefs that set us apart.
We'll maintain this strong ethical culture while implementing our company-specific strategies to further strengthen our business.
Now I'd like to give an overview of the trends we're seeing in our marketplace.
In the aerospace industry manufacturers reported low -- lowest overall deliveries for the past 18 months as they begin to transition to the new single aisle and twin aisle programs.
This changeover has impacted production but that effect is expected to be temporary.
Both Airbus and Boeing indicated plans to increase the single aisle production rate by 10% over the next two to three years.
Regarding the defense sector spending has decreased and further declines are expected over the next 12 to 18 months.
As a result there will be lower activity from government projects going forward.
In General Engineering which are typically small to medium job shops as well as distribution customers metal cutting activity has been trending higher.
Production of capital equipment slowed during calendar year 2013 but picked up in the last six months of the year and is projected to increase 5% in 2014 and 2015.
In the U.S.
job shop spending is expected to increase approximately 35% in the next 12 months driven by re-shoring trends and higher capacity utilization.
Approximately one-third of that outlay is projected to be machine tools.
In the indirect channels more distributors are introducing e-commerce platforms.
The impact of e-channel in a business-to-business capabilities is expected to grow as customers are increasingly looking to replicate online consumer shopping experiences.
Kennametal is already addressing this need as we recently introduced NOVO our cloud-based solution to provide customers with various ways to optimize productivity and connect via digital channels.
Regarding the transportation market global light vehicle production is forecasted at 87 million units for calendar year 2014 reflecting a 2.8% growth from prior-year and approximately 5% higher year-over-year for the March quarter.
Key drivers of demand include record age of installed vehicle fleet low interest rates and stable fuel prices.
Due to full economy and emission standards automakers are making investments to downsize internal combustion engines turbocharged and use lighter vehicle structures.
Also alternative powertrains such as hybrid electric battery and fuel-cell technologies are adding to the sector growth.
In hard works coal stockpiles and coal spot prices remain at historical low levels.
In the Central Appalachian region additional mines are going into idle or shutdown modes.
Similarly coal markets overseas are experience persistent pressure especially in Australia and China.
Mines in Australia continue to lay off workers and suspend operations.
For road construction projects the extreme cold weather in North America has resulted in a slower start to the season.
At this point some areas in Southern region of the U.S.
have already started road work and repairs.
The construction market has been healthy in the Asia-Pacific region.
In the energy sector North America gas inventories finished the winter season well below the five-year average.
While the rig count has remained at relatively similar levels production activity is growing due to higher volumes being generated by existing wells.
Natural gas production should continue to increase over the next several quarters to replenish inventories.
Overall the global economy remains on track for a modest growth rebound but the view is still subdued.
It is difficult to identify the underlying strengths and weakness in the overall economy due to extreme weather conditions in the U.S.
as well as certain events overseas.
According to IHS Global despite some disappointing data in recent weeks the fundamental forces of global growth are expected to remain in place.
Our global team continues to be agile and remains ready to serve our customers.
As the macro environment improves we expect to realize greater leverage to further grow our business.
Now I'll turn over the call to Frank who will discuss our financial results for the quarter in a greater detail.
Frank? All right.
Thank you Carlos.
As with prior discussions I'll start by making some overall comments and then I'll review our third quarter results in more detail.
So my comments are related to non-GAAP metrics as well.
So to start off summarize the March quarter we delivered solid profitability and met our expectations.
We continued integrating our acquisition of the Tungsten Material Business and implementing restructuring actions.
When taking to account acquisition growth we achieved an all-time quarterly sales record with sales of $755 million.
Some additional noteworthy points for the quarter.
The trend of year-over-year sales growth which began in the month of September continued during the March quarter.
As a result we realized organic growth for the second consecutive quarter.
Organic growth was led by improving demand in our Transportation and General Engineering businesses which tend to be early cycle.
Our Industrial segment achieved 5% organic growth in the quarter.
Turning to Infrastructure our mining business continues to be a challenge with weaker demand globally while our highway construction business was flat due to weather impacts.
In our energy business order activity has been increasing and showing signs of further growth.
We continue to generate strong operating cash flows and we delivered an adjusted earnings per share of $0.74.
Now I'll walk through the key items in the income statements.
Sales for the quarter were $755 million compared with $655 million in the same quarter last year.
Sales increased by 15% reflecting a 12% increase from the TMB acquisition a 3% organic increase and a 1% increase from more business days partly offset by a 1% decrease from an unfavorable currency exchange.
As I mentioned earlier the March quarter is the second consecutive quarter in which Kennametal realized organic sales growth and we're seeing improved demand from our customers in our industrial end markets as well as our energy market in the Infrastructure segment.
Turning to the sales performance by business segment our Industrial segment sales of $400 million increased by 13% from the prior year quarter due to an 8% growth related to the TMB acquisition 5% organic growth and a 1% increase due to more business days offset by a 1% decline in FX.
Excluding TMB sales increased 8% in the General Engineering area 5% in Transportation partly offset by a 3% decline in aerospace and defense.
Our General Engineering unit increased due to continued demand from distribution channels; and Transportation benefited from increased production in the light vehicle markets worldwide.
Aerospace and defense sales were up against higher comparisons from government orders last year.
Sales increased in all geographies.
And on a regional basis excluding the TMB sales Industrial sales increased 11% in Asia 9% and Europe and 1% in the Americas which were dampened by weather effects in North America.
Our Infrastructure segment sales of $356 million in the March quarter increased by 18% from the prior year and this was driven by a 16% growth related to the TMB acquisition a 3% favorable impact from more business days partly offset by a 1% decrease due to unfavorable currency exchange.
Our organic growth was flat to prior year.
Excluding TMB sales increased 9% in Energy partly offset by a 6% decline in Earthworks.
Energy sales continued to improve year-over-year reflecting improved demand from oil and gas drilling activity as well as continued gains in production completion and process applications.
Earthworks sales decreased due to persistently weak underground coal and surface mining markets in the U.S.
and China.
On a regional basis Infrastructure sales grew 4% in Europe 3% in the Americas and with weather impacts in North America partly offset by a decrease of 9% in Asia reflecting lower demand in the Mining sector.
Moving to our operating performance our gross profit margin was 31.6% which included the TMB operating results and non-recurring charges.
Excluding the impact of these items our adjusted gross profit margin was 33.9% compared with 31.8% last year.
Gross margin benefited from organic sales growth as well as a more favorable business mix.
In addition as you may recall we had undertaken inventory reduction efforts last year that had an unfavorable impact on the gross margin in the prior year quarter that did not repeat in the current year.
Our operating expense increased $24 million year-over-year.
Excluding non-recurring charges and the results of TMB our operating expense was $10 million higher year-over-year.
This $10 million increase was driven by higher employment costs related to higher sales commissions the annual employee merit and higher professional fees.
I also want to note that our operating expenses excluding any acquisition-related costs were sequentially lower by $1.2 million compared with the December quarter.
Our operating expense as a percent of sales was 20.2% which included TMB and was 60 basis points higher than the prior year.
We continue to be disciplined and this additional spending in the current year reflects investments to drive productivity as well as long-term growth.
Our operating income was $77 million.
This compares with $75 million in the same quarter last year.
Excluding non-recurring charges and the results of TMB our adjusted operating income was $86 million.
This increase was driven primarily by organic sales growth business mix partly offset by higher professional fees and employment and related cost.
Our operating margin was 10.2% compared with an operating margin of 11.4% in the prior year and our adjusted operating margin was 12.7% in the current quarter.
Looking at the operating income by segments the Industrial segment operating income was $51 million for both the current and prior periods.
If you exclude the non-recurring charges and the results of TMB the adjusted operating income was $58 million.
Industrial's adjusted operating margin was 15.6% compared with 14.5% in the prior year.
The Infrastructure segment operating income was $28 million and this compares with $26 million in the same quarter last year.
Excluding non-recurring charges and the results of TMB the adjusted operating income was $31 million.
And Infrastructure's adjusted operating margin was 10.2% compared with 8.6% in the prior year.
So both businesses had double-digit performance.
Our interest expense was up $1 million year-over-year to $9 million.
This increase was due to higher year-over-year borrowings related to acquisitions.
Our liquidity remained strong.
We had approximately $340 million outstanding on our $600 million revolver as of March 31st 2014.
And our nearest debt maturity is April of 2018.
The reported effective tax rate was 24.1% compared with 18.5% in the prior year.
The prior year benefited from the extension of the credit for increase in research activities contained in the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 which was enacted in the 2013 March quarter.
But if you exclude TMB our effective tax rate in the quarter was 110 basis points higher than previously anticipated due to jurisdictional mix.
This had an unfavorable impact of $0.01 per share in the March quarter.
As highlighted in the press release our reported earnings per share were $0.64.
And some of the components included the TMB base operating income contribution of $0.04 $0.03 charge related to TMB depreciation and amortization step-up for purchase accounting a $0.07 charge related to the inventory fair value step-up related to TMB acquisition-related charges of $0.02 as well as restructuring and related charges of $0.02 resulting in an adjusted earnings per share of $0.74.
Briefly on cash flow our year-to-date cash flow from operating activities was $153 million compared with $150 million last year.
Net capital expenditures were $85 million compared with $52 million in the prior year; and free operating cash flow year-to-date was $68 million compared with $98 million last year.
We remain diligent in our focus on generated strong cash flows and are committed to our capital structure principals.
Our balance sheet also remained strong.
At March 31st 2014 we had $113 million in short-term debt and total debt was approximately $1 billion.
Our cash balance was $162 million with the majority presently residing overseas.
Our net debt was $974 million at March 31 compared with $370 million in the June quarter and the increase was due to primarily to the Tungsten Material Business acquisition.
And our debt-to-capital ratio at March 31st was 37% compared with 29.2% at June 30th last year.
Now I'll give you a quick update on our acquisition of the TMB deal.
Overall as Carlos alluded to I'd say the integration of TMB is progressing well and in line with our expectations.
The TMB integration team continues to drive critical work streams to ensure a smooth integration.
The initial focus of the integration was on financial and human resource processes purchase accounting and maintaining key commercial relationships.
We're now focusing on implementing our systems with a combined organizational structure and go-to-market strategies that will drive future value.
We have completed organizational assignments and expect to complete the first phase of SAP in May this month.
These actions will enable us to focus on operational integration to achieve cost synergies and have a consistent approach to the marketplace.
The impact of the TMB ongoing operations on the March quarter earnings per share was $0.01 accretive and that consisted of $0.04 per share of base operating income and a $0.03 charge related to depreciation and amortization step-up related to purchase accounting.
In addition we had a non-recurring TMB charge of $0.07 for the inventory step-up and a $0.02 acquisition-related charges that totaled $0.09 in the quarter.
The inventory step-up charge was not related to purchase accounting -- or was related to purchase accounting and is now behind us.
And I'm pleased to say that this charge will not recur in future periods.
So we're done with the inventory step-up.
Also we previously outlined restructuring actions that we expect to complete by the end of fiscal 2016.
We have estimated pretax restructuring charges of approximately $40 million to $50 million for those initiatives.
During the March quarter we incurred $3 million of restructuring charges or $0.02 per share.
As Carlos touched on the restructuring charge included a manufacturing facility closure in Lyndonville Vermont we expect the last day of production to be on or around June 30th 2014.
In addition we announced another closure last week which relates to administrative manufacturing and warehouse functions located in Gland Switzerland.
We expect the last day of production to be around August 31st 2014.
Kennametal has announced to employees and other appropriate parties that we have made the decision to close these two locations.
In both cases we're transitioning operations to other Kennametal facilities in their respective regions.
As previously stated we expect to generate annual savings of approximately $35 million to $45 million once these initiatives are fully implemented.
And as a reminder the initiatives consist of concentrating our footprint by consolidating operations and driving productivity improvements with our standard processes reducing administrative overhead and leveraging our global supply chain including raw material costs procurement and streamlined manufacturing and distribution.
At this time I'd like to walk you through our total company outlook which includes TMB components that are part of our ongoing enterprise.
We now expect fiscal 2014 total sales growth in the range of 10% to 11%.
TMB is estimated contribute 7% to 8% sales growth and our organic sales growth is projected to range from 2% to 3%.
Previously we had forecast total sales ranging from 12% to 13% with organic ranging from 2% to 4%.
And related to TMB we still expect sales to be in the range of $200 million to $220 million as we've previously communicated.
With one quarter remaining in fiscal 2014 we're tightening our EPS guidance to a range of $2.60 to $2.70 excluding TMB.
Again these ranges exclude the impact of the TMB acquisition-related items.
So our current EPS guidance for TMB as laid out in the press release is TMB base operation contribution of $0.10 to $0.15 which has not changed; the impact of recurring depreciation and amortization step-up of $.07 to$.09 resulting in the TMB ongoing operations being accretive $0.03 to $.06 for fiscal year 2014.
As previously noted the EPS outlook for Kennametal's stand-alone business is expected to be in the range of $2.60 to $2.70 per share.
And this is based on a higher projected tax rate or approximately 25% in the fiscal quarter.
It was previously in the lower range at the last call.
And as a result the ongoing operations of both Kennametal and TMB are projected to be in the range of $2.63 to $2.76 for fiscal 2014.
In addition the non-recurring charges as outlined in the press release for the year include TMB inventory purchase accounting of $0.14 acquisition-related charges of $0.03 to $0.06 restructuring and related charges of $0.10 to $0.15 and tax repatriation expense of $0.09 resulting in total non-recurring charges of $0.36 to $0.44 for the full fiscal 2014 period.
We continue to expect to generate cash flow from operations ranging from $280 million to $310 million.
And based on anticipated capital expenditures of between $130 million to $140 million we expect to generate between $150 million and $170 million of free operating cash flow for the fiscal year.
We will continue to manage our business for the factors we can control to deal with the near-term market headwinds as needed.
We're focused on protecting our profitability as well as maximizing our cash flows as well as returns.
In addition we will remain focused on many growth opportunities and the consistent execution of our strategies.
At this time I'll turn it back to Carlos for a couple closing comments.
Thank you Frank.
Moving ahead we are committed to our long-standing mission of delivering productivity to customers.
We will continue to execute our company-specific strategies to maintain our global leadership position.
We will strive to double revenues while remaining focus on profitability earnings and cash flows.
In addition we will fully integrate the Tungsten Materials Business to gain market share streamline our cost structure and capture savings.
We'll continue to balance our company in terms of business mix and serve the end markets.
Additionally we're making progress on our goal of generating revenues equally from North America Western Europe and the rest of the world markets.
We'll continue to execute our strategies to further strengthen our business.
In summary we are confident that Kennametal is well-positioned.
We see new growth opportunities in terms of our diversified mix of end markets and significant emerging market opportunities.
We have a strong financial profile cash generation capabilities cost disciplines and capital allocation principles.
We have a commitment to solid operational standards and a proven track record.
Thank you for your continued support.
We will now take questions.
Thank you.
Hi guys good morning.
Hello Adam.
Hi Adam.
I was wondering if you could start with a clarification on the TMB.
The expense for the year in total of $0.36 to $0.44 for year last year I think last one was $0.32 to $0.36 plus the base operation and the restructuring charges are the same maybe what's changed there what did I miss? Nothing we're trying to accelerate additional cost and structuring items so that we can be well-positioned as we get into fiscal 2015 but nothing unusual at this point.
Okay got you.
And then can you talk to the domestic oil and gas business? The highway business it sounds like that could have some kind of demand for the June quarter? What have you been seeing in your monthly order trends for that business? And maybe help base our expectations for those segments for business? Yes if I start with the earth-cutting side of the house the one thing I want to point out last year when we went to Q2 to Q3 actually the business was going down.
Our underground mining business doing with headwinds has increased from Q2 versus Q1 Q3 versus Q2 so we're seeing sequential improvement that's where we made some stabilization.
Albeit there are going to some potential mine closures here.
So we like the trajectory there.
The mining -- the construction business you're right was a little bit flatter and we think that is due to some pent-up demand or weather-related impacts getting off to a slow start.
I don't know if we'll catch all that up in the quarter it may slip into next year but we'll watch the progress as it relates to that.
If you think about the energy side for the house Stellite had a good month -- good quarter I should say so a little bit of a pick-up on some of the energy-related businesses and in our core oil and gas which has drilling flow and analysis and some in some of the angles that we make also had a good quarter and up about the same as it was last quarter maybe a little bit better if you factor a couple of these things.
So the trajectory is working where we had anticipated.
But supports our current guidance.
In line.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Adam.
Hi thanks.
So I just wanted to get some clarity on the kind of OpEx trends you said they were up I think around $11 million year-on-year underlying in Q2 about $10 million in Q3.
Is that a good run rate for several quarters looking ahead now or is there something exceptional going on in this fiscal year? No I do not think there's anything exceptional.
As we talked at the beginning last July we said we're going to make some additions relative to sales force additions we've incurred expenses related to the NOVO projects so they obviously being amortized as we go through.
So this quarter we came in at 20.4% and we said hey it will at least 21%.
I think we've corrected the first half was like 21.5% if you look at the first half.
So we'll get back down to 21% so we have a little bit more control in the second half as we go into the next fiscal year.
But nothing unusual Julian as it relates to one-timers plus or minus and then we'll see what we do with additional restructuring going forward.
Thanks.
And then within the industrial business General Engineering has had a couple of good quarters in a row year-on-year organic growth I guess Carlos your comments at the beginning sounded pretty upbeat on that.
So I guess you're saying even as comps get tougher that business can hang onto that kind of growth rate? Yeah I mean I think that they have had good growth last quarter and this quarter that we just stand at.
And then as we look to some of our peers during the same group like MSC and some of the other customers of ours it is very consistent and I think we haven’t seen any restocking whatsoever in that channel.
So we feel cautiously optimistic.
It's just a timing issue.
And Julian I'd add to that the General Engineering there is a lot of indirect that goes to there.
So we were actually their indirect channel up 9% in the quarter.
So that kind of feels pretty much hand-in-glove there.
And the reason we say that there isn’t really been any stocking -- is been at the level last quarter was 10% this quarter is 9%.
So it really shows you that it's staying very close to demand.
So as the macro improves we're going to see that accelerate again the question is the timing.
Thanks.
And quickly Frank just one follow-up for you.
Free -- operating cash flow I think it was what about $150 million year-to-date you're guiding for $295 million or ever the midpoint for the year so a big swing in Q4 maybe a little bit of color on that? Yeah if you go back historically you get the Qs and Ks and back out; our fourth quarter is typically our strongest quarter by far.
Last year alone we did well in excess of over $100 million in free operating cash flow.
Now what will drive there by timing working capital? We typically in the quarter march with the high sales period.
So we'll collect a lot of receivables there.
So we typically have strong collections as well as managing our inventory.
So you'll see some working capital.
And then the fourth quarter is typically our highest earnings period.
And then we'll obviously keep a close eye on CapEx.
So we feel that we're going to be based upon history we should be right in it sweet spot.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you Julian.
Good morning everyone.
Hey Eli.
Good morning Eli.
Can we talk little bit about the Industrial results by the end market both globally and subset.
I mean I guess North America will be up 1% can you give us -- I assume that was significantly affected by January -- February may be you can give some trends through the quarter with difference as March was.
Aerospace was down which probably was a little bit of a surprise it's a tough comp what happened during the fourth quarter and as you look out.
Cans you give us some color what's going on -- what you'd expect typically -- General Engineering did well but machine tools shows in September that always stretches things out can you give some sense of what's going on there? Yeah in the aerospace Eli we have good portion of our space as defense and as Frank said in the commentary we did have a strong shipments a year ago for defense in this case.
And the overall switch by Boeing and the Airbus from the old models to the new models when you look at the numbers the output is slightly lower.
But you know we think that's temporary at least from the commercial side of the house.
The defense is going to be challenging.
It's really hard for us to quantify the weather-related issues in North America.
But certainly there's some impact there.
And I think that's again a timing issue.
We're going to start seeing North Americas starting to come back and deliver higher growth.
Do you see any big change in March versus January and February have you looked down at the monthly pattern or was it just -- is probably getting better as you go through it? Yeah -- again January was clearly the low point -- and I'm talking Industrial to your question.
February was better and March was slightly better.
Not a big snap back yet? From January from February it was a little bit of a pick-up but again compared if I look at March versus January March did end up on a decent number for the tooling side.
And can you talk about -- I mean the most impressive thing I guess is just profitability with Industrial you got to mid-teens I mean I assume -- we're assuming that's sustainable and will probably improve in the fourth quarter as we go through it? Can you give us some idea what's behind that mix or--? I mean it's primarily volume.
As we always talked about the fact we have a fixed capacity because we're waiting for the growth which in a way has penalized us last year and the beginning of this year is going to reward us going forward.
So the volume is going up so that we expect it to get a little bit better as we look? Yes.
As we have seen in the past.
Our incremental EBIT margins are in line with our historical capabilities yes.
And can you talk about when we go to a researcher we got back to a low double-digit margin we sort of stuck in that area until we get some clarity and better mining and highway expenditures and stuff like that? So sort of stuck in the low double-digits that we will be an infrastructure for a while? I would say -- I mean that's the safe play there Eli.
I mean energy obviously is on the plus side.
And then with some of the IGT stuff on Stellite they are obviously spotty.
Some of the orders there are some bigger stuff there.
But I think we need a little bit of a pick-up there because the mining is better for us profitability-wise.
And highway construction side I expect we will be up with the mix being up as good as the past but nothing significant.
But I expect it to improve sequentially.
Again the volume is going to help us there.
LLC</strong> Good morning everyone.
Hi Andy.
LLC</strong> A follow-up question on Eli's just twofold first the infrastructure business if I look at the core ex-TMB very good margin improving year-over-year 160 basis points with substantial incremental is it fair to say was mix was the bigger driver or what else should I consider? Yes mix in volume -- volume in a couple of areas.
Because there's really some sectors in there we're not be into but that's primarily the volume.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And then similar to another question Eli asked about the industrial could you kind of run through the trends that you saw within infrastructure January February and March? Yeah I think -- and I thought I gave that to Eli but the in January-- He is asking about the infrastructure? And -- the infrastructure or industrial? LLC</strong> Infrastructure Please.
Okay infrastructure.
Similar pattern January we went that was a down month and I think you guys felt that when we did the rolling three months.
So that was pretty much a negative slight negative in January and both were positive in total the following two months.
So pretty much a similar type of improvement February as well as March.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then at one point I think we were waiting for drilling activity to pick up.
It seems like that occurred; did you see that during the quarter? Yeah.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you Andy.
LLC</strong> Hi thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hey Walter.
Hi Walter.
LLC</strong> I want to ask a follow-on to the energy question have you said what the growth rate was for the energy business? Not by -- just what's in the press release.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I'm sorry.
What's the growth rate? Was it mid-single-digit double-digit? Yeah we spent infrastructure increased 9% and energy.
LLC</strong> Okay got it.
Excluding TMB.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And does this business have better operating leverage than other businesses? I think this is sort of a stand-alone operation right? Well you got to bifurcate it.
I would say the core drilling stuff is a little bit higher and then the IGT stuff is little bit less.
But we've been doing some cost moves to try to get the IGT up to where it is.
So it's kind of -- right now it's little bit of a different -- on the Kennametal base business been a little bit higher in the acquired Stellite when we talked about when we made the acquisition to try to move that up towards the Kennametal level.
LLC</strong> Okay got it.
And on the TMB acquisition was the revenue where you were expecting it for the quarter? Is the revenue trend where you'd like to see it? Well I think it performed very similar to Kennametal.
I mean I tell people I think about TMB is almost like a mini-Kennametal where the tooling side the industrial was better in the infrastructure-related business.
But we had factored that in and this is very consistent with what we had anticipated back in November when we provided guidance at $200 million to $220 million.
So we're pretty much in line there.
Now they would also have some weather effects that impacted their business because it's probably little bit more pronounced because as we pointed out 75% of their business is in North America or the U.S.
So there would have been a little bit of -- probably a bigger impact on them on a standalone but pretty much in line.
LLC</strong> Okay got it.
So when we look at the fourth quarter they have a big fourth quarter as well too right? Yeah.
They behave very similar to how we do.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And when you made this acquisition we were looking at double-digit operating margin you expect to get there on a full-year basis? I'd think it would be close I mean you can see all of the charges that are in there.
If you take the press release and you see the $77 million $78 million of sales.
If you exclude all of the purchase accounting the ongoing -- just to give you an idea it's at about a 9.5% pure base run rate right now without restructuring.
So that will kind of give you -- that's the March quarter to give you an idea where we think this business is going to go.
LLC</strong> Right exactly.
So for the full year we would be double-digit? It's going to be tough because when we -- obviously how it shapes out here.
Remember we acquired this officially November 4th; we had the two weakest months of the year particularly with the November with Thanksgiving and then kind of the Christmas period there.
So we'll see.
LLC</strong> Okay okay great.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Thanks so much guys can you hear me now? Yeah.
Yeah.
How are you doing Ross? Very well.
Thank you.
Sorry about that earlier.
So on Allegheny I was wondering can you comment a little bit more on the customer reception to Allegheny now under the Kennametal banner and what the feedback has generally been.
Actually it's been very positive.
First of all all the assignable contracts 100% of them were assigned to Kennametal so 100%.
Second of all it has been very positive.
As a matter of fact in the long-term I think there's some good sale synergies that will come as a result of the acquisition because the customers are excited about having that business being part of Kennametal.
So the customers are excited we're excited about the business.
And our people -- the TMB people are very excited to be a part of Kennametal as well.
And then can you talk a little bit more about Allegheny's inventory position.
I mean you explained last quarter that it was more inventory than you anticipated have you had to adjust production to deal with that or is the inventory position now more in line with where you want it to be? We didn’t have to do anything it was just -- there is more inventory when we acquired it.
It was assignable at day one and a lot of stuff as you remember strategy; they have a lot of recycling.
So this is raw material scrap and this the type of stuff that doesn’t go bad that it will feed into both customers once we run it through the recycling as well as use for internal consumption.
So it's not like there's a lot of fixed -- or finished goods inventory laying around.
So no issues whatsoever on that point.
Okay.
All we did is our choice to goodwill was less by the amount that we increased the inventory.
So I mean I think that's good news.
We can give money for the inventory we're not going to be able to get money for goodwill.
And then just lastly guys on the balance sheet could you just may be give a little bit more color on where you want the -- your debt levels to be before you might shift your prioritization back more towards returning to haulers and sort of how far away you think that we're from that? Again our arching famous we want investment-grade rated company.
We stay true to our priority uses of capital.
Our goal immediate is to obviously to pay down the debt that's the main focus.
Obviously from where we finished the quarter we want -- we finished at 37% we want that to come down.
We've always said we'd comfortable about 35% to 45% with the right acquisition and then we work it back down.
And then once we get to a level that we're comfortable with then we look at a standard stuff and the only other thing that would be unique would be share buyback which we typically do to offset dilution.
So it remains debt pay down CapEx into the business putting it in so we can accelerate the synergies across the organization improve our customer bill rate and then secondarily it will be the dividend increases and buybacks at this time.
But on average we like to be between 30% and 35%.
So that's kind of the comfort zone for us.
And we're going to be -- at times we're going to be at a little higher than at times we're going to be lower than that.
But overall that's kind of where we look to be at.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Hi last and least how is it going? Hey Joel.
Joel we always keep the best for last right? Yeah whatever.
Can you just talk -- you haven’t talked at all about our pricing in the markets I'm sure there's probably nothing going on? And then just on TMB; is that -- like if we think longer term over the next three to five years is that a structurally lower margin or higher margin business than overall Kennametal? Okay.
First one on pricing pricing -- a little pricing effective January we put in for industrial nothing really on the infrastructure side.
And I think a lot of the competitors probably did the same thing in January.
So that's the first one.
And then structurally when you really think about the base business Joel and when we rationalize a number of the facilities I think this is above the Kennametal average longer term in my view.
So I think this accretive to the over Kennametal portfolio.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you Joel.
This concludes our discussion today.
Please contact me Quynh McGuire at (724) 539-6559 for any follow-up questions.
Thank you for joining us.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning I would like to welcome everyone to Kennametal's Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2014 Earnings Call [Operator Instructions] Please note that this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Denise.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us to review Kennametal's fourth quarter and fiscal year 2014 results.
We issued our quarterly earnings press release earlier today.
You may access this announcement via our website at www.kennametal.com.
Consistent with our practice in prior quarterly conference calls we've invited various members of the media to listen to this call.
It's also being broadcast live on our website and a recording of this call will be available on our site for replay through September 2 2014.
I'm Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations for Kennametal.
Joining me for our call today are Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer Carlos Cardoso; Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Frank Simpkins; and Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller Marty Fusco.
Carlos and Frank will provide further explanation on the quarter's financial performance.
After the remarks we'll be happy to answer your questions.
At this time I'd like to direct your attention to our forward-looking disclosure statement.
The discussion we'll have today contains comments that may constitute forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve a number of assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information regarding these risk factors and uncertainties is detailed in Kennametal's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition Kennametal has provided the SEC with a Form 8-K a copy which is currently available on our website.
And this enables us to discuss non-GAAP financial measures during this call in accordance with SEC Regulation G.
This 8-K presents GAAP financial measures that we believe are most directly comparable to the non-GAAP measures and it provides a reconciliation of those measures as well.
I'll now turn the call over to Carlos.
Thank you Quynh.
Hello everyone.
Thank you for joining us today.
During the June quarter we saw accelerated growth and ongoing strength in our served industrial markets however certain sectors remained challenging.
While transportation and general engineering benefited from higher volumes in both direct and distribution channels underground mining activity declined further as additional U.S.
mines closed.
Road construction projects also got a slow start this season with the weather conditions but have increased in recent months.
On a more encouraging note relative to our infrastructure business the energy sector showed further improvement in demand.
Our June quarter sales for the total company increased 15% from prior year with organic growth of 5%.
By comparison when IHS adjusts its estimate to the weighted average specific to Kennametal's market and geographic mix it shows relatively little growth from the prior year.
This points to mixed conditions in our infrastructure markets with further weakening in underground mining but improving demand trends in road construction and energy.
On an overall basis that indicates our business outpaced IPI validating Kennametal's ability to deliver growth at 2 to 3x the IPI over the economic cycle.
From a macro perspective IHS estimates that global IPI increased by 3.6% for the June quarter.
Our Industrial segment which typically has a strong correlation with the index reported total sales increase of 15% year-over-year with an 8% organic growth in the quarter.
So our Industrial business outperformed the index as well by more than 2x.
We expect to build on that trend as the demand cycle improves.
In addition we continue to leverage our indirect channel strategy through both Kennametal and WIDIA brands.
This strength is reflected in our distribution sales growth of 9% for the June quarter and 8% for fiscal 2014.
Clearly we are increasing our presence in industrial distribution channels and reinforcing our market-leading technology capabilities.
For fiscal year 2014 we remain sharply focused on maximizing our sales margins and cash flows while investing selectively to develop our business.
Even though we haven't yet realized the full potential of our operating leverage we protected our profitability and on an adjusted basis delivered double-digit operating margin again this year.
Also we generated free operating cash flow of $156 million and continue to actively manage our balance sheet.
Profitable growth is a priority for Kennametal and acquisitions have been an important part of our strategy.
We have made substantial progress in the integration of TMB our Tungsten Materials business.
We continue to consolidate and combine the best of both business including our product portfolio facilities and headcount.
We are pleased with the progress.
Our integration plan is ahead of schedule.
As part of our portfolio initiatives we divested Garryson brand products in June to ATA Group a longtime Kennametal supplier.
The sale included non-core products that were part of TMB's Stellram business and a plant located in Ibstock U.K.
The divestiture allows us to focus on our core competencies and allocate resources that leverage value-added high-tech strength.
Regarding our previously announced restructuring initiatives we still expect to deliver annualized saves -- savings in the range of $35 million to $45 million when completed.
Additionally innovation has always been a key competitive strength for Kennametal.
During the quarter we received industry recognition for our innovative culture.
We were named for the second consecutive year to CIO magazine's CIO 100 Awards.
Kennametal was honored as one of the top innovative companies that effectively used IT to create business value.
We achieved this ranking due to the launch of our knowledge database named NOVO.
This is a world-class technology solution unique in our industry and designed to accelerate productivity for our customers in their manufacturing process.
Now I would like to give an overview of the trends we are seeing in our marketplace.
In general engineering customers are typically distributors or job shops involved in the manufacturing of machinery industrial equipment and fabricated metal products.
Capital equipment spending is projected to grow above 5% annually in 2014 and '15.
In addition more distributors are implementing e-commerce platforms to allow for similar buying cycles.
As each channel presence in B2B capabilities continues to grow Kennametal's NOVO knowledge solutions will provide increased options and productivity for customers.
In the transportation market automakers in the U.S.
are planning fewer shutdowns and in some cases eliminating shutdowns this summer due to strong sales.
Currently 2014 light vehicle production is estimated to be 5% higher than the prior year.
The key drivers of growth include the record age of the fleet which is averaging about 11.4 years low interest rates and a relatively stable fuel prices.
Looking ahead fuel economy and emission regulations are fostering industry investment in downsizing of engines enhancing automatic transmissions lightweighting of vehicle structures and producing alternative powertrains.
In addition the market for commercial trucks should continue to grow over the next 12 to 18 months.
In aerospace commercial aircraft should continue to expand in the coming months.
Airbus and Boeing are both planning increased production of respective A350 A380 and 787 aircraft.
At the Farnborough Airshow earlier this month orders and commitments reached a show record of $201 billion a positive sign for commercial aerospace globally.
By contrast the defense sector is expected to be lackluster since current estimates of military spending by NATO and the EU countries indicate an increase of less than 1% for 2014.
In earthworks market while the Energy Information Administration report -- reported that U.S.
gold production grew slightly more than half of that production came from the west.
Coal stockpiles have decreased due to extremely cold winter weather and production should increase by approximately 3% for 2014.
However the Central Appalachian mines are forecast to remain weak and decline as much as 8% for the calendar year.
In road construction the current year season started slow due to unfavorable weather conditions.
Road activity has been increasing sequentially as various state governments were proactive in funding repair and maintenance work.
In the months ahead certain states may delay longer-term projects if funding for the federal Highway Trust Fund is not in place before Congress goes on recess.
In the energy sector U.S.
rig counts are expected to be positive in 2014 but Spears &amp; Associates is forecasting a reduction for 2015.
On the other hand international drilling of new wells is projected to increase 4% for 2014 from a year ago according to Spears.
We view this as an encourage leading indicator for Kennametal since our business has a higher correlation to drilling activity for oil and gas wells.
Separately IHS predicts that the recent price strength of natural gas will likely renew the interest of gas-focused investment such as pipeline development.
While there is technically ample natural gas resources challenges remain with adequate infrastructure delivery resources to the end markets.
New gas processing and interstate pipeline projects should help relieve supply bottlenecks in last winter.
Overall the global environment reflects a gradual acceleration in economic activity.
Of course the pace and scope of recovery has been tempered by persistent uncertainties in the geopolitical and financial climate.
As a result we expect that customers will continue to be cautious in their spending.
At Kennametal we are dedicated to serving our customers.
And our business is well positioned for that.
We will remain -- we'll maintain our focus and continue to mark -- make smart choices to manage risk and capitalize on opportunities.
To that end we have made the necessary investments in sales and other customer-facing functions in the past year.
Know that we will execute the plans that we have outlined and tightly manage the cost structure to deliver our margin commitments.
Now I'll turn the call over to Frank who will discuss our financial results in greater detail.
Frank? All right.
Thank you Carlos.
As with prior discussions some of my comments are related to non-GAAP measures.
So let me start by saying that the June quarter did not turn out as we had anticipated.
There are a number of factors that led to the difference in our results versus our previous guidance and I'd like to discuss those items before we go into greater details of the quarter.
But first on the positive side we saw strong organic growth as expected in our Industrial business and that was driven by increased demand in transportation and general engineering.
Also the indirect channel continues to show high levels of activity and we delivered 3 consecutive quarters of solid growth in the Industrial segment.
The 2 acquisitions we made in fiscal '14 are on track to deliver significant savings over the next couple of years.
For the June quarter the TMB acquisition that we started last year contributed earnings of $0.03 per share.
Also we accelerated restructuring actions and divested a non-core business for $10 million in net proceeds.
This reduced our manufacturing footprint by another location.
Our Infrastructure business as Carlos mentioned continue to be challenging primarily due to lower-than-expected growth in the mining sector.
Slowing conditions globally and additional U.S.
mine closures resulted in further declines from the prior year as well as sequentially from the March quarter.
The visibility on cluster demand going forward remains limited.
In road construction activity in the U.S.
trended below our forecast due to a later start in availability of funding from certain states.
However there was a sequential pickup from the March quarter.
Therefore lower sales volumes and related product mix in the Infrastructure segment had an unfavorable impact on the segment margin compared to our expectations.
In addition we felt it appropriate to lower production activities and reduce finished goods inventory given the demand trends in the quarter.
This led to an unanticipated year end LIFO adjustment and also negatively affected margin performance compared to our prior forecast.
And lastly operating expenses increased in the June quarter compared with the prior year due to our higher employment costs as well as expenses related to prior investments in sales and customer-facing functions.
Regarding the acquisition of our Tungsten Materials business we are generally ahead of schedule on our integration plans.
We also accelerated restructuring actions during the June quarter which I will get into more detail later.
And as I've previously discussed we divested a non-core business that was previously part of the TMB acquisition for cash proceeds of approximately $10 million.
When taking into account acquisition growth we achieved sales of $772 million.
The trend of the year-over-year sales growth which began in the month of September continued during the June quarter.
A result we realized organic growth for the third consecutive quarter.
Our organic growth was led by strong demand in transportation and general engineering businesses which tend to be early-cycle markets.
Our Industrial segment delivered 8% organic growth in the quarter.
And then the Infrastructure segment our mining business remains challenging and highway construction activity is lower than expected.
However order activity for the energy business continues to improve and showed signs of further growth.
June quarter adjusted earnings per share were $0.75.
Now I'll walk you through the key items in the income statement followed by our outlook.
Our sales for the quarter as I said were $772 million and this compares with $671 million in the same quarter last year.
Our sales grew 15% reflecting an 11% increase from TMB and a 5% organic growth partly offset by a 1% decrease from fewer business days.
Turning to the sales performance by segment.
Our Industrial segment had sales of $416 million an increase by 15% from the prior year quarter due to a 7% growth related to the TMB acquisition 8% organic growth and 1% increase due to fewer FX exchange issues partly offset by a 1% decrease from fewer business days.
If you exclude TMB our sales increased by 11% in transportation 9% in general engineering partly offset by a 1% decline in aerospace and defense.
The transportation market benefited from increased demand in light vehicle markets worldwide and general engineering increased due to continued demand from distribution channels and sales increase in all geographies.
On a regional basis and also excluding the acquisition industrial sales increased 15% in Asia 6% in the Americas and 4% in Europe.
Our Infrastructure sales came in at $357 million in the June quarter and that was up 16% from the prior year.
And that was driven by 15% growth related to the TMB acquisition and 1% organic growth.
Excluding TMB our sales increased by 10% in the energy markets largely offset by a decrease of 9% in earthworks.
Energy sales continued to improve year-over-year reflecting improving demand from oil and gas drilling activity coupled with continued gains in process and wear applications.
Earthworks sales decreased due to persistently weak underground coal and surface mining markets globally as well as lower road construction activity.
On a regional basis and excluding the acquisition infrastructure sales grew 2% in Europe and held relatively steady in the Americas and Asia.
Now a recap of our operating performance.
Our gross profit margin was 32.7% which included the TMB operating results and nonrecurring charges.
Excluding the impact of these items our adjusted gross profit margin was 34% which was relatively similar to the prior year.
The gross margin benefited from the organic sales growth but this was offset by lower fixed cost absorption inventory reductions and the mix in our Infrastructure segment as well as higher employment cost.
Our operating expenses increased $22 million year-over-year.
Excluding the acquisition of TMB our results -- and nonrecurring charges our operating expense was $9 million higher year-over-year primarily driven by higher employment cost.
Our operating expense as a percent of sales was 20%.
And excluding TMB our operating expense as a percent of sales was 20.3% compared with 19.8% in the prior year quarter.
The additional spending represents strategic investments we made earlier in the year related to headcount productivity and growth.
Operating income was $78 million compared with $91 million in the same quarter last year.
Excluding nonrecurring charges and the results of TMB adjusted operating income of $90 million was relatively flat to the prior year as the organic sales growth was offset by lower fixed cost absorption and mix in the infrastructure as well as higher employment cost overall.
Our operating margin was 10.1% compared with an operating margin of 13.5% in the prior year.
And adjusted our margin was actually 12.9% in the current year quarter.
Operating income performance by business segment now.
The Industrial segment's operating income was $53 million compared with $62 million in the prior year period.
Excluding nonrecurring charges and the results of TMB adjusted operating income of $64 million benefited from organic growth but was largely offset by higher employment cost primarily in market-facing areas.
Industrial's adjusted operating margin was 16.5% compared with 17% in the prior year.
The Infrastructure segment's operating income was $27 million compared with $30 million in the same quarter of the prior year.
Excluding nonrecurring charges and the results of TMB the adjusted operating income was also $27 million.
Operating income and margin were impacted by lower fixed cost absorption and mix.
The Infrastructure adjusted operating margin was 8.8% compared with 9.7% in the prior year.
Our interest expense actually increased $1 million year-over-year in the June quarter to $8 million.
The increase was due to higher year-over-year borrowings related to acquisitions.
Our liquidity remains strong.
We had $287 million outstanding on our $600 million revolver as of June 30 2014 and our nearest debt maturity is April of '18.
The reported effective tax rate was a little higher than typical at 30.5% and this compares with 23.9% in the prior year quarter primarily driven by the TMB restructuring charges in tax jurisdictions where a tax benefit is not permitted for these charges.
Excluding TMB and the nonrecurring charges the effective tax rate for the Kennametal base business was 25.4%.
As we highlighted in the table in the press release our reported earnings were $0.57 and this includes the TMB base operating income contribution of $0.06 per share $0.03 charge related to the TMB depreciation amortization step up for purchase accounting acquisition-related charges of $0.02 restructuring and related charges of $0.17 and the loss on the divestiture of the business that we sold of $0.02 representing the adjusted earnings per share of $0.75.
Turning to cash flow.
Year-to-date cash flow from operating activities was $272 million compared with $284 million in the prior year.
Our net capital expenditures were $116 million compared with $80 million in the prior year and free operating cash flow for the year was $156 million compared with $204 million in the prior year.
Free operating cash flow was impacted by higher working capital needs related to the TMB acquisition.
We remain diligent in our focus on generating strong cash flows and are committed to our capital structure principles.
Our balance sheet remains in very good shape.
At June 30 2014 we had $80 million in short-term borrowing and total debt was approximately $1 billion and our cash was $178 million with the majority presiding overseas.
Net debt was $884 million at June 30 compared with $371 million in the prior year and the increase primarily driven by the Tungsten Materials business acquisition.
Our debt-to-cap ratio at June 30 was 35.1% compared with 29.2% at June 30 2013.
As an update on our acquisition of the Tungsten Materials business the integration has been progressing very well overall.
Effective July 1 the entire TMB organization has been operationally integrated within the Kennametal structure.
The integration team continues to successfully drive critical work streams to ensure a smooth transition and is currently progressing ahead of schedule.
In May the first phase of SAP implementation was completed and went well globally.
The next phase of SAP will occur in August.
And we expect to be fully done with the systems implementation by December of 2014.
We believe that our combined organizational structure and our go-to-market strategy will drive future value to the enterprise.
The impact of the TMB ongoing operations in the June quarter as I said earlier was $0.03 accretive.
And that consisted of a $0.06 per share base operating income and a $0.03 impact related to the depreciation and amortization step up related to purchase accounting.
As I also mentioned we did complete the sale of a small non-core business that we acquired as part of the TMB acquisition and the cash proceeds of the divestiture were approximately $10 million with a pretax loss and related charges of $1 million or $0.02 per share.
Also as we previously outlined restructuring actions that we expect to complete by the end of fiscal year 2016 we have estimated pretax restructuring charges of approximately $50 million for all of these initiatives.
During the June quarter we incurred $14 million of restructuring charges or $0.17 per share and realized approximately $3 million benefits year-to-date.
To date through these restructuring initiatives we have reduced our footprint by 4 locations with 3 facility closures and 1 divestiture.
And as we previously stated we expect to generate annual savings of approximately $35 million to $45 million once these initiatives are fully implemented.
And as a reminder they consist of concentrating our footprint by consolidating operations and driving productivity improvements with standard processes reducing administrative overhead and leveraging our global supply chain including raw material cost procurement and streamlined manufacturing and distribution.
For fiscal '15 fiscal 2015 our outlook remains ongoing market uncertainties as well as limited visibility related to customer demand trends.
Our current assumptions include expectations of continued macroeconomic improvement driven primarily by our industrial end markets.
While underground coal mining activity will likely remain at relatively low levels globally we believe manufacturing activity is projected to grow over the next 12 months.
Given these factors we expect our organic sales growth to range from 3% to 5% and total sales to grow between 5% and 7%.
Our fiscal 2015 outlook is based in addition on the following assumptions: We're projecting 3% to 5% organic growth.
This forecast is based on expectations that demand momentum will continue in our industrial end markets while infrastructure markets remain mixed.
We are committed to maintaining our operating expenses at 20% of sales and demonstrate our ongoing cost discipline.
We have already made investments in the prior year to expand our sales force and customer-facing functions.
In fiscal '15 we're focused on attaining the full potential from the resources that we added previously.
I also need to point out that our guidance includes approximately $15 million to $20 million of higher incentive compensation than the prior fiscal 2014.
And this assumes that incentive compensation to be fully restored to levels in fiscal '15.
Restructuring benefits from the combined businesses including TMB are estimated to be approximately $20 million in fiscal '15 with approximately 40% of savings expected in the first half and the remainder in the second half of the fiscal year.
Our effective tax rate for 2015 is forecasted to be between 26% and 27%.
And additionally we're expecting the September quarter will actually have a higher tax rate than the full year.
The year-over-year increase in the tax rate is partly driven by a more unfavorable geographic mix in fiscal '15.
It's also partly due to certain favorable IRS provisions that expired such as the RD&amp;E tax credit as well as other items related to the taxation of international income.
If these are extended these benefits would lower our effective tax rate but are not currently factored into our guidance.
We will continue to look for ways to balance our geographic presence and minimize our tax rate.
Earnings are expected to be somewhat lower than historical season patterns with approximately 35% to 40% of earnings in the first half and 60% to 65% in the second half of the fiscal year.
And note that the second half of the fiscal year is expected to benefit from the increased restructuring savings.
And consistent with our capital allocation principles we plan to reinvest back in the business between $110 million to $120 million of capital spending.
And this is in line with our historical trends of spending 3% to 4% of sales on capital expenditures.
Based on these highlighted factors we expect EPS to range from $2.90 to $3.20 in fiscal '15 and this guidance includes a contribution from TMB.
Turning to cash flow.
We expect to generate from operating activities anywhere ranging from $290 million to $320 million in fiscal '15.
Based on our anticipated capital expenditures of $110 million to $120 million the company expects to generate between $180 million and $200 million of free operating cash flow for the fiscal year.
This level of free operating cash flow represents 70% to 90% of net income working toward our long-term objective of realizing 100% conversion of net income.
We will continue to manage our business for the factors we can control to deal within the near term as well as market headwinds as needed.
We are focused on protecting our profitability as well as maximizing our cash flows and returns and will remain focused on many growth opportunities and our consistent execution of our strategies.
Now I'll turn it back to Carlos for a few closing comments.
Thank you Frank.
As we go forward we'll continue to leverage digital technology such as our NOVO platform to better serve customers and drive growth.
We will execute strategies that are consistent with our long-term growth goals while maintaining a sharp focus on profitability.
We will seek to maximize growth in top line earnings and cash flows.
At the same time we will further balance our global presence to generate revenues in equal terms from North America Western Europe and rest of the world regions.
We will also diversify our served end markets and business mix to lessen volatility throughout the economic cycle.
As always we will seek to protect our profitability and elevate our base performance.
In addition we'll streamline our cost structure and balance our global manufacturing footprint to better serve shifting demand patterns.
Along those lines we will continue to integrate the Tungsten Materials business and implement restructuring initiatives to deliver promised cost savings.
We'll continue to manage our business and control what factors we can.
As we enter fiscal 2015 we believe that Kennametal is well positioned and we are cautiously optimistic that the global economy will continue to improve.
In the meantime Kennametal has an excellent business model and a management team that is committed to disciplined operating principles.
Thank you for your continued support.
We'll now take questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Samuel Eisner of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So maybe you can talk a little bit about the cadence of particularly industrial growth throughout the quarter.
Curious how that moved particularly in June? And then also what are the early looks that you're seeing on July? Well let me start and Frank will pipe in.
I mean I think as we said earlier we are being consistent growing 2 to 3x the IPI.
The IPI when we look at the IPI forecasted is consistent.
And again the thing that makes us excited about the industrial growth is the fact that we see some really positive numbers out of the distribution which is typically a leading indicator for us.
So it really is showing us that the industrial -- the strength is going to continue forward.
Yes Sam I'll add.
I think it got progressively better throughout the quarter April May and June.
June obviously is a key month for us and that came out as expected.
I think there's 2 factors.
I think there was probably some pent-up demand from the prior quarter but our own internal initiatives by focusing on the fill rates and as Carlos mentioned on the indirect channel.
Indirect channel was up 9% again which is very strong.
And I think there's a nice correlation now in the industrial side with the fill rates for our high movers the As the Bs and the first choice program that I think our distributor and our customers are more comfortable now.
So we like that trend.
And I think on the industrial side that's carrying through into July.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then you mentioned that I guess you guys did your own kind of destocking this quarter.
I guess what were production rates on the infrastructure side throughout the course of the quarter? And how do you see that playing out through both the first and second half of next year? If I had a -- looks like a tale of 2 segments right where we have probably high-70s close to 80 on the industrial with much lower ones on the infrastructure side.
We took $10 million of finished goods out as well as some raw materials and that had about a couple million dollar impact just on the reduction of inventory in Q4.
Research Division</strong> And then just lastly in terms of restructuring I believe if you're going to spend about $50 million in total.
I believe you're about $30 million remaining through fiscal '16.
Is that all expected to go in '15? How do you see that playing out over the next few years? I would say Sam what we're trying to do here we're going to try to front load and get this thing done.
I probably would say 2/3 of the cost will happen in the first half with 1/3 in the second half.
And I would say we'd be about 95% done.
There could be a small spillover the way we have it laid out now.
But obviously we're going to try to get it all wrapped up the cost in this year as much as we can.
So small carryover potentially into the following year.
The next question will come from Julian Mitchell of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> This is Jon Shaffer for Julian.
I was just wondering if you could talk a little just kind of longer term as to when the balance sheet moves into a position where you begin to consider more buyback or acquisition.
And if there is some kind of internal target debt-to-cap at 30% or 35% that you guys are looking at.
I think our long-term goal is always to maintain.
We go back to our capital structure principles where we want to be maintaining our investment-grade rating.
And that 30% to 35% is kind of probably in the sweet spot.
And at times like we're at right now we'll go a little bit higher.
And as we continue to generate cash we'll pay down debt.
I think the near-term focus is on debt reduction.
I think that needs to be front and center.
And then as that comes back in line we'll look at the performance and then we'll evaluate the other options available to us from a balance sheet perspective.
But that's the main focus right now is debt reduction and then we'll evaluate as we continue to try to increase our cash flow to see what other opportunities we can do.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
And then just as a quick follow-up.
Kind of as cash flow come back up and the debt goes down are there any -- if you were to pursue acquisitions as opposed to kind of buyback or increasing the dividend are there any particular areas that you think you would continue to focus on? Yes I mean our focus continues to be on the components business investment castings and bolt-ons just like TMB if we have an opportunity to get more.
So the strategy is consistent to the strategy that we've been executing.
And in the industrial space there was a lot less available than -- there's been a lot of consolidation in the past decade in the industrial space.
So the opportunities really lie more in the infrastructure side of the business at this point.
The next question will come from Eli Lustgarten of Longbow Securities.
Can we talk a little bit about the 2 sectors separately as far as '14 and how you're looking at them in '15.
In both cases it looks like the contribution from TMB was less than I had expected versus that -- with 70 to 70 -- what $72 million I guess little lighter than I would [ph] expect.
When we talk in the industrial sector what's going on and with a 3% to 5% organic growth rate for '15 I assume that the industrial sector you're projecting is in the 7% or 8% or some number like that for 2015? And will margins be similar in 2015 to '14? Or you're expecting an improvement in profitability in the industrial sector? We're definitely expecting improvement in both businesses.
And then Eli to the organic yes you're right.
I mean directionally we expect industrial to be quicker and grow stronger based upon what we've seen.
And then we expect the infrastructure to continue to lag given the underground mining application.
And we're trying to make sure that we leverage the business in the surface opportunities in our international markets because we expect the U.S.
to be flat for a while to down and then eventually the international markets picking up a little bit but offsetting other parts of the business.
So without getting into the specific numbers we expect industrial to be stronger than infrastructure.
We expect profitability to be up.
And I'm sure there was some impact on the TMB from a sales perspective.
As far as we know nothing unusual.
The profitability of that base business which is in the -- if you take out the D&amp;A has about 11.8% profitability.
And as we continue to get some additional synergies related to the restructuring activities we divest that underperforming business we like the direction for the industrial business.
Eli I would tell you that this is consistent with historical parts of the company.
Our industrial business has high highs and low lows.
And our infrastructure business doesn't moderate at high highs and low lows.
So what we're seeing right now is very consistent -- the industrials come from a very low base and is going to grow and accelerate faster than the infrastructure.
Are you expecting positive organic growth in infrastructure in '15? Yes slightly.
Great slightly.
And so most of the growth is coming from industrial.
You had respectable margins in industry so you're doing better.
Do think there will be enough positive trends to give you modestly better margins in infrastructure in the second half in 2015 or are we talking about very similar profitability? And will the volatility be more level or is it going to be all over the place again? Again that's tough to answer all over the place.
I mean the stuff that -- I think it's definitely going to be modestly better than what we have this year.
And what I guess the 12-month number for TMB was what about 2 -- a little under $200 million? So I think that's what the 12 months the numbers look like.
I mean how much do we expect to get for -- what kind of growth do you expect out of TMB for 2015 versus '14? Yes the number I think was 186-ish which was in there.
It's tough.
As I said in the update we've integrated these 2 pieces into the respective business.
So it's going to get tough to track and say "Hey we know that TMB sales were this." So if we're selling to Baker Hughes was it a legacy Kennametal sale or was it a TMB sale? So it's going to be challenging.
That's why we try to give it to you both organically.
We're going to provide the synergies going forward.
But when you're integrating the business it becomes too hard to pull it out.
I think it's going to be consistent with the Kennametal base business.
Yes.
I mean this is a mini Kennametal when you really think of it.
Yes.
The next question will come from Adam Uhlman of Cleveland Research.
Could you talk to your price realization expectations as well as material cost expectations for this coming year? Yes if we bifurcate the number I would say in total they'll be slightly positive with maybe around 1% in industrial and slightly negative in infrastructure.
So I think that's the way it's playing out right now.
And then as far as I'll call it raw materials with with the biggest being the tungsten that's been relatively stable to down slightly.
So there could be if it stays this way maybe a little bit out -- a little bit of favorability potentially with some raw materials.
But right now it's looking like pretty good shape.
Yes the raw materials will be consistent with the level of growth.
If we grow at -- if the economy is going to grow at the projected rates that we have we'll probably stay the same and/or slightly better.
If all of a sudden we see a higher demand then that will change a little bit.
Okay.
Got you.
And then I was wondering if we could dig into the Industrial segment performance in Asia like 15% growth is pretty strong.
I'm wondering what your conviction is in maintaining I guess a decent level of growth going forward.
Many markets in China starting to weaken quite a bit maybe you could discuss that a bit.
Yes I mean I think if you go back 1 year 1.5 years ago the strength was coming from the infrastructure.
In other words the Chinese government was building out infrastructure because the rest of the world's industrial markets were weak.
And they were trying to get more of a domestic consumption going.
And I would anticipate that the infrastructure-related businesses will not -- will be -- the growth will not be as higher.
However the industrial the manufacturing sector is going to grow.
It looks it's going to grow in the double-digits area going forward.
The next question will come from Andy Casey of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> On the fiscal 2015 outlook could you repeat I couldn't scribble down fast enough.
Is the $20 million restructuring is that a cost headwind or is savings? Savings.
The restructuring benefits I said for the combined those were approximately $20 million in our '15.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So when we look at 2015 that is largely being offset by higher incentive comp.
And then outside of that what are you including for TMB accretion? You can obviously look to the fourth quarter and try to get a run rate off of that.
As I said earlier Andy it's kind of integrated into both businesses but we expect it to be pretty much in line with kind of our overall margin contribution for the total the company so similar.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the infrastructure first on the flattish outlook.
You kind of mentioned some concern about road building continued mining weakness.
What are you kind of looking for in the other pieces of that business? Well we have surface mining foundational trenching work and a couple of other areas.
The construction business the highway construction was up.
It grew sequentially nice.
It was down a little bit.
But that should pick up here into the September quarter than we had in the prior.
So that will offset I think a little bit of it.
And then it's us really looking at other areas within the underground mining area not just focused on underground mining but getting it to more wear applications and coatings and a couple of other areas in the Stellite materials to help us offset some of that weakness.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if we can dig into the quarter a little bit the infrastructure margin performance.
Last quarter you had what appeared to be a positive mix shift from energy.
I'm wondering why that didn't carry through with the 10% that growth that you saw in Q4.
And I think you mentioned the $10 million inventory reduction was that revenue or EBIT? And was most of that in infrastructure or was it kind of equally split? Yes I mean the $10 million that was the finished goods inventory reduction that I talked about with about a $2 million impact.
So again I don't know the exact percent but it's close to be 50-50 for that perspective.
But the last quarter to your point the oil and gas was up double-digits.
It was quite nice.
We didn't see the same level of growth.
I think Stellite had a great quarter last time on the top line.
They grew as well this quarter but not as much and there was some relatively easier comps on a year-over-year in the third quarter.
And then we had some incentive comp and some investments that we made early to -- kind of cut across both businesses.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned a LIFO charge in the quarter.
How much was that? The LIFO was combined.
We call it LIFO and E&amp;O combined.
It was a little less than $3 million.
Now from a year-over-year basis it's in there but we did not anticipate that when we provided our prior outlook.
So that was kind of -- I don't want to call it a nonrecurring.
You typically do LIFO at the end of the year and that kind of just -- there's a little bit of a surprise on that one.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly the customer-facing headwinds year-over-year because of the investments.
Is it fair to assume that's going to dissipate beginning fiscal Q2 or is it more a second half dissipation? No we don't have -- the cost is over so there's no cost in 2015 so.
LLC Research Division</strong> No no what I mean Carlos is the year-over-year headwind.
Okay.
I think your latter comment is right Andy.
The next question will come from Joel Tiss of BMO Capital Markets.
We've been hearing from a bunch of other companies that mining kind of flattening out and they're getting optimistic about the future.
And I just wondered if you could give us a little sort of comparative about what you're hearing from the customers? Right now I mean as we said earlier I think that the Appalachian region is going to continue to decline in 2015.
I think that when you look from a global perspective the overall mining may be flattish to slightly down.
I think that's -- and we're looking at it from a production point of view Joel.
So I think that we have to distinguish between production and equipment manufacturing.
The equipment manufacturers may be thinking or seeing some growth in their area that eventually is a leading indicator for us that we can grow further down.
Joel it wasn't like an accelerating decline like in '13 versus '14.
So it's trying to find a base here.
It's maybe a decelerating decline versus an accelerating decline but at a relatively somewhat stable basis now.
And then is there any way for you to kind of clear away some of the noise for us and give us the core incremental margins for '14 and what you guys are thinking for 2015? Say that again Joel? Just to clear away like you take out the noise from the inventory reductions and the cost savings and you mentioned something about SAP also just to give us what you think the core incremental margins were in the fourth quarter and what's implied for 2015? Are you still kind of on track? It seems a little bit light that's all.
That's why I'm asking.
Yes it was a little bit light definitely in the fourth quarter but I think it would have been double-digits if you adjust for those not quite the 30% that we had in the past.
But depending we think the restructuring benefits and kind of the mix we've got going into the '15 plan that we think the all-in independent of that number it should be in that 30% to 35% range going forward depending on what you're starting in on.
I'm using a base of -- the $2.50 and the $0.03 accretion.
So from a $2.53 basis to kind of the -- in the midpoint you're in the 30% incremental margins as we get into fiscal '15.
So Joel it's consistent.
The '15 is consistent with past experience and with the expectations.
The next question will come from Walter Liptak of Global Hunter.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask about the SAP and if you've been able to quantify either any of the organic volume opportunities or the cost out related to SAP because we should be pretty close to getting those benefits.
Yes I think that's the synergies.
We talked about the $35 million to $45 million.
And the first wave basically in May that we did.
You'll start seeing a step up in the first quarter as far as the restructuring.
I think I said in the prepared remarks about 40% of the benefits will happen from the synergies in the first half and 60%.
And it will continue to accelerate from where we finished for Q4.
It will step up nicely.
We are wrapping up as we said I think in the last call the closure of the Gland facility where I believe with said that that would be done by August.
That's the biggest project.
That's a combination of both facilities as well as a lot of back-office.
So we expect to have a lot of the back-office stuff completed hopefully by the end of the first quarter maybe some of that spilling into the second half -- second quarter sorry.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And I wanted to ask about the annual -- is there an annualized incremental employment cost number? How much have we invested in new employees? And I guess the question is why aren't we expecting that in 2015 we're going to get more organic growth out of those employees? As far as a certain number I think last year we said the investment that we were going to make was about $10 million.
But we'll start seeing as Carlos said the benefits from the adds that we had and then when we talked with Andy earlier.
And then we should start to see -- we should start to get the productivity from the NOVO application for our sales force.
So that should give them an added benefit or capacity to sell further.
But given the visibility that we have in the marketplace we feel that yes could we do better if the market gets a little bit stronger? Absolutely.
But where we're at this time given the visibility in some of the mining side this is kind of where we landed for the guidance.
Yes and Walt the current guidance the sales guidance is consistent with historicals of us growing 2x the market.
So as Frank said to the extent that the market gets better then we can do better.
But at this point I think our growth is where it should be.
I mean we've listened to some of our peers and what they are projecting for growth is very consistent.
The next question and final question will come from Steve Volkmann of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> It's Chirag Patel stepping in for Steve here for a moment.
Just wanted to kind of circle back to I think it was Andy's question.
Frank you were talking about the highway construction picking up into the September period.
I just kind of wanted to get a sense if you're assuming something for the highway bill being approved or similar to that or could that potentially add a little upside as we look into fiscal '15? I say that that could add upside.
We felt that there was some delays weather-related and some seasonality factors that probably didn't get implemented or reflected in the June quarter.
And I would agree there could be a little bit upside into the next quarter and depending on how long the season goes relative to that bill.
And we did see an uptick in this quarter in the road construction.
And ladies and gentlemen this will conclude the question-and-answer session.
I would like to hand the conference back over to Quynh McGuire for closing remarks.
This concludes our discussion today.
Please contact me Quynh McGuire at (724) 539-6559 if you have follow-up questions.
Thank you for joining us.
A replay of this event will be available approximately 1 hour after its conclusion.
To access the replay you may dial toll-free in the United States (877) 344-7529.
Outside of the United States you may dial (412) 317-0088.
You will be prompted to enter the conference ID 10042423.
Then the pound or hash symbol.
You will be asked to record your name and company.
The replay will be available until September 3 2014.
The conference has now concluded.
We thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning.
I would like to welcome everyone to Kennametal's First Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Denise.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us to review Kennametal's First Quarter Fiscal 2015 results.
We issued a quarterly earnings press release earlier today.
You may access this announcement via our website at www.kennametal.com.
Consistent with our practice in prior quarterly conference calls we've invited various members of the media to listen to this call.
It's also being broadcast live on our website and a recording of this call will be available on our site for replay through November 30 2014.
I'm Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations for Kennametal.
Joining me for our call today are Chairman President and CEO Carlos Cardoso; Vice President and CFO Frank Simpkins; Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller Marty Fusco.
Carlos and Frank will provide further explanation on the quarter's financial performance.
After their remarks we'll be happy to answer your questions.
At this time I'd like to direct your attention to our forward-looking disclosure statement.
The discussion we'll have today convinced comments that may constitute forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such for looking statements involve a number of assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information regarding these risk factors and uncertainties is detailed in Kennametal's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition Kennametal has provided the SEC with a Form 8-K a copy of which is currently available on our website.
This enables us to discuss non-GAAP financial measures during this call in accordance with SEC Regulation G.
This 8-K presents GAAP financial measures that we believe are most directly comparable to those non-GAAP financial measures and it provides a reconciliation of those measures as well.
I'll now turn the call over to Carlos.
Thank you Quynh.
Hello everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
During the September quarter global industry production indicated ongoing strength in certain areas.
In general the U.S.
economy has performed better than expected although business conditions in the Eurozone weakened to some extent.
In other regions China's government recently announced a new round of stimulus to support growth and India's economy is beginning to experience a rebound in manufacturing and construction activities.
For Kennametal September quarter results reflect somewhat mixed trends related to customer demand.
Those growth was largely driven by the demands in industrial markets such as transportation and general engineering.
However sales related to the infrastructure markets were lower than the prior year.
This was due to weakness in underground mining and road construction partially offset by increased drilling in the oil and gas sector.
Due to a more modest growth environment we are taking some cost reduction actions for the current fiscal year.
For example those measures include hiring freezes as well as limiting certain expenses.
We continue to be committed to delivering double-digit operating margin and free operating cash flow that represents 80% to 90% conversion from net income for fiscal year 2015.
Our Industrial segment which typically has a strong correlation with the rate of industrial production reported 5% organic sales growth in the September quarter driven by an increase of 8% in our distribution channels.
For the period IHS estimated global IPI was 2.4%.
Our Industrial segment again outperformed that index by more than 2x and the ratio is expected to increase as demand further improves.
When IHS adjusts its estimate to heightened average -- to the weighted average that specifically reflects Kennametal market and geographic mix it indicated 2.2% growth from prior year.
However this projection is likely to be revised downward due to recent global developments such as the effects of lower oil prices and geopolitical conflicts.
Kennametal's consolidated sales growth of 1% organically in September quarter reflects some of the recent activities unfavorable impact to the infrastructure segments.
We are pleased to have made significant progress to the integrating of the tungsten material business or TMB remaining well ahead of schedule.
For the past 12 months we have been working hard on this integration to maximize the benefits of our combined business.
The projected savings run rate in relation to the TMB purchase price equates to approximately 6.5x the 12-month trailing EBITDA.
This valuation is well within our historical range of 6 to 8x.
We continue to streamline our manufacturing footprint which we have reduced by 4 facilities to date.
We also made headwinds in our SAP conversions with a plan to implement the next phase by 2014 December.
As part of our ongoing restructuring activities we expect to reduce the number of manufacturing facilities in North America and Europe.
As an update we now expect to record related pretax cash charges in the range of $55 million to $60 million during this time frame.
Currently we anticipate realizing permanent savings in the range of $50 million to $55 million annually.
Those measures will position Kennametal for improved profitability.
As always we'll continue to evaluate our portfolio and footprint in order to optimize our business.
Now I'd like to give you an overview of the trends we are seeing in our marketplace.
In general engineering we typically serve customers who are distributors who are small to medium-job shops that manufacture industrial equipment machinery and fabricated metal products.
The trend towards capacity utilization continues to be favorable and should lead to higher demand for capital investment in machinery.
In turn machine to consumption typically sees an increase within 12 months.
Accordingly the most recent Gartner capital equipment survey industries that are likely to benefit are job shops automotive pumps and valves and aerospace.
Overall industrial production for machinery is forecasted to grow approximately 5% annually in calendar years 2014 and '15.
An example of this trend was reflected at the recent International Manufacturing and Technology Show or IMTS.
This event was held in Chicago in September where we showcased innovative new products for both Kennametal and WIDIA brands.
Registration for the show was the largest 6-day show ever with more than 114 000 participants from 112 countries.
The attendance level represent an increase of 14% compared with the 2012 IMTS show.
In addition machine tool builders reported seeing a strong level of customer interest.
We believe those factors are encouraging indicators of longer-term sentiment.
Regarding the transportation market key drivers of growth include the record age of the light vehicle fleet which has been at 11 years in the U.S.
for the past 12 months as well as the continued low interest rates and falling fuel prices.
For calendar year 2014 the forecast for global light vehicle production calls for approximately 3% growth from prior year with the ramp-up to about 6% growth in the December quarter due to production for new model year.
In aerospace commercial aircraft production has expanded at strong rates during the past few years and the trend is expected to continue although at a slower pace in calendar year 2015.
As reported by IHS airlines are proceeding cautiously due to economic uncertainties but they are purchasing new fuel-efficient planes that will provide cost savings in the longer term.
In the military sector capital spending is forecasted to remain weak over the next several years.
In earthworks there continues to be an oversupply of coal as stockpiles remain high and customer demand has been weakened.
Demand for electricity has not yet rebounded to the pre-2008 levels.
The central Appalachian region gold spot prices are in the mid-50s range of dollars per short ton currently and dropping to new lows.
This is putting further pressure on the expensive geology in this area.
Consequently mining operations have reported additional closures in Central Appalachia.
In China coal suppliers are becoming more concerned about limited funding for the industry and a recent announcement ban on coal imports.
In the energy sector gas-directed rig counts are showing a rebound as producers are responding to more favorable market pricing levels.
After declining to near 300 units in July the rig count increased to 340 units in September.
Equally important the oil and gas drilling industrial production index is indicating an improved trend.
Wet gas production related to shale oil remains robust.
New well-to-market investments are expected to reduce bottlenecks and maintain Henry Hub prices near $4 per MMBtu over the next 12 months.
Also IHS is forecasting higher gas-focused project in 2015 which should lead to a more capital-spending-related drilling platforms pumps pipeline and processing facilities.
Overall the global environment has seen large movements in recent months in key exchange rates and also in prices of commodities specialty oil.
People's Bank of China just announced more stimulus to support economic growth.
Additionally the declining oil prices over the past month could drive increased consumer spending if it is sustained.
IHS's September forecast reflects an improved U.S.
outlook offset by slight downward revisions to other regions with monetary stimulus and lower oil prices providing support for worldwide growth.
Our global team remains dedicated to serving our customers and our business is well positioned.
We'll now turn the call to Frank who will discuss our financial results in greater detail.
Frank? All right.
Thank you Carlos.
As with prior discussions some of my comments are related to non-GAAP metrics.
So in general the first quarter was in line with our expectations despite a lower-than-forecasted top line.
We continue to see strong organic growth in our Industrial business led again by increased demand in the general engineering and transportation markets.
However we experienced slower-than-expected growth in the energy market and the mining sector continues to struggle globally.
Despite mixed market conditions we delivered adjusted earnings per share of $0.56 which was on target.
By comparison last year's adjusted earnings per share was $0.49.
As Carlos noted another positive was the Tungsten Materials Business acquisition.
It is running ahead of schedule for our integration plans and related restructuring actions.
TMB contributed $0.07 per share in the quarter and we have accelerated our restructuring actions where possible.
We also are implementing further restructuring actions to reduce costs and improve efficiencies.
Total expected restructuring benefits now range from $50 million to $55 million and total charges are expected to range from $55 million to $60 million.
Now I'll walk through the key items in the income statement.
Sales for the quarter were $695 million and this compares with $620 million in the same quarter last year.
Sales increased 12% reflecting a 10% increase from TMB 1% from organic growth and a 1% favorable impact from exchange.
The Industrial segment sales of $378 million increased by 12% from the prior-year quarter due to increases of 6% related to TMB 5% organic growth and 1% increase due to favorable currency exchange.
Sales increased by 9% in general engineering and 7% in transportation but decreased slightly 1% in the aerospace and defense business.
General engineering increased due to improvements in production and overall demand from machinery while this transportation market increased due to improved -- improvements in the light-vehicle market.
And on a regional basis excluding the TMB business Industrial sales increased 8% in Asia 7% in the Americas and 1% in Europe.
And I'll point out this was the fourth consecutive quarter of organic growth for the Industrial segment.
Turning to the infrastructure segment.
Sales there were $317 million in the September quarter and grew by 13% from the prior year driven by 16% increase related to the TMB acquisition partly offset by a 3% organic decline.
Sales increased by 2% in energy and decreased 6% in earthworks.
Energy sales improved modestly due to increased drilling activity in oil and gas in North America.
However earthworks sales decrease due to persistently weak underground coal-mining markets globally as well as lower highway construction activity.
And on a regional basis there excluding TMB Infrastructure sales decreased 10% in Europe 7% in Asia partly offset by a 2% increase in the Americas.
Turning to our operating performance our gross margin -- gross profit margin was $31.4 million which included restructuring and related items of $7 million.
Excluding the impact of these items our adjusted gross profit margin was $31.9 million which was relatively similar to the prior year.
Gross margin benefited from industrial organic sales growth partly offset by lower sales and an unfavorable mix in our Infrastructure segment as well as higher employment costs.
The prior year gross profit margin benefited from higher production levels offset by a $6 million nonrecurring physical inventory charge.
On OpEx.
Our OpEx increased $14 million year-over-year.
Excluding restructuring and related our operating expense was $13 million higher year-over-year primarily related to the TMB acquisition and higher overall employment costs such as incentive compensation and merit.
Operating expense as a percent of sales was 21.4%.
Excluding restructuring and related charges our operating expense as a percent of sales was 21.1% compared with 21.5% in the prior year.
Typically operating expense runs at a higher percentage of sales in the first half of our fiscal year and we are taking certain cost reduction actions for the remainder of this fiscal year.
This will align our cost structure with a more modest growth environment.
As part of our ongoing cost discipline we remain focused on keeping our operating expenses at 20% of the sales for all of fiscal '15.
Operating income of $61 million compared with $59 million in the same quarter last year.
If you exclude the restructuring-related charges our adjusted operating income of $68 million reflects increases due to the TMB acquisition and industrial organic sales growth partly offset by lower organic sales and an unfavorable mix in infrastructure and higher employment cost.
Prior year operating income included the $6 million nonrecurring inventory charge and $1 million of acquisition expenses.
Adjusted operating margin was 9.9% in the current year quarter compared with an adjusted operating margin of 9.7% in the prior year.
Looking at the performance by segments.
The industrial segment's operating income was $44 million compared with $40 million in the prior year period.
Excluding restructuring and related items adjusted operating income of $49 million benefited primarily from the TMB acquisition and organic growth in the current quarter partly offset by higher employment cost.
Industrial adjusted operating margin increased 130 basis points to 13.1% compared with 11.8% in the prior year.
The infrastructure's operating income was $19 million compared to $22 million last year.
Excluding restructuring and related charges adjusted operating income was $21 million.
Operating income and margin were impacted by lower organic sales unfavorable mix and higher employment cost partly offset by the TMB acquisition.
Prior year operating income included the $6 million nonrecurring inventory charges.
And adjusted operating margin was 6.7% compared with 7.7% in the prior year.
Our interest expense was up $1 million year-over-year in the September quarter to $8 million.
The increase was due to the higher year-over-year borrowings related to acquisitions.
Our liquidity remains strong.
We had $214 million outstanding on our $600 million revolver at September 30 2014 and our nearest debt maturity is in April of 2018.
The reported effective tax rate was 26.5% compared with 24.6% in the prior-year quarter.
And that's primarily driven by losses in certain jurisdictions that do not provide a tax benefit as well as the effect of certain provisions of the Internal Revenue code that expired after fiscal 2014 including the credit for RD&amp;E activities and provisions concerning U.S.
taxation of foreign earnings.
And as highlighted in the press release reported earnings per share were $0.49 which includes restructuring and related charges of $0.07.
On an adjusted basis this is $0.56; and TMB contributed $0.07 in the quarter.
Year-to-date cash flow from operating activities was $43 million compared with $44 million in the prior year and net capital expenditures were $30 million compared with $25 million in the prior year.
Free operating cash flow was $12 million compared with $20 million last year and free operating cash flow was impacted by higher working capital related to the TMB acquisition.
We remain diligent in our focus related to strong cash flow generation and are committed to our capital structure principles.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Our balance sheet's in good shape but strong.
At September 30 2014 we had $107 million in short-term debt; and total debt was approximately $1 billion.
Our cash balance was $156 million with the majority presently residing overseas.
And our debt-to-capital ratio at September 30 2014 was 34.2% compared with 35.1% at June 30 2014.
Well I'll give you a quick update now on the Tungsten Materials Business.
The integration team continues to successfully drive critical work streams to ensure a smooth transition.
TMB was fully integrated into our operating structure on July 1 and full SAP implementation is on track for completion in the December quarter.
We accelerated restructuring actions during the quarter and plan to be essentially finished by the end of fiscal 2016 as originally communicated.
TMB contributed $0.07 in the quarter.
Regarding our restructuring program a majority of the initiatives relate to the TMB integration plan as originally announced.
However the plan also includes actions related to our base business where appropriate.
In the September quarter we incurred restructuring and related charges of $7 million pretax or $0.07 per share and pretax savings were approximately $5 million in the same period.
As I mentioned we accelerated our restructuring actions which includes another facility reduction in our plan and on a combined basis these measures are estimated to deliver $5 million to $10 million in higher benefits.
For this fiscal year we currently expect to realize $20 million to $25 million of savings.
And as a result we now expect annual ongoing pretax permanent savings to be approximately $50 million to $55 million in fiscal '16.
And we expect to recognize total pretax charges related to these initiatives of approximately $55 million to $60 million.
And as a reminder these restructuring initiatives consist of concentrating our footprint by consolidating operations and driving productivity improvements with standard processes reducing administrative overhead and leveraging our global supply chain including raw material cost and procurement and streamlining manufacturing and distribution.
To date we have eliminated 4 facilities out of our manufacturing footprint as a result of closures and divestitures.
And going forward we will continue to identify opportunities to further streamline our cost structure which also includes an assessment of our business and our product portfolio.
For fiscal 2015 we have updated our outlook due to weaker economic conditions for the remainder of fiscal 2015.
The key drivers include softer customer demand in the Eurozone which impacts our Industrial segment more significantly.
Regarding Infrastructure we have seen a deceleration in the energy market with lower drilling activity in the oil and gas markets which is affected by lower commodity outlook and the continued weak conditions in underground mining in both the U.S as well as China.
Accordingly we now expect fiscal '15 sales growth in the range of 2% to 4% and organic sales growth ranging from 1% to 3%.
Previously we had projected total sales growth ranging 5% to 7% and organic sales growth of 3% to 5%.
Approximately 40% of the estimated restructuring savings of $20 million to $25 million are expected to be realized in the first half with the remainder in the second half of fiscal '15.
Based on the revised forecast we are reducing our EPS guidance for fiscal '15 to the range of $2.80 to $3 versus the previous expectations of $2.90 to $3.20.
And on cash flow we expect to generate from operating activities ranging from $280 million to $310 million of fiscal '15 versus the previous expectation of $290 million to $320 million.
Revised cash flow from operations range is based on anticipated capital expenditures of $110 million to $120 million and the company now expects to generate between $170 million and $190 million of free operating cash flow for the full fiscal year.
This level of free operating cash represents approximately 80% to 90% of net income working towards our long-term objective of realizing 100% conversion of net income.
We will continue to manage our business for the factors we can control to deal with in the near-term market headwinds as needed.
We are focused on protecting our profitability as well as maximizing our cash flows as well as returns.
In addition we remain focused on growth opportunities and the consistent execution of our strategies.
At this time I'll turn it back to Carlos for a few closing comments.
Thank you Frank.
Going forward our team will continue execute strategies that will strengthen our business and create value.
We will maintain our focus on profitable growth.
Also we will fully integrate the Tungsten Materials Business streamline our cost structure and achieve planned savings.
I truly believe that today Kennametal is well-positioned to emerge as an even stronger company.
Our team continues to be committed to serving our customers and our business is increasingly capable of doing so in a way that makes Kennametal the supplier of choice.
On a personal note I would like to close by saying that it has been an honor to serve Kennametal for the last 12 years.
Please note that I sincerely appreciate your continued support of Kennametal.
Thank you.
We will now take questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll move on to the next question from Eli Lustgarten of Longbow Securities.
Can we talk a little bit about the revised guidance? I mean you took the organic growth down.
And can you give us some color of how you -- the reduction how it splits out between Industrial and Infrastructure? And obviously the quarterly pattern that might -- is affected by these changes.
Give us some idea of how you're looking at it now.
Eli I'll start and then I'll let Frank address some of it.
I want to point out that the decrease is mainly driven by the weakening of the European area especially Germany.
So I would say that we see some strength in the U.S.
but we see a very relatively weakness to continue in Europe and primarily in Germany.
Yes and I think that's right I mean to plan.
I think when you look at the industrial side Eli it's clearly it's Europe.
We're seeing some signs of weakening demand as Carlos pointed out primarily Germany.
Then as far as the Infrastructure given some of the softness we're seeing with some of the commodity prices and feedback we're getting from our sales force as well as customers we expect that to be a little bit softer than we had anticipated.
So I would say -- of the downturn I would probably say it's a little over half for Infrastructure and the remaining on the Industrial side and then coupled with a little bit of headwind on foreign exchange with the currency moving the other way.
Yes.
So I mean is it fair to say that at this point you expect almost negative infrastructure growth on an organic basis we saw in the first quarter and then just somewhat lower on the industrial side? Yes.
That's fair.
Can we talk a little bit about profitability levels? I mean industrial profitability levels.
I mean in my position -- I mean you've cleaned up that business.
It generates good profitability.
You can't predict the volume but profitability is strong.
But obviously the profitability of Infrastructure remains somewhat disappointing.
Can you give us some idea of what to expect as we look out for the rest of the year in both segments? Well let me start Eli by saying that one of the drivers for profitability is capacity.
So the earthworks is in the 60-plus percent capacity where Industrial is a higher level.
So the whole company is about 70%.
So that's one of the drivers for the difference in the business.
Yes.
So when we look at it Eli I think the additional restructuring we talked about as well as we're going to continue to identify additional opportunities and also assess the portfolio.
And from the Infrastructure standpoint obviously we're not pleased with the performance but this is no different than what we had to deal with if you go back in time with the Industrial business where we had to take out a number of facilities.
We had to integrate it.
So if you go back to the early 2000s through the mid-2000s it's exactly the situation we did there.
So we're going to be looking at the cause very hard to get that business back to where it needs to be.
Yes I guess that we're looking at low-teens profitability low to mid-teens in the Industrial sector depending on where volume comes out.
Are we going to be lingering in the mid- to high-single digits all year for Infrastructure is probably the best way to ask the question at this point.
That's probably most likely.
And can you talk about -- you're spending $55 million to $60 million of restructuring.
How is that going to be? How much this year? How much into next year or is it all this year? And how does it break out by quarter? Yes I think Eli we did $4.8 million call it $5 million in the first quarter.
It'll be maybe a little bit better in the second quarter and then you can do the 40/60 split.
From a cost perspective it'll probably 35 this year 25 in benefits and the remaining piece in fiscal '16.
So we feel fairly good about that.
And as a rough approximation the way it looks like it's coming in now subject to any other future modifications is about 75% to 80% of it is being driven by the TMB acquisition.
So we're pleased at the performance of that acquisition.
And just one final question.
You talk a little bit about pricing across the business and the distribution business is holding up well.
So about pricing and distribution at the same time.
We're not really seeing much.
I think there's maybe a slight amount in Industrial and Infrastructure's actually doing a decent job of holding the ground there.
So I'd call it kind of -- when you put it all together it's about neutral.
The next question will come from Samuel Eisner of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So just looking at your inventories inventory's up about 1% sequentially.
I think it's up usually around 5% 6% 7% something in that range.
So can you talk a bit in relation to the comments that you just made about utilization rates? Can you talk a bit about how you were able to manage inventory this quarter? I believe last quarter you were cutting production at least on infrastructure side.
So how do you think about that in the quarter and then the expectations going forward? Yes.
I think we've been at this.
It really started last year I mean after the December quarter saw development.
I think we got the fill rates in pretty decent shape from an Industrial standpoint.
So we're managing that obviously much tighter.
I think we've done the necessary investments in the business from a capital perspective.
And to your point earlier the indirect channels have been holding up pretty well.
That's -- as Carlos pointed out it's been 8% for the quarter.
And that's consistent with the last 2 quarters.
So we're doing a much better job on the fill rates.
We put the AAA product out.
So I think we have a much better cadence as it relates to the industrial side as well as the procurement.
The challenge continues to be a little bit more on the Infrastructure side but I think we've got a better handle on the forecasting than we had in the past.
So it's much better some of the tools that we're looking at as well as some of the inputs.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow-up on that.
Are you producing at current demand levels in both Industrial and Infrastructure? Or are you still underproducing de-stocking if you will within the Infrastructure segment? We're definitely underproducing in the Infrastructure.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just thinking about incremental margins obviously you guys have talked about I think 35% 40% over a cycle.
It seems like this is going to be much weaker now.
So just curious how you think about incrementals either broken out by segment or for the total company in 2015? Yes I think the incremental margins will improve as we go out.
I think we'll continue to see the related benefits from the restructuring programs.
They'll continue to kick in.
From an overall corporate perspective we have a fairly good lockdown on additional OpEx all the temporary stuff you would imagine.
Which we've started really towards the end of the fourth quarter.
And as we as both as Carlos and I said we're going to continue to identify further opportunities to drive even more bottom-line profits.
The next question will come from Andy Casey of Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> On TMB I know it's integrated.
Is it possible to quantify whether revenue grew relative to last year in the quarter? Again relative to last year we did divest in the fourth quarter the Garryson business which was like about a $20 million-type business.
So if I had to put it back altogether if you take that out it was maybe down 1% or 2% mainly probably on the energy side.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if you covered this I apologize.
What drove the other income improvement relative to last year? FX.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then a couple of questions within the updated guidance.
You've mentioned weaker oil and gas drilling activity.
Are you seeing that in your orders or is that more perspective at this point? No we started to see a little bit here in the current quarter and that's -- and we feel it's a little bit more pervasive in the second half.
But given all the inputs we have we think it was the right thing to do to make sure that we're aligned with customer inputs.
What we have heard Andy is that they're going to continue to produce oil and gas but they're going to take it from the current wells versus doing more drilling.
And what drives it the most is the drilling portion of it.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Okay so just basically utilize the existing framework capacity? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> On Europe did you see the deceleration in Q1? And if so was that pretty close to the end of September and did that continue through October now that we're close to the end? No I think we saw it towards the end of Q4 a little bit primarily in Germany.
And that continued through the quarter so nothing significant month-to-month but trending in the wrong direction.
So for us as you know Germany's a very big component of our European sales.
And given the transportation and a couple of other end markets we serve there very well we felt it was prudent to factor that in.
We actually have been doing better than average on Europe because again we kept on calling out that it was because our presence was in Germany.
So as Germany economic environment got more challenged obviously they're going to affect us more now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could touch on your upcoming transition Carlos.
Is there any timing update from the board that you can give us? And then post-December is there a transition period where you would assist whoever the incoming person would be after December? So the board is diligently working and everything is on schedule and per our press release.
And all I can tell you about the transition is that the board will do what makes sense and what's in the best interest for the company and its stakeholders.
The next question will come from Julian Mitchell of Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's Jon Shaffer on for Julian.
I was wondering if you could just maybe give a little additional color around what's going on in Asia in the Infrastructure segment.
Yes.
For us from Asia the big issue there is China and Australia from a mining perspective.
While we're doing okay on some of the energy side over there given everything that's going on with the underground coal mining particularly in China it's causing a lot of pressure and that's been consistent over the past couple of quarters.
Now they did but some tariffs in there.
So longer -- medium term that could be a positive.
It may hurt what's going on in Australia but it may also increase some coal production within China.
Given our position there that would be a little bit of a positive.
From an industrial perspective on that side just to add a comment on there.
I would say overall that's doing a little bit better particularly if I go through October.
They're continued to maintain some pretty decent numbers both from a China perspective as well as India.
So we've got kind of 2 different stories going on where a little bit better story on the Industrial in China as well as India.
And then when you come into Infrastructure a little bit softer given some of the energy and related stuff for coal in China and to a lesser extent Australia.
Research Division</strong> And then just on visibility in those businesses.
I mean is there a chance that they can kind of turn around rapidly or do you see this kind of being a prolonged and unforeseeable circumstance? Well I mean we -- generally speaking especially in Industrial we ship 80% of the orders within the same month that we get them.
So can it turn around quickly? Yes.
Infrastructure will be longer.
Infrastructure will be longer but in the Industrial yes.
The next question will come from Ross Gillardi of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just had a few questions.
So road construction was cited as a area of weakness again.
Given the overall broader recovery we're seeing in nonresidential construction do you see that turning around this year or is that sort of tied to the uncertainty around the highway bill and some of those things? Yes Ross I think there's obviously a time with that.
And as we go out we're going into the slower quarter.
Hopefully the snow holds off for a little bit.
So any Northern Hemisphere states before they shut down.
But for us it was little bit soft.
We assumed it was going to have a little bit of growth not much.
It was probably down 1.5% to 2% in the quarter.
And this is a reminder this is all the road resurfacing primarily.
So ripping up the asphalt with the tools.
So then it gets back from a funding perspective from the states.
And then now they're trading off or they're buying more rock salt for the winter.
So it was a little bit more of a challenge than we had anticipated.
Yes our construction doesn't get affected by housing the housing market directly.
It's more about road rehabilitation.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the weakness in underground mining in general.
I mean obviously the end market's very weak.
But are you also some seeing some in-sourcing from customers at all? No.
No I mean the stuff that we do I mean is our product.
So it's our own product.
So it's directly related to the market.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with respect to oil and gas I mean you talked about you're seeing a little bit of softness in drilling activity.
Can you also comment on Stellite a bit and what the trends are there? Well the industrial gas turbine is still -- business is still weak.
So we haven't seen really a recovery in that area.
It's following the same not that much of a change.
And our final question will come from Walter Liptak of Global Hunter.
LLC Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask -- and maybe I missed this but -- and you don't break it out but what was Europe's organic volumes during the quarter? We don't break out the -- we have it by -- in total by segments which is in the press release.
But it was a little bit stronger on the industrial side.
And I think in the script they were down I think 10% in Infrastructure.
So the product works.
Now Infrastructure's not a big player for us over there but we have positive volumes but at a much lower rate than we had anticipated.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So it sounds like Europe is the problem Europe is slowing but the trajectory doesn't sound like it's accelerating at this point.
That's correct.
Yes that's correct.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
When you think about the second quarter though is second quarter -- because of just the deceleration is this going to be a lower organic quarter than the first and would that also mean that EPS would be lower sequentially? Well I mean again the quarters 1 and 2 typically they're very similar.
I wouldn't expect much more difference from an organic growth in the second quarter.
We're taking more cost out.
I think the quarter last year we had some challenges with the gross margin that we have since fixed we have additional restructuring that we've implemented.
Those plans continue to run well.
So I think they're the headwinds -- or the tailwinds for us going forward and just a little bit softer in the second quarter.
When we look at right now how October's trending and it's pretty much right in line with our forecast.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And you mentioned FX I think is neutral during the quarter.
Is that right? In the first quarter it was plus 1.
But as you -- last year I think we averaged -- maybe just take the euro and that's the biggest component for us.
This year we average $1.34.
Last year I think it was $1.32.
But as you go forward if you look at the spot rate now I don't know if it's $1.25 and change this morning the $1.26 versus the $1.34 and depending which direction the stronger dollar will have a little bit of an impact on our European results and potentially our tax rate.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you're using the current euro as your FX rate for the full year? Yes and we obviously try to -- we've hedged some of that but some of the translation is going to be impacted.
And ladies and gentlemen this will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call back over to Quynh McGuire for closing comments.
Thank you.
This concludes our discussion today.
Please contact me Quynh McGuire at (724) 539-6559 if you have any follow-up questions and thank you for joining us.
A replay of this event will be available approximately 1 hour after its conclusion.
To access the replay you may dial toll-free within the United States (877) 344-7529.
Outside of the United States you may dial (412) 317-0088 or toll-free from Canada 1 (855) 669-9658.
You will be prompted to enter the conference ID 10042425 then the pound or hash symbol.
You will be asked to record your name and company.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning.
I would like to welcome everyone to Kennametal's Second Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Denise.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us to review Kennametal's second quarter fiscal 2015 results.
We issued our quarterly earnings press release earlier today.
You may access this announcement via our website at www.kennametal.com.
Consistent with our practice in prior quarterly conference calls we've invited various members of the media to listen to this call.
It's also being broadcast live on our website and a recording of this call will be available on our site for replay through March 1 2015.
I'm Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations for Kennametal.
Joining me today for our call are Chairman of the Board Bill Newlin; President and Chief Executive Officer Don Nolan; Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Frank Simpkins; and Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller Marty Fusco.
Don and Frank will discuss the December quarter's financial performance.
After their remarks we'll be happy to answer your questions.
At this time I'd like to direct your attention to our forward-looking disclosure statement.
The discussion we'll have today contains comments that may constitute forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve a number of assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information regarding these risk factors and uncertainties is detailed in Kennametal's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition Kennametal has provided the SEC with a Form 8-K a copy of which is currently available on our website.
This enables us to discuss non-GAAP financial measures during this call in accordance with SEC Regulation G.
This 8-K presents GAAP financial measures that we believe are most directly comparable to those non-GAAP financial measures and it provides a reconciliation of those measures as well.
I'll now turn the call over to Don.
Thank you Quynh.
Hello everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
First let me say how excited I am to be here.
Kennametal is a company with a rich 77-year history a well-respected global brand a sound business model and most importantly a loyal customer base.
I joined Kennametal because it's a great organization with enormous potential.
As attractive as our future may be Kennametal also faces some serious challenges.
We have missed investor expectations the last several quarters.
We've underperformed versus our internal targets as well as versus some of our peers.
So this morning I'm going to focus on the new game plan immediate steps we're taking to address the challenges we face and ultimately drive organic growth.
Then I'll touch on our current quarter results and lastly I'll share our outlook on the second half for the year.
Looking at where we are today we can do better and we understand that we must do better.
So we're developing a new game plan.
I'm in the process of reviewing all the strategies for our business.
Our priorities are clear.
First we need to enable and drive organic growth.
Second we need to get our cost structure right.
We need to get our portfolio right.
We need to improve efficiencies like working capital management to deliver better free cash flow.
And lastly we need to drive an accountable customer-focused culture.
We're moving on immediate actions to streamline our cost structure.
Those of you that are familiar with my background know that I'm a hands-on operational leader.
I aim to establish a culture of execution.
In the short term we're focusing on the factors that we can control such as manufacturing and operating efficiencies and working capital.
As you may know we've already committed to a first set of restructuring initiatives which I'll refer to as Phase 1 to integrate our Tungsten Materials business.
These initiatives are underway and on track to generate an estimated $50 million to $55 million of annualized savings as promised.
To build on that we're now implementing a broader Phase 2 restructuring across the enterprise.
We aim to achieve another $40 million to $50 million of annualized cost savings in this initiative.
Phase 2 will deliver a more streamlined manufacturing footprint as well as reduce our general and administrative expenses over the next 12 to 24 months.
Combined we expect Phase 1 and Phase 2 restructuring programs to deliver $90 million to $105 million in savings annually.
It's also critical that we get our overall portfolio right and to sort out what is core to Kennametal and what is not.
This is especially important as it relates to our Infrastructure segment.
There are businesses in our portfolio that have great potential to grow profitably and we will continue to invest in those core businesses.
We're also in the process of reviewing all businesses in our portfolio.
We are looking deeply into those businesses that are not delivering results to determine if they are a good fit for Kennametal.
In some cases there may be a better owner for some of these underperforming units.
We're looking at our product [ph] portfolio with a tighter lens focused on performance not tenure.
There are no sacred cows in our analysis.
We're using 2 key criteria to determine what belongs in our core.
First it's a matter of fit.
We're looking for complementary materials and products that enhance our competitive position.
And second we're using an EVA-based framework to evaluate each business in the portfolio.
As we consider portfolio decisions our forward actions will likely include further cost reductions beyond what we've announced today and we'll continue to look for ways to improve our performance by eliminating activities that don't create value.
We are committed to maintaining Kennametal's investment grade ratings and pay down debt in the near term.
Our capital allocation process will be disciplined regarding investments in the business including restructuring.
Also in addition to our debt reduction of $100 million in the first half we're targeting $200 million reduction for the full year.
We view this as consistent with our investment grade goals and current business demands.
Excess capital generated from reductions in working capital or business divestitures beyond our debt reduction goals will be returned to shareholders through dividends and stock buybacks.
We believe that there will be opportunities to generate additional cash as we align the portfolio.
At this time acquisitions are not in our plans as we seek to maximize the profitability and return on the assets that we already have.
We're also looking at our operating expenses.
Prior goals suggested that 20% of sales is the right level.
Early indications are that we can do better and still deliver a powerful value proposition to the market.
In the coming months our team will be reviewing our portfolio and our strategies.
We've already begun the diagnostic work and are focusing on execution.
First execution requires a clear game plan the right priorities realistic expectations and a disciplined approach with clear accountability.
Beyond the initial measures I've outlined today it would be premature for me to comment on our long-term strategy at this point.
I'll have more to say about Kennametal and our future objectives during our next quarterly earnings call.
Additionally we'll schedule an Analyst Day event for some time later in calendar 2015.
Moving on to December -- our December quarter's performance.
Clearly the results were a disappointment.
Our sales fell short of expectations as organic sales declined 2%.
A couple of our end markets weakened significantly in the quarter.
The coal market continued to deteriorate driven by oversupply and lower demand.
And overall our infrastructure segment declined 8% organically.
The market changes and commodities make it even more important that we move with a great sense of urgency over the coming months.
Frank will discuss the specifics of the quarter including the infrastructure impairment charge reported for this period.
While one quarter is not a trend we did make progress on reducing our inventory levels.
Total working capital reductions generated $36 million in cash flow in the quarter and will continue to be an intense area of focus for the team.
Our immediate focus is to address our business portfolio our manufacturing footprint our G&amp;A costs and working capital and cash flow generation.
Looking forward through the reduction -- although the reduction in our fiscal 2015 guidance is significant it appropriately reflects the recent changes and uncertainties in the commodities market and in currency.
While our end markets remain challenged it is essential to highlight the fact that we have several ongoing initiatives that will generate significant returns for shareholders.
Our restructuring efforts Phase 1 and Phase 2 are expected to total annual savings of $90 million to $105 million.
As I said earlier this is a journey that has multiple milestones.
We'll be proactive in seeking organic sales opportunities as well as recalibrating our portfolio and cost structure for profitable growth.
We'll reach each milestone through disciplined and process-oriented action plans.
Kennametal is on a new path forward.
We believe that the only way to transform Kennametal into a company that delivers for customers employees and shareholders is through transparency and disciplined investment processes.
We're looking forward to taking Kennametal to that next level of performance.
I will now turn the call over to Frank who will discuss our financial results in greater detail.
Thank you Don.
As with prior discussions some of my comments are related to non-GAAP metrics.
As Don mentioned the December quarter was disappointing and more challenging than planned as certain served end markets further weakened coupled with an abrupt change in the global energy market.
Those of you who follow our monthly published order rates have observed this trend.
Some additional comments before I go into further detail.
Our industrial segment was in line with our forecast despite some headwinds in the European market.
However our infrastructure segment performance was below expectations due to continued weakness in mining and a slower energy sector.
Our adjusted earnings per share for the quarter was $0.52 compared to $0.50 in the prior year.
The current year adjusted earnings per share excluded the asset impairment charge of $382 million or $5.28 per share related to our infrastructure segments as well as restructuring and related charges of about $13 million or $0.13 per share.
The TMB acquisition that we acquired a year ago is now fully integrated.
We are progressing with the Phase 1 restructuring program which generated benefits of approximately $6 million pretax or $0.07 per share in the quarter.
The Phase 1 restructuring pretax benefits are projected to be $50 million to $55 million on an annualized basis and pretax charges are estimated to be $55 million to $60 million.
To further rightsize our cost structure we also announced another restructuring as Don pointed out.
The new restructuring program referred to as Phase 2 is expected to deliver pretax annualized benefits of an additional $40 million to $50 million.
We will incur $90 million to $100 million of estimated pretax charges and we expect that to be completed in 12 to 24 months.
Total expected restructuring pretax benefits for both Phase 1 and Phase 2 programs range from $90 million to $105 million with total charges expected to range from $145 million to $160 million.
We also continue to employ specific and targeted actions to maximize cash flow and liquidity and this resulted in strong free operating cash flow of $82 million year-to-date.
I also want to point out that we will change our monthly order reporting practice beginning in fiscal 2016.
Kennametal will no longer provide orders data during the quarter.
However sales trends by geographic regions and end markets will continue to be presented in our quarterly earnings announcement.
This decision to move away from reporting monthly orders for our next fiscal year is consistent with the industry and our business strategy which is focused on long-term initiatives.
Now I'm going to walk through the key items in the income statement.
Sales for the quarter were $676 million compared with $690 million in the same quarter last year.
Our sales decreased 2% reflecting a 4% unfavorable impact from currency exchange and a 2% organic decline partly offset by a 3% increase from the TMB acquisition and a 1% favorable impact due to more business days.
And as a reminder the prior year quarter had 2 months from the TMB acquisition whereas the current quarter has 3 months of activity.
Looking at sales by business segment.
The industrial sales were $372 million and that remained flat compared with $371 million in the prior year due to increases of 2% from organic growth 1% from net acquisition and divestiture and 1% due to more business days offset by the unfavorable currency effect of 4%.
Sales increased 3% in our general engineering market and 2% in transportation while aerospace and defense remained relatively flat.
General engineering increased due to sales in the indirect channel and to tier suppliers in the Americas and the transportation market increased due to new project tooling packages in the Asia region.
Our regional sales increased 14% in Asia 3% in the Americas offset by a decrease of 1% in Europe.
In the Americas sales in the indirect channel were up 8% partly offset by a weaker performance in Latin America.
Overall choppy end market performance in Europe was offset by strong growth versus the prior year in Eastern Europe which was up about 18%.
In Asia sales growth was driven by strong end market performance particularly transportation in both China and India where vehicle production was up 7% and 5% respectively.
Our infrastructure sales came in at $304 million.
This was a decrease of 5% from $309 million in the prior year.
The decrease was driven by an 8% organic sales decline and a 3% unfavorable currency exchange offset by a 5% increase from the acquisition and 1% due to more days.
Sales decreased 6% in earthworks and 3% in energy.
Earthworks sales declined from persistently weak underground and surface mining globally particularly the U.S.
and Asia combined with reduced demand for road rehabilitation tools and infrastructure development activity in China.
Energy sales decreased due to lower activity in power generation projects while our oil and gas sales were flat year-over-year in the quarter.
In addition the prior year included sales related to surface finishing projects that did not repeat in the current year.
And looking at the sales regionally sales decreased 14% in Europe 9% in Asia and 2% in the Americas.
Now our operating performance recap.
Our gross profit margin was 29.5% compared with 30% in the prior year.
Our adjusted gross profit margin in the current and prior periods were 29.9% and 31.1% respectively.
The decline in our margin was due to decreased volumes and unfavorable business mix and lower absorption of manufacturing costs due to our inventory reduction efforts.
We reduced finished goods and work-in-process inventory by $17 million which impacted our margin by 50 basis points.
This was partly offset by benefits from our restructuring programs.
And as some of you know the prior year included the inventory step-up from the TMB of about $8 million.
Operating expense as a percent of sales was 20.3% compared with 21.5% in the prior year.
Adjusted operating expense as a percent of sales for the current and prior periods was 19.8% and 21.3% respectively.
Operating expenses declined $11 million year-over-year due to continued disciplined -- or continued discretionary spending restructuring benefits as well as lower employment and related costs.
Cost reduction actions are in place and we will continue to align our cost structure with the realities of the current market conditions.
As part of our ongoing cost discipline at minimum we are committed to keeping our operating expense at or below 20% of sales for fiscal '15.
Our operating loss came in at $334 million compared with $50 million in the same quarter last year.
Our adjusted operating income was $61 million in both the current and prior periods.
Adjusted operating results in the current period were driven by restructuring benefits and lower employment cost offset by organic decline and an unfavorable mix in our infrastructure segments and an unfavorable currency exchange.
Adjusted operating margin was 9.1% in the current period compared with 8.9% in the prior year.
Now I'll touch briefly on the impairments.
As Don pointed out because of the recent abrupt change in the global energy market that is currently -- is expected to continue into the foreseeable future coupled with the severe and persistent decline in the earthworks markets we made an interim assessment of the possible impairment of the goodwill and other intangible assets attributable to our infrastructure segment.
As a result of this assessment we recorded an estimated noncash pretax goodwill and other intangible asset impairment charge of $377 million or $5.24 a share.
Evaluation will be completed in the fiscal third quarter.
We also recorded a noncash impairment charge of $5 million or $0.04 per share for a infrastructure technology asset related to our mining business.
The goodwill impairment will not have any impact at all on our bank covenants.
And approximately $266 million of goodwill remains on the books for our infrastructure segment as of December 31.
Given the significant impairments in the infrastructure segment it will be the initial focus of our portfolio actions.
Looking at operating income by business segment.
The industrial segment operating income was $42 million compared with $33 million last year.
Our adjusted operating income was $48 million compared to $40 million in the prior year quarter benefiting from organic growth restructuring benefits and lower employment costs.
Also during the quarter we completed the closure of the TMB's Gland Switzerland facility.
Industrial's adjusted operating margin was up 190 basis points to 12.8% compared with 10.9% in the prior year.
The infrastructure segment's operating loss was $372 million compared with operating income of $19 million in the same quarter of the prior year.
As previously mentioned we recorded noncash pretax impairment charges of $382 million.
Our adjusted operating income was $15 million compared to $23 million in the prior year quarter.
Adjusted operating income decreased due to lower organic sales coupled with an unfavorable mix and lower fixed cost absorption related to reduced demand in earthworks and our energy product lines partly offset by the benefits of restructuring and lower employment cost.
Infrastructure's adjusted operating margin was 5% compared with 7.3% last year.
Our adjusted effective tax rate was 17.7% in the current quarter and 23.8% in the prior year.
The decrease was primarily driven by the extension of the credit for increase in our research activities contained in the Tax Increase Prevention Act of 2014 as well as jurisdictional mix.
Turning to cash flow.
As a result of our cash flow initiatives we generated strong year-to-date operating cash flow of $135 million and were $51 million above the comparable prior year period in December.
Year-to-date we generated $82 million of free operating cash flow an increase of 125% compared with $36 million last year.
We delivered the strong cash flow after investing $55 million in capital expenditures.
We remain confident in our continued robust cash flow generation and committed to our capital structure principles.
Our liquidity remains strong supported by our $600 million revolving credit facility that's due in April of 2018 of which $423 million was available at December 31.
We have ample cushion under our financial covenants and attractive debt maturity profile as our nearest debt maturity is not until November 2019 when our $400 million 2.65% senior unsecured notes come due.
Our cash balance was $146 million at December 31 which resides mostly overseas.
Through a prudent and balanced debt facility structuring we are favorably positioned to deploy cash flow from overseas operations for debt reduction.
We believe we are uniquely advantaged in this regard thereby providing additional flexibility if needed.
We enjoy investment grade ratings from all 3 agencies and remain committed to maintaining them.
Our credit ratings were recently affirmed by all 3 agencies who acknowledge our strong liquidity and favorable debt reduction since the TMB acquisition last year.
Our fiscal year-to-date debt reduction is $100 million and we are targeting a full year debt reduction of $200 million.
We will achieve this significant debt reduction in spite of the reduction to the fiscal '15 outlook through enhanced working capital performance and liquidity management.
Our debt-to-cap ratio at December 31 was 38.6 compared to 35.1 at June 30 with the increase being driven by the infrastructure impairment charge.
We remain vigilant in the management of our pension plans and continue enjoying the benefits of our adoption of a liability-driven investment strategy over 8 years ago.
As a result our U.S.
defined benefit plan remains over 100% funded.
Now I'm going to turn to the outlook.
Due to the current high levels of uncertainty in the global economy visibility is very limited regarding demand in some of our served end markets and ultimately will affect our sales earnings and cash flow.
For fiscal '15 we revised our outlook to reflect the weaker economic environment for the remainder of our fiscal year.
Based on the revised forecast we're reducing our earnings per share guidance for fiscal '15 to the range of $1.90 to $2.10 compared with $2.80 to $3 previously.
Our fiscal '15 revised outlook is based on the following assumptions.
We now expect fiscal '15 total sales to decline in the range of 6% to 7% and organic sales to decline in the range of 4% to 5%.
Previously we have projected total sales growth ranging from 2% to 4% with organic sales growth of 1% to 3%.
The primary driver for the change in earnings guidance relates to a further reduction to the infrastructure segment sales due to a rapid decline in the oil and gas markets as well as continued weak demand from the mining industry.
We are assuming infrastructure sales for fiscal '15 will be down 10% to 15% from the prior forecast.
This combined with an approximate decremental margin of between 35% and 40% translates to about $0.55 to $0.65 per share.
The industrial segment is also expected to be negatively impacted by further weakening in the Eurozone.
We are estimating industrial sales for fiscal '15 will be down by 2% to 4% from the prior forecast.
When coupled with an approximate decremental margin of 45% to 50% the estimated EPS impact will be $0.25 to $0.35 per share.
In addition foreign exchange is expected to be a notable headwind estimated to be $0.10 to $0.15 per share from our prior forecast and this is related to the recent currency fluctuations particularly the U.S.
dollar to the euro exchange rate.
Our goal remains to maintain operating expenses at 20% of sales.
Restructuring benefits from Phase 1 are expected to be approximately $25 million pretax in fiscal '15.
The restructuring benefits of Phase 2 will begin to show and approximately $5 million pretax will be realized in fiscal '15.
Our effective tax rate excluding special charges for fiscal '15 is forecasted to be approximately 23% to 24%.
And we will continue to look for ways to balance our geographic presence and to minimize our tax.
And based on these factors we expect earnings per share to range from $1.90 to $2.10 for fiscal '15.
As discussed on our -- earlier on today's call we will continue to take aggressive actions to reduce costs including streamlining our manufacturing footprint.
In implementing these actions we expect to recognize the remaining $20 million in special charges related to Phase 1 restructuring initiatives over the next 6 to 9 months.
While near-term conditions are challenging we are in the process of developing a path forward that will result in improved shareholder returns.
We have a renewed focus on managing what we can control and we'll continue to sharply focus on cash flow.
We expect to generate cash from operating activities ranging from $270 million to $295 million in fiscal '15 versus the previous expectation of $280 million to $310 million.
We anticipate capital expenditures of $110 million to $115 million and we expect to generate between $160 million and $180 million of free operating cash flow for the remainder of the fiscal year.
In addition we're evaluating opportunities to repatriate $40 million to $50 million of excess cash from cash overseas.
We also believe that we'll be able to generate additional cash flows from our portfolio review process.
We'll utilize these proceeds along with working capital reductions primarily for the purpose of debt reduction and we'll also look very strongly at redeploying those proceeds into what we believe is a very attractive opportunity in Kennametal stock.
At this time I'll turn it back to Don for a few closing comments.
Well thank you Frank.
We can and must do better than we've done in the past.
The entire Kennametal team is dedicated to unlocking the value of Kennametal and we will be very transparent as we make progress and move down this path.
Our path forward includes a lot of hard work but the team is rising to the challenge.
We have a good reason to be optimistic about our future.
We have a long history of outstanding products and technologies.
Our customers are loyal and they recognize that Kennametal value proposition.
Our global workforce is dedicated and committed to our mission.
Reiterating our new game plan that we're driving with a clear sense of urgency we're reviewing our business strategies to enable and drive organic growth.
We're getting our cost structure right.
We're getting our portfolio right.
We're improving efficiencies like working capital management to strengthen our free cash flow and we're driving an accountable customer-focused culture.
And all that we do will be highly focused on creating value for shareholders.
We will take execution to the next level and achieve better performance.
I'm honored to be the Kennametal CEO and I look forward to meeting and working with all of you.
We'll now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Julian Mitchell of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the Infrastructure portfolio actions.
I understand that you feel that there are a lot of assets in there that are maybe not beneficial for longer-term returns.
How do you square the urgency of divesting those with the knowledge that you'll be selling them at pretty -- at a pretty weak time for the end markets in infrastructure? So the value you realize will be a lot lower than maybe if you wait or...
Yes Julian thanks.
Look there's 2 sides to that coin.
First we're looking for opportunities to improve the performance of the businesses as they stand.
So -- and that includes structural opportunities.
So to be clear it's not a fire sale.
When we find pieces of the portfolio that we feel don't fit for the long term we're going to divest at a rate that makes sense.
So it's a combination: improve the performance of the businesses as they stand; and see if we can find the rightful better natural owner for each of those businesses.
Research Division</strong> And then when you were talking about the -- obviously debt reduction is a near-term focus for the second half at some point I guess depending on the timing of divestment proceeds you mentioned the buyback.
How are you thinking about the optimal leverage ratio for the company so we can sort of figure out what you view as the right level of cash to have and therefore what is excess cash that can be returned? Yes Julian.
I think a couple of things.
We feel very comfortable with the $200 million debt reduction.
I think we are uniquely restructuring.
We'll take a look at potentially redeploying some of the cash that's outside the U.S.
at a nominal cost.
I think that would be very prudent.
And then the portfolio it's obviously tough to time a sale of one of these properties.
So we'll -- obviously that will factor in when those happen.
We'll look at our capital structure principles how we redeploy that.
And then from a leverage perspective we want to also maintain our investment grade rating and that's always been a debt-to-cap ratio of 35 to 45 in that range but sometimes it's a little bit higher when we make acquisitions.
But as we continue to focus on cash and debt reduction that'll come back down and then we'll decide at that point when we get to the right levels that we're comfortable with from an investment grade rating we'll redeploy excess cash back in towards Kennametal stock with the overall arching ability to even do better in working capital.
We think we'll be able to generate some additional opportunities as we embark on a new game plan going forward.
Research Division</strong> And then just one last quick one.
The restructuring charges in the fiscal Q2 seem to be pretty well balanced between the 2 segments.
But the end market outlook the next 12 months looks a lot worse in infrastructures.
So should we see the balance of the Phase 2 related restructuring costs for almost entirely the infrastructure? Or do you think a balance is needed because the industrial sales outlook is also pretty weak? It's balanced.
Again as Don said there's no sacred cows.
We're looking at all areas where we can get the best and quickest returns we're going to focus on.
We want to make sure that we can turn around some of the business in infrastructure.
But I wouldn't say it's necessarily directionally one way or the other.
The portfolio will speak for itself.
We're also looking at how we can improve our effectiveness and efficiencies in the back office as well.
So some of those costs will get allocated.
So indirectly they'll go to both businesses.
But I would keep it the same for now and as we go further into the process we'll provide you an update.
The next question will come from Ann Duignan of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I guess my question is around just the size of the restructuring program.
Can you talk a little bit about the risks that are inherent with undertaking such a large restructuring program whether you have the team in place if you're using outside help? Or how do you keep the organization focused on the day-to-day while all of this other activity is going on? If you could just talk about some of that.
Sure Ann.
This is Don.
I think one of things that Kennametal has done well for many many years is the ability to restructure and keep their eye on the ball.
So I'm actually very comfortable with what I've seen in my first 74 days here.
That the team is extremely well-organized around footprint adjustment and making that happen in an orderly and quite frankly they execute very very well.
I think some of the new areas that we're going to be exploring over the next 12 to 24 months will be end-to-end processes in the G&amp;A area.
And in that area we have asked for some outside help.
And we have a number of people in the company who have been through this process in earlier parts of their career.
So we have plenty of experience both borrowed and hired and looking forward to making -- to executing quite well in that area also.
Ann I would add one thing to give you comfort on this.
I mean clearly we're focused on a lot more -- or a lot fewer items.
We do have the past experience as Don pointed out.
And this is very similar -- particularly in the infrastructure side it's very similar to what we experienced in the industrial prior to the Great Recession.
A lot of acquisitions we closed a lot of plants we divested a lot of businesses.
So we do have a lot of experience and we feel pretty good we have the right people and the right teams to execute this.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then 72 days in maybe you could give us an idea of what has been the most pleasant surprise if you like and I don't know if you'd be willing to tell us what maybe the most negative surprise you've seen in the organization.
Just your first impressions I guess.
Overall I mean for sure the passion.
This is an organization that's extremely passionate about markets about customers and about success of the organization long tradition long history of making things happen around the world.
And I've had the opportunity to visit with customers and had several town halls on 3 continents and it's consistent around the world that passion.
I think the other thing that I would say was a bit of a surprise everybody understands the opportunities we face.
There's no changed management here in helping people to see that we have some great opportunities in front of us.
In some cases to manage things like working capital in a different way and free up cash for better uses and in other ways things that -- ways that we can take the innovation that we're introducing -- that we have introduced for the last 12 months and it's coming out in the next 12 months and have a much bigger impact on market.
So I think quite frankly I've been pleasantly surprised is the best way to put it on all fronts.
Thanks for the question.
The next question will come from Eli Lustgarten of Longbow Securities.
A couple of things.
One as you revised your outlook and we talk about the kind of expected performance you expect from each of the 2 sectors -- I'm speaking specifically you've done a very good job in industrial market.
You still have double-digit operating margins 12.8% in the quarter I think adjusted.
Your expectation that you'll be able to hold double-digit operating performance despite reduced forecast particularly from Europe.
And as far as from the infrastructure side you -- 5% you're making a little bit of money and oil and gas is now first starting a big part of the drop I suspect.
Can you just give us some idea about the drop of oil and gas if you're sort of embedding in your forecast and whether you can stay profitable at all in that sector? Or should we expect it to be slightly in the red? No I think your comment first with the industrial side yes we expect that to remain at the double digit.
We are doing further restructuring.
A lot of the programs will accelerate some restructuring benefits.
Another area where we haven't seen the benefits yet given our lag with raw material cost is with the APT.
Now we typically lag.
So as the contract starts to roll off we should see also a little bit better input costs from raw material.
And with some of the markets they're dealing with they're doing okay in the Americas.
The indirect channels appears fairly good as well as Asia with the real soft spot being kind of the Eurozone and some transportation.
But overall given what we're focused on from a restructuring and some input costs I feel fairly good as far as the industrial side.
The challenge obviously is with the oil and gas markets but it's a little bit broader than that.
The oil and gas probably direct is a couple hundred million dollars for us on an annualized basis just that we know directly on the drilling side.
But we also sell a lot of powders which goes into the general engineering and the infrastructure side and we have a little bit higher exposure in the powders now that we acquired TMB last year.
So for example APT when it's coming down short term it puts a little bit pressure when we're selling blanks and components in an area there.
So when you combine those 2 it's having a significant impact on the second half coupled with the mining business that we've talked about.
I think you're familiar with U.S.
and China as well as we had some good projects with iron ore manufacturers in Australia given what's going on there.
That's pulled up back so we factor that in.
And then just some general power generation softness related to the Stellite business in Europe but when we're all done we're all doing restructuring as well on the overall Kennametal side which benefits will go to infrastructure.
We expect that to maintain kind of a low low single-digit performance for the year.
And if we step out a little bit and step back to the big restructuring that went out of Phase 2 in 12 to 24 months what kind of target normalized margins are you looking for to get out of Infrastructure? You were able to get to low double digits in the industrial side and that -- with volume we understand that but you've been able to even in a difficult environment maintain that.
What kind of target are you setting for the infrastructure side when you -- as you go through this process? And I assume that you're looking to get to a least low double digit similar to industrial at that point.
Is that fair? Well I mean we haven't set a target yet.
I think as we said in the call we'll be talking about that in the near term.
But part of that really it depends.
Going back to what Don reiterated it's about cost structure and the portfolio.
So in the past I know where we've been so clearly we're driving towards higher returns.
Right now we think the restructuring benefits will be additive and the portfolio focus will help us drive a lot more.
But at this point we're not ready to come out with a specific number.
Yes just to build on that Eli.
I think the first decision is what's core.
And we're doing a review of our strategies for each one of the components certainly of infrastructure.
And once we're clear in what that portfolio strategy looks like then it would be time for us to think more clearly around what is our goal then on margins and quite frankly the size of the business.
The next question will come from Stephen Volkmann of Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if we can just think about this portfolio restructuring a little bit.
I'm trying to get a sense of the magnitude of what you're looking at and I'm trying to figure out whether we're going to be selling off sort of onesie twosies maybe around the edges but mostly kind of focusing on the cost side or whether there might be a more significant portfolio restructuring happening.
And maybe the way to think about that might be if you have sort of some ballpark figure about what percentage of your businesses might not be hitting I think Don you said you used EVA target as you review these things.
And granted some of them will not be sold some of them will be fixed but just if there's any way to sort of size what's coming down the pipe for us on this portfolio restructuring.
Yes Steve.
It's just a little early for that.
The one thing we will say is that there are no sacred cows.
We're looking at everything.
But we're just not ready to -- it's just wouldn't be prudent to comment at this time.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough I'll ask you again next quarter.
How about Frank can we talk a little about the rate of the write-offs on the goodwill impairment? Which businesses were those specifically associated with? Which one of the recent acquisitions I guess? Or was it kind of all of them? Or is there any color there? Yes I'll give you a high level.
But you're right it's all infrastructure.
We do test the impairment at the segment level.
And given the downturn and the forecast you've got to look at what's going on from a market industry considerations which we did i.e.
oil and mining.
We look at the financial performance.
We look at what -- the stock and we look at the portfolio going on there.
And as a result of the $375 million I would tell you that a significant portion relates to the Stellite acquisition from a few years ago and then some remaining oil and gas acquisitions and some legacy stuff that's in the infrastructure was the rest of it.
But the biggest piece of that was related to the Stellite business.
The next question will come from Walter Liptak of Global Hunter.
LLC Research Division</strong> You presented some of the top line trends but also mentioned that the visibility is weak.
And I wonder if you can provide us with a little bit more color about how you came up with the back half revenue targets.
And did you make a big enough cut to the expectations so that we can hit a few numbers going forward? Yes remember we have -- there's 2 quarters left.
So the first half of the year obviously the performance in the second quarter was not where we had anticipated.
But we're -- like the biggest driver in the oil and gas stuff is we expect CapEx to be down about 30%.
So we're assuming they're going to be down 30%.
Now that's covering for the next 6 months.
We think that's in line from everything that we've heard from Baker from Halliburton Schlumberger the cuts that you're reading and we see the rig count dropping 60 a week or so.
So we feel that we've taken the right approach from both the bottom line what our sales force is seeing to put it in and that's the biggest driver there.
And we're not seeing any pick-up in any of the mining business as we -- and they're both profitable businesses.
So that's why I think the decrementals are a little bit higher.
So not only we have the top line but the mix within the business is also driving some of the performance.
So we think we've -- the best knowledge we have talking to our customers it's a pretty significant decline in the Infrastructure sales from last quarter for the remaining 6 months coupled with some currency impacts.
So -- well we try to take it in driven by the energy that's the best I can give you.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then yes getting to the next question on the decrements.
Could you repeat those decremental margins and explain why those are so -- is it inventory that's coming out some production getting cut why are the decrementals so high? Walt we actually outlined that in Frank's formal remarks.
So in the interest of time could you and I do that offline later today? LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
Okay no problem.
Can you comment Frank on the type of inventory you'd like to exit 2015 at? Well I think we're going to try to continue to take -- I don't want to put a number on it but I'd like to see a similar performance in the next few quarters of what we had in the quarter.
It's going to be challenging that's why I don't want to specifically give you a number because as the sales come down it gets a little bit more challenging.
But we're also trying to reduce both raw materials as well as our WIP and finished goods.
So we're going to focus on it.
That's what's in the cash flow guidance at this point.
And if we can do better we'll provide an update next quarter.
The next question will come from Adam Uhlman of Cleveland Research.
Can we start back with -- could you talk about what you're seeing in terms of pricing for the infrastructure segment currently? And then what's embedded in the second half outlook? And does that match the falling materials prices that you alluded to with APT? Or is that going to be more of a headwind? That's why it's in there from an overall pricing.
We do have some contractual agreements with energy providers that follow APT as you remember from years ago when it was going up.
This is a catalyst for us to get price.
And when it comes down we have to give some back.
The challenge there for us and that's why we built it into the decrementals is it comes a little bit quicker versus us getting the lower price from our contracts.
So it is reflected in there.
I don't think there's any short-term impacts on it that we haven't considered in the reduction to price as it relates to the infrastructure business.
Okay got you.
And then Frank you had mentioned the -- you sized the direct exposure to oil and gas drilling for us and you obviously cut the outlook for the industrial business segment.
But I'm wondering if you work through the numbers how much indirect exposure you believe you have on the cutting tools business and your expectation of softening with the sales of the energy industry there.
Let me say it this way.
It's in there.
But when you're selling to general industry side on the tooling side these are going to job shops as you know from your MSC guys.
Some days 1 week they're working on aerospace parts; one day they're working on energy.
So these guys will flip between where they can make money whether it's transportation aero or energy.
And we don't have point-of-sale reports for every single location.
So the bottom line is there's -- it's factored in but I can't give you specific number.
The next question will come from Andy Casey of Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple philosophical questions Don for you related to your future vision.
First and this is really related to the answer you provided to Steve Volkmann's earlier question about how we should frame the portfolio investigation potential impact.
Do you have a time frame in mind as to when Kennametal will be able to provide more detail around that? I'm on day 74 here Andy and my intention was to certainly take the next quarter and to make sure that we have a clear understanding of what might fit or what might not fit and be in a position to talk with more definition about our strategy going forward the next call.
So that's my current timing.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then second related to the release comments about Kennametal's underperformance versus expectation and then adding the perceived limited visibility generally of the business given the short lead times can you help us understand any internal changes that either have been or will be made and the approach to providing guidance for future performance? Can you give me a little help on that Andy? The internal changes in regards to...
LLC Research Division</strong> Sure sure.
In the past some of the top line was based on multiple or global industrial production and so forth.
I'm just wondering if that is still in place or alternatively maybe a more conservative approach is being employed.
Yes.
Right now Andy we're doing a bottoms-up and a top-down at this point.
So to try to get any correlation to a GDP industrial production excluding stuff it's -- the relationships don't make sense right now.
So we're going to the other approach.
The next question will come from Steven Fisher of UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm not sure if I missed this but how would you expect to see the $90 million to $105 million of benefits be realized over the next few years in terms of a timing perspective.
Yes.
So you have the original Phase 1 and the Phase 2.
I would imagine the $40 million to $50 million we'll get a little bit towards the end of fiscal '15 but then for budgeting purposes I would split it half in '16 and half in '17.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And what are your expectations for U.S.
highway construction season this year if you have any at this point? Well obviously it depends on the Highway Bill and I think some of the contractors are being conservative.
And we saw a little bit of softness in the quarter.
But seasonally we typically have -- the fourth quarter is a pretty good season for us.
I think it's a little premature right now to try to figure out what's going to happen in the construction.
I don't think there'll be significant year-over-year change but it really depend what'll happen with the funding and what some states are doing as far as raising their own.
Like in Pennsylvania they put additional gas tax which hopefully will spur some business.
But I would say the U.S.
will be better.
And once the U.S.
sorts out its infrastructure issues we're doing a little bit worse in Asia and Europe should hang in there relatively quick.
But it's a little bit early at this juncture to feel what the road contractors are anticipating given that the bill expires in May.
The next question will come from Rudy Hokanson of Barrington Research.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Earlier Don and it was alluded to in one of the questions but you did mention that EVA was going to be the principle that you are going to rely on.
And I was just wondering with again so many moving parts and how you see EVA being the -- maybe the primary principle rather than just one of many tools that you'd be using why you emphasized EVA and how you see that falling into place with a company like Kennametal? Why I think EVA -- I outlined 2 areas that we're going to look at.
First complementary materials and products really looking at how each of the businesses may or may not support other parts of our portfolio making sure that we have a clear understanding of that.
And then secondly EVA I think is a great measure whether or not it creates value for us as a company looking at each unit.
And that's going to be the measure.
The next question will come from Steven Barger of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I'm trying to just work through some of the guidance revisions.
Operating cash flow came down $10 million to $15 million net income came down more like $60 million or something.
Is working cap basically the entire bridge there? Yes pretty much.
I mean obviously we'll watch CapEx as well.
Receivables they declined.
We'll drain those a little bit quicker and we'll probably focus on some days there.
And obviously the swing is the remaining working capital.
So you're spot on.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then given the exposure that you have to mining and oil and gas and Don you talked about needing to drive organic growth what end markets do you really intend to focus on? Where can you go to stem some of the weakness that you're seeing in other parts of the portfolio? I think first of all we have a tremendous portfolio of innovation pipeline.
We've launched a lot of innovative products over the past couple of years.
We see significant opportunities to continue to take share with those products.
You've heard over the last years about a number of products on automotive and aerospace.
And quite frankly we have plenty of opportunity.
I mean I can't emphasize how many on the industrial side.
And then last piece is even in infrastructure where you have markets that are shrinking we actually see opportunities to take share and with some very innovative approaches with our product technology.
So I think for us it's back to basics.
I think a clear focus and prioritizing what we do really well and doing more of that is really the key.
I think some of the I would call it the portfolio additions that have been made that haven't created EVA taking that away as a distraction allows us to focus on the things that we do really really well.
So I think that's it.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up.
Some of the products that you talked about as you mentioned have been rolled out over the last year or 2.
Is this really something that you can implement quickly to where you can go to the sales force and say this is the targeted area that we need to go to in order to kind of kickstart that? Or is that a longer process in terms of a product review before you can really go and start taking that share? No I -- NOVO Sphere is a case in point.
This is a technology that's been introduced now for a while and it's garnered quite a bit of support.
There's a number of customers out there that love it and we'll be looking to take that technology to a much wider group of customers and we think that can help us significantly in the industrial market.
Our final question will come from Ross Gilardi of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of last ones.
I don't think you guys talk much about pricing.
Can you address that? And in this weak demand environment have you seen the pricing environment get a little nastier? And is that contributing at all to your guidance revision? And then I have a follow-up.
Yes as far as first with infrastructure yes it has been negative it's getting negative given the correlation with the APT prices dropping.
So we'll have the short-term squeeze and as I commented on before that is factored into the decrementals.
And then on the Industrial side very similar to our key competitors Sandvik ISCAR et cetera.
Everybody went out with price increases here in January.
It's not an across-the-board.
It'll depend on some of the newer products where we have a significant advantage or where we can could prove to the customer we have the productivity savings.
But it's going to be a challenge.
We're not expecting much in price in the industrial for the rest of the year as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one of your larger mining customers I think is talking more about more in-sourcing on parts and components.
And is that accounting for any meaningful portion of your -- the weakness you continue to see in mining? Or is it -- do you think it's just solely end market-driven? Yes I think it's mainly end market-driven.
Talking to our guys we feel that both underground and the surface as it relates to our products that we've increased share.
And we're the clearly the market leader in share.
At this time we will conclude the question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call back over to Don Nolan for his final words.
So thank you very much for attending our earnings call.
As you heard the Kennametal team is taking immediate steps to address our performance challenges and to drive organic growth and improve shareholder returns.
So I look forward to updating you all on our progress on our next quarterly call.
Thank you.
A replay of this event will be available approximately 1 hour after its conclusion.
To access the replay you may dial toll-free within the United States 8 (777) 344-7529.
Outside of the United States you may dial (412) 317-0088 or toll-free from Canada 1 (855) 669-9658.
You will be prompted to enter the conference ID 10056851 then the pound or hash symbol.
You will be asked to record your name and company.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning.
I would like to welcome everyone to Kennametal's Third Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Call.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this event is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Denise.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us to review Kennametal's third quarter fiscal 2015 results.
We issued our quarterly earnings press release earlier today.
You may access this announcement via our website at www.kennametal.com.
Consistent with our practice in prior quarterly conference calls we've invited various members of the media to listen to this call.
It's also being broadcast live on our website and a recording of this call will be available on our site for reply through June 5 2015.
I'm Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations for Kennametal.
Joining me for our call today are President and Chief Executive Officer Don Nolan and Interim CFO Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller Marty Fusco.
Don and Marty will discuss the March quarter's financial performance.
After their remarks we'll be happy to answer your questions.
In addition fiscal 2015 third quarter presentation slides are available on our website as well as in our Form 8-K filing.
At this time I'd like to direct your attention to our forward-looking disclosure statement.
The discussion we'll have today contains comments that may constitute forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involve a number of assumptions risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information regarding these risk factors and uncertainties is detailed in Kennametal's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition Kennametal provided the SEC with a Form 8-K a copy of which is currently available on our website.
This enables us to discuss non-GAAP financial measures during this call in accordance with SEC Regulation G.
This 8-K presents GAAP financial measures that we believe are most directly comparable to those non-GAAP financial measures and it provides a reconciliation of those measures as well.
I'll now turn the call over to Don.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thank you Quynh and hello everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
In the March quarter we made significant progress in accelerating our cost reduction measures.
We delivered adjusted earnings per share of $0.46 and year-to-date operating cash flow of $143 million; both metrics above our expectation for the March quarter.
That said there were challenges in several end markets including a continued global decline in energy.
We have targeted three key initiatives to further Kennametal's competitive and financial position.
These actions will drive improved performance and more effective capital deployment.
Our focus is on cost reductions portfolio management and working capital improvements.
We also intend to adjust our cost structure to reflect certain declining end markets.
First we're launching a Phase 3 restructuring initiative and have identified an additional $25 million to $30 million in cost savings which we expect to be complete by March 2017.
Secondly our portfolio management review indicates that there is a potential to divest a combination of businesses in the range of $150 million to $400 million in annual sales.
And thirdly based on our footprint review we believe that we can reduce our manufacturing footprint by roughly 20% to 25% over the next several years.
For the March quarter consolidated sales declined 9% from the prior year on an organic basis.
Sales were lower by 5% from the December quarter with 3% of the decrease due to foreign currency exchange rate.
On an organic basis and by segment Industrial sales were slightly lower with a decrease of 2% while Infrastructure sales declined 16% compared with prior year.
Q3 was dramatically impacted by lower oil and gas drilling activity and a continued slowdown in mining.
Approximately 8% to 9% of Kennametal's total sales are related to the oil and gas sector not including those customers who may indirectly serve this market.
Looking at a bigger picture 20% to 25% of our sales are energy or are targeted to energy and related markets.
In addition to the challenging macroeconomic environment our sales were negatively impacted by 6% due to foreign currency exchange.
Marty will discuss the specifics of the March quarter including the additional Infrastructure impairment charges recorded for this period and the related decline in its outlook.
We are working hard to overcome the market uncertainties by identifying ways to improve our business.
Our passionate global team of employees is delivering great service and innovations that truly matters to our customers.
And I remain committed to taking a fresh look at every aspect of the company and while the assessment is not complete we are fixing problems in execution and overall performance.
While we are reducing costs in many areas we're also investing in capabilities to better serve our customers and support growth.
These are our top priorities: to maximize profitability and improve shareholder returns.
We're mapping our path forward and will share our longer term plan at our Analyst Day event in December of this year.
Regarding our capital allocation process we will be disciplined and prioritize our capital investments to drive margin enhancement in our business.
We remain balanced in returning cash to shareholders through dividends and over the longer term share repurchases.
As we realize restructuring program benefits we expect to be comfortably within financial metric thresholds for our current credit rating.
Also proceeds from divestitures will provide funds for further debt reduction and restore capacity for share repurchases.
We remain committed to maintaining our investment grade ratings.
For fiscal year 2015 we reduced debt by $158 million.
And in addition we are planning to utilize overseas cash for further debt reduction in the range of $50 million to $100 million.
At this time it really doesn't make sense for us to consider acquisitions.
There are much better investment opportunities that exist within our core businesses.
We have defined the following priorities for margin expansion: First we must continue to identify opportunities to accelerate our sales growth.
We have distinctive technologies and capabilities and we will continue to invest in innovation that matters to introduce new products that help us win in the marketplace.
We remain committed to our historic pricing discipline which reflects our value as a full solutions provider.
We are prioritizing research and development efforts piloting new projects with a focus on velocity to increase the speed at which our products come to market; all the while we're capitalizing this on the strengths of our well-known brands.
Powerful brands like Beyond Widia Anita and of course Kennametal and leveraging our successes worldwide.
Customers appreciate our quality and performance as validated by the recent Silver Supplier Performance Award which we received from Boeing.
Second we'll be improving earnings and cash generation by implementing a more effective cost structure and reducing the complexity of our business.
We are taking a granular view of our SG&amp;A spending and using a disciplined return-driven decision making process; redeploying some savings to areas with the greatest potential for growth.
We also increased our efforts related to cash generation by managing everyday costs and taking a close look at improving inventory levels and other aspects of working capital.
Through our Phase 1 and Phase 2 restructuring programs we realized $21 million in savings so far.
To date we have closed four facilities and divested one facility as part of Phase 1.
We are identifying additional opportunities through our Phase 3 restructuring initiatives estimated to achieve an additional $25 million to $30 million of annualized savings.
These actions represent an enterprise-wide cost reduction program as well the consolidation of certain manufacturing facilities.
While the size and magnitude of each restructuring program varies we continuously look for ways to streamline our business and expect more to come.
Combined the current restructuring actions are estimated to generate total savings of $115 million to $135 million on an annualized basis by March 2017.
Over the long term we believe that we can reduce our manufacturing footprint by roughly 20% to 25% from the current level including a piece from the portfolio realignment.
In addition we expect to implement more actions to reduce administrative costs when the portfolio review process is completed.
We are strengthening Kennametal's culture reinforcing a mindset of improved execution and clear accountability.
We are measuring our success through improvements in sales margins earnings and free cash flow.
Finally we are streamlining our portfolio to determine what offers the best EVA metrics to improve profitability and allow us to focus on our core.
We define our core as those businesses that have the technology and manufacturing processes that enable Kennametal to bring value to our customers.
As mentioned earlier we believe there is potential to divest a combination of businesses in the range of $150 million to $400 million in annual sales.
These businesses have margins significantly lower than the corporate average.
Additionally we want to be clear that our portfolio review will be ongoing and not a one-time effort.
To accomplish our goals we created a transformation team that is led by one of my direct reports to ensure executive level focus.
We are closely tracking key metrics and each area is reviewed on a weekly basis.
We will provide an update each quarter so that you can measure our progress.
Regarding fiscal 2016 we will provide guidance and related assumptions during our next quarter's earnings call.
While we can't provide specifics at this time we can provide a high level perspective.
We are not anticipating much improvement in the current market trends.
Also we'd like to remind investors that while restructuring savings will accelerate there will be substantial headwinds in the form of foreign currency exchange as well as difficult comparisons in the energy markets particularly in the first half.
These factors lead us to view fiscal 2016 as a year in which we will adjust our cost structure and position the company for future margin expansion improved cash flow and better returns.
My confidence in Kennametal's future is driven by the strength of our innovation focus our market leading brands and our geographic reach.
I'll now turn the call over to Marty who will discuss our financial results for the quarter in greater detail.
Vice President-Finance &amp; Corporate Controller</strong> Thank you Don.
Some of my comments are related to non-GAAP metrics so please see the non-GAAP reconciliations filed with our Form 8-K and in our press release.
As Don mentioned the March quarter presented additional challenges as certain served end markets further weakened coupled with a more severe downturn than previously expected in the global energy market.
Those of you who follow our monthly order trends have seen this trend.
Top line challenges were offset by additional cost reductions during the quarter.
Our adjusted earnings per share for the quarter was $0.46 compared to $0.75 for the prior year.
Current year adjusted EPS excluded the following: asset impairment charges of $0.90 per share related to our Infrastructure segment restructuring and related charges of $0.12 per share and tax expense of $0.02 per share related to a planned cash redeployment.
We are progressing with the Phase 1 restructuring program which generated pre-tax benefits of approximately $8 million in the quarter compared to $1 million in the prior year period.
Phase 1 restructuring pre-tax benefits are projected to be $50 million to $55 million on an annualized basis with pre-tax charges estimated to be $55 million to $60 million.
Also we are making progress with our Phase 2 restructuring program which was announced last quarter and generated pre-tax benefits of approximately $1 million in the quarter.
This program is part of the efforts to further right-size our cost structure and is expected to deliver pre-tax annualized benefits of $40 million to $50 million with $90 million to $100 million in estimated pre-tax charges and we expect to complete this by the end of calendar 2016.
To further enhance operational efficiencies through an enterprise-wide cost reduction program as well as the consolidation of certain additional manufacturing facilities we also announced another restructuring program.
This program referred to as Phase 3 is expected to deliver pre-tax annualized benefits of $25 million to $30 million incur $40 million to $45 million in estimated pre-tax charges and be completed over the next two years.
Total benefits for all three programs are expected to range from $115 million to $135 million.
And total charges are expected to range from $185 million to $205 million.
We continue to employ specific and targeted actions to maximize cash flow and liquidity with a key focus on improved working capital management.
This resulted in strong free operating cash flow of $143 million year-to-date.
Now let me walk through the key items in the income statement.
Sales for the quarter were $639 million compared with $755 million in the same quarter last year.
Sales decreased by 15% reflecting a 9% organic decline and a 6% unfavorable impact from currency exchange.
Turning to the sales performance by business segment.
Our Industrial segment sales of $355 million decreased 11% from $400 million in the prior year quarter due to unfavorable currency exchange of 8% organic decline of 2% and 1% from divestiture.
Excluding the impact of currency exchange sales increased approximately 2% in transportation general engineering decreased approximately 1% and aerospace and defense decreased approximately 6%.
On a regional basis sales increased 12% in Asia offset by sales decreases of 6% in Europe and 4% in the Americas.
In Asia sales growth was driven by new project tooling packages in the transportation market.
In Europe we saw broad end-market softness.
In the Americas sales declined primarily due to weakness in the energy and general engineering markets.
Overall general engineering was impacted by weaker global demand which included lower activity related to the energy markets.
Infrastructure segment sales of $284 million decreased 20% from $356 million in the prior year.
The decrease was driven by 16% organic sales decline and 4% unfavorable currency exchange.
Excluding the impact of currency sales decreased by approximately 23% in energy and by approximately 15% in earthworks.
Energy sales were impacted by an accelerated decline in demand for oil and gas products in all regions.
Extended weakness in mining activity particularly in the U.S.
and Asia together with decreased U.S.
road rehabilitation tool demand and reduced project spending globally led to lower earthworks sales.
On a regional basis sales decreased 18% in the Americas 15% in Asia and 11% in Europe.
Moving to our consolidated operating performance.
Our gross profit margin was 31.2% compared with 31.6% in prior year.
Our adjusted gross profit margin in the current and prior period was 31.3% and 32.7% respectively.
The decline in our margin was due to the organic sales decline unfavorable business mix in the Infrastructure segment and unfavorable currency exchange partially offset by restructuring benefits.
The reduction of finished goods and work-in-process inventory impacted margins by approximately 50 basis points.
Operating expense as a percentage of sales was 21.6% compared with 20.2% in the prior year.
Adjusted operating expense as a percentage of sales was 21.5% for the current period and 19.9% in the prior year.
Adjusted operating expense declined $13 million year-over-year due to favorable foreign currency exchange impacts restructuring benefits and containment of discretionary spending.
Cost reduction actions are in place and will continue to align our cost structure with the realities of the current market conditions.
Operating loss was $120 million compared with operating income of $77 million in the same quarter last year.
Adjusted operating income was $56 million compared with $90 million in the same quarter last year.
Adjusted operating results in the current period were driven by organic sales decline unfavorable mix in Infrastructure and unfavorable currency exchange offset partially by restructuring benefit.
Adjusted operating margin was 8.8% in the current period compared with 11.9% in the prior year period.
During the March quarter we finalized the non-cash pre-tax impairment charge related to an Infrastructure trade name.
As a result an additional non-cash pre-tax charge of $7 million or $0.05 was recorded.
We also completed our additional impairment tests of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets.
The tests resulted in a non-cash pre-tax impairment charge of $153 million or $0.85 per share in our Infrastructure segment due to the decline in the future energy market outlook being more severe than previously anticipated.
Combined impairment charges in the quarter of $160 million will not have an impact on our bank covenants.
Approximately $112 million of goodwill remains on the books for Infrastructure as of March 31.
Given the significant impairments in the Infrastructure segment it continues to be the focus of our portfolio review.
Looking at the operating income performance by business segment.
The Industrial segment operating income was $35 million compared with $51 million in the prior year.
Adjusted operating income was $44 million compared to $59 million in the prior year quarter.
These results were driven by organic sales declines partially offset by restructuring benefits.
Industrial adjusted operating margin was down 240 basis points to 12.4% compared with 14.8% in the prior year.
The Infrastructure segment operating loss was $153 million compared with operating income of $28 million in the prior quarter of last year.
As previously mentioned we recorded non-cash pre-tax impairment charges of $160 million.
Adjusted operating income was $14 million compared to $33 million in the prior year quarter.
Adjusted operating income decreased primarily due to lower organic sales coupled with unfavorable mix of sales and lower fixed costs absorption related to reduced demand levels in earthworks and energy product lines; partially offset by the benefits of restructuring.
Infrastructure adjusted operating margin was 5% compared with 9.3% in the prior year.
Our effective tax rate was 64.4% benefit on a loss in the current quarter compared with 24.1% provision on income in the prior year quarter.
Excluding the impact of special charges the adjusted effective tax rate of 23.1% decreased primarily due to jurisdictional mix of income.
Turning to cash flow as a result of our working capital initiatives we generated strong year to date operating cash flow of $220 million and we're approximately $66 million above the comparable prior year to date March period.
Year to date we generated $143 million of free operating cash an increase of 110% compared with $68 million in the prior year period.
We delivered this strong cash flow after investing $76 million in net CapEx.
We remain confident in our continued cash flow generation and committed to our capital structure principles.
Our liquidity remains strong supported by our $600 million revolving credit facility which is due April 2018 of which $486 million was available at March 31.
We have ample cushion under our financial covenants and an attractive debt maturity profile as our nearest maturity is in November 2019 when our $400 million 2.65% senior unsecured notes are due.
Our cash balance was $146 million at March 31 which mostly resides overseas.
Through prudent and balanced debt facility structuring we are favorably positioned to deploy from overseas operations for debt reduction.
We believe we are advantaged in this regard thereby providing additional liquidity flexibility if needed.
We enjoy investment grade ratings from all three agencies and remain committed to maintaining them.
Our credit ratings were affirmed in the December quarter by all three agencies who acknowledged our strong liquidity and favorable debt reductions since the TMB acquisition last year.
Our fiscal year to date debt reduction is $158 million and we are now targeting full year debt reduction of $250 million to $300 million.
We will achieve this significant debt reduction through enhanced working capital performance liquidity management and use of overseas cash.
Our debt to capital ratio at March 31 2015 was 39.2% compared to 35.1% as of June 30.
The increase was driven by the Infrastructure impairment charges.
Turning to the outlook we refined our outlook to reflect one remaining quarter in fiscal 2015.
We are tightening our adjusted EPS guidance to a range of $1.95 to $2.05 compared with previous guidance of $1.90 to $2.10 maintaining the midpoint at $2.00 per share.
Our fiscal 2015 outlook is based on the following assumptions: we expect fiscal 2015 total sales to decline in the range of 7% to 8% and organic sales to decline in the range of 5% to 6%.
Previously we had projected total sales declines ranging from 6% to 7% with organic sales decline of 4% to 5%.
We increased the organic sales decline by 1% driven by Infrastructure which will be offset by accelerated expecting restructuring benefits and cost reduction efforts.
Our effective tax rate excluding special charges for fiscal 2015 is forecast to be approximately 22% to 23%.
We will continue to look for ways to balance our geographic presence and minimize our tax rate.
Based on these factors we expect EPS to range from $1.95 to $2.05 in fiscal 2015.
As discussed earlier today we continue to take aggressive actions to reduce costs including streamlining our manufacturing footprint.
In implementing these actions we expect to recognize the majority of the remaining charges related to Phase 1 restructuring initiatives over the next three months.
While near term conditions are challenging we are in the process of developing a path forward that will result in improved shareholder returns.
We have a renewed focus on managing what we can control and will continue to sharply focus on cash flow.
We expect to generate cash from operating activities ranging from $295 million to $320 million in fiscal 2015 versus our previous expectation of $270 million to $295 million.
With anticipated capital expenditures ranging from $115 million to $120 million we now expect to generate between $180 million and $200 million of free operating cash flow for the fiscal year.
To facilitate an acceleration of our debt reduction commitment to lessen the impact of our projected decline in operating income we are planning a cash redeployment of approximately $50 million to $100 million from overseas.
We expect to complete this redeployment in the June quarter.
We recorded tax expense in the current quarter of $2 million or $0.02 per share related to this anticipated redeployment.
We also believe we'll be able to generate additional cash flows from our portfolio review process.
We will utilize these proceeds along with working capital reductions primarily for the purpose of debt reduction in the near term.
Over a longer term our capital allocation process will continue to include disciplined capital investments in the business as well as returning cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Don for his closing comments.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Marty.
My confidence in Kennametal's future stems from the strength of our people our great products and our geographic reach.
We continue to develop innovative technologies and nurture great talent within our organization.
While there certainly is a lot of work to be done we're making progress.
Our key priorities are to simplify our portfolio align our cost structure with the realities of the market and invest in the business to deliver core growth with an accountable customer-focused culture.
These are all central to developing our path forward to drive organic growth maximize profitability and generate improved shareholder returns.
As we achieve these near term priorities we'll continue to build a strategic roadmap to define our future and frame the long term picture for Kennametal and our shareholders.
We'll now take your questions.
Our first question will come from Ann Duignan of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning everyone.
Vice President-Finance &amp; Corporate Controller</span></strong> Good morning Ann.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Ann.
Don I don't know if I harped on this the last quarter also but I'm curious why do we have to wait till December or the Analyst Meeting given the size of this restructuring and given the importance of this restructuring and I think it's important that investors have confidence in the team's ability to pull it off and I think we would like to see more details sooner rather than later? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well.
I think Ann it's really important right now we have a focus on the initiatives as we've described.
Our focus is on optimizing our portfolio making sure that we're really clear on what's core and what isn't and that – and our focus on working capital clearly needs to be the center of our attention.
And what attention we have left after those initiatives is focused on making sure that we have a successful and we're aligned on a long-term strategy.
So this is purely prioritization.
And is it your expectation that you will be out meeting with investors before December? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes absolutely.
Okay that's helpful.
Thank you.
And then turning back to the businesses I don't think you gave guidance in the release by segment.
Could you provide revenue guidance by segment? Vice President-Finance &amp; Corporate Controller</span></strong> Hi Ann.
This is Marty.
We don't provide guidance on our top-line by segment.
I could talk a little bit about sort of end market outlook.
As far as Industrial goes I would say in total we expect similar levels as we did in Q3.
And from an Infrastructure standpoint we are continuing to experience the current trends within oil and gas and energy as well as a little bit softer construction season than we were expecting at this point as our customers are waiting to see what might happen with funding for the highway bill.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I will say – just to build on that through April we're on track to achieve our forecast for the quarter.
Okay.
That's helpful.
I'll get back in line.
I appreciate it.
The next question will be from Julian Mitchell of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hello Julian.
Hey.
Just wanted to follow-up on the Industrial business and the demand trends within that.
I guess a lot of companies seem to see demand particularly soften in sort of February and then maybe get a little bit better in the last month or two.
Just wondered if you saw that within Industrial and maybe what's happening in Europe in that business is there any sign at all recently of a pickup there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I would say Julian we were pretty much on track with our forecast for the quarter.
I would say no particularly significant surprises.
And I would say on the Industrial side certainly we're on track to achieve our forecast this quarter.
So my take is over the six months pretty much as expected.
So we're not seeing any significant changes.
I would say the only area where we are continually watching was Infrastructure as Marty mentioned we fell a little bit short of what we expected in the last quarter and this quarter we're pretty much on track with what we expected.
Thanks.
And then just a follow-up question around pricing dynamics.
I think one of your main cutting tool competitors talked about how the currency moves would not really affect pricing strategies as they saw it.
Have you seen any shift in pricing either through currency moves or demand driven in oil and gas? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Have not seen – I just speak philosophically I don't think currency is a key driver in the short term I don't think certainly not for us.
We continue to focus on the value added portion of the market and we think we create considerable value for our customers and price accordingly.
We haven't seen anything.
Vice President-Finance &amp; Corporate Controller</span></strong> And I would just add to that Julian that – reminding everyone we did go out with some general price increases in January that we talked about last quarter.
And from a pricing perspective all of the pricing impacts within our strategy are reflected within the current guidance.
Thanks.
And then just a very quick last one.
The cost savings from Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 any sense of the weighting of those three across Infrastructure versus Industrial? Is Infrastructure sort of 70% 80% of that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I would say now that we've added Phase 3 it's pretty consistent with what we've seen the first two phases.
I'd estimate probably in the 50-50 range good estimate.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Stephen Volkmann of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Stephen.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Vice President-Finance &amp; Corporate Controller</span></strong> Good morning Stephen.
Just a couple of follow-ons if I could.
I mean you're starting to sketch out what this turnaround is going to look like and I'm curious the divestiture of $150 million to $400 million in annual sales sort of a wide range? And I guess I'm curious what those businesses look like now? I mean do you think they're divestible in their current condition do you have to do some work on them first? And is that just sort of a waypoint towards something bigger? I think you mentioned a footprint reduction ultimately of 20% to 25% but I can't do the math that fast does that mean the numbers will be bigger as we go down the road? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No at this point I think $150 million to $400 million is the right range.
And as I said in the last call this is not a fire sale.
We have – I would say some businesses that may have better natural owners people who would value organizations that would value these businesses.
And we think – we're not in a hurry but on the other hand these are businesses that we don't think are good for the long-term success of the company.
So...
Sorry would you expect to have these sort of in other hands by the time you do this Analyst Day in December is that part of the idea? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I don't think I can really specify timing right now.
As you know when you think about divesting a business it's a balance on timing and costs – or timing and price.
And I would say that this is something I'd rather do sooner than later but not a fire sale.
How's that? Okay.
Yeah fair enough.
Thanks.
And then since you opened the door a crack on 2016 I'm just going to take a shot at a couple of things here.
Restructuring benefits in 2016 you should probably have a decent idea assuming the end markets are kind of flattish what does that look like? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We're just not prepared at this point.
At our next earnings call we'll be giving a little more definition around what we're thinking about 2016.
Just as you've mentioned I just wanted to crack the door a bit.
We're thinking hard about it and we'll be prepared to talk more in our next earnings call.
Vice President-Finance &amp; Corporate Controller</span></strong> And Steven I would add to that that Phase 1 the range of $50 million to $55 million in benefits estimating about half of that in 2016.
Phase 2's benefits I would say you're going to get a majority of them within 2016.
And Phase 3 likely near the end we'll start to realize a chunk of those benefits from Phase 3.
Okay.
Great.
That's helpful.
And then just finally I couldn't tell from the tone but is there a potentially a Phase 4 as well? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think what we've said is that we're going to continuously look carefully at where it is what we need to accomplish in our – as part of our strategic plan.
Most assuredly there is more to come as we divest portions of the business.
As we mentioned the $150 million to $400 million there will be opportunities to realign around that.
So I'm not sure I want to announce Phase 4 but there has to be more to come.
Yeah.
Great.
Thank you so much.
The next question will come from Adam Uhlman of Cleveland Research.
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Adam.
Vice President-Finance &amp; Corporate Controller</span></strong> Good morning Adam.
If I could follow-up on the businesses that are being evaluated for sale you had mentioned that the margin profile of that business was lower than the average.
I am wondering if you could put some meat on the bone on that? Are they profitable are they like 1% to 2% just a little extra color there would be helpful? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
At this point we just can't provide much color on that one.
As we make progress down that path we'll certainly give you some illumination.
But right now we just can't comment.
Okay.
And then related to the restructuring savings that were being mentioned earlier in your prepared remarks.
Don you had mentioned that you thought that fiscal 2016 you were seeing some volume headwinds.
And I think you managed that you'd be positioning for EBIT and margin expansion in 2017.
I am wondering if that means that the volume environment is going to offset some of these restructuring savings that we're looking at for 2016 and therefore the margins would not expected to grow next year is that what you're trying to telegraph? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think we'll certainly have more to talk about when we meet after next quarter in July but I will comment on the significant headwinds.
We have currency headwinds which many companies are facing right now.
And certainly the impact of the energy sector which as I mentioned is 20% 25% of our revenues and we just don't see that trend changing.
So as we prepare and head into our next fiscal year making sure that we have the right cost structure in place for that size is important.
And then quite frankly positioning ourselves for the upturn we're confident that eventually these markets will come back and we want to be very well positioned for that upturn.
But more to come when we talk in July.
Okay.
I guess just to round it out I guess your expectations for currency impact to earnings for this year Martha could you update us on that please? Vice President-Finance &amp; Corporate Controller</span></strong> Sure.
We have some significant headwinds from a euro perspective.
I will tell that I would say within the guidance and the forecast that we've provided we're expecting a similar euro exchange rate as you would see today.
For the full year it's pretty consistent where we have it in the guidance it's not that significantly different from the guidance that we had provided on currency last quarter.
Our next question will come from Walter Liptak of Global Hunter.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Walt.
I wanted to ask I'll take a shot at 2016 too and understanding currencies the headwind and the energy too.
I wonder if you would comment on if there's anything about Europe or some of the other geographic regions that worry you about 2016? Or is it anything in North America that's a major concern as you look into 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You know I think I'll take the obvious path here Walt.
Industrial certainly looks better than Infrastructure heading into 2016.
And I think that right now we're thinking about similar trends as far as China.
We're quite happy with our Industrial business in Asia overall right now.
We think we're growing faster than the marketplace.
And that's important because that marketplace is not growing as fast as it had in the past.
And we'll probably – we'll see the same trend next year.
In Europe certainly it continues to be challenging continues – but the good news is we're very well-positioned in Germany which is one of the strongest economies in Europe.
So that has certainly benefited us.
And right now we don't see significant upturn in Europe as we head into next year.
Is that helpful Walt? Yeah it is.
Thank you for that.
And then kind of another question just on the manufacturing footprint I wonder if you could clarify for us how much of the footprint has been kind of either reduced – plants taken out so far that 20% to 25% that's in Phase 1 or Phase 2 or in Phase 3.
And how much – and is any of that 20% to 25% footprint reduction related to the divestitures? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So the 20% to 25% will include the portfolio realignment but it's going forward.
It's plants that haven't been closed yet.
So much of Phase 1 we've already done.
So this would include portions of Phase 2 Phase 3 and unannounced changes and closures.
Okay.
So it's going to be a fair amount of I guess heavy lifting on changes to the factory floor.
How does that impact the outlook for volumes? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think one of the things that we do very well quite frankly are these transitions.
We've been at it for a few years now.
We've got an accomplished team that's very good at doing the things that you need to execute well in order to manage these transitions.
We're committed to making sure that we continue to deliver to our customers and not have an impact on their service levels.
Okay great.
Okay.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Schon Williams of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Schon.
Vice President-Finance &amp; Corporate Controller</span></strong> Good morning Schon.
I wonder if we could maybe still – maybe dive in a little bit more on the European commentary.
I am a little surprised to see Europe take another leg down maybe especially on the Industrial side.
Could you just talk about – do you think your down 6% do you think that's in line with the market or is there some pricing effect that's taking effect there maybe if you could just give a little bit more color on what specific end markets within Europe are maybe the biggest headwinds? And then I know it's a smaller piece of the business but could you just comment on the aerospace and defense trends down against a pretty soft comp? I am just trying to get some color on maybe what's happening there? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
So I'll pick up the aerospace.
I think in aerospace we actually we had one particular customer that we decided to let go.
We decided that the margins weren't attractive enough and that's impacting our top line in aerospace certainly.
I think overall on Europe we have – I think we're holding our own.
I am happy with our Industrial business overall.
I think we're holding share or maybe even slightly gaining share in Europe so I feel pretty comfortable there.
I think we will continue to be challenged.
I think Europe that the market in general I don't see anything on the horizon that would say it's getting better.
So we're going to have to continue to do all the things we do even better to earn new business as we head down the road here.
What about maybe European auto specifically – you had talked about that being a headwind in the past.
But I mean European sales starting to accelerate here.
I mean is that – could that be a modest tailwind for you going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> More cars definitely better.
But I think I don't see it – I certainly don't see it in Q4.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And maybe one more if I could just sneak it in.
Any update on the CFO hunt at this point? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We've continued a very disciplined approach and we'll be keeping you updated as we make progress but nothing to report right now.
Okay.
Thanks guys.
The next question will come from Michael Feniger of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
I know there's been a lot of questions on 2016.
And I appreciate that you don't provide guidance but could you help us understand the seasonal pattern of the business now? Historically it's always been more second half weighted.
Should we be looking at 2016 – is the first half going to be much lower than second half how should we be thinking about the seasonal pattern of the business now? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Michael.
We'll be in a much better position to comment on that in July.
I think to be frank on that particular question we'll especially be watching this quarter.
So I'll defer that question to July.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Fair enough.
And we talked about – we heard you guys talk about inventories how much more inventory destocking do you guys have to do internally? Is that going to be weighing on the margins at all? And how do you feel the inventory is with the distribution and distribution channel right now? Vice President-Finance &amp; Corporate Controller</span></strong> Yeah Michael from an inventory perspective and I won't put numbers around quantifying the amount of inventory reduction because we do have a lot of moving parts but I will say we're focused on not just WIP and finished goods inventory which will impact the margins but also from a raw materials perspective some inventory reductions there in Q4.
And I would think similar margin impacts in the quarter for Q4 as we experienced in Q3 so roughly 50 basis points was in Q3.
50 basis points.
Thanks.
And then I guess just my last question guys.
I mean you did take down your organic growth guidance on the back of oil and gas.
But I think you made a comment that you're not seeing any pricing pressure.
How's the conversation going with customers right now in that market since it seems like demand continues to trend lower and below expectations? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think what I said was that we're going to continue to focus on the high end of the market.
We continue to focus on customers who really value the expertise and the solutions that we provide.
And in that end of the market quite frankly demand is high and we find opportunities.
Great.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Thanks.
Our next question will come from Samuel Eisner of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Yeah good morning everyone.
Vice President-Finance &amp; Corporate Controller</span></strong> Good morning Sam.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Sam.
I'm going to try one more time on fiscal 2016.
Based on your current views of end markets and the cost restructuring programs that you have already in place do you feel as though you can grow earnings next year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I'm sorry Sam.
I just have to defer that question to July.
We've still some homework to do and we'll be ready to talk about that when we get together for our earnings call after this quarter is complete.
On the Phase 3 initiatives can you talk specifically about what you are actually targeting for cost savings? Are you closing facilities in Europe or is it more head count reductions? I just want to understand what specifically those are.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I mean we're going to have similar to what we said on Phase 2 the Phase 3 will be a mix of administrative reductions and I want to emphasize that this is a structured program where we're changing processes.
We've brought in an outside consultant to help us through this change process and so it's structured and disciplined with milestones.
And so that is certainly a significant portion of what we're going to go through with Phase 3.
The second key driver here will be continued footprint restructuring so it will be a mix similar to Phase 2.
The $160 million charge that was taken the asset impairment or the intangible asset impairment what specifically was that for? Can you talk about which transactions historically that was for? Vice President-Finance &amp; Corporate Controller</span></strong> Yeah Sam.
This is Marty.
I'll put it this way.
The ending balance of goodwill in the Infrastructure segment of $112 million is lower than the goodwill that we added through the Tungsten Materials acquisition so you can read into it that way.
Our next question will come from Steve Barger of KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Steve.
Vice President-Finance &amp; Corporate Controller</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> I am just trying to think about mix from a high level.
As you've gone through your product and segment reviews can you tell us what percentage of your revenue is coming in below say a 10% operating margin and what percent might actually be losing money right now? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Steve that isn't usually something that – well I don't think we've ever shared that kind of detail on our product line.
I can tell you that the one thing we have shared is that the portion of the business that we're looking at divesting we certainly – that's well below the average profitability that we have in the business so there will be a net improvement going forward.
Inc.</span></strong> That's on the entire $400 million at the high end of the range of divestible revenue? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
But look we're very competitive in many markets and there is a range.
But we've never talked about what that range is and where.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
I guess I am just trying to get a sense for if you can divest that $400 million how much of a jump that gives you in terms of getting back to just call it a double-digit operating margin? Would that put you there or would there still be additional work to do? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
That would be something that we would cover as we divest.
So we'll give you some indication as we head down that path.
As you can imagine it just depends on the pieces right? Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
That's all I have.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
The next question will come from Stanley Elliott of Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Good morning.
Thank you for taking my question.
A quick question when we think about kind of the growth rate on a go-forward basis.
Industrial production used to be kind of two times plus a bit but with a smaller footprint I am assuming you guys are going to be divesting some of the slower growth products as well as deemphasizing slower growth products.
Is it possible that we could actually see that multiple expense to 2.5 times Industrial production or something of that magnitude with a little bit of market tailwind behind you? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I think first Stanley it depends on where in the world so certainly in some areas in the emerging markets you can get a multiple on Industrial growth.
But in areas Infrastructure is certainly not and certainly in I would call it the mature markets where we have – where you have continuous productivity gains.
You're probably not going to see that kind of factors – those kind of factors because people get more and more productivity out of the tools that they use.
So I just don't see that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> And then as thinking about working capital as a percent of sales historically has run pretty high for the company but with the divestures and fewer SKUs out there where kind of should we be able to bracket that as a percentage of sales kind of once some of these restructurings take hold? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Can you rephrase that Stanley? I'm not sure I understood the question.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
So working capital as a percent of sales has been historically very high for Kennametal.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> But with divestitures and then also de-emphasizing a certain number of SKUs you're going to have smaller SKUs out there.
So really where can the working capital go as a percentage of sales when we're thinking about cash flows for the company several years down the road? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
So first of all we certainly see opportunities for improvement.
And I mentioned in my last call and certainly we've mentioned several times it's one of our top three priorities.
We're just not quite yet in a position where we can lay out what is the end point.
Our goal is to be able lay that out with our strategic plan when we lay that out at the end of the year.
I will say though it's tied to these the portfolio realignment.
We need to get that behind us in order to be clearer on what our working capital goals will be.
So the first step is portfolio realignment and we'll be in a better position to talk about what's possible.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> No that sounds good.
Well thank you very much.
Best of luck.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Stanley.
At this time we will conclude the question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the call back over to Quynh McGuire for closing comments.
This concludes our discussion.
Please contact me Quynh McGuire at 724-539-6559 for any follow-up questions.
Thank you for joining us.
A replay of this event will be available approximately one hour after its conclusion.
To access the replay you may dial toll-free within the United States 877-344-7529.
Outside of the United States you may dial 412-317-0088 or toll-free from Canada 1-855-669-9658.
You will be prompted to enter the conference ID 10056855 then the pound or hash symbol.
You will be asked to record your name and company.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Good morning.
I would like to welcome everyone to Kennametal's Fourth Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Earnings Call.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the conference over to Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations.
Thank you Amy.
Welcome everyone.
Thank you for joining us to review Kennametal's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal 2015 Results.
We issued our quarterly earnings press release earlier today.
You may access this announcement via our website at www.kennametal.com.
Consistent with our process in prior quarterly conference calls we've invited various numbers of the media to listen in to this call.
It is also being broadcast live on our website and a recording of this call will be available on our site for replay through August 31 2015.
I'm Quynh McGuire Director of Investor Relations for Kennametal.
Joining me for our call today are President and Chief Executive Officer Don Nolan; and Vice President Finance and Corporate Controller and Interim CFO Marty Fusco.
Don and Marty will discuss the March quarter's or the June quarter's financial performance and after their remarks we'll be happy to answer your questions.
At this time I'd like to direct your attention to our forward-looking disclosure statement.
The discussion we'll have today contains comments that may constitute forward-looking statements as defined under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Such forward-looking statements involves risks and uncertainties that could cause the company's actual results performance or achievements to differ materially from those expressed in or implied by such forward-looking statements.
Additional information regarding these risk factors and uncertainties is detailed in Kennametal's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition Kennametal's provided the SEC with a Form 8-K a copy of which is currently available on our website.
This enables us to discuss non-GAAP financial measures during this call in accordance with SEC Regulation G.
This 8-K presents GAAP financial measures that we believe are most directly comparable to those non-GAAP financial measures and it provides a reconciliation of those measures as well.
I'll now turn the call over to Don.
Thank you Quynh.
Well hello everyone.
Thanks for joining us today.
We've been working hard to improve the business and are beginning to see some of the benefits.
Today we'll discuss our current quarter results and provide a forward view of fiscal year 2016.
We'll also talk about what we're seeing in the markets where we're performing where we're falling short and what we're doing to address the issues.
At our Analyst Day which is scheduled for December 15 in New York City we'll be able to go into more detail and convey our strategy and financial goals.
Performance for the June quarter was better than we anticipated on several fronts.
We made progress on our cost reduction measures and made significant improvements in working capital management.
Although we did forecast a year-over-year sales decline the demand environment was even more challenging than we expected.
Organic sales were down 10% from prior-year and from a segment perspective Industrial sales decreased 4% versus last year while Infrastructure sales were down 16% year-over-year.
Despite this we delivered adjusted earnings per share of $0.46 for the quarter and $2.02 for the fiscal year 2015.
Free operating cash flow was a record high $267 million compared to $156 million in the prior-year.
A $111 million year-over-year increase reflects considerable improvement in managing our working capital.
June quarter results demonstrate that even in a very challenging market environment our efforts to lower costs improve efficiencies and generate higher cash flows are having a favorable impact.
We recognize that we have more work to do to get the company back on track and we continue to take action.
We will control what we can and adjust our plans quickly when needed.
On portfolio simplification we're making progress and have narrowed the range of potential divestitures to $150 million to $250 million of sales.
We believe that exiting these non-core businesses will be accretive to our operating margin when complete.
We're running an orderly process to maximize the value of these properties and will provide an update when we can.
While we don't have any current plans for additional divestitures portfolio management will be ongoing to evaluate the returns on our assets.
We're getting our footprint right and as previously stated we plan to reduce our overall footprint by 20% to 25%.
This includes divestitures but is an addition to the current restructuring programs that we've announced.
To-date we've closed six facilities divested another and recently announced the rationalization of two additional facilities.
As we finalize the divestitures we expect there will be additional restructuring opportunities to eliminate stranded costs and further streamline our business.
We are aligning our cost structure and have decreased our global head count by approximately 6% compared with prior-year.
In addition we have benchmarked our corporate functions against top-performing companies and have plans in place to automate simplify and standardize the work we do.
These plans will reduce administrative costs and complexity while enabling a more effective deployment of resources.
We are improving working capital to deliver sustainable results throughout the cycle.
We've made progress by having more efficient inventory levels as is evident in our ability to achieve record free operating cash flow in this past quarter.
Finally we're strengthening our commercial capability and putting full support behind our teams to make it happen.
We have made changes in leadership and are driving better alignment between sales marketing and customer service.
We've also invested in information technologies like a customer relations management system so our teams have visibility of the data and the metrics that will help them win.
The benefits from these actions will be visible in future years and more specifics will be provided at our Analyst Day in December.
We're also thinking differently about investments.
We're shifting our emphasis from working capital to investing more capital in our plants.
This approach will drive productivity and profitability improvements in our manufacturing processes that have been successfully tested in various pilot programs.
For example we're optimizing the grinding capability in many of our facilities and we estimate a 20% return or better from this invested capital.
Everyone knows that Rome was not built in a day.
Transforming Kennametal will take time but we're not resting until it's done.
We will do what it takes to build a winning team drive world-class commercial capability deliver excellent service and quality and introduce new products that change the dialogue with our customers.
Our path forward in fiscal 2016 remains focused on increasing margins through portfolio simplification footprint restructuring and reductions in our G&amp;A costs.
At the same time we continue to invest in innovation to fuel organic growth all aimed at positioning Kennametal to be a premiere industrial company.
We've made notable strides in increasing our cash flow generation and we'll be relentless is our efforts to deliver meaningfully improved profitability.
Beyond fiscal 2016 we will expand our return on invested capital to the double-digit level as part of our long-term plan.
For fiscal 2016 we forecast earnings per share to be in the range of $1.70 to $2.
This includes $0.30 to $0.35 of exchange rate headwinds.
Put simply our headwinds include currency weak end markets and some near-term investments to support growth.
These factors are partially offset by the tailwind of our ongoing cost reduction measures.
Key assumptions include a projected year-over-year decline in organic sales of 1% to 3%.
While we continue to see some growth in the industrial segment it's just not sufficient to offset the significant weakness in our Infrastructure business primarily due to the oil and gas and mining markets.
In addition we expect foreign currency exchange to have a negative impact on sales of approximately 6%.
Year-over-year comparisons are anticipated to be unfavorable through December 2015 and we expect December quarter to be particularly challenging.
We have not included the impact of potential divestitures in fiscal 2016 guidance.
For the Industrial segment we expect approximately 4% organic sales growth in fiscal 2016.
Conditions in our served end markets are expected to remain favorable.
The transportation market remains healthy with projected auto builds of 90 million units globally 3% higher than prior-year.
U.S.
auto build rates are estimated to be 12 million units a year-over-year increase of approximately 4%.
We believe the demand in our General Engineering business will be mixed but our continued focus on the indirect channel will more than offset weakness in oil and gas activity.
In aerospace and defense production activity is expected to increase particularly in commercial aerospace.
Looking at Industrial from a geographic perspective we expect continued growth in the U.S.
and it represents a key target area as we have opportunities to improve our market position.
In China we still see moderate growth during the fiscal year despite a recent deceleration and Western Europe is beginning to improve and we should see slight growth in that area.
For the Infrastructure segment we're projecting an organic sales decline of approximately 9%.
Market trends reflect further contraction in the near-term although at a decelerating pace.
We expect difficult conditions to persist in the oil and gas sector with operating rates projected to remain at low levels through calendar 2015 and a very modest year-over-year increase beginning in calendar 2016.
Underground coal mining in the U.S.
continues to face headwinds with production rates further weakening in the near-term particularly in the Appalachian region.
In China coal production has stabilized and has shown some improvement.
While construction sales have been softer due to less project work globally and delays in global funding in the U.S.
we see some improvement coming from increased activities in road rehabilitation applications.
Today our restricting programs are on track to deliver projected benefits and we anticipate that the combined after-tax savings from all three restructuring programs to be between $115 million and $135 million on an annualized basis once fully implemented.
We've intensified our efforts on cash flow generation and we're beginning to see the benefits of improved working capital efficiencies.
We expect to generate $115 million to $135 million in free operating cash flow in fiscal 2016.
Net of anticipated capital expenditures of $160 million to $175 million.
As already discussed we are scaling up programs that have been proven and reflect very attractive risk adjusted returns.
We believe that this level of investment in our core businesses warranted to improve productivity in our manufacturing processes and further support innovation through new product introductions.
Further on uses of cash we will continue to reinvest our business.
Our board of directors just recently approved a dividend increase of $0.02 per share or 11% to $0.20 per share.
With recently completed overseas cash deployment and strong free operating cash flows we have paid down much of our revolving bank debt.
The dividend increase coupled with our significant debt reductions illustrates a confidence in our long-term plan to drive shareholder value.
In addition we'll continue to evaluate opportunities to buy shares of our stock as part of returning cash to shareholders.
We are working hard to simplify our business and realign our cost structure while taking actions to support further growth.
We will also remain dedicated to innovation and introducing new products with speed and purpose in order to strengthen our product portfolio.
We'll continue to focus on execution doing what we say and delivering on our commitments.
At the same time we'll also invest for the future to drive both our top line and bottom line.
Once we complete the divestitures we will have a reduced asset base and can more effectively focus on our core business.
Kennametal will be better positioned to drive margin expansion by leveraging our asset utilization and improving our return profile over the long term.
I'll now turn it over - I'll now turn it over to Marty Fusco for additional details on the financials.
Thank you Don.
Some of my comments are related to non-GAAP metrics.
Please see the non-GAAP reconciliation filed on Form 8-K and in the press release.
As Don mentioned the June quarter presented a challenging demand environment to the current economic conditions in many of our end markets.
The impacts of these top line challenges were lessened by restructuring benefits and additional cost reductions realized during the quarter.
We continue to make progress with all three of our current restructuring programs and realized benefits of approximately $17 million in the June quarter of which $14 million was incremental to the prior-year quarter.
We are on track to realize the expected total annual benefits for all three programs of $115 million to $135 million.
Federal charges for all programs are expected to range from $185 million to $205 million.
We delivered adjusted EPS for the quarter of $0.46 which was consistent with our guidance.
As Don also mentioned our focus on working capital management enabled us to deliver record free operating cash flow of $267 million for fiscal 2015.
Now let me walk through the key items in the income statement.
Sales for the quarter were $638 million compared with $772 million in the same quarter last year.
Sales decreased by 17% reflecting a 10% organic decline a 7% unfavorable impact from currency exchange and a 1% decrease from a prior-year divestiture offset partially by a 1% favorable impact due to more business days.
Turning to the sales performance by business segment; Industrial segment sales of $358 million decreased 14% from $416 million in the prior-year quarter due to unfavorable currency exchange of 10% organic sales decline of 4% and a prior-year divestiture of 1% partially offset by an increase of 1% due to more business days.
Excluding the impact of currency exchange sales remained flat in General Engineering while sales decreased approximately 2% in Transportation approximately 7% in Aerospace and Defense and approximately 22% in Energy.
On a regional basis sales decreased 6% in the Americas 1% in Europe and remained flat in Asia.
In the General Engineering market sales in the indirect channel grew offset by weak demand in the energy markets in all regions.
Sales in the transportation market were adversely affected by lower volumes in all regions while aerospace and defense sales decreased due to the company exiting lower margin business partially offset by production growth in aircraft frames and engines.
Industrial segment sales were also negatively impacted by direct energy and market exposure by the relatively small size of energy to its overall portfolio.
Infrastructure segment sales of $280 million decreased 21% from $357 million in the prior-year.
The decrease was driven by 16% organic sales decline and 6% unfavorable currency exchange offset partially by an increase of 1% due to more business days.
Excluding the impact of currency sales decreased by approximately 23% in energy and by approximately 11% in earthworks.
The energy market was impacted by continuing weakness in oil and gas end markets partially offset with some improvements in power generation and process industry sales.
Earthworks was impacted by continued weakness in underground mining while highway construction sales improved in line with the road rehabilitation season.
On a regional basis sales decreased 21% in the Americas 17% in Asia and 5% in Europe.
Moving to our consolidated operating performance.
Our gross profit margin was 29.6% compared with 32.7% in prior-year.
Our adjusted gross profit margin in the current and prior periods was 30.1% and 33.1% respectively.
The decline in our margin was due to the organic sales decline lower absorption of manufacturing costs related to lower sales volume and an inventory reduction initiative unfavorable business mix in the infrastructure segment and unfavorable currency exchange.
These impacts were partially offset by restructuring benefits.
The reduction of inventory impacted gross margins by approximately 150 basis points.
Operating expense as a percentage of sales was 20.5% compared with 20% in the prior-year.
Adjusted operating expense as a percentage of sales was 20.1% for the current period and 19.7% in the prior-year.
Adjusted operating expense declined $23 million year-over-year due to favorable foreign currency impacts restructuring benefits and lower incentive compensation.
Cost reduction actions continue to be in place as we align our cost structure with the realities of current market conditions.
Operating income was $35 million for the quarter compared with operating income of $78 million in the same quarter last year.
Adjusted operating income was $56 million compared with $95 million in the same quarter last year.
Adjusted operating results in the current period were driven by organic sales decline lower absorption of manufacturing costs related to lower sales volume and an inventory reduction initiative unfavorable mix in infrastructure and unfavorable currency exchange offset partially by restructuring benefits and lower incentive compensation.
Adjusted operating margin was 8.8% in the current period compared with 12.4% in the prior-year period.
Looking at operating income performance by business segment the Industrial segment operating income was $40 million compared with $53 million in the prior-year.
Adjusted operating income was $51 million compared to $64 million in the prior-year quarter.
These results were driven by organic sales decline and lower absorption of manufacturing costs related to reduced sales volumes and an inventory reduction initiative partially offset by restructuring benefits and lower incentive compensation.
Industrial adjusted operating margin was down 140 basis points to 14.1% compared with 15.5% in the prior-year.
The Infrastructure segment operating loss was $4 million compared with operating income of $27 million in the same quarter of the prior-year.
Adjusted operating income was $6 million compared to $32 million in the prior-year quarter.
Adjusted operating income decreased primarily due to lower organic sales lower absorption of manufacturing costs related to reduced sales volumes and an inventory reduction initiative unfavorable mix and unfavorable currency exchange offset partially by restructuring benefits and lower incentive compensation.
Infrastructure adjusted operating margin was 2% compared with 9% in the prior-year.
The reported effective tax rate was 24.8% in the current quarter compared with 30.5% in the prior-year quarter.
The decrease was primarily driven by prior-year restructuring charges in tax jurisdictions where a tax benefit was not permitted.
Turning to cash flow as a result of our commitment to improving working capital management we generated strong operating cash flow of $351 million and were $80 million above the prior-year.
We generated a record $267 million of free operating cash flow an increase of 71% compared with $156 million in the prior-year.
We remain confident in our continued strong cash flow generation and committed to our capital structure principle.
Through prudent and balanced debt facility structuring we were able to tax-efficiently deploy approximately $100 million in cash from overseas operations for debt reduction in the June quarter.
This initiative further enhanced our liquidity enabled us to accelerate rating agency credit metric enhancement and will result in $2 million in annual interest expense savings.
Record free operating cash flow and overseas cash deployment enabled us to reduce debt $310 million in fiscal 2015.
Our $600 million revolving credit facility due April 2018 had available borrowing capacity of $557 million at June 30 2015.
We have ample cushion under our financial covenants and an attractive debt maturity profile as our nearest maturity is in November 2019 when our $400 million of 2.65% senior unsecured notes are due.
Our cash balance was $105 million as of June 30 2015 most of which presently resides overseas.
Additionally we have increased the current quarterly dividend by $0.02 per share from $0.18 to $0.20 effective with the August dividend.
We are confident in our ability to continue to grow our cash flow.
This 11% increase in the quarterly dividend is consistent with our capital structure principles objective to return a portion of excess free operating cash flow to shareholders consistently over time while positioning for recurring increases commensurate with earnings and cash flow growth.
As previously stated our priority use of cash is business reinvestment for profitable growth while balancing the return of a portion of excess cash to shareholders.
We evaluate our dividend regularly in terms of dividend yield and payout relative to peer industrial companies.
We enjoy investment grade ratings from all three agencies and remain committed to maintaining them.
Our debt-to-capital ratio at June 30 2015 was 35.3% compared to 35.1% as of June 30 2014.
This slight increase was driven by infrastructure impairment charges recognized in previous quarters largely offset by substantial debt reduction in the current fiscal year.
Now turning to our guidance for fiscal 2016.
Our outlook reflects ongoing market uncertainties as well as limited visibility related to customer demand trends.
As Don elaborated on earlier we expect some growth in our industrial end markets although not sufficient to offset the weakness in our infrastructure end markets.
The oil and gas industry is likely to remain challenging through December 2015 and underground coal mining activity will likely remain at low levels globally.
We expect organic sales decline to range from 1% to 3% and total sales decline between 7% and 9%.
Our fiscal 2016 outlook is based on the following assumptions.
We are projecting as I said 1% to 3% of organic decline.
We expect that demand will improve modestly in our industrial end market led by general engineering and transportation.
In the first half of 2016 growth will be challenged in general engineering due to exposure to the energy markets and slight growth is expected in aerospace and defense.
Transportation is expected to show stable growth throughout.
On a regional basis growth in all end markets is expected to be led by Asia and EMEA with modest overall growth in the Americas.
For Infrastructure we face challenging end market conditions and expect a very modest year-over-year improvement in the second half of fiscal 2016.
Accordingly rates of year-over-year decline are expected to improve throughout the fiscal year with modest volume growth expected towards the end of the fiscal year.
The sales decline is expected across all regions led primarily by performance in the Americas.
Pricing will be a headwind during the fiscal year but is expected to be more than offset by lower raw material costs once higher cost inventory positions are worked through our operations.
We expect restructuring benefits to more than double in fiscal year 2016 and incremental savings to be higher in the first half of the year.
Foreign exchange is expected to be a significant headwind which we estimate to be in the range of $0.30 to $0.35 per share.
This is mostly from the impact of continued strength of the U.S.
dollar against the euro.
We are seeing a significant impact on earnings from foreign exchange due to the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against our selling currencies overseas.
And while we enjoy a global operating footprint that helps mitigate this foreign currency effect on revenues our major raw materials are purchased in U.S.
dollars resulting in gross margin compression on our international business.
Operating expenses are expected to decline in 2016 due to favorable currency effects restructuring benefits and cost reduction effort.
These benefits are expected to be partially offset by the effects of general inflation.
Due to top line softness we expect our operating expenses at 21% to 23% of sales.
I also want to point out that our guidance includes approximately $20 million to $25 million of higher incentive compensation than the prior-year.
This assumes that incentive compensation will be fully restored levels in fiscal 2016.
Our effective tax rate for fiscal 2016 is forecast to be approximately 24% to 26%.
Additionally we are expecting the first half will have a higher tax rate than the full year.
The year-over-year increase in our tax rate is partly driven by a continued unfavorable geographic mix of earnings in fiscal 2016 and the effect of expired U.S.
federal tax provisions.
We will continue to look for ways to minimize our tax rate.
Consistent with our capital allocation principles we plan to reinvest back into the business with $160 million to $175 million of capital spending.
This is higher than our historical trends of spending 3% to 4% of sales on capital expenditures.
This additional investment is anticipated to improve our longer term manufacturing productivity.
Based on these highlighted factors we expect EPS to range from $1.70 to $2 in fiscal 2016.
Again this guidance includes the benefits of restructuring programs but does not include any cost of restructuring programs or potential portfolio actions which could represent $150 million to $250 million of sales.
We expect to generate cash flow from operating activities ranging from $275 million to $310 million in fiscal 2016.
Based on anticipated capital expenditures of $160 million to $175 million the company expects to generate between $115 million and $135 million of free operating cash flow for the fiscal year.
The primary driver of the planned decrease in free operating cash flow is increased capital expenditures.
As discussed earlier today we continue to take aggressive actions to reduce costs including streamlining our manufacturing footprint and continuing to accelerate our restructuring program.
As we finalize our portfolio review there will likely be additional restructuring opportunities to take out stranded costs and further streamline the business.
Over a longer term our capital allocation process will include value driving capital investments in the business as well as returning cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
We are focused on increasing our profitability growing our top line as well as maximizing our cash flows and returns.
We will remain focused on productivity of our core businesses and reviewing our portfolio.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Don for closing comments.
Thank you Marty.
In summary we believe the strength of our people our highly recognized products and our geographic reach will keep Kennametal at the forefront of our industry.
While we expect to see headwinds in certain markets in fiscal 2016 we believe we are on the right path.
Our focus is to increase our profitability over the course of the cycle resulting in improved returns for investors.
While we continue to optimize manufacturing efficiency and reduce our footprint we're ensuring that we're not negatively impacting our overall manufacturing capability.
We are consolidating in a manner that ensures we leverage best practices and we can continue to meet customer demand as the cycle improves.
We continue to develop innovative technologies and nurture the talent within our organization.
While there is still much to be done we believe that we have made significant progress in improving our operations in a difficult market and positioning Kennametal well to capitalize on a brighter future.
We continue to execute on our key priorities to simplify our portfolio align our cost structure and invest in our business to deliver core growth with an accountable customer-focused culture.
These are all central to developing our path forward to drive organic growth maximize profitability and generate improved shareholder returns.
We'll now be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question is from Julian Mitchell at Credit Suisse.
Hi.
Thank you.
Hi Julian.
Hi.
Just a quick question I think you said that the - the savings increased sort of over two times year-on-year so I just wanted to double check.
I think your savings to-date are around $37 million so are you saying that the savings embedded in the guidance for 2016 are sort of $80 million plus or did I get that wrong? No Julian you got that right.
Okay.
And how do we think about the seasonality of earnings? I guess historically it was maybe sort of 45%/55% first half/second half last year was the inverse.
How are you thinking about this year? So from a sales perspective Julian historically we do about a 50%/50% split.
We'll be roughly the same.
We're going to be a little lower first on the top line than historical norms.
From an earnings perspective our normal 40%/60% split is going to be compressed so you're probably looking at more of a 30%/70% split.
And I do want to point out that our Q1 sequential sales going back to sales for a moment Q1 sequential sales are expected to be lower than our norm normal sequential decline.
In FY 2015 we declined Q4 to Q1 about 10% you can expect a little bit more than that in fiscal 2016.
And then going back to earnings Q1 in particular is expected to only be about mid single-digit operating margins.
Thank you.
That's very helpful.
And lastly I just wanted to circle back on the FX hit again.
I guess I think it implies around a 20% to 25% kind of drop through margin on the FX hits or revenues.
That's a lot higher I guess than I'd thought are you including some kind of price decline within the FX impact? And then maybe just clarify - the $0.30 $0.35 hit this year what was the hit of EPS in 2015 as a whole? I don't have the 2015 impact in front of me Julian and we will get that for you.
We've assumed $0.30 to $0.35 unfavorable impact in our guidance and again that's primarily driven by the euro.
We'll keep you apprized as we move through the year on any changes in our assumptions but we do have an added impact within margins - an exaggerated impact in our margins because of the extent to the drop of the euro this year.
The FY 2015 average euro for us was about $1.21 which [ph] for that exaggerated drop in the euro as well as exaggerated declines in our raw materials costs are causing a bigger - I would say a bigger impact than you might expect because our European operations purchased raw materials from our U.S.
companies that are U.S.
dollar denominated.
So the $0.30 to $0.35 that we noted is purely FX driven.
Great.
Thank you very much.
You're welcome.
The next question is from Adam Uhlman at Cleveland Research.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Hi Adam.
Hey Don you had mentioned investing in growth this year versus pulling back on working capital in the past.
Can you help me understand is this all CapEx effort with the CapEx going up a lot or is there some operating expense growth that you anticipate? And then longer term when can we expect to get back down to CapEx being 3% or 4% of sales? Is that - is this a couple of year process or is this just going to be like one year? I think Adam I'll be really transparent in our process.
We looked at our forecast looking at free operating cash flow for the year and we were looking at - we were going to run 130 to 140% of net income.
And we looked at a list of projects that we had in our list that would increase productivity.
We used our hurdle rate of 20% or better and we just said it's a better use of cash simply put.
So we decided to up our cash our investment in our CapEx because we had some great opportunities to improve productivity and the returns on those investments were well above our hurdle rate.
Going forward I think by the time we hit Analyst Day here in December we'll be able to provide a little bit more color on what we are looking at over the next three years.
Okay.
Got you.
Thank you.
And then in general in terms of some of the market commentaries that you folks had made can you talk to the improvement in Powergen and process industry trends that you guys saw? What specifically is getting better within those markets? Well I'm not sure - so when we look out to be frank I think what was mentioned is that as we look at our energy markets heading in - for the first six months we see continued challenging market.
We really don't see a whole lot of improvement.
What we're seeing is that the comps get a little bit easier as we head into our third and fourth quarter and declines turn into very very slight improvement year-over-year.
And again we're basing that based on forecasts of others including our customers and looking at that as I would call it more elimination of the declines rather than - rather than improvement.
But a lot of it has to do with easier comps.
Okay.
Thank you.
Operator Our next question is from Ross Gilardi at Bank of America.
Hey.
Good morning.
Thank you.
Good morning Ross.
Hey Don.
I'm just wondering if you could give us a little more - your thoughts on the divestitures.
I think you said $150 million to $250 million I think that might have chopped off the high-end there and should we expect to see anything between now and your Investor Day? And you've obviously mentioned margin accretion if you move forward on the divestitures but wondering you tolerance for shorter-term earnings dilution because presumably some of these assets you're thinking about selling still have got positive margin even if it's below average.
Yeah.
So again it's difficult because these are - it's not clear which will actually be sold and at what time.
So it'd be difficult for me to give a lot more definition at this point.
We know the range just to give you a little more clarity over about how much we expect now to move.
The process is quite efficient where it looks like we will be successful how's that? It's just the extent of our success and all I can say is I can keep you posted as we - as we move forward.
Got it.
And then could you talk a little bit more about the weakness in U.S.
Industrial in the most recent quarter and what you're - what you're seeing there? And are you actually seeing anything in your order book today to suggest that we'll get a pickup that you're assuming? Yeah.
I think in the last quarter I suggested that we were - we're not achieving our potential I think was the way I put it last quarter and we had a core focus on improving performance in the U.S.
We're still there.
[ph] Immense amount of focus on improving execution in the U.S.
I think we're improving.
I think we're getting better.
I think we've still got opportunity there.
But in terms of the decline this quarter could you just give a little more color on that? Well I think looking at the marketplace I think actually that the market wasn't as good.
I think as it was in our third quarter.
So some of it was market and some of it was our own performance.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
I could just add to that for you Ross.
Just from an industrial perspective in the Americas the exposure to Energy on the Industrial side both through General Engineering and then also a small portion of the portfolio that's direct would be also a driver to the Americas performance within Industrial.
Got it.
Thanks very much.
Operator The next question is from Andy Casey at Wells Fargo Securities.
Thanks a lot.
Hi good morning everybody.
On the quarter you reduced inventory by about $57 million in Q4 from Q3.
Did that have any impact on gross profit? It did Andy.
The impact in the quarter was about 150 basis points unfavorable over prior-year.
Okay.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
And then as you look forward into fiscal 2016 specifically on the $275 million to $310 million operating cash flow do you expect any further decrease in working capital relative to sales? You finished the quarter about [ph] 29.3 of trailing 12 month sales.
I'm just wondering if that should stay about constant or if that continues to go down? Andy from a dollar perspective looking at working capital we're expecting a similar impact on the cash flow for the full fiscal 2016 as we saw in 2015.
Okay.
Great.
And then on the capital investment the $160 million to $175 million I know you've gone through and mentioned projects that improve the productivity.
Is there any investment in facilities to - in terms of new facilities to help with that productivity? No.
We're investing in equipment here and our - most of it certainly most of the incremental investment is all about productivity specifically.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
The next question is from Joel Tiss at BMO.
Morning.
Hi guys.
How's it going? Morning Joel.
Good.
Is there any rationale or any reason to want to put to ring-fence the stuff that you're thinking about divesting and put it into discontinued operations so you can clean out all the goodwill and sort of get everything behind you in the nearer-term? Or is it better to just wait for the right timing to find a buyer.
Joel from an accounting perspective and GAAP perspective we're not permitted to break to out as discontinued operations and we're not far enough down the line that those operations would be considered held for sale at this point.
Okay.
And I just wanted to ask one longer-term question now that you've been there for whatever it is for six months or so I just wonder if you could give us a sense of what Kennametal looks like in five years and I'm thinking all just from return - free cash flow as a percent of net income operating margins like if you - you know what I mean? Your vision and you slim down to the core business what kind of returns and operating margins and free cash flow do you think is like the longer-term target? Yeah.
Joel I've noted every one of your questions and I will look forward to seeing you in December.
You'll tell me in 2018 right? I think we'll - we're spending a lot of time and energy right now thinking hard about the right strategy making sure that we have the right footprint making sure we have the right portfolio to maximize all the tremendous assets that we have here at our disposal here at Kennametal.
And our intention is to lay that out on December 15 at Analyst Day.
Is it crazy to think that this could be a high teen’s business when everything is said and done longer term? Or it's just too early to say? Yeah.
I think it's just too early for me right now.
All right.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Joel.
Great questions Joel.
Thank you.
Your next question is from Walter Liptak at Global Hunter.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Good morning Walter.
I wanted to ask about the 2015 percentage of sales.
I guess specifically in the Infrastructure segment what percentage of you sales are O&amp;G and what percentage are coal? Or I guess mining? Walt this is Quynh.
I would say that what we said last quarter still holds true.
What we can account for directly to the oil and gas is around 8% to 9% of total company sales.
However there's indirect sales that gets captured via general engineering and more secondary impact.
In terms of the coal we actually report that under earthworks and in round numbers I would say earthworks is around 20% of total company sales half of that is mining and half is construction.
Okay.
Got it.
And on the oil and gas during the quarter what kind of year-over-year decline rates did you experience? We had much higher declines on oil and gas in the U.S.
When you look at rig counts rig counts are down about 50% and certainly in the U.S.
we had similar drops and you can pretty much align it with that around the world.
We follow rig counts pretty closely.
Okay.
So as you go into your first - fiscal first quarter second quarter are you expecting those declines to accelerate or stay about the same? Boy.
I'm not sure I want to be in the business of forecasting rig counts here Walt.
What we've done we've built into our assumptions for the year is that we would continue to have a challenging first half I would call it.
So we would continue to see year-over-year declines and then the comps get easier as you get into the second half.
We don't - right now we've built in that rig counts will not drop significantly we may even add a few.
That's where we're staying.
Okay.
Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
Okay.
You mentioned in your comments about pricing and I wonder if you could comment specifically about what your oil and gas customers - are they requesting price declines and are you succumbing to the pressure of price declines and what - what impact does that have on the business? Yeah.
We are getting requests on pricing.
We've had some declines in raw materials and many of our customers are aware.
And it's - obviously we're also seeing declines in raw materials and we don't expect to have that - those two to - we expect those to offset and not have a significant impact on margins.
Okay.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
The next question is from Samuel Eisner at Goldman Sachs.
Yeah.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Can you talk a little bit about just the June month and how organic performance was throughout the month of June and then any early reads on July? I don't see the June numbers posted to the website so any help there would be great.
Yeah.
So I would say nothing inconsistent in June with the rest of the quarter so there's nothing to note there.
Got it.
And anything on July that you're willing to talk about? Yeah.
I think we're going to have a pretty challenging pretty soft quarter.
This is year-over-year and early indications are that this will be a challenging quarter.
Got it.
And then when you think about the footprint changes that are going on here I think one of the comments that you've made historically is that you're certainly looking at divesting a portion of that but also you're looking at kind of calling some of the existing manufacturing that you end up keeping.
Can you talk a little bit about your ability to maybe move to a more flexible manufacturing structure and being in that remaining business after the $150 million or $200 million of divestitures? Yeah.
We are looking at reducing complexity I think taking I would call it products that don't create as much value as you'd hope given the complexity that they add to our operations.
That is a key driver for us so - and it may allow us to - it may help us drive further footprint reduction as we think about that next 25% so that's key.
But I'm not sure does that answer your question? I guess my understanding is that you have a pretty kind of fixed manufacturing footprint where it's difficult to make dissimilar products in multiple facilities and I just wanted to understand if you're thinking about the overall manufacturing footprint becoming either more redundant in a sense or the ability to make different products in different facilities going forward? Yeah.
So with the new - next generation equipment I guess is the way to say it as some of the investments that we're making with this capital budget this year we will have more agility.
Both to reduce batch size to drive inventory and to reduce cycle time.
So we're definitely enhancing the flexibility of our operations with this - with the investments we're making this year.
All right.
That's helpful.
And I think that just lastly given the fact that you're already starting to record charges for Phase 3 in the current quarter but not gain a savings there.
Can you maybe just talk about how the sequential increases throughout the course of fiscal 2016 kind of happen for Phases 1 Phases 2 and Phases 3? Thanks.
Sure Sam.
They're relatively consistent with what we disclosed on last quarter's call.
So for Phase 1 in 2016 we will get near our full run rate reaching a full run rate of those savings in fiscal 2017.
From a Phase 2 perspective we did realize about 15% of those benefits in fiscal 2015.
We expect to be roughly up to about 70% 75% in the full year of 2016 and then be at the run rate in 2017.
And then for Phase 3 we didn't expect any benefits in 2015 and we expect some benefits in 2016 maybe a quarter and the remaining be up to the run rate.
Well about three quarters to three quarters in 2017 up to three quarters and then ongoing we'll hit our full run rate.
Great.
Thanks so much.
Yep.
Our last question comes from Eli Lustgarten at Longbow Securities.
Good morning everyone.
Morning Eli.
Yep.
Can we talk a little bit of how we should think about operating margins for the two sectors as we go through 2016? And I know it gets complicated with or without charges and all that.
But I mean the number is adjusted to look like I guess Industrial something around [ph] 14.1% in the quarter but 13% for the year.
Are you expecting - despite whatever the volume number turn out that we can improve operating margins in Industrial? I mean that's a world-class kind of business and probably some reasonable chance for operating profitability to go up.
And then the negligible profitability that we're seeing in Infrastructure can you talk a bit about what we should expect in that kind of business? I know there'll be divestitures and I know there's going to be a lot of noise but as an entity what we try to model what should we be thinking about for 2016? And maybe some first half second half or something because I know it's going to be complicated.
Yeah.
Well let me start out and then I'll turn it over to Marty.
So first of all the first thing to think about on margin impact is our portfolio simplification.
We expect to divest as we said a significant chunk of our Infrastructure business and that will definitely improve margins on our Infrastructure business because we expect that to be accretive.
So I would start with that piece.
And then Marty? Sure.
From - just to give you a little color directionally Eli we did end the Industrial at about 13% operating margin.
We do expect improvement there driven by their organic growth the restructuring benefits and cost reductions.
So you can expect a little bit higher operating margin there.
We do expect for Industrial a little more softer Q1 and Q2 than maybe you saw last year and then improvements in the second half.
From an Infrastructure perspective given the organic declines that are expected [ph] any pressures we're expecting to see from a pricing perspective because raw material costs are dropping for us and we do expect more compression on pricing first half than second half and we expect raw material benefits to sort of materialize more in the second half once we have worked through our high cost materials.
So from an Infrastructure perspective you can expect some compression on the operating margin there and again the first two quarters are going to be pretty low.
I mean is it feasible that Infrastructure - we know the guidance excludes these divestitures before the simplification.
Is it possible to lose money in Infrastructure in the first quarter first half? I don't think we can comment on that piece Eli.
I think the one thing we can say is that we're heading into a much more challenging first quarter and we think the challenge will be less in the second quarter and improve as we head through the year.
I think the one thing that - the one challenge that I would call a timing problem because we have some high cost inventory to work through it can affect our margins with pricing due to pricing declines.
But we'll overcome that as we head through the year.
And overall we do expect sort of the mid single-digit operating margin in Q1.
Overall for the company? Correct.
[indiscernible] Thank you very much.
Thanks Eli.
Thanks Eli.
At this time we will conclude the question-and-session.
I would like to turn the call back over to Quynh McGuire for closing comments.
This concludes our discussion.
Please contact me Quynh McGuire at 724-539-6559 for any follow-up questions.
Thank you for joining us.
A replay of this event will be available approximately one hour after its conclusion.
To access the replay you may dial toll free within the United States 877-344-7529.
Outside of the United States you may dial 412-317-0088 or toll free from Canada 1-855-669-9658.
You will be prompted to enter the conference ID 10056857 then the pound or hash symbol.
You will be asked to record your name and company.
The conference has now concluded.
Thank you for attending today's presentation.
You may now disconnect your lines.