Good morning.
My name is Christie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Kohl’s First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made on this call including projected financial results are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Kohl's intends forward-looking terminologies such as believes expects may plans or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause Kohl's actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those that are described in Item 1A in Kohl's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and as may be supplemented from time to time in Kohl's other filings with the SEC all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
Also please note that replays of this call will be available for 30 days but this recording will not be updated.
So if you are listening after May 12 it is possible that the information discussed is no longer current.
Thank you.
I would now turn the conference over to Wes McDonald Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Thank you.
With me today is Kevin Mansell our Chairman CEO and President.
I'll start off with financial performance and Kevin will talk about our marketing and merchandising initiatives.
I'll talk a little bit about our store experience and give you some guidance for the upcoming quarter and year and Kevin will make some closing comments and then we'll take your questions.
Financial performance.
Total sales for the first quarter were $4.2 billion this year an increase of 3.1% over last year.
Comparable store sales for the quarter increased 1.3% driven by a 1.1% increase in transactions per store.
Average transaction value is up 0.2% reflecting a 2.9% increase in average unit retail that was largely offset by a 2.7% decrease in units per transaction.
Kevin will provide more color on our sales by region and line of business in a few minutes.
Our credit share for the quarter was approximately 53% an increase of 535 basis points over the first quarter of 2010.
Moving on to gross margin.
Our gross margin rate for the quarter was 38.1% 3 basis points above last year.
This was below the guidance of the 10 to 30 basis point improvement that we expected primarily due to aggressive clearing of transitional merchandise and low demand for seasonal spring merchandise.
For the second quarter we expect our gross margin rate to be flat to last year to up 20 basis points over last year.
SG&amp;A increased 3.2% for the quarter below our expectations of a 5% to 6.5% increase.
Credit and store payroll expenses leveraged for the quarter.
The remainder of our expense areas advertising DC corporate store other and IT did not leverage for the quarter but did grow slower than we planned.
We would expect SG&amp;A expenses to increase 3% to 4.5% for the second quarter.
Depreciation expense increased approximately 3% for the quarter primarily due to new stores and remodels.
This was significantly better than our guidance due to timing of in-service dates related to our investments in e-sign e-commerce and other IT projects.
Depreciation is expected to be approximately $167 million in the second quarter.
Operating income increased approximately 3% for the quarter to $362 million.
Operating income as a percent of sales was 8.7% flat to the first quarter of 2010.
Net interest expense was $29 million this year and $31 million last year.
Net interest expense is expected to be $28 million in the second quarter.
Our income tax rate was 36.5% for the quarter compared to 37.8% in the prior year.
The reduction was due to favorable settlements of various state tax audits.
We expect our tax rate to be approximately 38% in the second quarter and for the remainder of the year.
Net income for the quarter was $211 million $12 million higher than the first quarter of 2010 an increase of 6%.
Diluted earnings per share was $0.73 for the quarter an increase of 14% over first quarter 2010.
Moving on to some balance sheet and other metrics.
We currently operate 1 097 stores compared to 1 067 stores at this time last year.
Gross square footage was 96 million at quarter-end 2011 compared to 94 million at quarter-end 2010.
Selling square footage increased from 79 million at quarter-end 2010 to 81 million at quarter-end 2011.
Moving on to the cash.
We ended the quarter with $1.7 billion of cash and cash equivalents a decrease of $720 million from the prior year quarter end.
Reduction in cash is primarily due to the retirement of $300 million in debt during the quarter and our share repurchases during the current quarter as well as the fourth quarter of 2010.
Substantially all of the cash and cash equivalents are in money market bonds and commercial paper.
Our inventory levels reflect continued strong inventory management.
Total inventory was up 5.8% compared to the prior year and inventory per store is up just under 3%.
Our capital expenditures were $226 million for the first quarter approximately $35 million higher than the prior year quarter due to new stores and increased remodels.
Accounts payable as a percent of inventory was 43.8% versus 46.8% last year.
The decrease is primarily due to lower inventory turn.
And for your model calculations weighted average diluted shares for the quarter were $290 million.
And for your modeling purposes I would use $282 million for diluted shares in the second quarter.
We'll move on to Kevin who'll talk about our sales marketing and merchandising initiatives.
Thanks Wes.
As Wes mentioned comparable store sales increased 1.3% for the quarter.
Our Apparel businesses were significantly affected by the drop in our seasonal categories.
In first quarter 2010 seasonal businesses comped up mid-teens in supporting our 7.4% comparable sales increase last year.
This year those same businesses were down mid-single digits.
Non-seasonal businesses comped the same in both years.
From a line of business perspective this year Home reported the strongest comps driven by strength in tabletop food prep electrics and bedding.
Men's and Accessories also outperformed the company average.
Men's was led by active dress clothing and basics while Accessories was led by watches and sterling silver jewelry.
Children's and Women's also achieved positive comps.
Children's had strength in toys and infants and toddlers and strong performance in Women's included active wear updated sportswear and intimate.
Footwear which has consistently outperformed the company in recent years reported a low single-digit comp sales decrease.
Women's shoes were the strongest category in the Footwear business and athletic shoes were the most difficult driven by drops in the toning category.
Our private and exclusive brands continued to increase in penetration as they were 50% of our sales in the first quarter up approximately 240 basis points.
Private brands such as SONOMA SO and Apt.
9 performed very well while exclusive brands like FILA Food Network Lauren Conrad Simply Vera Vera Wang and Candie's continued their strong double-digit sales increases.
From a regional perspective the Southeast region reported the strongest comps for the fifth consecutive quarter.
The South Central Mid-Atlantic and the West regions reported low single-digit comp increases.
The Midwest region reported the lowest comps for the quarter with a negative single-digit comp decline.
Our E-Commerce business continues to report significant sales increases and is well on its way to becoming $1 billion business this year.
For the quarter E-commerce sales were $187 million up 47% over last year.
Looking forward we expect an increase in comparable store sales for the second quarter in the 2% to 4% range.
We expect all months to be consistent with quarterly average.
Moving on to our merchandise initiatives.
We're very excited about our new partnership with VF Corporation and becoming the exclusive provider and marketer of the Rock &amp; Republic brand.
This contemporary lifestyle brand will launch in Men's and Women's apparel as well as Footwear in spring 2012.
The collection may expand into Children's Accessories and Home over time.
Our team also continues to work diligently on this fall's Jennifer Lopez and Marc Anthony brand launches.
Jennifer continues to generate positive news with her appearances on American Idol and her recently released album and we're very optimistic about the excitement that this publicity will add to the launch this fall.
We also plan to invest significantly in the third quarter to support the dual brand rollout.
Moving on to inventory.
Total inventory per store is down 2% in units and up less than 3% in dollars while clearance units per store go down approximately 20% in units and approximately 30% in dollars.
We continue to closely monitor apparel inflation.
Spring apparel product costs are up in the low single digit.
As we had indicated previously we continue to expect significant increases across all apparel categories this fall approximately 10% to 15% overall.
We do have a few data points in denim Men's basics and Children's in the first quarter where out the door price increases in the high single digits resulted in unit declines in the low single digits which result in sales dollar increases of mid-single digits.
We have more widespread testing in place to run through June to give us time to react to the back-to-school season.
Apparel inflation is clearly real but we do believe we've had the time the tools and processes to work through it effectively and as a result have a competitive advantage for both us and our consumer.
We've proven over the past that Kohl's value proposition resonates strongly with our customers and we've clearly established ourselves as the leader in providing great value and savings.
And we're committed to maintaining that leadership position going forward.
Looking forward we would expect our inventory dollars per store at the end of the second quarter to be up low single digits on a per store basis similar to our expectations for the year.
As we indicated earlier we expect gross margin for the second quarter to be flat to 20 basis points higher than last year.
We believe the increased penetration in private and exclusive brands some pent-up demand in our seasonal businesses as well as continued better inventory management will help drive that result.
On the marketing front our #1 customer concern continues to be staying within their budget.
As a result we will continue to drive home our value message using our highly effective The More You Know The More You Kohl's platform.
We'll continue to differentiate ourselves from the competition through our no hassle return policy our world-class exclusive brands our no exclusions approach to value-added offers Kohl's Cash and of course our Kohl's Charge program.
History has proven that Kohl's Charge cardholders are our most loyal customers.
They shop our stores more often and have a significantly higher annual spend than non-Kohl's Charge holders.
As a result we'll continue to focus on adding to our mailable credit card base particularly in our mild and hot markets.
We've recently made changes in our incentive to open Kohl’s Charge account that will hopefully attract more occasional shoppers and help them turn into Kohl’s brand lovers.
Finally we're pleased with the launch of our new discount program for our 60 and older shoppers at the end of the first quarter.
And we believe it will be another differentiator from our competitors going forward.
Let me turn it back to Wes to touch on our store experience and provide some earnings guidance.
Thanks Kevin.
We opened 9 new stores this quarter and plan to open another 31 stores in the fall season in September.
We continue to expect to remodel 100 stores in 2011 significantly more than 85 stores in 2010 and the 51 stores in 2009.
We continue to become more and more efficient in our remodels.
In 2007 the average remodel required 12 weeks to complete.
In 2011 we expect the average remodel to be complete in 7 weeks.
This reduction has reduced the sales drop in our first wave of remodels this year during construction to less than 1%.
In the same wave of openings we have experienced a high single-digit lift post re-grand opening better than any performance we have seen in the past few years.
We have added marketing to attract customers throughout the year to our remodeled stores and expect to see the benefit of that and the majority of that benefit will fall on the fall season.
With that let me share with you some details behind our guidance for the second quarter and then for fiscal 2011.
For the second quarter we would expect a total sales increase of 4% to 6% comp sales of 2% to 4% and gross margin flat to up 20 basis points over last year.
We would expect SG&amp;A to increase 3% to 4.5%.
This would result in earnings per diluted share of $0.96 to a $1.02 for the second quarter.
As a result of our first quarter performance as well as our second quarter share repurchase estimate we are raising our fiscal 2011 guidance from $4.05 to $4.25 per diluted share to $4.25 to $4.40 per diluted share.
It is important to note that this guidance does not reflect any future fall share repurchases.
I know there's been some questions about that but it does reflect what we expect to repurchase in the second quarter.
With that I'll turn it over to Kevin for some closing remarks.
Thanks Wes.
In closing while we weren't happy with our sales performance in the first quarter we were very pleased to achieve the high end of our earnings goal.
We've strengthened our marketing for the second quarter and believe that we will see some pent-up demand for seasonal businesses which would allow us to achieve a better comp in the second quarter.
We continue to be excited about our E-commerce performance as we remain on track to achieve $1 billion in E-commerce sales in 2011 and in order to achieve that goal we'll continue to invest in the business.
We just purchased this quarter a third E-Commerce fulfillment center in Maryland that will be online to support holiday 2011 peak season.
Our biggest sales opportunity remains in our mild and hot markets and we're happy to see the Southeast continue to lead the company in comp sales.
We have much more to do to achieve our goals in those markets but we continue to move forward positively.
Our increased penetration of private and exclusive brands along with very strong inventory management continues to benefit us on a gross margin rate and we see no change in that going forward.
Our inventory level also remains in great shape.
As we expected inventory levels are on plan and clearance levels are significantly below last year on a per store basis.
In addition our merchants and planners reacted to the sluggishness in seasonal sales and we have appropriate levels of inventory in those categories entering the second quarter.
We also continue to make great progress in the SG&amp;A line.
After being a headwind in 2010 our credit business provided significant leverage in the first quarter as our bad debt expense continues to drop towards pre-recession levels.
Leverage and store payroll expenses continue to be driven by sustainable productivity improvements such as the rollout of electronic signs.
And many of our other areas experienced just slight deleveraging with our below plan comp as they actually manage their expense dollars below plan.
Finally I think you can see that our capital structure provided flexibility in a quarter where the top line was less than we had hoped.
We believe that our stock is undervalued at its current level and we were more aggressive about share repurchase buying approximately $445 million of our own stock during the quarter.
We would expect to buy at least this amount in the second quarter.
We're committed to being good stewards of capital and we will continue to prioritize profitable growth and reinvestment in our stores while returning any excess cash to our shareholders.
I think this is evident as you see our earnings per share increase of 14% over last year as well as the initiation of a dividend.
With that Wes and I would be happy to take some questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jeff Klinefelter of Piper Jaffray.
A couple of questions.
First on SG&amp;A.
Wes in terms of what Kohl's demonstrated in Q1 despite coming in below your sales plan and given the stepped up marketing efforts for second half with this launch the significant Jennifer and Mark launch can you help us appreciate what sort of levers do you have to manage through the sales volatility going into the second half? And then second one would be on the Jennifer and Mark launch.
In terms of the marketing dollars year-over-year are you stepping those up on a net basis? And also how about the price points relative to average? Yes I'll take that.
You were fading out a little bit Jeff so I'll take the SG&amp;A question.
I mean if you flow through our second quarter guidance our guidance for SG&amp;A growth for the year remained at 3% to 4.5%.
It may move across quarters as we go throughout the year but that's our guidance for the year.
The levers I see from an SG&amp;A perspective the store's organization did a great job this quarter with the volatility that we saw in sales by month.
I mean they basically leveraged at a flat comp in store renovation and got a few basis points of leverage there.
So I suspect they'll be able to do that going forward as well.
The other thing I think that's been a big benefit kind of mentioned it a little bit on the call is credit.
Last year it was nothing but a headwind with all the legislative changes.
This year we're seeing very nice results in our bad debt expense as people are starting to pay down debt and feel better about themselves and the economy.
I expect those results will continue moving forward and expect that will provide us some flexibility as well.
And I'm sure advertising productivity will be much better in the remainder of the year than it was in the first quarter.
I'll talk to Jennifer and Mark.
That's included our guidance.
It will be a step up in third quarter spending.
We're not going to quantify it but it's very significant somewhere to the launch of Vera Wang that we did a few years ago and I'll let Kevin address the merchandising side of that.
Price points on Jennifer and Marc are positioned to be in our contemporary best category.
So for purposes of comparison on Women's apparel contemporary best are brands like Vera Simply Vera Vera Wang so you can think about price points to be pretty much the same as those are.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Binder of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions.
First I was curious in the test where you've had some price increases going through with only low single-digit unit declines.
Has there been any specific regional differences that's worth noting? I think the short answer is no.
I mean I don't have all the specifics on that to be honest with you Dan.
But I did have a chance to look at the totals and no I think it's been pretty consistent.
Inc.</strong> Okay and then a second question if I could.
You mentioned on the call that you had made some changes to the card program to attract more users.
I was just curious if you could add a little bit more detail about what you're doing there.
Well we're not -- it's not -- I don't want to get into all the detail but we've improved the amount of investment we've made in our stores in order to solicit charge card holders and time it according to our marketing calendar.
And then we've also improved the incentive for our customer to sign up for a charge card.
So we've given them a better offer.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Your next question comes from the line of Adrianne Shapira of Goldman Sachs.
Wes maybe on the gross margin I think your original plans have been for flattish for the year but better in the first half versus the back half.
Maybe if in light of Q1 slightly lower than your guidance what your thoughts are for gross margin for the year? Adrianne our thoughts for gross margin in the year are really unchanged.
We consider it to be still flat to 20%.
And we're a little disappointed in our performance on gross margin but given the fact that we ran down mid-teens in seasonal products which will carry a higher margin at this time I think the performance was pretty good.
Sure one of our competitors reported down margins yesterday.
I'm sure that's going to be the remainder of the case that other people reports.
So it's not where we wanted to be but we don't see any reason to change the guidance.
Right.
And then Kevin just on the sales it sounds as if the culprit for sales was really the seasonal swing.
Maybe help us think about as you've obviously grown to be much more of a national player how it does still seem to be quite -- Kohl's results are much more weather sensitive than we would expect maybe kind of talk us through.
Obviously we all saw the weather and it wasn't a help but how you were thinking about perhaps mitigating the weather sensitivity going forward.
Sure.
I mean I think it's true that over the years our sales have been much more spiked when weather is favorable and less so when weather is unfavorable than I would say the peer group that we compete against.
And I think first quarter last year compared to the first quarter this year is like a perfect example of that.
I think it's driven by 2 things Adrianne.
One is we still do have a relatively higher level of stores in the Midwest and Northeast which of course are the most weather sensitive in the spring season and swing periods like March and April.
I think that's the smaller of 2 factors.
The bigger factor is I think our customer is very focused on buying close to need.
And so when she doesn't have a need which she really didn't have in March and April she delays buying.
And then we historically have seen that when that need comes she will buy really aggressively.
So I think those are kind of the 2 factors I would say the buying close to need is the bigger of the 2.
But the proportionate number of stores by region is also definitely a factor for us.
In terms of how we're approaching that for the second quarter we're really -- we're thinking that we're probably going to get some pent-up seasonal demand but to be honest that's not factored into our guidance.
If we did get that that would be great.
But we're looking at the second quarter independently of that.
I mentioned that we have strengthened our marketing.
I don't want to get into the specifics on that because I think it's more proprietary but we've made sure that we've included it in our marketing calendar particularly in June and July ways to drive traffic into our stores more aggressively.
Great.
That's helpful.
And then maybe on the e-signage maybe give us an update where that's -- how the rollout is progressing what you're learning what the benefits are and how you see that helping SG&amp;A going forward.
Well we still expect to have around 400 stores by the end of the year.
It's working very well in the stores that we've piloted in and that we've additionally rolled out towards the end of last year.
We're achieving the savings that we expect but it will reduce SG&amp;A but it will also increase in D&amp;A.
So from a P&amp;L perspective we're not really viewing it as a positive at this time.
We're going to reinvest the excess savings back into the stores to put more people on the floor more people in the fitting room.
But we're very pleased with the results thus far.
Okay.
And then Wes lastly just if I could just ask on the buybacks.
It sounds as if by Q2 it seems that you'll probably be on track to achieve about $900 million of the buyback.
I think at the start of the year we were assuming that $1.2 billion for the year.
Are you still on track for the $1.2 billion for the year or could there be some further opportunity given that surprise.
We didn't give any -- I mean since you guys all build repurchase into your guidance I was tired of you guys telling everybody what our earnings per share should be.
So we updated it for second quarter repurchases.
And you're correct that the run rate would be about $900 million by the end of the second quarter.
However our guidance doesn't include any future fall repurchases and I would expect us to be more aggressive than the $1.2 billion since we're already going to have roughly $900 million done by the end of the second quarter.
But I mean one quarter at a time.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Drbul of Barclays Capital.
Kevin I guess the first question is I wonder if you could clarify when you're talking about some of the price tests and price experience so far was the unit decline in inflationary categories was that a same store number or a total number? Those are same.
Everything we've talked about is same stores essentially.
So each of these examples is a little different Bob and I don't want to have to go through every single case because we have some Children's examples in our private brand.
We have some denim examples.
We have some basics examples but the consistency in them so far is that we've had cost increases which have been anywhere from I would say low single digit up to and including low double digit which have resulted in lower unit sales per store.
But the increase in average unit retail was greater than that drop in units and the resulting sales dollars were very positive.
Again it's a positive.
I would say they're all positive in their examples but they're relatively small when you consider what we'll be looking at in fall where price increases are kind of across the whole store.
Got it.
And then just I have one merchandising question and then one marketing question for you.
On the merchandising side in the stores there seems to be a theme around crochet front woven tops and back tops and handbags and sweaters.
Is that a theme that is gaining any traction and something that can carry your Women's business here? I don't know if it can.
First of all I'm stunned by your fashion knowledge always Bob.
So you've got me on it.
I doubt that it can carry our Women's business given the scale of our Women's business.
But it is a positive trend.
So I think you've identified something that's been good in our business for sure.
Okay and then just a marketing question.
On the J.
Lo launch would it be possible -- are you picking out your favorite J.
Lo song in terms of what will be playing in the stores or in the commercials when that launch rolls out in the fall? I'm not thinking that Julie Gardner our Head of Marketing is going to allow me to pick anything out in marketing.
So no.
Short answer to that is no.
Your next question is from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Just another question on the price increases.
Have you noticed any difference in customer acceptance between good products versus better and best? There's examples I would say in each.
So in denim the brand is our more premium brand right now.
And in Children's it's our opening price point private label.
Again I would emphasize to you Lorraine these are relatively small -- they're important categories.
I mean Jumping Beans is the brand I'm talking about.
It's the most important we have in that business.
But the scale of these changes are not broad enough that I would jump to any conclusions.
It's always good to be positive though and it's been positive so far.
And we have more extensive testing that we're doing now that would run through the end of June to allow us to make pricing decisions for back-to-school.
And those are in much broader range of categories in terms of good better best as well as lifestyles in terms of classic modern classic and contemporary.
So basically testing into what you guys -- you always refer to from time to time as our nine-box grid and so we'll be able to better draw our conclusions at the end of June.
Okay and then what are you hearing from your vendors about your ability to chase bestsellers in the back half? I think I mean generally chasing bestsellers is difficult always.
It doesn't matter whether it's a wholesale relationship or it's our own in-house developed relationships.
We're more in control of our own private exclusive brands so about 50% of our business I think you'll hear us generally talk much more confidently about our ability to chase.
When you're not in control when you have to depend upon a partner then the execution is going to be more varied I would say.
Your next question's from Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Can you discuss the performance of your remodeled stores in terms of returns? And is it in line with your expectations so far? It's actually above our expectations so far as I mentioned on the call.
We're up about 7% post re-grand opening.
It's the biggest lift we've gotten in the last 3 years for sure.
We have marketing programs in place to affect that wave that actually kick in here with the credit event in May and they'll be running through the remainder of the year.
So we've always gotten a pretty good lift in pre re-grand opening -- or excuse me post re-grand opening.
Never this big but what I'm most excited about we have a good program to touch this customer multiple times throughout the year to get them to become as Kevin mentioned move from occasional Kohl's shopper to Kohl's brand lovers.
That's going to be really critical to getting the lifts.
If we get this lift that we've gotten that would exceed -- even if that continues throughout the year it would exceed our expectations.
We need about a 5% lift to hit where we want to be.
And then Kevin I know you don't want to dig too much in the details in terms of the marketing plan in the second quarter.
But can you just elaborate is it focusing on your kind of core credit card customer or is it more broad focus? No it's definitely broader.
I mean it's -- our Credit Card business is 50% of our business.
So it's an important part of what we've strengthened.
But we definitely are looking beyond the Credit Card business so it's also strengthening vehicles that would be more appealing to the non-Kohl's credit card customer as well.
Okay and then lastly can you talk a little bit about the performance of the small format stores and how are you finding availability of real estate? The small stores continue to perform better in terms of an ROI which is really what we're measuring them against because obviously they're not going to be as helpful in top line because most of them are in smaller markets with less sales potential.
Real estate availability remains good.
We're excited about some of the smaller stores that we're opening in more suburban markets.
Those are really to come next year but that's given us a lot more flexibility I think than we had in the past maybe 3 or 4 years ago when we were predominantly focused on the 88Ks.
It's also I think a smart strategy going forward as the E-Com business for both us and others increases.
That business is an incremental and so as more people shop at home and get it delivered to them at home you might not need as big a footprint going forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Michelle Clark of Morgan Stanley.
Kevin Wes in terms of the seasonal markets have we seen a bounce back here in May as temperatures have warmed in Northeast and Midwest? I mean we don't obviously Michelle we don't comment on sales in the month in which we're in.
But I would stick with what I said to you earlier which is we've got a pretty consistent historical pattern that as weather moderates more into the zone where customers are motivated to buy these categories our sales do improve a lot.
Okay.
That's fair.
And then Wes in terms of credit expenses I was wondering if you can provide us a little bit more detail in terms of how much was it down in the first quarter year-over-year and what should we be looking for for the full year? Well we don't really get into the detail.
I would suspect it'll continue to be a positive.
We're building more of it into our expectations.
But I suspect that if the bankcard trend continues we'll continue to keep what we forecast internally.
But we're not going to get into the level of detail.
I hope to make back what I lost last year of the big picture.
That's helpful.
And then lastly maybe touch upon the productivity of hot and mild markets where we stand today.
How much they're off the company average and then the opportunity go forward.
On the mild and hot markets I mean broadly you probably want to think about them as 90% of an average store.
They obviously vary by market in each of the markets that we're in.
So we still -- as we kind of indicated in the call we know we still have a hill to climb here.
We have 10% more sales that should be coming in every one of those stores across the country.
On the positive side for the fifth consecutive quarter the Southeast led the company in performance in sales.
So we are making headway on the goal of getting those stores to the average level.
I think broadly as it was last year this is going to be a tailwind for us going forward because we're very focused on it.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Jaffe of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> Wes can you just remind us how many stores you've remodeled and how many stores you think you'll accomplish this year and therefore how many will be left to remodel? And then if you'd comment on marketing spend on dollars you anticipate this year versus last year or at least the percent change.
I think I'll take the remodel question.
From a remodel perspective we're going to remodel 100 this year.
That's going to be basically our run rate going forward.
Over the past 4 or 5 years we've probably remodeled 300 stores I guess all in.
But it's an ongoing process.
So the way we like to characterize it is that every year we're going to remodel 100 stores.
So that will mean in any 5-year rolling period half our chain will be either open in the last 5 years or remodeled in the last 5 years.
And we think that that's a competitive advantage.
But the run rate going forward is 100 remodels approximately $270 million a year in capital.
It's Kevin Richard.
On the marketing I mean I think the way you want to think about marketing is we are clearly spending and going to spend more marketing dollars than last year.
That assumption that we're going to spend more on marketing dollars though is within the overall guidance on SG&amp;A that we've given you for both the quarter and for the year and the marketing team which has been very successful at this have been able to use those dollars to still continue to improve productivity.
So our expectation is we still on the year will get improvement in productivity.
We mentioned 2 things strengthening marketing in the second quarter which is in the guidance we've given you in SG&amp;A and we've mentioned the launch of Jennifer Lopez and Marc Anthony being a major effort for us in the third quarter.
But that's also within the guidance we've given you for the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Maschmeyer of Baird.
Could you talk a little bit more about your strength in the Home? Is that really more about the recovery or a specific internal initiative that you have going like the extension of Simply Vera Vera Wang into that category? No I think first of all it's a continuation of a trend I would say.
And as you know Home is a category that is not so susceptible to the big weather swings.
And so naturally in the first quarter their trend of business sort of continued along a pattern that had been one.
That trend is being driven I think by just strength broadly in Home across the country.
I expect we're not unique in that.
But also that team has merchandise initiatives where we're extending brands the example you gave was Vera Wang into Home that's helped that sales trend as well.
Great.
And then could you just clarify a little bit more give a little more detail on how you're thinking about your planning for back-to-school? You mentioned that you'll be able to test price increases through June to help you position yourself.
I guess what's your drop dead date to make a decision and with your lead times does that vary by category? Also any update or thoughts on the competitive environment? For the pricing strategy it doesn't really vary by category it's more driven by a marketing calendar and what the timetables are that we have to reach to get into the print schedule and the direct mail schedule and the broadcast schedule.
That's why we've been kind of focused on doing these tests from mid-April to early June so that we can make all those dates and use the information we gather from the tests in pulling the marketing triggers that need to happen for back-to-school.
So I'm pretty confident that we'll know from the tests those changes we need to make and we'll be on a timetable to be able to do it.
Any update on the competitive environment things you're seeing? Overall yes.
I mean I think it's more of the same.
It's a market share fight.
And it requires us to be progressive which is what we're trying to tell you that we're going to be aggressive in the second quarter and the third quarter to continue the trend we've had.
And I don't see that changing at all.
This layering on of increased apparel prices is just another element that gets kind of thrown into the mix and we just want to make sure we're fully prepared to understand that.
Your next question comes from the line of Liz Dunn of FBR Capital Markets.
I guess just a couple of questions.
First would you buy more than $1 billion this year? Would you consider levering up to buy back stock because you seem to be under levered relative to the other department stores? We don't need to lever up.
I mean we're going to refinance the $400 million.
We've got a significant amount of cash.
We already said we're going to buy $900 million at least in the spring.
We have an ample capacity to do that.
We're just not giving guidance for fall share repurchases yet we want to see what unfolds.
But we certainly have the capacity to buyback more than $1 billion without adding to our leverage ratio.
We want to maintain that 2x debt to EBITDAR ratio by refinancing that $400 million.
We'll basically be there at the end of the year and that will give us capacity assuming continued income growth of adding leverage in the future years as well.
Okay.
So you may in future years think about optimizing your balance sheet a little bit more by incurring debt.
We're going to refinance the $400 million that we've paid back this year most likely in the third quarter assuming interest rates remain similar to where they are.
We happen to believe the 2x debt to EBITDA ratio is the right ratio for us that the company provides us a lot of flexibility in the downturn people seem to have forgotten 2008 already when banks didn't intentionally want to other banks let alone other people.
So I think that's prudent to be conservative.
Okay.
And then just on your credit share how high is high? Like where do you think it can go from 53%? And then also I apologize if I missed it but how much did E-com add to the comp? E-com added about 150 basis points to the comp.
In terms of credit share it is somewhat affected by the quarters.
We don't expect it to be 53% the entire year in the fourth quarter.
We get a lot of people shopping not just people that hold our credit card.
The non-credit card people shop in the fourth quarter.
But we do have markets that are north of 60% and we have plenty of markets in mild and hot markets that are newer that are in mid-30s.
So we have a lot of opportunity to continue to grow that share.
Okay great.
Your next question comes from the line of Bernard Sosnick of Gilford Securities.
Following up on E-commerce you were up 47%.
I'm wondering if you could give us a little bit of color with respect to the categories that are strong.
E-commerce started well with Home and you've been building I presume in Apparel.
And could you just give us color on that? I don't have it right with me right now Bernie.
But it was very broad.
We had big increases across the entire spectrum of our merchandise offering.
I think and I'm pretty sure I'm right on this Home ran little faster still than the Apparel categories but I think that was more influenced by the same things that our brick and mortar business were influenced by.
So the thing that makes us excited about the E-com opportunity is the consistency of the growth and the breadth of the growth.
So it's not in one particular category.
It's not being driven by one particular business.
It's really across the whole store.
I can see your confidence there.
What I'm curious about is whether or not you're running ahead of plan in the first quarter and feel very confident about meeting or perhaps beating the $1 billion number.
Well you never -- I mean you know especially Wes and I never want to get ahead of ourselves but I think sort that at the beginning of the year we qualified our E-com opportunity for the year as around $1 billion.
That would have implied a growth for the year of about 40% roughly.
We actually ran up 47% in the first quarter and we have strategies in place we think that actually accelerate the rate of growth.
So you don't want to get ahead of yourself again Bernie but certainly the actual growth in E-com in the first quarter was well ahead of plan.
No I'm impressed with that.
With regard to new store openings I think you said that the new stores are getting started very well.
I know you're not yet ready to talk about future growth plans.
But from what you're seeing does it appear that there's some opening for an acceleration of growth going forward? Well I think the way you described it is the right way.
We don't want to get ahead of ourselves in talking about next year's number of stores but what we've tried to reinforce with everybody is this great confidence we have in our small store prototype and concept.
And that's built on real results over the last few years.
Those results are getting reinforced in the opening of the stores we're having now.
And we're trying to focus everybody around the fact that we think that concept provides a lot more flexibility in real estate for us.
And it does give us at least a platform to open up more stores faster.
There a lot of other factors as you know as well but the small store concept we think is a really solid concept that we've built up a lot of history on.
Would it be correct to say that future growth in units would be more likely skewed to the hot and mild markets because those are your newer ones? And they might start out slower than average but you're encouraged by the developments in the region? I can't really talk beyond this year Bernie and so to talk about 2012 and after and start discussing what percentage of our stores that we're going to open are going to be in mild and hot versus our core markets is definitely getting way ahead.
We're definitely very happy with the results and the trend of business in our mild and hot markets.
So we're not where we want to be yet but the progress that the team has made has been very significant over the course of the last 2 years.
So it does start to give us a little more confidence in our ability to have more stores in those markets going forward.
That's very helpful.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Miller of William Blair.
So beyond this quarter I want to understand what you're thinking about the new product launch with J.
Lo and based on your market research do you think your bigger opportunity is to expand the appeal to a broader demographic so a new customer in the store? Or do you anticipate more of the sales lift coming from increased share of wallet? I mean just because we do have almost 1 100 stores there a lot of customers who are aware of Kohl's and there are within driving distance of a Kohl's store.
So it's going to be a mix of both Mark.
I suspect that though given we touched so many consumers in America already that our biggest dollar opportunity is going to be converting shoppers who are maybe infrequent or casual shoppers of Kohl's who haven't believed to date that we've offered enough from a style and aspirational aspect in our assortments to consider Kohl's.
And we've seen that in the growth of some of the brands like Vera Wang and Dana Buchman and Chaps that we've launched.
So I suspect that's probably the bigger opportunity.
But attracting new customers is also very important.
There's a whole bunch of customers who probably don't consider Kohl's a true alternative for their apparel needs that are currently shopping in the mall specialty stores and perhaps the traditional anchor store in the mall.
And with these kinds of brands will start to consider Kohl's.
So then with that perspective can you share any more about your marketing plan behind this launch because there seems to be disconnect with your enthusiasm and share repurchase relative to the valuation of the stock.
Implicitly investors don't seem to share that.
So given what you have can you say anymore about how you're going to try to communicate the newness you have in the second half? I mean the short answer is no not really.
I mean we're trying to say to everybody this is a very important launch for us.
It's the biggest launch the company's ever undertaken in both the prep for the categories and therefore it's going to get support from a marketing perspective to the greatest degree that we've ever done.
And we think it's from a timing standpoint it couldn't be any better for both of the individuals involved with the brand both Marc and Jennifer.
Here we've been very consistent on the share repurchase.
From any perspective Mark historical performance we've outperformed.
So we have a track record.
Looking at opportunities to grow earnings in the future we've had a theme with investors of making sure they understand our earnings per share growth is more solid we think than other retailers because it's fundamentally built on a number of factors not just top line growth but margin expansion SG&amp;A leverage share buyback and from a total shareholder return perspective a dividend that we hope to grow over time.
So I think Wes has been as aggressive as he can be in saying that when our share price is $53 or $54 we're going to be buying back shares very aggressively.
Yes I mean our pace went from $1.2 billion to $1.8 million if you want to do the math.
So I think if the stock stays where it is that's what we think today.
If stock stays where it is it could even be more aggressive.
I mean put it another way.
If you think about it in looking backwards in the last 2 quarters we've bought back almost $1.5 billion of our own shares.
So we're telling people that it is clearly undervalued in our estimate based on our future growth expansion and we're trying to act accordingly.
Okay that's clear.
Your next question comes from the line of David Glick of Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
Just a quick follow-up Kevin on the J.
Lo launch.
I'm wondering how you look at this with respect to your productivity in the West and the Southeast where you're underdeveloped relative to the rest of the chain and whether you think these brands will have a particular appeal in those regions and a net positive impact on your overall comp? And then secondly when might we start seeing the merchandise in your stores? Yes I mean we're definitely -- we suspect that those 2 brands will even outperform further in the markets in which we have the most opportunity to grow our per store productivity which are the mild and hot markets.
Just the style aesthetic of the 2 brands and of course the 2 personalities involved in the 2 brands are really on target for that consumer in a huge way.
We also have historical perspective to look back at which is how do we perform in contemporary best brands in those markets and they totally outperform.
So I think it gives us a lot of confidence from that standpoint.
What was the second part of your question? Inc.</strong> When are we going to start seeing the merchandise? You should see it very late in August early in September.
The planned target launch is mid-September.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick follow-up for Wes just to put into context the seasonal businesses and the trend impact on your overall comp what percent of your business in the spring do the seasonal categories represent? It's Kevin.
I mean it's roughly in the spring season and I was going to say in the first quarter.
In the first quarter it was roughly around 20% of the business a tad less than roughly about 20% of the business.
I don't actually have the answer for you in terms of last year for the spring.
Inc.</strong> Obviously higher? Second quarter would be higher.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Your next question comes from the line of Ken Stumphauzer of Sterne Agee.
Just a couple of quick questions.
I want to follow up on the price elasticity question you guys were answering earlier.
I'm just curious.
When you look at the actual sales growth on the items on which you took price increases did they accelerate from the prior quarter? Or are you just saying that you do not see a sales decline? No they accelerated in all the cases that we have.
Okay.
And secondly as far as the E-commerce trajectory goes do you guys feel that that might slow say when we get to 4Q and you guys are anniversary-ing the kiosk installations? Or do you think that's not an issue? It's a nonissue.
We did $30 million from the fall season in kiosk.
I mean I think actually and again you never want to look forward too far but fundamentally the building blocks we've put in place around fulfillment because we've now automated completely our second fulfillment center and have now opened and we'll have running our third fulfillment center this holiday give us the ability to service the customer to a much greater degree which gives our marketing team the ability to be much more aggressive in terms of how they reach out to the customer.
The implication being is you guys had stockouts in the E-commerce DCs...
No it's not stockouts.
It's just I mean to put it simply we held back our marketing to the online customer because we really didn't feel we had the capacity and fulfillment to serve them properly.
And we want to be right there in terms of being able to service the customer always and so we were never going to let marketing get ahead of that.
So we've really held back marketing and to some extent merchandising and that will not be the case this fourth quarter.
That's helpful.
And then just one last question.
Trying to scale what the potential contribution could be for Marc Anthony and J.
Lo can guys give us an idea maybe something like Vera Wang how big it was at launch or what it contributed to the comps any kind of scaling or parameters? I mean I'm not being smart when I say this but the short answer is no.
I mean we don't provide detail on individual brand volume.
I've tried to put it in the context for everybody that just because this is both a Women's and a Men's at the same time and the breadth of the categories is the greatest number of categories we've ever done we expect it to be the biggest impact.
Beyond that there's really nothing to say Ken.
Your next question comes from the line of Wayne Hood of BMO Capital Markets.
Just continuing on this topic of E-commerce for a second.
From a marketing standpoint I was curious how you think you'll respond to the growing pre-shipping programs that are in the marketplace on lower minimum orders for back-to-school and holiday.
And what dollar level of order is it no longer profitable or dilutive to returns on capital when you think about that segment of E-commerce and how you increase share? Well I mean at a high level Wayne we know that shipping is going to become a bigger and bigger tool used to drive online business and we're prepared for that.
We've got it in our thought process in terms of how we're going to market and how we're going to communicate to consumers and we recognize that.
Beyond that to get into the detail of how the P&amp;L breaks down and at what point free shipping is good and what point it's not as good that's kind of level of detail we wouldn't want to get into.
But all of this is in our thinking on our Online business.
So we know we're not in a vacuum here.
And we need to be very competitive in order to continue to grow the business.
Okay.
And 2 other questions and I'll get off here.
As you approach the back-to-school season what kind of out the door price point spread on key branded product do you expect to achieve when you take into account the cash rewards or credit offer? In other words everybody's going to come at the same branded price but you can show better value proposition with the cash rewards and credit.
At what level of spread do you think you can get out the door compared to your competitors to take share? Yes I mean it's almost impossible honestly to answer that.
We've tried -- the research that we've done on our average unit retails historically have pretty consistently shown not ours but secondary research that Kohl's price points are below the department stores we compete against and clearly way below the specialty stores in the mall.
We want to keep that spread.
So we want to keep that value proposition.
As I've said in our marketing comments our #1 customer concern today still remains that she wants to and needs to stay within her budget.
So we know that.
Okay.
And then Wes just for you.
I guess I was curious when you think about Texas the Pacific Northwest and California those less productive stores I know it's still early with Capital One but did they see an improvement in the approval rate in credit penetration so that gives you some confidence as Capital One flows on more programs that you can even accelerate that penetration in the back half of the year? Yes it's a great question Wayne.
We've made a few changes thus far that's raised our approval rates roughly 300 basis points.
Your next question comes from the line of Dana Telsey of Telsey Advisory.
As you think about the cost increases besides raw materials what's happening with the other buckets in terms of labor and transportation? And how are those being managed? And if you think beyond J.
Lo is there another new product initiative that we should be watching for in 2013? Well I think from a labor and transportation cost we just finished our ocean freight negotiation.
We feel pretty good about the outcome on those.
I think they'll be modest impact not a big deal from that perspective.
Labor rates especially on apparel our production is less China-centric.
We do significant business in Indonesia Vietnam Bangladesh and other countries Central America various countries down there.
So we've been able to mitigate somewhat the labor pressures in China.
But the increases are a majority like you mentioned all about the raw material increases and hopefully some of the things we're seeing in futures will play out.
So spring will be a little better than what fall's looking like but that's a little early to tell.
On the brand side Dana obviously we've talked a lot about Jennifer and Marc's new brand launch.
We do have a new brand launch for next spring which we think it could be a blockbuster because it's -- while it's a lifestyle brand it's fundamentally anchored in our denim category which is the biggest single category that we sell in our store.
And we think that that could be a big factor of sales next year.
We know that brands are important to our growth and so we're working hard at developing new strategies both for next year and for 2013.
I would say that we believe that the whitespace that's still available for us is definitely in the modern and contemporary area.
We've introduced especially with Jennifer Mark and Rock &amp; Republic coming a lot of contemporary brands coming and so we're probably more focused in the modern area the modern category.
So if you think about our lifestyle that's classic to modern to contemporary modern has a lot of room to grow and so we're trying to put a lot of attention on that.
There are no further questions at this time.
Okay.
Thanks everybody.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Ashley and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Kohl’s Quarter 2 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made on this call including projected financial results and statements regarding the company's intent to restate its prior financial report the nature of the estimated adjustment of the restated financial report and the expected timing of filing the restated financial reports are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
The company intends forward-looking terminologies such as believes expects may will should anticipate plans or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause the company's actual results to differ materially from those anticipated by the forward-looking statements.
These risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to the risk that additional information may arise during the course of the company's lease accounting review that would require the company to make additional adjustments to our financial reports the time and effort required to complete the restatement of the financial reports as well as other risks described more fully in Item 1A in the company's annual report on Form 10-K which is expressly incorporated herein by reference and other factors as may periodically be described in the company's filings with the SEC.
Also please note that replays of this call will be available for 30 days but this recording will not be updated.
So if you are listening after August 11 it is possible that the information discussed is no longer current.
Unless specifically noted the historical results and the guidance that the company is about to discuss do not include any adjustments that may result from the lease accounting corrections that the company disclosed in its earnings release and related 8-K earlier today.
Thank you.
I would now turn the conference over to Wes McDonald Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Thank you.
With me today is Kevin Mansell Chairman CEO and President.
I'll take us through the financial performance and then Kevin will make some remarks regarding our merchandising marketing inventory management initiatives and then I'll close with our earnings guidance.
Total sales for the second quarter were $4.2 billion this year an increase of 3.6% over the second quarter of last year.
Comparable store sales for the quarter increased 1.9% driven by a 1.6% increase in average transaction value.
The increase in average transaction value reflects the net impact of a 6.1% increase in average unit retail and a 4.5% decrease in units per transaction.
The number of transactions per store is up slightly at 0.3%.
Year-to-date sales increased 3.4% to $8.4 billion and comparable store sales increased 1.6%.
Average unit retail increased 4.6% and was only partially offset by a 3.7% drop in units per transaction.
The average transaction value rose 0.9%.
We also achieved a 0.7% increase in number of transactions per store.
Kevin will provide more color on our sales by region and line of business in a few minutes.
Our credit share was approximately 55% for the quarter and 54% for the year an increase of 645 basis points over the second quarter of 2010 and approximately 600 basis points over the first half of 2010.
Moving on to gross margin.
Our gross margin rate for the quarter was 40.7% approximately 43 basis points higher than the second quarter of last year and significantly higher than the flat to 20 basis point improvement that we expected.
Year-to-date our gross margin increased -- rate increased 24 basis points to 39.4%.
For the third quarter we expect our gross margin rate to be down 10 basis points to up 10 basis points for the quarter.
SG&amp;A increased 0.7% for the quarter significantly below our expectations of a 3% to 4.5% increase.
The most significant leverage came from our credit and store organizations.
Advertising and distribution also leveraged for the quarter.
We would expect SG&amp;A expenses to increase 1.5% to 3% for the third quarter.
Depreciation expense increased approximately 6% for the quarter to $163 million primarily due to new stores and remodels.
Depreciation is expected to be approximately $171 million in the third quarter.
Operating income increased 14% for the quarter to $510 million.
Operating income as a percent of sales was 12% 106 basis points higher than the second quarter of 2010.
Year-to-date operating income increased 9% or $72 million to $872 million.
Net interest expense was $27 million this quarter and $31 million last year.
Interest expense is expected to be $30 million in the third quarter.
Our income tax rate was 37.3% for the quarter compared to 37.9% in the prior year quarter.
The reduction was due to favorable state tax audit settlements.
We expect our tax rate to be approximately 38% in the third quarter and 37.6% for the fiscal year.
Our diluted earnings per share of $1.09 increased 30% over the second quarter of last year.
Year-to-date net income was $514 million or $1.81 per diluted share a 22% increase over last year.
Moving on to the balance sheet for your modeling purposes.
We ended the quarter with gross square footage of 96 million up 2 million from last year's 94 million.
Selling square footage was 81 million at quarter end compared to 79 million last year.
And we ended the quarter with a 1 097 stores 30 more than the end of second quarter 2010.
Moving on to cash.
We ended the quarter with $1.2 billion of cash and cash equivalents a decrease of $1.3 billion from the prior year quarter end.
The reduction in cash is primarily due to retirement of $300 million in debt during the first quarter and share repurchases.
We have repurchased approximately 2.2 billion of stocks since the second quarter of 2010 including 750 million repurchased during the second quarter of this year.
Substantially all of the cash and cash equivalents are in money market funds and commercial paper.
We ended the quarter with $3.1 billion of inventory a 5.6% increase over the prior year quarter.
Inventory per store is up just under 3% within our guidance of being up low single digits per store.
Kevin will talk more about inventory management in a few minutes.
Capital expenditures were $473 million for the first half of 2011 approximately $50 million higher than the prior year due to new stores increased remodels our third e-commerce fulfillment center and the exercise of a purchase option in our Texas call center lease.
Accounts payable as a percent of inventory was 43.5% versus 45.9% last year.
The decrease is primarily due to lower inventory turn.
From a capital perspective we repurchased approximately 14 million shares in the quarter and have repurchased approximately 40 million shares since reactivating the buyback program in the fourth quarter of last year.
All of these purchases were made pursuant to 10b5-1 plans.
Weighted average diluted shares were 278 million for the quarter.
For your modeling purposes I would use 266 million diluted shares for the third quarter.
This assumes an additional 500 million in share repurchases in the third quarter at an average price of $52 a share with no additional share repurchases for the year.
We'll update you on our plans for fourth quarter share repurchases when we report third quarter earnings.
For those of you updating annual earnings per share numbers I would use 274 million shares for the annual share count.
Earlier this week our board approved a quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share.
The dividend is payable September 28 to shareholders of record at the close of business on September 7.
And FYI the shares outstanding as of quarter end were 269 million.
And with that I'll turn it over to Kevin.
Thanks Wes.
As Wes mentioned comparable store sales increased 1.9% in the second quarter.
Our monthly cadence was more volatile than normal as pent-up demand drove a very strong comparable sales performance in June when hot weather arrived while July was negatively affected by a lack of clearance merchandise as our clearance inventory units ended down 25% on a per store basis.
From a line of business perspective Accessories and Home reported the strongest comps for both the quarter and on a year-to-date basis.
Accessories was led by watches and handbags Home was driven by strength in small electrics food prep and bedding.
Women's continue to be better than the company average for both the quarter and on a year-to-date basis.
Strong performers in Women's included updated sportswear active wear and special sizes.
Men's and Children's were positive but slightly under the company average for the quarter.
Men's was led by basics and active wear while Children's had strength in infants and toddlers.
Footwear which has consistently outperformed the company in the last few years reported a mid-single digit comp sales decrease for the quarter.
Athletic shoes drove the decrease down mid-teens due to significant drops in the toning category.
This was a category we had maximized last year and it peaked in the second quarter last year.
On the positive side Women's shoes were the strongest category in the Footwear business achieving a double-digit comp sales store increase.
Our private and exclusive brands continue to increase in penetration.
They were approximately 53% of our sales in the second quarter up 335 basis points.
Private brands such as SONOMA and Apt.
9 performed very well while exclusive brands like FILA SPORT Food Network Lauren Conrad Simply Vera Vera Wang and Mudd achieved very strong double-digit sales increases.
From a regional perspective the Northeast region reported the strongest comps.
The Mid-Atlantic and Midwest regions reported low single-digit comp increases and the Southeast South Central and West regions were flat to modestly down.
Our E-Commerce business continues to report significant sales increases and is on plan to reach our $1 billion business goal.
For the quarter E-commerce sales were $171 million up 36% over last year.
We expect an increase in comparable store sales for the third quarter in the 2% to 4% range.
We expect all months to be consistent with the quarterly average with modest sequential improvement throughout the quarter.
We're extremely excited about the upcoming Jennifer Lopez and Marc Anthony brand launches and we see those 2 brand launches as catalysts in September and October.
You will begin to see the merchandise in the stores in late August with the launch scheduled for mid-September in conjunction with our anniversary sale.
We'd expect those brands to accelerate our already strong trend in exclusive brand penetration.
Looking at inventory levels merchandise content and receipt flows we're very pleased in our inventory management results and are comfortable with our plan for the fall.
Total inventory per store is down 5% in units and up less than 3% in dollars while clearance units per store are down approximately 25% in units and down approximately 16% in dollars.
As expected we've incurred significant cost increases across all apparel categories this fall approximately 10% to 15% overall.
Our results in the second quarter in addition to more specific testing by price point and lifestyle indicate that our plans in fall for price elasticity on a 1:1 ratio are very sound.
They won't be the same by area or price point but overall that's our plan for the fall season and the plan appears to have been well-founded.
We would expect our inventory dollars per store at the end of the third quarter to be up low single digits on a per store basis similar to our expectation for the year.
As Wes mentioned we continue to expect gross margin for the third quarter to be down 10 basis points to up 10 basis points higher than last year.
This was our expectation heading into the year back in February.
We've allowed ourselves the flexibility on pricing by planning units conservatively to meet customer demand.
Our increased penetration in private and exclusive brands as well as continued better inventory management will help us maintain margin if customers resist some of the planned price increases.
Our #1 customer concern continues to be staying within her budget.
As a result we'll continue to drive home our value message using our highly effective The More You Know The More You Kohl's platform.
There are several new marketing investments we are making in the third quarter over last year.
Included among them are of course the significant addition on investment in the new brand launches increase in the amount of direct mail and increase in the amount of digital media and an expansion of our mild and hot market strategy to include the South Central region in addition to the Southeast.
All of these investments are reflected in our guidance which we will be sharing.
History has proven that Kohl's Charge holders are our most loyal customers.
We've seen that in the results thus far this year.
They shop our stores more often and have a significantly higher annual spend than non-Kohl's Charge holders.
As a result we've also recently made changes in our incentives to open a Kohl's Charge account that will hopefully attract more occasional shoppers and help them turn into Kohl's brand lovers.
We'll also continue to focus on adding to our mailable credit card base especially in our mild and hot markets.
As you may recall we focused on the Southwest region in 2009 in the Southeast region in 2010 with excellent results in terms of increasing credit penetration and increasing sales productivity.
We are now expanding those efforts this fall into the South Central region as part of our mild and hot market strategy.
In addition our partnership with Capital One has allowed us to increase our approval rates since April by approximately 300 basis points on average giving more customers the chance to experience the value our charge card provides.
Finally we've also added new marketing this fall to all remodel stores to attract new customers and expect to see a benefit for the fall season.
The final group of remodel stores will reopen in conjunction with our new brand launches in September and these final remodels will bring our total for the year to 100 stores.
Finally we're on schedule for our plan to open up another 31 new stores in the fall season at the end of September.
In closing we weren't happy with our sales performance in the second quarter.
But we were very pleased to significantly exceed the high end of our earnings goals.
We have strengthened our marketing for the third quarter and have the benefit of the biggest brand launches in our company's history which we believe will allow us to achieve a better comp in the third quarter.
We continue to be excited about our E-commerce performance as we remain on track to achieve $1 billion in E-commerce sales in 2011.
And in order to achieve that goal our third e-commerce fulfillment center in Maryland is online to support holiday 2011 peak season.
Our biggest sales opportunity remains in our mild and hot markets.
We're happy to add the South Central region to our marketing intensification initiatives.
We have much more to do to achieve our goals in those markets but we continue to move forward positively.
Our increased penetration of private and exclusive brands along with strong inventory management continues to benefit us on our gross margin rate and we see no change in that going forward.
Our inventory remains in great shape.
As we expected the inventory levels are on planned and clearance levels are significantly below last year on a per store basis.
In addition our merchants and planners reacted to the sluggishness in seasonal sales.
We have appropriate levels of inventory in those categories entering the third quarter.
Perhaps most importantly by far we continue to make significant progress on the SG&amp;A line.
After being a headwind in 2010 our credit business provided significant leverage in the spring season as our bad debt expense continues to drop towards prerecession levels.
Leverage and store payroll expenses continues to be driven by sustainable productivity improvements such as the rollout of electronic sign.
In other areas such as distribution and advertising contributed as well to our expense control.
Finally I think you can see that our capital structure provided flexibility in the quarter where the top line was less than planned.
We believe that our stock is certainly undervalued at its current level and we're more aggressive about share repurchases buying approximately $750 million of stock during the quarter.
Our peak working capital needs are in the third quarter with our holiday inventory build but we would still expect to buy back at least $500 million worth of stock in the third quarter.
We're committed to being good stewards of capital and we'll continue to prioritize profitable growth and reinvestment in our stores while returning any excess cash to our shareholders.
I think this is evident as you see our EPS increase of approximately 30% over last year and the $140 million of cash dividends that were paid so far this year.
With that let me turn it back to Wes to provide our earnings guidance.
Thanks Kevin.
In conjunction with our July sales release we reported that we had identified certain areas related to our accounting for leases.
Earlier this week our audit committee concluded that because of these errors investors should not rely on our 2010 Form 10-K or our first quarter 10-Q.
The most significant corrections relate to some very technical accounting literature related to our involvement in new store construction.
It is important to note that all of the corrections are noncash.
In reviewing our leases with our auditors we have determined that many of our strategies in negotiating leases and in renovating and constructing stores have put us in a position of holding an ongoing financial interest on having control of the building.
We have had several leasing strategies that have caused the accounting issues.
First situations where we construct the buildings for the landlord but received a portion of the reimbursement through reduced rent over the term of the lease rather than upfront when we incurred the construction cost.
Second our leases generally have renewal options at fixed rates which covers substantially all of the building's economic life.
And finally we often make improvements that are more significant than normal tenant improvements replacing a roof or installing an HVAC system as examples.
These strategies do not change the legal ownership of the store but do require us to record the property and the corresponding liability on our books.
The corrections will also re-categorize rent expense as depreciation and interest expense.
We are working diligently to quantify the impact of these errors on both our historical and our perspective results and currently plan to file our restated 10-K and first quarter 10-Q as well as our second quarter 10-Q by September 13 which is the normal due date plus a 5-day extension as allowed by the SEC.
With that let me share with you some details behind our initial guidance for the third quarter and for fiscal 2011.
For the third quarter we would expect the total sales increase of 4% to 6% comp sales of 2% to 4% gross margin down 10 basis points to up 10 basis points over last year.
We expect SG&amp;A to increase 1.5% to 3%.
Including our expected $500 million share repurchase this would result in earnings per share of $0.76 to $0.82 for the third quarter.
As a result of our second quarter performance and our third quarter share repurchase estimate we are raising our fiscal 2011 guidance from $4.25 to $4.40 per diluted share to $4.45 to $4.60 per diluted share.
This guidance does not include any impact from the lease accounting corrections.
And with that we'd be happy to take a few of your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Quick question on credit card.
Your credit penetration is growing at impressive levels.
I think you said 645 basis points year-over-year.
Can you talk about what's driving that? And how is that impacting your business? Well I think from the second quarter it's a little unique situation as we tried to describe a little bit earlier June and July.
One of the things we did from a marketing perspective in June is we added a second credit event to June replacing our lowest prices as a season event.
That obviously drove extraordinary increases in our credit penetration.
Normally the only month we have 2 credit events in are in March and September which coincide with our grand opening of stores.
So that's probably the biggest driver.
Secondarily I think as I mentioned in the call partnership with Capital One has allowed us to increase our approval rates by about 300%.
That certainly started to drive some increase in penetration and hopefully will help us through the balance of the year and into the future as we make those customers more loyal to Kohl's.
And can you give us some insight in terms of your early experience with back-to-school? I think it's probably too early generally from a perspective of the categories of the business.
If you look backwards a little bit Deb we had a pretty consistent performance in Kids which of course is an important area.
We had a pretty good performance in July in the quarter in the nonathletic non-toning Footwear business.
So I think that gives us some confidence.
And I think we're all looking hard at impact of price increases on the business not just for back-to-school but for the third quarter.
I'd say right now we're seeing a pretty consistent pattern and it's pretty much what we planned for which is about 1:1.
Beyond that it's just way too early.
And last question what's happening in the mild and hot market? I think you've previously discussed these as being some of the biggest opportunity markets.
Well I mean generally they're improving right if you look at performance over the course of the last 3 years.
Consistently the mild and hot markets have outperformed the company.
They needed to because they were relatively underperforming as a percent of an average store.
So we had room to improve our productivity levels in those stores.
But they are catching up.
And I think generally I would say we're really pleased and kind of see that in the fact that we continue to expand our market intensification efforts to include other parts of the mild and hot markets.
So it kind of went from a focus on the West Coast in '09 to a focus on the Southeast in 2010 and we've now made the decision that for this fall new we will be expanding that into the South Central one of the key states of course which we have a lot of stores Texas and that's a stayed in a market which could benefit from the expansion of the market intensification.
So I think we're pleased with the progress and we still have a little bit of a gap so we've got a little room to improve as well.
Our next question comes from the line of Adrianne Shapira with Goldman Sachs.
Kevin maybe just stepping back give us a sense of -- in light of the shift in the promotions also the lack of clearance in June July the weather shift also.
Just when you step back what does it make you think about how aggressive you have to be in terms of getting the customers' attention in this environment? And how you think about the back half and perhaps the need to be more to invest more in price? What you learned from sort of that experience June versus July? The June July swing which was non-holiday related that's about as big a swing as I can remember where we had almost an 8 comp in June positively and almost a 5 comp negatively in July.
You hit on the 3 reasons as we look back in hindsight and sort of analyze we understand it a little better.
Weather was a factor.
There was a lot of pent-up in the demand in June and so the consumer was open to buy.
We then had sort of pre-positioned the promotional change in our calendar to really accelerate sales into July both because of the weaker spring and also because strategically it was working.
So I think we accelerated and pulled up demand into June.
And then naturally tight inventory management led to tight clearance levels and a really strong June further tightened that level.
So you put all 3 of those things and we can kind of better understand the performance in the 2 months.
Broadly though there's no question that the consumer needs to be motivated more in order to buy today.
And if you think about the period generally most of the price increases that consumers are going to see they're just kind of feeling for the first time.
They might have seen some of them in June and July but they're going to see much more broadly this fall as it hits in August September October.
We try to go through on the call a whole series of marketing investments that we've made in the third quarter that are incremental to last year.
And without getting into the gory detail of all of that I think the signal we're giving you is that we know we have to be very aggressive on marketing to motivate the consumer and that's everything from our incremental investment around the new brands to more direct mail to dramatically increase investment in digital media to this market intensification expansion into the South Central and even including increasing the incentive to attract customers to apply for and get a Kohl's credit charge.
So I realize that was a long answer to your question but it's really everything that we're thinking about.
And as I said I think that we're implying in the third quarter that we know we have to be very aggressive to motivate her.
Okay.
And so that was on the heels of the learnings from the June July a lot of reinvestments was in response to that.
I think it was 2 things.
I think we knew that we needed to be prepared to do that given the price increases and the weak economy and then the June July really accelerated our need to do so.
So it definitely increased the importance of doing so.
So we definitely made some changes due to June and July.
Okay.
And in light of that it's impressive that the gross margin held constant in light of some of these incremental changes.
Maybe kind of help us think through how you're able to maintain that margin expectation? Is that a function of private label penetration continuing to ramp to offset maybe some incremental pressure? And then following that maybe the -- if you could be a little bit more specific in terms of the change of the incentives of the credit offering going forward.
Well on the margin I mean it is primarily a function -- we would kind of generally qualify it as better inventory management results.
It's got 2 big pieces to it.
One is as you can see we've had very strong inventory control and we predicted where our inventories were going to be sales fell short of what we thought they were going to be and yet we see still achieved our inventory levels which sort of says to you that we have strong receipt flow control.
So I think that's been a very big positive.
It's particularly a positive when you go down into the store groupings and we see improvement in the store groupings where we needed to see it.
And then definitely the very large increase in the penetration of private and exclusive brands is a big positive for our merchandise margins and definitely was a tailwind for us.
As we look at fall I think we believe that if anything that's going to accelerate because we have the 2 biggest brand launches in the company's history laying on top of strong demand.
On the credit incentive I mean that's about new customers.
So we have a focus that we're trying to get customers who shop Kohl's occasionally or infrequently to become shoppers more often.
We would refer to them as more brand lovers.
And the connection that we know we can make to get that to happen is to show them the reasons why they should consider carrying a Kohl's Charge.
And so one of the ways to do that effectively is to increase the incentives to open one and then that allows the ability to communicate all the incremental value opportunities they get during the course of the year and that sort of moves them along the spectrum towards brand lovers.
So it's been a positive.
Okay.
Great.
And then just lastly one for you Wes I mean an impressive job a second quarter in a row where you're able to deliver the high end of earnings despite the low end of sales performance.
You've done a great job on the SG&amp;A front.
Just in light of these incremental marketing initiatives we know that you're lapping some spend on credit from a year ago.
Just give us a sense in the back half does it get tougher to continue to be able to manage expenses as well as you had in the first half if sales continue to be challenging? Well I mean I think it was a real team effort the stores the distribution guys the advertising team did a great job.
We continue to get benefits from credit much like some of our competition have already reported or in the first quarter.
We're seeing the same benefits from bad debt expense coming down significantly and that's passing through to the bottom line.
I think the credit tailwind certainly continues through the balance of the year.
I'm proud of the stores for leveraging on a little bit more than a flat comp and I expect that they'll be able to do that in the fall season.
Advertising we're going to invest a little more.
Kevin mentioned the Jennifer Lopez Marc Anthony launches.
That's going to be a pretty significant investment very similar to what we did with Vera Wang back in 2007.
So we're going to put some muscle behind that.
So advertising will be very challenged to leverage in the back half off of last year.
And corporate expenses will really be a function of what our comp is.
But I'm comfortable that the team can flex to whatever the sales volume is.
I mean the incremental advertising though it's important to note that that is still built into the guidance that Wes gave you.
So when he expects SG&amp;A to increase 1.5% to 3% on a 4% to 6% sales increase that includes the incremental advertising.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Drbul with Barclays Capital.
Kevin from the standpoint of just on the sales perspective can you comment a little bit about the performance of small format stores? Are they trending any differently than you expected? And can you also comment on the remodeled stores and sort of the results that you're seeing versus the entire store base most recently? I don't have the specific small versus proto results for the quarter but -- for the quarter but generally the small stores I think more because there's more new small stores are going to be trending better than the company.
So I don't have the specific number in front of me Bob.
We'll get it for you later.
But I'm pretty confident I can say that small stores trended at a better comp than the company did in the second quarter because that's been very consistent recently.
On the remodels we've been really pleased with the remodels.
And I would say we saw an acceleration in the year-over-year performance of our remodeled stores.
And frankly there's a number of investments that we're making as part of that incremental marketing spend that are targeted right at the remodeled stores.
And we do expect if anything that that sales trend which was better in the second quarter than it was last year on those remodels is going to accelerate because there are things that many of which we've tested and are working and there are new things which we have a lot of confidence in because they worked for us in the past.
So remodels is generally a really good story I would say and I think better to come.
And in the back half of the year now as we enter into it can you just give us your updated thoughts around your ability to sort of maintain initial markup and keeping the pricing structure at the good better best? Have you really tweaked that at all given the volatility of the sales trends over the last few months? Not really.
I mean fundamentally we went into this thinking that we wanted to maintain our initial markup.
That that was important and that would give us the ability to respond to why the customer wanted to buy or didn't want to buy.
So far the results we've gotten have kind of been what we expected broadly which is this kind of 1:1.
For every increase in cost there's a corresponding decrease in units and that's kind of what we're experiencing.
And there isn't anything we'd point to particularly about a price point or a business or a lifestyle that is different than that.
It's generally mostly about the product itself.
If the product is really on target then the customer accepts the price increases.
And if merchandise content is a little off target she's much more apt to resist it which would require us to be more aggressive from a price point perspective.
Then my last question is you talked a little bit about some of the focus group work that you've done and I think the #1 reason staying within her budget.
How frequently do you perform those focus groups and sort of when is the most recent one sort of that you have done? And sort of how should we think about your frequency to sort of communicate with your consumer base like that? It's a continual process so it's all year every month and we're looking at what drives the customer to shop.
And the #1 driver continues to be value.
As we went into the second quarter we still saw a pretty strong balance between a great price and an expectation that they would get really good quality and style for that price.
I haven't seen any real change in that.
It's something we look at every month.
So this is not something we do every 6 months or a year.
We do it on a continual basis.
So we're tracking any changes in perception or intent to shop based on maybe more important to price and less important to quality or style but we haven't seen that Bob.
Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Binder with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions for you on the credit side.
The credit penetration was up as you pointed out quite a bit year-over-year given the relationship.
And I was just curious if you were to do a sensitivity analysis around how that contributed to comp store sales in the quarter I would appreciate it and I was -- also another question on credit.
As you look at the relationship and I realize you may not want to provide a lot of detail but if you were to see a period where those credit tailwinds were to reverse and bad debt started going back up what kind of a sensitivity would you have to your earnings given the profit-sharing relationship? Well I mean I think the first question the credit card comp by far is a much better performing business always has been.
Even in my tenure here when we ran 6 comp back in '06 the non-credit comp was basically flat.
So the credit comp for the quarter was in double-digit territory.
The noncredit customer was a little more challenging.
Part of that was the addition of the event in June obviously because that customer would have probably used a bank card and LPS or could use a bank card in LPS and used Kohl's credit card during our second credit event.
As far as the bad debt goes the other way I'm not going to quantify it.
I can just tell you we went through it in '09 really is when the bad debt expense started to hit because we're not responsible for the reserves.
So Chase has that.
And there was a slight decrease in our profitability.
But quite honestly last year there was a bigger decrease in our profitability given some of the changes that went through from a legislative perspective.
If you recall in the third quarter last year we said we probably lost about $50 million worth of revenue.
Our bad debt expense during its worst period was 6.6% of accounts receivable.
We're starting to see it trend down to close to 5% this year would be where it would be if we continue the trend we're on.
So I don't think it presents a ton of risk going forward if it goes the other way.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then just 2 other quick questions.
One if you can comment not necessarily the specific numbers but have you seen any choppiness in the business around the events of the last 2 to 3 weeks? Obviously been a lot of turmoil and then some clarification on the guidance.
Is it correct to say that the $0.10 of that increase was related to the buyback that you're assuming not just for Q3 but presumably for Q4 as well? Well I can't really comment on the choppiness of the current month because it's in the current month.
As far as the buyback goes yes I mean obviously you guys can do the math.
A big chunk of the guidance increase was due to the fact that we bought back more shares in the second quarter.
That just gets carried through the third quarter as well as the fiscal year.
All your guys models already had share repurchase in it.
So to be fair I can't quantify a range from what your estimates are versus what our estimates are.
But certainly it affected it.
Our next question comes from the line of Erika Maschmeyer with Robert W.
Baird.
Could you talk about the margin profile on your E-Commerce business? I know that's been pressured by all the investments that you've been making in it.
And when you might expect to start to get some more leverage there? Well I mean I think that's the right way to characterize it.
We think about the E-Commerce business in the short term looks like this year and even into next year a little differently than we would think about the E-Commerce business after that Erika.
In the short term it's a little bit of a drag on operating margins because we've made so many significant investments.
And that will continue into early next year though it will improve from this year's level.
In the longer term as we look at it post this year and early next year I think that our online business will begin to be a tailwind to our operating margin.
We think long term it can be a big big positive I would say.
But you're right in assessing it as right now it's not exactly helping our operating margins because we've made so many investments not just on the capital side but on the expense side as well.
Yes I mean from a gross margin perspective I would expect it always to be slightly lower than brick and mortar.
The business just tends to naturally be more driven by Home.
Home is roughly 18% or 19% of our total business but online right now it's roughly 1/3.
That's because it was one of the first categories we've put online back when we started the business.
We're starting to increase the apparel offerings online as we widen areas that are available online like big and tall and special sizes group.
That's going to help us do more Apparel business online closing the gap to brick and mortar.
And then in terms of your categories online comp-wise do you see any different trends that you do in the stores? Not generally I mean prior to -- beyond the obvious thing that Wes just touched on.
The other thing that is a fact right now is that the penetration of our private and exclusive brands online is lower.
And that's of course because we have had a strategy of beginning to expand the categories that we sell online to include things that we don't sell in the store and related categories.
And as a result the percentage of business this private and exclusive brand naturally it's going to be lower.
We do have strategies in place as we move into next year to pretty aggressively change that trajectory.
So we're going to be offering much larger assortments than we do in the stores in our private and exclusive brands.
And I think that's something that will benefit us going forward.
Great.
And then a quick follow-up.
D&amp;A was lower than we expected.
What was the driver of that? We're pretty conservative when we plan that in terms of when assets get put into service.
So it's just more of a function of that than anything else where we might have planned the asset to be usually their IT assets get put into service at the beginning of the quarter.
It might not make it to the end of the quarter or it might not make until third quarter.
Our next question comes from the line of Jeff Klinefelter with Piper Jaffray.
Just a couple of quick follow ups here.
One would be on pricing.
Kevin appreciate the perspective you shared on elasticity more specifically in key product categories like denim where we're seeing most of the significant price increases and pass-throughs.
At the same time for example in the youth area in the teens space we're seeing a lot a very aggressive pricing in the malls to the downside.
So I was just curious is there anything going on there in terms of how you see your performance in that category? Are you seeing more competition from malls than you would typically see? And then as another follow-up it would just be on sourcing.
In terms of your ability to chase in the second half could you share your thoughts on that? And would that actually end up coming in at a lower cost given some changes on the sourcing environment? On the elasticity generally I would say particularly to the 2 categories that you called out which is sort of the younger businesses and then separately denim more broadly.
Younger business has generally had been pretty good.
And to be honest if there was any category we were a little concerned about as prices started to take hold it was our younger businesses because they seem to be historically pretty price-sensitive.
But those actually came through the second quarter including July pretty well.
I think Wes they ran pretty much with the company and the smaller sizes which have a tendency to be the most sensitive actually outperformed the company.
So on that one I would say we're feeling good.
On the denim I think you're going to know a lot more about the impact of denim Jeff in September.
And for us to be talking about the impact of this elasticity impact based on June and July it's just not a period in which it's a good period to review.
I think by the time we get to our August results and early September we should have a pretty good understanding of what's happened in the denim category.
On the sourcing side we as you know have had a very aggressive approach to improving our sort of concept to customer our supply chain effectiveness with our overseas suppliers.
And that's benefiting us.
You can see that.
Most strikingly I think we had a subpar sales performance and yet we came in pretty much right on our inventory levels I think actually a little bit below what we had projected.
And so broadly we feel pretty good about that.
Having said that when you get into the late fall and holiday there's a very limited amount of chasing you can do.
Those goods we do go back on yes.
I mean raw material costs have moved the other way for sure.
And so we actually -- it might actually benefit us since we have to chase later in the season.
And it's one of the reasons why just from a total perspective we feel really feel positive about the fact that we've really managed inventory tightly.
So we're in a position to take advantage of it.
Okay.
That's really helpful.
Just one other clarification on your marketing spend you are spending some incremental dollars here across different mediums.
In total your budget year-over-year has gone up from the thoughts at the beginning of the year.
In terms of your leverage point Wes is that staying flat is that dropping because more of your dollars are going into a digital and direct versus TV? Well in the first half I think marketing leverage.
Yes we leverage in the second quarter mark.
In the back half it will be worth of the leverages.
Our expectation would be obviously in the back half for the incremental investment we're going to get the sales for it.
So I think we were at 4.7% of sales last year.
My goal would be to get to flat this year.
That's going to be dependent on -- as a percent of sales that's going to be totally dependent on the back half.
Okay.
If you hit your sales plan on the back half with this incremental spending that would be a push in the rate? That will be the goal yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Your first test comp came in a little late versus your expectations and I know you're adding some marketing in the back half but it seems like the environment remains quite challenging.
What gives you the confidence in that 2% to 4% comp in the back half? Well I think you're right on target on the environment no question about that.
And there's obviously no question disputing the fact that our comps were less than we projected them to be.
We think we understand some of the reasons that is and we do have some specific strategies in place to try to correct that.
We talked about those in the call.
There are a lot about frankly brand launches which have accelerated our trends in the past and we have the biggest ones in the company's history coming.
And then secondarily smart and intelligent incremental investments in marketing.
And we've exhibited a pretty good ability to make good decisions about spending additional marketing.
As Wes said we have to get sales to show that that continues to be true in the fall and holiday but we believe we're putting the extra marketing in the places that will drive extra sales.
So there's not much more to say beyond that to be honest Lorraine.
It's really those 2 things.
It would also almost be impossible to sell less outerwear in October this year than we did last year given the weather.
Our next question comes from the line of David Glick with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> Most of my questions have been answered.
I'm just curious on the merchandising front.
Obviously you noted not having a big brand launch was one of the issues you identified for sales below your expectations.
Just as a little bit of a preview how should we think about your floors flowing just in a general sense? What gets displaced? Is this going in strike points? Where is J.
Lo and Marc Anthony going to go in the floor? And is it a major reflow of your selling floors that's going to give a fresh look to the customer when they shop in mid-September? Yes David.
I mean the short answer it is a major reflow.
Both of those brands will fit on the front of our floor pads one in Women's of course one in Men's.
Both will anchor the floor in the zone that sits to the front of the store in both those respected areas.
In the Women's area because they actually go from the aisle all the way through to the wall and then Men's they do have a similar but of course slightly smaller floor pad.
The primary elimination has been the Axcess brand which we had in both Men's and Women's which was a brand we purchased through Liz Claiborne and that's been eliminated.
To be honest that's been a drag in the first half of the year on our exclusive brand penetration because we decelerated of course our investment in brand in both areas a lot going into the first half but we've been kind of fighting that.
It's one of the reasons why I mentioned at the beginning that we actually would expect to have private particularly our exclusive brand penetration increase is going to accelerate a lot in the third quarter.
It's going to be a dramatic change because the first half reflected no newness in the elimination of pretty big anchor brand in exclusive brands and the second half reflects the 2 biggest brand launches we've ever had in all newness.
So we feel good about that.
Inc.</strong> So does that mean that Simply Vera kind of moves to the side and J.
Lo gets that strike point? No Simply Vera still anchors Simply Vera is the premier brand we have in the Women's world.
That brand ran double-digit increases in the first half of the year and actually is accelerating.
So no she did not -- we did not relocate that brand.
Jennifer Lopez will basically be in the middle of that pad.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then last question on the athletic Footwear obviously huge drag in the first half.
When do you see -- how much do you see that trend improving in Q3? And is it possible to see that category flatten out by the end of the year? On a percentage to last year basis I would not expect -- I don't have the specific numbers on toning but I would not expect the toning drop percentage-wise to last year in the third quarter.
It will be much different than the second quarter but the dollars are much much smaller.
And as a result of that the impact on the total Footwear sales and the total company sales are dramatically less.
And of course as you would expect as we move through from August to September to October they get less and less.
July was the peak dollar amount of toning business we did in the whole year.
And of course it came in what is the price second lowest sales month of the whole year.
So the impact on the company was pretty dramatic.
Inc.</strong> And last follow-up on the credit events clearly those will become a bigger and bigger percentage of your business and your performance seems strongest in those events.
This multipronged marketing strategy do you think that makes you less dependent on that event and can sort of drive better performance outside of what's clearly been your most successful marketing promotion? Yes I mean that's certainly the objective.
I mean generally that's what we're trying to do which is recognize that while we love the fact that our customers love having their credit card and we want to get more of them into it the reality is that we need to increase our share of voice in our noncredit event and we're going to do that through the brand launches through the direct mail to noncredit customers and in a pretty dramatic way in an increase in digital media.
And so that's definitely how we're thinking about it.
Our next question comes from the line of Michelle Clark with Morgan Stanley.
Just a point of clarification on an earlier question.
Your fiscal year EPS outlook does not include any share buyback assumptions in the fourth quarter is that correct? That's correct.
Okay.
And then SG&amp;A guidance in the third quarter obviously credit has been a big tailwind for you guys.
Can you just tell us what is embedded in your third quarter SG&amp;A outlook that credit continues at the pace we saw in the second quarter or is it an outlook that you had at the beginning of the year in terms of credit? Well I think it's really a function of how it's done.
So far this spring obviously we've done better in the spring than we thought.
So we embedded that in the guidance.
Overall SG&amp;A you have to remember we're adding that marketing investment with Jennifer Lopez and Marc Anthony.
So I always hope to do better than what we guide but I built in some of that credit upside.
We'll see if it's more than I thought.
Okay.
Great.
And then lastly on J.
Lo Marc Anthony can you give us any color on what this SKU breakout is between the 2 brands? Is one more heavily weighted versus the other? Yes Jennifer Lopez is by far the bigger brand.
And as you know -- I mean as you know the Women's business is roughly 50% bigger in dollars than the Men's business at Kohl's.
So you would expect that the Women's brand is a bigger impact and you'll see that on the floor.
While Marc Anthony the Marc Anthony brand has a significant floor presence and great presentation Jennifer Lopez brand is significantly larger.
Is the magnitude 3:1 4:1? We really don't get into specific.
From a presentation perspective in 3 weeks you'll be able to look at it and judge for yourself.
But it doesn't really matter I guess right Michelle because it's all in the way the customer receives it.
So from an impact on sales standpoint but it's dramatically different and you'll see it.
Our next question comes from the line of Richard Jaffe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</strong> I guess a couple of quick follow-up questions.
With the E-Commerce business so strong how do you think about that internally? I mean how cannibalistic do you think it is? And how accretive or found sales is the E-Commerce business? And then if you could just spend a minute on price increases.
You talked about 1:1 and I assume that's as dollar costs increased units decreased.
I'm wondering if there's an opportunity as you chase businesses to benefit from this product cost inflation environment let's say to see retail price inflation leveraging your cost.
Richard on the E-Com thing I think it's a mix.
We recognize and we know for sure that there's certain amount of cannibalization going on no differently than when we open up new stores and markets which have existing Kohl's stores and some of those new stores cannibalized and some of them take sales from other retailers.
So we know that our online growth a certain portion of it is coming out of our comp store sales growth.
But with amount of increase we have and from many objective numbers I've seen our Online business is growing much faster than the overall industry online business.
We're taking some incremental share as well.
That's particularly true I would say Richard in the categories in which we offer online that we don't offer in-store.
So there's a whole bunch of related categories to our core business that aren't available in our store but are available online.
Those we know of course we're taking share.
On the movement of raw material costs the other way I think we always try to not anticipate that we're going to be the smartest people when it comes to buying and time-to-market just right.
Generally though we're really focused more on keeping our inventories lean and manage our inventories to our plan or below because that will give us the greatest flexibility.
So if our inventories are well maintained and well managed and prices to us start to move the other way we're going to be in a great position to take advantage of that.
And the last question comes from the line of Bernard Sosnick [Gilford Securities].
Could you give us some amplification guidance as to the role of Kohl's Cash in stimulating sales the linkage with your card and your assessment of that plan versus those of competitors? Yes Bernie.
I mean generally we think about Kohl's Cash as one of the ways in which consumers who understand the value of Kohl's it's part of the platform of The More You Know The More You Kohl's can get the best value.
So we talk a lot about ways to stack the savings ways in which you can get great sale prices.
If you have a proprietary card we reward you with incremental savings.
Sometimes we also allow you to earn cash as you said Kohl's Cash during those purchases to then come back in the store later when it's convenient for you because we give you a period of time to do so and use that Kohl's Cash.
So I wouldn't -- we run Kohl's Cash events during credit offers and not during credit offers.
And they're redeemed during credit offers and not during credit offers.
So there's not a particularly direct linkage between it and the credit card but it is linked in that it's part of the ways which we say to customers you can really understand the value you can get at Kohl's by using Kohl's Cash in addition to our credit card in addition to taking advantage of our no exclusion policy in addition to getting hassle-free returns.
It's just one of the value it issues.
Well could you also then compare what Kohl's is doing Kohl's Cash and other things to the programs employed by other retailers Target Macy's for example? Sure.
I mean broadly without talking about any specific retailer I would say we think that this is not what we think.
I guess it's what our customers tell us.
The biggest differentiator on Kohl's Cash compared to other retailers that might offer other similar programs is that you can earn it on anything you buy in the store and you can redeem it on anything you buy in the store.
And I think that's very unique.
I do not believe that that is generally true.
I'll be available if anybody has any questions after the call.
Thanks again.
And there are no further questions.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is a Brandy and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Kohl's Quarter 3 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made on this call including projected financial results are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Kohl's intends forward-looking terminologies such as believe expect may will should anticipate plans or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause Kohl's actual results to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements.
Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those that are described in Item 1A in Kohl's most recent annual report on Form 10-K/A as you may see we supplemented from time to time in Kohl's other filings with the SEC all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
Also please note that replays of this call will be available for 30 days but this recording will not be updated.
So if you're listening after November 10 it is possible that the information discussed is no longer current.
Thank you.
I will now turn the conference over to Wes McDonald Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Mr.
McDonald please go ahead.
[Technical Difficulty] Okay sorry about that technical difficulty there.
I'll start again with financial performance.
Wholesales for the quarter increased 3.8% to $4.4 billion.
Comparable store sales for the quarter increased 2.1%.
Average transaction value increased 5.2% and reflects a 9.5% increase in average unit retail and a 4.3% decrease in units per transaction.
Number of transaction per store decreased 3.1%.
Year-to-date sales have increased 3.5% to $12.8 billion and comparable store sales have increased 1.7%.
Average unit retail increased 6.2% and units per transaction decreased 3.9% resulting in an average transaction value increase of 2.3%.
Number of transactions per store decreased 0.6%.
Kevin will provide more color on our sales by region and line of business in a few minutes.
Our credit share was 57% for the quarter and is 55% for the year an increase of approximately 430 basis points over the third quarter of 2010 and approximately 540 basis points over the first 9 months of 2010.
Our gross margin rate for the quarter was 38.6% 10 basis points higher than the third quarter of last year and at the high end of our expectations.
Year-to-date our gross margin rate increased almost 20 basis points to 39.1%.
Our fourth quarter expectations are consistent with our previous expectations for the third quarter down 10 basis points to up 10 basis points over last year.
SG&amp;A increased 1.1% for the quarter below our expectations of a 1.5% to 3% increase.
More importantly SG&amp;A as a percent of sales leveraged 66 basis points for the quarter.
The most significant leverage came for our credit and store organizations.
Advertising did not leverage due to planned incremental spending to drive customer traffic and support the Jennifer Lopez and Marc Anthony launches.
We would expect SG&amp;A expenses to increase 5% to 6% for the fourth quarter due in part to increased advertising spend to drive holiday traffic.
Depreciation expense was $202 million in the third quarter this year and $207 million in the fourth -- excuse me in the third quarter of last year.
Depreciation is expected to be approximately $202 million in the fourth quarter.
Operating income increased 16% for the quarter to $415 million.
Operating income as a percent of sales was 9.5% 103 basis points higher than the third quarter of 2010.
Year-to-date operating income increased 10% or $122 million to $1.4 billion.
Net interest expense was $75 million this quarter down $4 million compared to the prior year quarter.
The decrease is primarily due to debt repayment in March of this year.
Interest expense is expected to be $82 million in the fourth quarter.
Our income tax rate was 37.8% for the quarter compared to 36.5% in the prior year quarter.
The increase was partially due to lower trust and municipal income in 2011.
Additionally we favorably resolved some state tax audits last year which lowered the 2010 effective tax rate.
We expect our tax rate to be approximately 37.75% in the fourth quarter and 37.4% for the fiscal 2011 period.
Net income increased 20% to $211 million and diluted earnings per share increased 40% to $0.80 over the third quarter of last year.
Year-to-date net income increased 14% to $711 million or $2.56 per diluted share a 26% increase over last year.
Moving on to the balance sheet and some model metrics.
Per square footage we ended the quarter with 1 127 stores 38 more than at the end of third quarter of 2010.
Gross square footage at quarter end was 98 million square feet 3 million higher than October 2010 and selling square footage increased 2 million to 82 million.
Moving on to cash.
We ended the quarter with $760 million of cash and cash equivalents a decrease of 1.7 billion from the prior year quarter end.
The reduction in cash is primarily due to share repurchases.
We have repurchased approximately 3 billion of stocks since the third quarter of 2010.
The cash equivalents are in money market funds CDs and commercial paper.
We ended the quarter with $4.1 billion of inventory a 2% increase over the prior year quarter.
Inventory per store is down 1%.
Kevin will talk more about inventory management in a few minutes.
Capital expenditures were $755 million for the first 9 months of 2011 approximately $80 million higher than the prior year due to new stores increased number of remodels the opening of our third e-commerce fulfillment center and exercise of a purchase option in our Texas call center lease.
Accounts payable as a percent of inventory was 50.4% versus 52.7% last year.
The decrease is primarily due to vendor payment initiatives and lower inventory turn.
From a capital structure perspective we repurchased 15 million shares during the third quarter and have repurchased approximately 57 million shares since reactivating the buyback program in the fourth quarter of last year.
All of these purchases were made pursuant to 10b5-1 plans.
Weighted average diluted shares were 265 million for the quarter.
For your modeling purposes I would use 253 million diluted shares for the fourth quarter and 272 million shares for the year.
This assumes $300 million in share repurchases in the fourth quarter at an average price of $53 per share.
Additionally if you'd like to update your models with restated numbers for the fourth quarter of 2010 you can now back into the numbers from the restated filings in today's results.
For your benefit last year in the fourth quarter we stated SG&amp;A was $173 million depreciation and amortization was $189 million net interest expense was $71 million and net income was $494 million.
Diluted earnings per share were $1.66.
Sales and margin were not impacted by the restatement.
Earlier this week our board approved a quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share.
The dividend is payable on December 28 to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 7.
In October we issued $650 million of long-term debt with an effective rate of 4.07% which is approximately 250 basis points lower than our other existing debt.
We currently plan to use the proceeds for share repurchases and general corporate purposes.
And with that I'll turn it over to Kevin.
Thanks Wes.
As Wes mentioned comparable store sales increased 2.1% in the third quarter.
After a challenging August we were pleased to report sales in both September and October at the high end of our guidance.
From a line of business perspective children's reported the highest comp sales for the quarter on strength in both boys and girls.
Men's also outperformed the company average and was led by dress shirts and basics.
Home accessories and women's were generally consistent with the company average for the quarter.
Notable strong performance performers were small electrics in home watches and fashion jewelry in accessories and active and updated sportswear in women's.
Footwear was the only line of business to report a decline in comp sales for the quarter as high double-digit increases in women's shoes were more than offset by declines in athletic shoes.
We launched the Jennifer Lopez and Marc Anthony brands in mid-September.
The brands launched in all stores and online concurrently and across multiple departments making it the largest launch in our history in breadth of content.
It also met our very aggressive sales goals and exceeded the size of any previous brand launch by a substantial degree in sales.
Both brands are performing very well and we're excited by the newness that they bring into the holiday season.
Our private and exclusive brands continue to increase in penetration as they were approximately 51% of our sales in the third quarter up approximately 270 basis points.
In our private brand portfolio Apt.
9 So and Urban Pipeline all reported double-digit increases as the FILA SPORT Food Network Lauren Conrad Mudd and Simply Vera Vera Wang in our exclusive national brand portfolio.
From a regional perspective the Southeast reported the strongest comps.
The Midwest and South Central regions were consistent with the company average.
The Northeast and Mid-Atlantic regions slightly underperformed the company average but were positive.
The West was the only region to report a decline in comparable store sales.
Our e-commerce sales year-to-date have surpassed $0.5 billion and remain on target to reach our goal of $1 billion.
During the quarter we opened our third EFC a 1 million square-foot facility in Maryland.
We are planning a fourth EFC in Texas which we expect to open in the summer of 2012.
Looking at inventory management.
We continue to be very pleased with our results.
As Wes mentioned gross margin as a percent of sales increased 10 basis points for the quarter.
Growth in our private and exclusive brands continues to be a key driver of the gross margin improvement.
These brands now account for over 50% of our sales.
As recently as 2004 private and exclusive brands were only 25% of total sales.
Clearly our customers recognize and appreciate the value and style that these Only-at-Kohl's Brands offer.
As we've been saying for several months apparel costs have increased approximately 10% to 15% for the fall season but we've been successful in navigating through that change.
The impact of apparel cost changes resulted in an increase of 9.5% in average unit retail more modest unit per transaction decline and a resulting increase of 5.2% in average transaction value.
This was better than our planned 1:1 levels of elasticity.
Looking at inventory levels merchandise content and receipt flows.
We're very pleased in our inventory management results and are very comfortable in our plans going into the holiday season.
Total inventory per store is down 8% in units and 1% in dollars.
Clearance units per store are up slightly but account for less than 3.5% of our total units on hand.
We would expect our inventory dollars per store at the end of the fourth quarter to be up low single digits on a per store basis.
From a marketing standpoint last week we announced an integrated marketing campaign designed to maximize the brand sales through the holiday season.
The marketing will continue to emphasize our unprecedented value our industry-leading hassle-free return policy and no exclusion sales and our unbeatable savings opportunities like Kohl's Cash Power Hours and Early Birds Kohl's Charge benefits and of course our Only-at-Kohl's Brands.
Our holiday marketing campaign will also include a number of new features.
Our Love to Give Happy to Save campaign focuses on planning shopping and sharing in the excitement of the holiday season.
For the first time in our history our stores nationwide will open at 12:00 a.m.
on Black Friday and will be opened for 24 continuous hours.
Kohls.com includes new navigation features to showcase things like what's new bestsellers and customers top rated.
We've invested in additional digital media marketing to help us reach more targeted audiences while at the same time we've increased our broadcast investment for broad reach as well.
From a store perspective we opened 31 new stores this quarter bringing our current store count to 1 127.
Approximately 75% of the new stores that we opened in 2011 were small stores stores with less than 64 000 square feet of retail space.
We also completed the remodel of our 100th store during the quarter.
Not only do these remodels result in a fresh and pleasant shopping experience for our customers they also result in higher customer satisfaction scores and payroll productivity improvements.
We've added marketing to attract customers to remodeled stores and are now targeting a mid-single-digit list in sales following our remodels.
We are currently experiencing low single-digit lists but much of our incremental marketing from remodels is ahead of us in the fourth quarter.
We do expect to remodel another 100 stores in 2012 but the slightly reduced new store openings.
We now expect to open approximately 30 stores in 2012 8 in the spring season and 22 in the fall season.
90% of these stores will be small stores.
In closing we weren't happy with our sales performance in the third quarter in total but we definitely like the improvement that came in September and October.
We're pleased to have achieved our earnings goals as all areas of the company contributed to the success.
We have strengthened our marketing for the fourth quarter adding approximately $30 million to our spending and have the benefit of the biggest brand launches in our company's history which we believe will allow us to continue to improve our sales performance in the fourth quarter.
We continue to be excited about our e-commerce performance as we remain on track to achieve $1 billion in e-commerce sales in 2011.
In order to achieve that goal our third e-commerce fulfillment center in Maryland is online to support the holiday peak season.
We're also very happy with our performance in Texas this quarter as we added that state to our marketing intensification initiatives.
We have much more to do to achieve our goals in these high -- hot and mild markets but we continue to move forward positively.
Our increased penetration of private and exclusive brands along with very strong inventory management continue to benefit us on our gross margin rate and we see no change in that going forward.
Our inventory remains in great shape.
Inventory levels are in better position than our plans.
In addition our merchants and planners reacted to demand in seasonal sales.
We have very appropriate levels of inventory in those categories entering the fourth quarter.
We continue to make progress in the SG&amp;A line.
After being a significant headwind in 2010 our credit business provided significant leverage in both the current quarter and on a year-to-date basis as our bad debt expense continues to drop towards prerecession levels and late fee income was restored to more normalized levels.
Leverage in the store payroll expenses continues to be driven by sustainable productivity improvements such as the rollout of electronic signs now in 250 stores.
Finally I think you can see that our capital structure continues to provide a great deal of flexibility.
We believe that our stock is certainly undervalued at its current level and we are more aggressive about share repurchase by an approximately $750 million of stock during the quarter versus our planned $500 million.
We would expect to buy back at least $300 million worth of stock in the fourth quarter.
We're committed to being good stewards of capital and we'll continue to prioritize profitable growth and reinvestment in our stores while returning any excess cash to our shareholders.
I think this is evident as you see our earnings per share increase of 40% over last year and a $207 million of cash dividends that were paid so far this year.
With that let me turn it over to Wes to provide our earnings guidance for the fourth quarter.
Thanks Kevin.
For the fourth quarter we'd expect total sales to increase 4% to 6% and comparable store sales to increase 2% to 4%.
We expect November to be toward the low end of our comp guidance December to be toward the high end of the guidance and January to be near the middle.
Gross margin as a percent of sales is expected to be between down 10 and plus 10 on a basis point level versus last year.
As I said earlier SG&amp;A expenses are expected to increase between 5% and 6% and including estimated share repurchases of $300 million we expect earnings per diluted share to be $1.93 to $2.04 for the fourth quarter.
And as a result of our third quarter performance and our fourth quarter assumptions we are raising our fiscal 2011 guidance from $4.34 to $4.49 per diluted share to $4.41 to $4.52 per diluted share.
And with that we'd be happy to take your questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Adrianne Shapira with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Kevin just a few questions.
You spoke about the recent improvement in sales trends.
I'm just wondering a few months ago we had talked about the lack of loyalty among noncredit customers.
What are you seeing in terms of where the sales improvement is coming from? Is it greater share from your loyal credit card customers or the less loyal customers are coming back? Well share on credit rose during the quarter as it has been all year.
So certainly our credit card customers have responded really favorably to the new initiatives.
I think we see that mostly in credit card customers who are less frequent shoppers shopping a little more over the period of the quarter.
But credit definitely led the performance for the quarter.
Yes we did -- having said that we did see improvement in the noncredit card customers versus how they did in the first 2 quarters.
It's still negative but it's trending in the right direction.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just talking about the comp statement Wes that was helpful to kind of walk us through the monthly performance.
November being at the low end is that a function of a-year-ago comparison or maybe shed some light in terms what sort of trends you are seeing out there currently? I think -- this is Kevin.
I think just generally historically on a trend basis we've seen the holiday business come later and later each year and we saw it also at back-to-school.
We saw it again this year at back-to-school where a big piece of back-to-school shopping occurred in September instead of in August.
So I think from the perspective of when the business has come -- is going to come we just kind of expect it to be a little later.
So it isn't so much about the year-over-year comparison.
There is...
Yes you also get an extra selling day between Thanksgiving and Christmas in December which tends to be worth at least a point in comp.
So pretty comfortable with the prediction that December is going to be the best month of the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just on -- maybe Kevin just give us your insight in terms of the landscape out there.
Obviously we always know its competitive heading into the holiday season but there's a fair amount of management shift that some of your peers rumblings of EBLP [ph] pricing out there.
What are you seeing out there? How does this compare to past seasons and how do you plan to respond? I mean I think generally just like last year we look at our customer and she continues to be pressured by many of the things that you're well aware of in her life.
And so how she spends her money she's very thoughtful about and value's really really important to her.
So as a result we just think providing her better value and communicating that is really important.
That's why we made the decision to invest more into marketing in the fourth quarter so we can take a real leadership position from a savings perspective for the holiday.
I think from a competitive perspective I don't know if there's anything new to talk about there.
I'm really happy Adrianne in our inventory levels.
I think that's really important because coming into the holiday season we wanted to be really well managed in inventory.
So coming in with less dollars of inventory per store I think is in a really good place for us to be because it allows us to flow freshness into our assortments in November and December and that definitely was a very big objective of ours.
Your next question comes from the line of Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to see if you could address the SG&amp;A growth rate in the fourth quarter a little bit further.
I know you added $30 million of incremental marketing but what are the other incremental costs to drive that rate higher than what we've seen over the past couple of quarters? Well I think if you back out the $30 million from the advertising it's more like 2.5% to 3.5% which if you remember back in February we kind of guided for the year at 3% to 4.5% so we're basically doing better than that or projecting doing better than that absent the advertising in the fourth quarter.
We always are conservative.
We hope to do better.
Also if you also recall the third quarter of last year we had a onetime very large headwind in credit of about $50 million with late fee reductions as we changed some things to comply with the legislation.
So third quarter is always planned to be the lowest improvement of the year and you saw that in our actual results.
So I don't think there's anything else other than advertising that's really higher than our trend has been.
And perhaps we'll have some upside in credit if that remains to be seen.
Research Division</strong> Can you quantify the benefit that you've gotten from credit so far this year and expectations that that could continue? Well we got at least the $50 million back from last year because that was as I mentioned a onetime thing and we got some benefits from continued late fee -- excuse me continued bad debt expense improvement.
We haven't really quantified that.
I suspect from a bad debt perspective it will continue.
The effect from credit in the fourth quarter won't be as great as it was in the third quarter but it also wasn't as great in the spring season either.
So the third quarter I think is kind of a high mark of our contribution from credit given the year-over-year comparisons.
I suspect bad debt going into 2012 will continue to improve but at a much lower rate.
Your next question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Wes you now have 2 quarters in a row where expenses came in better than expected.
Can you talk about some of the primary drivers behind that? Well as I mentioned this quarter for sure credit was a large driver and has been in the spring.
I think the other major driver has been store payroll expenses based on our phenomenal job of managing to our sales results which have been a little bit more volatile honestly than they normally are which is pretty volatile as it is and have been basically leveraging at a flat comp.
So I'm very encouraged by that.
I think we'll be able to continue to do that especially as we roll our electronic sign the remainder of the year and into next year.
The distribution centers have also done a good job.
They're leveraged for the quarter and for the year even as our E-Commerce business grows which is a much higher cost.
Advertising as we mentioned we've kind of invested more especially in the fall and hope to see that and improve sales results.
We're not counting on that as we give you guys the guidance.
We have some room to do a little bit better on corporate but we're investing in some key areas and e-commerce and product development which we think is important for the longer term.
So I think going forward it's going to be mainly stores and credit and DC that provides the benefit.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of -- if we look at the progression of sales throughout the quarter maybe one way to ask the question has the halo effect from J.
Lo and Marc Anthony have been greater than expected maybe in September and October? I think generally probably no.
We had high expectations so I guess a little bit depends on where you're coming from.
But we did have high expectations that we'd drive more traffic.
I think also as you remember Deb we had increased our marketing investment beginning very late in September around the launch of course and then more so in October so I think that definitely was a tailwind.
That was something that propelled more visits as well.
So like any other time it's typically a combination of factors that changes things and I think it's a combination of newness along with an incremental investment and marketing to drive more traffic that get us a little better results.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question you talked about your store plans for 2012.
As we look at the 30 stores are those going to be more fill-in locations and will those be ground-up or takeovers? They're pretty much all fill-in locations.
We don't have any really new markets.
It depend on how you define fill in.
Some of them in a metro area but probably in the x urb [ph] in terms of takeovers versus ground-up I don't have the exact number in front of me but I think roughly 1/3 are takeovers.
It's definitely higher.
There are more takeovers next year than we have in our current portfolio that's for sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Drbul with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Wes I just have a couple questions.
On the gross margin for the quarter on the e-commerce growth has the free shipping had a major impact or drag on your gross margin? And what are the assumptions in the fourth quarter with the big volume you expect? Yes I think short answer is yes.
We've increased -- if you look at merchandise margins year-over-year before you take into the cost of shipping we've done a nice job of increasing that as we've increased our penetration of apparel.
I think some of you guys know that our home business is a bigger part of e-commerce than it is in brick and mortar roughly of 1/3 of our E-Commerce business versus under 20% of our total business.
But free shipping is definitely a drag.
It's been a drag all year.
It will be a drag in the fourth quarter.
But that's not any different than last year quite obviously.
In the fourth quarter pretty much between Thanksgiving and free ship -- and Christmas it's free shipping everyday for us and most of our competitors.
And so that won't be any different year-over-year.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Kevin I think in your comments you talked about the footwear business and I think the women's business has been generating double-digit comps.
Within the J.
Lo line the platform wedge mid-cap boots and the over-the-knee boots seem to report doing pretty well.
Are you having any trouble keeping them in stock? Bob do you want a job on merchandising and footwear? Because I'm impressed with your intuition when it comes to product.
I don't think so.
I think generally women's footwear had a really good trend all year and they've just been trend right on product.
And for us it's very fortunate that we are because we have had a face to drag from last year as you remember in the toning business and the athletic shoes.
And while that pretty much goes away post the fourth quarter and it's certainly less important in the fourth quarter the positive improvement in our women's casual and dress businesses has been a great offset to that.
So that seems doing a really good job on product.
I think boots overall are up 30% for the quarter so it's definitely a boot year so far.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And when you look at the AUR expectations do you think that that sort of peaked in terms of the 9.5% for the quarter? Or how should we think about that within the fourth quarter? I'm thinking AUR in the fourth quarter is going to be up similar kind of levels whether it's exactly 9.5% I don't know about that but high single digits I would expect because the cost of our product that we'll be selling essentially are up in that kind of 10% to 15% range and so we're expecting average unit retail to be up probably high single digit.
And we've done better than our expected elasticity.
Units are not down 1 for 1 so that's a very good thing.
But I would expect units to be down in the fourth quarter as well just not as much as retail is up.
Your next question comes from the line of Michelle Clark with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I had a question for you on your fourth quarter comp store sales outlook appreciate the fact that you hit the guidance below in the guidance in the third quarter but you're going up against a much more difficult compare here in the fourth quarter.
So what are you seeing that gives you confidence in the acceleration in the 2-year comp trend? What I mean I think as we kind of touched on Michelle it’s typically when we see improvements in that trend there a result of actions that we've taken to motivate consumers.
And so more newness in our assortments I think gives us some confidence that we're getting more visits and we'll continue to get more visits.
Definitely marketing investment was a big part of our strategy beginning in October and right through December.
We just recognized that with the weaker sales trend in the first half of the year and then of course as you all know August continued to be weak.
We needed to make a change in terms of how much we invested in marketing to drive traffic.
And so the comp -- I would say those there are lots of other things in terms of the way we mix out and trends that we have but we really look at high level.
2 big things I'd say more newness in our assortment and a more aggressive spend on marketing which is both broad around broadcast but also very defined in digital.
And so a combination of those 2 things I think we're hopeful will drive continued good success.
I'll add the third good things come in threes so e-comm was a much bigger part of the business in the fourth quarter.
It helped the comp 100 basis points in the third quarter and year-to-date it's 120.
It's closer to 200 basis points in the fourth quarter and we feel real confident in our ability to hit that plan.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
That's very helpful.
And then Wes how do we think about 2012 in your leverage point on SG&amp;A if we factor in credit slowing as a tailwind? What comp you need to leverage SG&amp;A in 2012? Well long term we've always said that our goal is to leverage to comp and that really won't change for next year.
How we get there is undetermined because we haven't really given 2012 guidance.
We're planning an Analyst Day in March so we'll try to share multiple year guidance so we'll put a lot more thought here in the next 90 days about a longer-term outlook.
But for your modeling purposes that's what I would use because that's what we're targeting to achieve.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Grom with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just historically when you spent the incremental marketing spend is there a good ad to spend or an ad-to-sales ratio that you guys typically see on that $30 million? I mean this is a real generalization but generally when we incrementally add to marketing we don't get the same productivity rate that we would report in our overall marketing.
So for the year we're 4.5% of sales in our marketing spend and then we make a decision to add incremental marketing.
We don't expect it to return at that rate.
It's going to come at a slower rate just because these are -- now you're starting to talk about kind of the extra things that don't produce at the same rate of sales.
But they're important if you're going to continue to move forward.
So we don't have expectations it would leverage at the same rate of our regular investment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just on the elasticity front with a little bit less demand structure that you probably would have imagined.
How do you think IMUs look in 2012 particularly in the back half because we start to see some of these costs drop? What do you think your AUR will look like relative to the cost that you're going to need to procure those items? It's just too early I would say Chuck.
We're not trying to dodge the question I think it's just too early for us to comment on that.
Our mark up is in great shape.
As we talked about I try to really reinforce this with investors our inventory is in great shape.
Coming into the quarter with less inventory dollars per store is a great place to be going into what will probably be a competitive promotional holiday.
So from that perspective I also expect to enter the spring season in great shape which gives you the ability to navigate more effectively.
But it's just too early to think about fall yet.
I think we might be better prepared in the fourth quarter call to talk about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
Last question just I think the bar case in the stock is that you can't take the sales per square foot up and narrow the gap between the cold and the mild and warm markets today.
I'm just wondering if you could quantify for us how under indexed those markets are and what are you doing beyond like the new product launches to narrow that gap? I mean rough number they're around 10% less.
That's no single one in the home markets that is actually 10% less.
Some are better than that but some are worse than that.
But 10% is probably a good number to use.
I mean always the tactics involve refining the marketing tailoring the marketing based on the way media is consumed in each of those markets.
But more and more I would say we're focused around product and refining the product offering introducing more and more newness into our assortments.
We're going to be very aggressive about that next year.
We're going to start off the spring season with a huge launch with our Rock &amp; Republic partnership with VF and I would expect to hear us tell you about more new brand launches for the fall season next year as well.
This is just a modeling thing but we don't include e-commerce sales in our sales per square foot calculation.
I don't know about some of the other guys but that growth is sort of off to the side from a sales per square foot.
So you might want to look at combining them.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then just as a follow-up there.
How they got opportunities with Capital One now versus Chase to target certain customers in a different way? Well I think we had a good relationship with Chase and it was profitable for both of us.
I think we're starting off very well with Cap One as well.
We're in the process of developing a new scorecard which should provide some opportunity for us next year that won't get installed until next year when we switch.
We're switching over to a new system in the first quarter with First Data and after we do that we'll put in a new scorecard.
But we've made some changes to improve the approval rate a couple of hundred basis points which has really helped us in areas like Texas as we've included them in the market intensification program that Kevin mentioned earlier.
That's been helpful try to get more credit card customers down there as that's an area where we're under penetrated from a credit perspective.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Binder with Jefferies and Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Dan Binder just following up on your comment about the approval rates.
As they go up is it due to Capital One's acceptance of a slightly lower FICO score customer? And if that is the case it would seem that bad debt expense could be going up in the future at some point.
I don't know if it's 6 months or 9 months is that fair or no? No I mean I think we're looking at a variety of different things and trying to approve.
A lot of reason we can't approve people is because their credit history is very thin so we're looking at different ways to approve them.
We're looking at utility payments apartment rent payments things like that.
We may take it a small dip a little bit lower in the FICO scores but we don't use FICO score we use Vantage scores.
But it's not material.
It's a very small part of the population.
I would just say look at our track record our profitability and credit has been very good even through the recession.
It was one of the reasons that people were so interested in our portfolio.
We wouldn't put it out for bid.
We're not going to make decisions that are going to get us short-term sales just to have to write them off in 180 days later.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> The credit penetration is pretty high.
I think you said 57% earlier in the call.
Directionally where do you think that can sort of go to? Well we have markets that are over 60% I won't say that we'll get all the way everybody over 60% but we also have a lot of markets in the 40s so do I think the total share will be over 60%? I find that unlikely.
But I definitely think we can continue to improve it and out year is probably at a slower rate than what we've done so far.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> How do the credit customer comp this quarter? Like Kevin said earlier it was very strong.
I think we got more visits from more of the infrequent customers.
But the noncredit card customer improved as well.
I mean they both have to improve to be honest for us to get better comps.
It can't be driven by just one or the other.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Maschmeyer with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about just the drag that sharper pricing was for you versus your plan for this quarter? And then on the pricing front I know you said before that if you just raise prices on newness and fashion items and harder on some of the opening price points but probably are there any trends by categories where you've seen greater success? I wouldn't refer to pricing as a drag.
I think the results and to be honest with you the results that we got from an average unit retail perspective were pretty much right on the target that we have set and sort of expected when we implemented the new cost and reflected those in our retail and then incrementally added to our advertising as well.
So I think we're pretty on target from that perspective.
I think pricing is kind of where we expect it to be.
Certainly you're a 100% right when you say that pricing has been much less of an important factor in the success of things that are new or more on target.
And I think the perfect example of that is the Jennifer Lopez and the Marc Anthony brand both of which brand add significantly higher average unit retails than the categories in which they operated.
And even the price zones in which they sit which were our best price zones.
So that tells you that customers look past a little bit higher price because of the excitement around the newness and on-target fashion.
Research Division</strong> And then can you talk a bit about the drivers and strength for children's and men's.
It seems that accelerated from last quarter? Well men's has been pretty good all year to be honest with you.
Marc Anthony was definitely positive for the men's business as well.
Jennifer Lopez brand probably gets a lot more attention than the Marc Anthony brand does.
And naturally Jennifer Lopez brands could be bigger because the women's business at Kohl's is significantly bigger.
It's almost 50% bigger than the men's business.
But in terms of impact in the business Marc Anthony brand had just as big an impact on the business as Jennifer Lopez did in women's.
And really what happened in both of those businesses I would say as we launch the new brand the brand that surrounded them which always we want to watch carefully because you don't want to get new sales for the new brand and then lose sales with the old brand that really didn't happen in either of men's or women's worlds.
The brands around them were very successful in the quarter and a great and best example of that is the Vera Wang brand and women's continue to produce a double-digit increase in the third quarter right in the heart of the launch around Jennifer Lopez.
So from that standpoint I think we feel pretty good.
But men's has been strong I think last time [ph] all year.
Yes men's have been better than the company and kids -- I mean kids had a really great quarter.
Obviously some of that was driven by favorable weather.
It's more of a need-base business but I think the merchants in that area have done a good job managing through the cost increases.
That's obviously one of the most price-sensitive customers we have.
And for them to lead the company for the quarter with a mid-single-digit comp they've done a nice job.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Lejuez with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> Paul Lejuez.
Just on that last comment Kevin what would it be the UPTs look like on the transactions that included a J.
Lo or Marc Anthony item? And then second just wanted to go back to expand on the question that was asked earlier on the cost environment.
I'm just wondering what you're seeing now in terms of your costing and when do you think that you'll see decreases on a year-over-year basis running through your P&amp;L.
On the first part of your question the basket units 2 new brands in them I don't have that in front of me.
I know for sure that the average value of the basket was higher but I can't tell you whether that was also higher on units.
It clearly was higher in average transaction value and clearly the 2 brands produced the highest average unit retail in the worlds in which they sit.
We can try to get you the other thing Paul and get back to you on it.
On costs going forward I think currently our assumptions are that for the spring season we're going to still see increases in spring 2012 over spring 2011 but much more modest more in the low to mid-single digits range.
By the time we get to summer those could actually be flat to low.
And then as I kind of said earlier I'm a little hesitant to say anything firm around fall but I think it's not a question that we would see flat to modestly down in some cases for the fall season.
But it's just a little early to say.
But the trends are clearly going in that direction.
Your next question comes from the line of Liz Dunn with Macquarie.
Just a couple of short ones.
I was wondering just a little bit more information on the decision to open just 30 stores next year.
Is that about the development environment or kind of what's behind that? And then if you could refresh me on what has been your experience if competitors close stores? How much pickup do you get if that were to happen? And then on gross margin maybe I'll start there and then I'll follow-up with my gross margin question.
I mean the 30 new stores is pretty much what we've been indicating to investors for a while now.
You should plan on approximately 30 new stores.
It seems like the right level.
I know you've heard us talk a lot about how happy we are with the success of the small stores in terms of their productivity their operating margin their return on invested capital.
So I think Wes indicated 90% of stores for next year are small stores.
It just seems like the right level and their deals that are proportionally higher in takeover which isn't a surprise either.
We're thinking that there's going to be more takeovers because there is more flexibility with the smaller prototype to fit into boxes that are empty than with the bigger prototypes.
So I think 30 is kind of what we expected and I wouldn't read anything into it any more than that.
Yes in terms of competitors closing I mean it depends on a lot of factors whether most of the competitors I think that are closing are in the malls these days so it depends on how close our stores is to the mall.
Mervyns went out of business that was probably the biggest share we picked up and that was depending on how close the store was to their location somewhere between 20% and 25% of their sales at least from the way we estimated it.
If a GAP store closes it would be a heck of a lot smaller than that.
So from a hypothetical perspective.
I mean generally if you think about it as those stores who overlapped the most in terms of customer demographic and like kinds of merchandise assortment that's where we'll get the biggest lift and we'll get the least lift where store close to have a very different demographic target or a very different merchandise mix.
Okay.
And then in terms of gross margins if it's still sort of philosophically make sense that going forward you won't really push for gross margin gains but you'll sort of use some of leverage that you have that are driving gross margins higher to sort of give that back to the customer and drive shares is that still where you are philosophically? Well it's certainly for sure a fact for the fourth quarter that's how we thought through our fourth quarter guidance.
We haven't given guidance for next year beyond but I think philosophically I think we know that the benefits of better inventory management which we're enjoying and the improvement in our exclusive product brand portfolio which enhances our merchandise margin rate those positives should be used to drive more traffic.
And so I think it's probably good to assume that going forward we're not really planning much in the way of margin improvement but we'll use that to drive more traffic.
Okay.
And then just one final one.
I know a couple years ago we sort of talked about $250 per foot in sales per square foot productivity.
Is there any kind of update around that as a goal? Well again we haven't beyond the fourth quarter guidance one of -- let me back out for a second Liz.
One of the things that Wes mentioned in the call is that we are planning in March an Analyst Day for the first time in several years.
And the purpose of that is to kind of set the stage for the next few years and give you more insight into our thinking.
Certainly we're doing all the things we can to get productivity in our brick-and-mortar stores back to the level they were at prerecession.
So the focus hasn't changed.
That's for sure.
In terms of an absolute number I think we'll talk about those kinds of things probably at that March meeting.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Boss with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about trends in the home category during the quarter? Any changes you've seen within the category? Anything that's outperforming or any new lag that's worth noting? No.
I mean I think first of all home has lead the company and led it again.
For the year I think we're up.
Home for the company for the year it was pretty much with the company for the quarter I think trending.
Small electric is obviously been very good.
Everybody likes coffee.
And I think bedding has also been a very strong category.
That category has been a little bit weaker than in the home-decor area the knickknack types of stuff that you don't necessarily need.
It's more discretionary the stuff that you -- is more on a replacement cycle is stronger.
I mean the other thing that's similar and home to the rest of the store but has definitely been a big positive for home is the partnership with Food Network.
Our Food Network business is up dramatically on a year-over-year basis from what it was a year ago.
And of course that's in a lot of different categories beyond small electrics and tabletops and others.
But I think the impact of the proprietary brand relationship we have with them has been really positive in the home area.
Research Division</strong> Great.
On the gross margins just to kind of follow up on some of the questions that have been asked the drivers looking forward inventory like you said has been in great shape heading out of the quarter.
From a technology standpoint any initiatives and further room to go there? And then from a longer-term perspective where could private and exclusive brands go as a percentage of the mix do you think? Well I think the drivers in margin improvement which of course you don't always see in total because as I said earlier we do use some of those to drive more traffic.
They're still the same.
We're very very focused on inventory management.
Probably the biggest initiative we have they're in the next 2 years is around assortment planning.
We've talked in length about the need to improve how we tailor our merchandise more appropriately by market so that's on target to the customer that lives in that market.
And a lot of that has to do with having the right tools for our merchants and planners to use so that job becomes easier for them.
And so we are planning to roll out a new assortment planning tool in the next 2 years with our technology partner SaaS [ph].
We do expect that that would have a positive impact in our ability to tailor more effectively.
Size optimization has just really kind of come into being so we do expect and hope that that's going to have a positive not just on margin rate but also on sales as we more effectively tailor our sizes by market and by store because as you know those are very very different as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Final question.
From a competitive standpoint Ross Stores recently announced their first move into the Midwest to 12 stores in Illinois.
How do you guys compete with Ross and some of the off-mall shared value centers is there any concern? And are you seeing anything else from a competitive standpoint worth noting? I mean I think Ross is a large retail player in our categories in the West Coast now.
They're growing.
When you look at share gains broadly Matt the winners in the last 5 years have been very consistent.
They're in the apparel world.
They're kind of Kohl's and the off-price stores.
And I'd say we don't see any change in that.
Those are the stores who are growing.
We're opening 30 stores next year as well across the country I think in many different regions.
But we definitely compete against Ross.
We compete against off-price stores like TJX and they're part of the landscape and we have to consider them in our merchandising strategy.
Your next question comes from the line of David Glick with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> I just want to follow up a little bit on digital marketing.
Kevin I was wondering if you can give us some color on is there a philosophical change there to step that up? Do you feel like you've perhaps been behind your peers and catching up? And on the flip side do you see this as one of the key comp drivers both online and in-store? I don't know that I would say we're particularly behind competitors in terms of either the level or the effectiveness of our digital marketing campaign.
It's just as we thought through decisions that we were going to need to make for the future.
We want to kind of stay ahead of the curve on that.
And I think generally David I would say that emerging media types like digital marketing are harder to get the same productivity levels from a sales results standpoint than more traditional methods that we have.
So we recognize that spending money in categories like digital is very very important for the future but we can't expect the same -- get the same A-S that we would get in let's say more direct mail or more print but it's the future and so we want to be better positioned for the future.
So we made the decision to invest more -- it also does a better job targeting so we definitely are going to leverage that.
One of the reasons we also invested in broadcast is because that does give us a really wide reach.
And that does reach a lot of people.
It's certainly not as refined as digital can be but it's important to do both.
Inc.</strong> And just to follow on the E-Commerce business hitting an important milestone this year.
How quickly can you get to multiples of that? I don't recall if you defined a specific targeted timeframe that maybe in Investor Day conversation but I was just curious if you can give us some idea of how much more you need to build out that organization from a merchant and technology perspective and how much more beef you need to -- how much more you need to beef up in that organization? I mean I think the short answer is that will definitely be probably a large piece of our Analyst Day come March today I think we do owe everyone what our vision is in terms of the growth rate of that business over the next few years and the investment that that business will require.
I would say infrastructure-wise that's already been reflected in our thinking to a great degree.
We just opened up our third EFC.
We're opening up our fourth next year.
That's already built into our capital assumptions.
The area that I think we'll get a lot of investment and which we're planning for and we'll share the details with you will be the e-commerce organization corporately.
And that's everything from marketing to planning to buying to product development to IT.
That is going to be an area in which we're really going to invest in.
The best analogy I will give to you David is if you look back a few years and you thought about where Kohl's was from a product development perspective and the decisions we've been made to invest in product development in places like New York and the return and results we got from that that's how we're thinking about digital is that we're going to make a big investment and we expect to get a big return in the next few years for it.
The next question comes from the line of Richard Jaffe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a bookkeeping question.
How many stores or what percent of your stores are in warm weather regions? It's over half now.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And you had commented about the sourcing opportunity really in the second half.
Should we assume that would translate into margin improvement or do you anticipate trimming retails as pricing gets better for you guys or some combination? What I think again and I'm not trying to dodge it I think we just don't have -- we're not fully informed enough yet about where pricing is going to land to be able to comment directly.
I expect we'll definitely be in a position to do so in February.
I think it's important to note when you think about what happened to cost in this fall season I think people investors were suspect that we would be able to continue to maintain and improve our merchandise margins in the face of higher costs.
That's how we did and we're able to do it.
So we're just kind of thinking about it whether costs are going up or costs are going down.
It's just our job to manage through that get the customer the best result but effectively manage it so that we come out whole at the end.
Your final question comes from the line of Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
Can you talk a little bit about as you think about products for 2012 you have J.
Lo Marc Anthony Rock &amp; Republic's coming up how do you think of the brand and product initiatives and what percent of the business exclusives private and how it impact margins? Yes.
I mean generally we're expecting to be able to announce more newness for next year for the fall season back-to-school and fall season I would say.
And I think our results just kind of have reconfirmed what we already knew which is very important for us to introduce newness and create new ideas to generate excitement and generate traffic.
Generally as long as we execute well our exclusive brand portfolios produce higher merchandise margin rates than the store in total.
So that's a tailwind as long as the product is on target.
Thanks everybody.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Christie and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Kohl's Fourth Quarter and Fiscal 2011 Earnings Call.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made on this call including projected financial results are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Kohl's intends forward-looking terminologies such as believes expect may will should anticipate plans or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause Kohl's actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those that are described in Item 1A in Kohl's most recent annual report on Form 10-K/A and as may be supplemented from time to time in Kohl's other filings with the SEC all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
Also please note that replays of this call will be available for 30 days but this recording will not be updated.
So if you are listening after February 23 it is possible that the information discussed is no longer current.
Thank you.
I will now turn the conference over to Wes McDonald Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Thank you.
With me today is Kevin Mansell our Chairman CEO and President.
I'll walk through the financial statements for the fourth quarter and the year and then I'll turn it over to Kevin to talk about some merchandising and marketing initiatives.
We'll give first quarter and 2012 guidance and then Kevin will wrap it up with a summary of our outlook for the year.
For the quarter total sales decreased 0.3% to $6 billion and comparable store sales decreased 2.1%.
Average transaction value increased 0.4% reflecting a 7.4% increase in average unit retail and a 7% decline in units per transaction.
Number of transactions per store decreased 2.5%.
For the year total sales increased 2.2% to $18.8 billion and comparable store sales increased 0.5%.
Average unit retail increased 6.6% and units per transaction decreased 4.9% resulting in a 1.7% increase in average transaction value.
Number of transactions per store decreased 1.2%.
Kevin will provide more color on our sales in a few minutes.
Our credit share was 53% for the quarter and 54% for the year an increase of approximately 320 basis points over the fourth quarter of 2010 and 470 basis points over fiscal 2010.
Moving on to gross margin.
For the quarter gross margin decreased 64 basis points to 36.2% of sales for the quarter.
The decrease is primarily a result of sales being below our expectations.
For the year our gross margin rate decreased 6 basis points to 38.2% of sales.
SG&amp;A increased 0.3% for the quarter well below our expectations of a 5% to 6% increase but deleveraged 12 basis points.
Store payroll was able to leverage for the quarter.
Our credit card operations again provided significant leverage.
This business reduced SG&amp;A by $347 million for the year versus last year's $180 million on growth and finance charge and late fee revenues as well as a reduction in bad debt expense.
Advertising did not leverage during the quarter nor the year as our increased spending during the holiday season did not produce expected sales.
Moving on to depreciation expense.
It was $194 million in the fourth quarter this year up $5 million from last year.
Operating income was $805 million for the quarter a 6.4% decrease from the fourth quarter of last year.
For the year operating income increased 10 basis points to 11.5% of sales.
Net interest expense was $76 million this quarter up $5 million to the prior year quarter.
Our fourth quarter income tax rate was 37.5% for both this year and last.
Diluted earnings per share increased 9% to $1.81 over the fourth quarter of last year.
Fourth quarter net income was $455 million 8% lower than 2010.
For the year diluted earnings per share increased 17% to $4.30 per share and net income increased 4% to $1.2 billion.
Moving on to the balance sheet.
Some metrics for your models.
From a square-footage basis we ended the quarter with 1 127 stores 38 more than at year end.
Gross square footage at year end was 98 million square feet 3 million higher than year-end 2010.
Selling square footage increased 2 million to 82 million.
We ended the year with $1.2 billion of cash and cash equivalents a decrease of $1.1 billion from the prior year end.
The reduction in cash is primarily due to $2.3 billion of share repurchases in 2011.
The cash equivalents are primarily in money markets and commercial paper.
On the inventory line inventory per store is 2% higher than last year in dollars but 7% lower in units.
Accounts payable as a percent of inventory was 38.5% versus 37.5% last year.
The increase is primarily due to expiration of vendor-financing initiatives.
Moving on to capital expenditures.
Capital expenditures were $927 million for fiscal 2011 $126 million higher than the prior year due to new stores increased remodels the opening of our third e-commerce fulfillment center and exercise of a purchase option in our Texas call center lease.
Our capital spending was less than our guidance of $1 billion and some of that spending will occur in 2012.
We opened 40 new stores during the year bringing our current store count to 1 127.
Approximately 75% of the 40 new stores that we opened in 2011 were small stores with less than 64 000 square feet of retail space.
We also remodeled 100 stores in 2011.
During 2011 we generated $1.1 billion of free cash flow an increase -- a 27% increase over 2010.
This contributed to our ability to return $2.6 billion to shareholders with a combination of share repurchases and our first ever dividend.
We repurchased 8 million shares of our common stock during the fourth quarter and 46 million shares during the year.
Since reactivating the buyback program in the fourth quarter of last year we have repurchased approximately 65 million shares.
All of these purchases were made pursuant to 10b5-1 plans.
Weighted average diluted shares were 252 million for the quarter and 271 million shares for the year.
Earlier this week our board approved a quarterly dividend of $0.32 per share a 28% increase over our previously -- our previous quarterly dividend of $0.25 per share.
The dividend is payable March 28 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 7.
And with that I'll turn it over to Kevin to talk a little bit more in detail about our sales and marketing plans.
Thanks Wes.
As Wes mentioned comparable store sales decreased 2.1% in the fourth quarter and increased 0.5% for the year.
For the quarter from a line-of-business perspective Accessories reported positive comp for the quarter on strengths in watches and in accessories.
Home and Children's also outperformed the company average.
Home was again led by electrics.
In Children's toys reported strongest growth.
Men's was consistent with the company average it was led by Men's furnishings.
Footwear and Women's were both below the company average.
Women's casual shoes led the Footwear performance while Women's apparel was led by updated sportswear active wear and sleepwear.
For the year Accessories and Home provided strongest comps and were above the company average.
Children's and Men's also outperformed the company average.
Women's apparel was modestly positive on strength and active in updated sportswear and Footwear recorded low-single digit declines with Women's athletic shoes as a drag.
We are pleased that our e-commerce business met its $1 billion revenue goal for the year and to support this growth we opened our third EFC a 1 million square foot facility in Maryland during 2011 and expect to open a fourth facility in Texas later this summer.
On the gross margin front during 2011 we passed on higher apparel product costs to our customers.
This contributed to an approximately 7% increase in average unit retail for the quarter and the year.
We did see resistance from our customer in both units per transaction and in transactions per store as a result of these price increases.
The financial result was a better gross margin performance than our competition but weak top line performance.
We were able to deliver net income improvement for the year but it was at the expense of top line sales growth which is not something we're happy with.
On the expense front however I was very pleased with our ability to manage expenses throughout the year and especially in the fourth quarter.
As Wes mentioned our stores’ organization successfully leveraged store payroll in the fourth quarter despite the 2% decrease in comp sales.
Much of that leverage came through process and technology changes in store operations.
Our credit card business reported significant year-over-year growth and was the key driver of our overall SG&amp;A leverage for both the quarter and the year.
We are very pleased with our relationship with Capital One and are exploring ways to both grow this portfolio further and to increase profitability.
As we've said in the past our Kohl's Charge customer is our most loyal customer.
She shops more often and has a significantly higher average annual spend than our non-Kohl's Charge customer.
On the brand front we're very excited about several new brand launches and the newness that they will bring to our stores throughout 2012.
As you know we launched the Jennifer Lopez and Marc Anthony brands last fall.
These contemporary best brands are resonating well with our most fashion-conscious customers and should add to our spring performance.
Earlier this month we launched Rock and Republic known for its fit distinctive design and quality craftsmanship this Only-at-Kohl's Brand is our first proprietary lifestyle denim brand.
Early results have been very strong.
We also just introduced the Van Heusen brand into our Men's sport shirt dress shirt and neckwear categories.
We are also expanding 2 of our most successful brands ELLE and Simply Vera Vera Wang into new categories this year.
ELLE will expand into cosmetics and in fashion jewelry and Simply Vera Vera Wang will expand into cosmetics later this spring.
Princess Vera Wang a Junior's contemporary premium lifestyle collection will be available exclusively in Kohl's stores nationwide and Kohl's.com beginning August of this year.
Overall private and exclusive brands represented just over 50% of our sales for the year more than 200 basis points higher than last year.
Apt.
9 Croft &amp; Barrow and SONOMA our 3 largest private brands combined to report 6% sales growth.
The exclusive brand portfolio FILA Food Network Lauren Conrad and Simply Vera Vera Wang each reported double-digit sales growth.
With that let me turn it over to Wes to provide our earnings guidance for 2012.
Thanks Kevin.
The following metrics are for the first quarter of fiscal 2012.
We're projecting a total sales increase of 3% comparable sales increase of 1%.
By month we expect February to be slightly below the quarterly guidance March to be higher than the quarter and April to be slightly below the quarter.
We're projecting a gross margin rate decline of 160 basis points.
SG&amp;A expense dollars are projected to increase 3.5%.
Depreciation expense of $205 million interest expense of $81 million a tax rate of 38% share count of 245 million diluted shares and we're also projecting share repurchases of about 305 million for the quarter at an average price of approximately $53 a share.
Including these estimated share repurchases we expect earnings per diluted share to be $0.60 for the first quarter.
The following metrics are for fiscal 2012: Total sales increase of 4.5%.
Excluding the impact of the 53rd week we expect total sales to increase 3.5% a comparable sales increase of 2% a gross margin rate decline of 70 basis points.
SG&amp;A is expected to increase about 3% for the fiscal year and 2% if you're excluding the 53rd week.
Depreciation expense for the year is approximately $840 million and interest expense for the year is approximately $323 million.
Tax rate for the year is 38% as well and we're projecting a share count of 240 million diluted shares for the year.
This will include share repurchases of $1 billion for the year at an average price of approximately $55 per share.
Including these estimated share repurchases we expect earnings per diluted share to be $4.75 for fiscal 2012.
This includes the 53rd week with sales of approximately $200 million and an earnings per diluted share contribution of approximately $0.10 per diluted share.
From a capital spending perspective we expect capital expenditures to be approximately $825 million in 2012.
We expect to open 20 new stores in 2012 8 in March and 12 in October.
Substantially all of the 2012 stores will be small stores.
We're temporarily reducing the number of remodels to approximately 50 stores in 2012 as we look to potential changes to our stores to increase sales productivity as well as provide more efficiency.
And I'll turn it back over to Kevin for some thoughts regarding 2012 and then we'll take some questions.
Thanks Wes.
First let's just summarize our prospective on 2011.
Overall we were disappointed in our performance last year.
That disappointment was driven by sharp falls in what we expected on the top line in particular in the fourth quarter.
We lost some of our leadership on the price element of our value equation.
We didn't have enough consistent excitement in our merchandise content and our sense is our marketing message did not cut through especially in a highly promotional fourth quarter.
That's not to say there were not successes.
Better inventory management more focus on maintaining our merchandise margin as product costs escalated and strong expense control led to an increase in both net income and earnings per share for the year.
In addition we continue to aggressively grow both our sales and market share in the online business and we reached our goal that we had set at the beginning of the year of $1 billion in online sales.
We also successfully opened 40 new stores remodeled another 100 stores completed the biggest brand launches in our company's history and initiated our first ever dividend.
Last year's results have clearly helped form our priorities and our focus for 2012.
Our priorities have been set as follows for 2012: First and most importantly improve our top line sales trends.
Our weak performance last year and a changing competitive landscape have created a sales opportunity this year.
That is particularly true in the back half of the year.
In order to ensure that we take advantage of that opportunity we are lowering our merchandise margin plans to allow our merchants to take a more leadership position on price points in all of our key businesses.
That effort starts immediately.
While I'm confident that this will result in improved sales performance we believe it's important to reflect our last 6 months’ sales trend into our forecast.
As a result we're forecasting a 1% comp increase in the first quarter.
Second continue to drive leverage around SG&amp;A.
We have started a process to build further on our expense performance from last year with an eye to lowering SG&amp;A over time with modest comp assumptions.
The purpose of that is to allow us to drive better value for our customers.
This expense effort will come through operational process changes and technology-driven productivity changes.
Third continue to build on our online success.
Online sales increased almost 40% last year and we believe we can add another 40% this year on top of that.
This will be driven by broader assortments offered online investments we have made organizationally and infrastructure investments that are already in place.
Finally we are going to reallocate our capital expense spending within our overall capital allocation plans.
For 2012 we will fund our online as well as our other technology investments at an accelerated pace from last year.
As you are well aware online sales have grown substantially for all retailers but a significant amount has cannibalized brick-and-mortar stores.
Reviewing the results and returns on both our new stores and more importantly our remodeled stores we are changing our CapEx plan to open fewer new stores and remodel stores this year.
This is part of an overall plan to introduce a new prototype store layout to reflect the need for space allocation changes within the store and the expansion and introduction of new categories and new brands to our customer.
We believe that will allow us to achieve more appropriate returns on those investments in the future and improve sales per square foot in our brick-and-mortar environment.
We do expect to generate over $1 billion in free cash flow in 2012 which will fund the growth initiatives that I’ve just described as well as provide the ability to raise our dividend to shareholders 28% and continue to repurchase shares of our stock.
Returning excess cash to shareholders will remain consistent priorities for the company.
At this time we'd be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Erika Maschmeyer of Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a little bit more about what your guidance assumes for AUR in Q1 in 2012? I know you mentioned wanting to focus more on sales and lowering your March margin expectations? And then just your thoughts on how you expect your AUR and AUC [ph] to play out throughout the year? I think in the first quarter AUR will still be up slightly.
We're still in an inflationary environment.
I wouldn't expect it to be up high singles like it was in the back half of the fall probably be up in the low-single digit range.
And I think we'll have to wait and see how it plays out.
But I would expect in the back half that AUR could be flat to even slightly down and therefore units would be up.
That's kind of our thinking right now.
Research Division</strong> And could you talk a little bit more about your thoughts on a new prototype layout kind of where you think you might need more or less space? How you expect to generate greater returns from that? I mean at this point Erika we're not prepared to disclose any details on it.
The plan is to pilot and test several different types of layouts that would include strengthening space allocations for categories we currently merchandise that we think are underrepresented and have been successful.
And also introducing new categories into the store that we don't merchandise today.
But at this point we're not prepared to disclose anything more than that.
Your next question comes from the line of Adrianne Shapira of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Kevin really exciting your efforts to reclaim your price leadership.
Maybe if you could help us think through how we should be thinking about the lower merchandise plans in terms of how -- maybe starting with the focus.
Is it across the store specific categories? How should we be thinking about that in terms of -- is it sort of a one-year catch up and sort of a laser focus or sort of a broad-based approach? It's broad I would say though it's very very intense around our opening price points which typically are our private brands of course.
I think our summary last year Adrianne was our honest perspective on what happened and we do need to make a correction and really improve with the customer the price element of our value equation.
We always talk about value being quality and style and of course experience in the store and also price.
And I think our feeling is that we lost some of that price point element.
And that of course is particularly true at the opening price point where the customer's very sensitive to price changes.
Research Division</strong> And then Kevin how do you plan to articulate this message to your customers? You said you weren't pleased with the marketing efforts during the holiday season.
Now as you embark on making a stronger price statement how will the customer be mindful of it? She's going to see it in all of the elements of our media.
On the price point side I think it'll be particularly evident in our print tab and in our broadcast.
Very very obvious that we're focused on price points and communicating that to our customer.
As we go through the first quarter I think you also see new broadcast marketing that will really try to focus around not just the savings story and excitement of savings at Kohl's but also the absolute value you get of which prices are as I just said a really really important element.
So I would expect to see that in broadcast as well particularly as we get into the mid to late part of this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Wes how should we be thinking about the lower merchandise margin how that plays over time? How should we be thinking about that what that translates into gross margin? You've obviously done a nice job continuing to control expenses.
What this means as you think about long-term EBIT margin potential? Well I mean I think we're not at the point where we want to talk about long-term EBIT margins.
We're really -- truthfully 2012 is a tremendous amount of focus on correcting the deficiencies in our business and we're trying to approach it from all aspects.
We know that our greatest success over time has always been about driving SG&amp;A down in order that we can provide better value to the customer and drive top line sales.
And we also know that while we're excited about our 40% increase in online business we weren't excited about the deterioration in our brick-and-mortar stores.
And we know it can't be as simple as creating a new experience it's also got to be about giving those customers something new to buy at Kohl's.
And so 2012's a lot about really fundamentally focusing on our existing business and making it a healthier business.
And then after we put this year behind us we'll start looking a lot more at what does that mean for the future in terms of the possibilities.
Yes I mean it's a lot easier to grow your operating margin again when you get your sales-per-square-foot productivity up again.
And the last 3 years we've kind of been hovering around the 220 range and we need to get that back up to the 230 or 240 range hence the testing of the various things with the prototype.
We're also undergoing a pretty methodical effort here going through every area of the company to look for SG&amp;A opportunities and to improve efficiencies through mostly process enhancements as well as technology.
We've completed the first wave of that reviewed our -- some of our areas of the company including the distribution centers EFC HR and some of our store planning functions.
We're going to move on to that and now look at our store organization.
And we'll methodically hit every area of the company through this year.
I would expect to realize some benefits this year and that's already kind of built into our guidance but the majority of the benefits we’ll get in 2013.
Your next question comes from the line of Lorraine Hutchinson of Bank of America.
It's actually Jess Lebo in for Lorraine.
Can you just talk a little bit about your longer-term square footage growth opportunities especially in light of the opportunities coming out of Sears given you're paring back your store openings this year? Well I think our run rate now like we sort of have operated in the past is -- I would use 20 stores a year in your model until something changes.
As regarding Sears there's nothing really been talked about.
They've closed a few stores.
We don't have any interest in the stores that they've closed at this time.
That would be the big opportunity that's out there from a square-footage perspective if they were to close a significant number of stores.
But I would just continue to use 20 stores a year until we tell you something different.
Your next question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig of Citi.
Research Division</strong> In terms of 2011 one of the positive standouts was the increased credit card penetration.
Can you talk about how you're utilizing that vehicle to drive greater sales from your existing customers? Well I think part of it is we're obviously trying to stress the value that you get from being a credit card customer at Kohl's.
We're also partnering with Cap One.
We'll be introducing a new scorecard later in the year that should provide us some flexibility to grant credit especially in areas of the country where people may have very thin histories where they might not have a bank card but might be a very diligent payer of their utility bills their rent bills.
And it gives us more flexibility in the mild and hot markets that hopefully will help us increase our penetration there.
So we're very excited about that opportunity.
That probably won't provide significant benefits until the fall.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I think Kevin mentioned in his prepared remarks about broadening the assortments online.
How will your assortment be aligned between stores and online at that point? With the possible exception of some unique category like greeting cards or something anything that is in any of our stores nationwide would be available online.
In addition we expect to offer a substantial increase in extended assortments beyond what we have in our stores in our proprietary brands.
And of course we also plan to continue to increase the amount of assortment that we offer direct shipped from other suppliers so literally categories that we don't offer in the store.
And that I think as you know Deb there’s a strategy in place.
It's one of the catalysts for the 40% growth last year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question in terms of categories.
Obviously there's a lot that you've done in terms of exclusive label and private label.
As we look forward where do you think you have the most opportunity going forward? Well I think I mean the honest answer on that is we need to improve across the whole store.
And while some categories last year outperformed others -- in particular Home is a category that did consistently well and has done over the last few years -- there needs to be improvement really everywhere and we know we need to address as Wes said the health of our sales per square foot in our brick-and-mortar environment not let down at all in the growth of online but intensify the effort to get our brick-and-mortar stores back on track and back to sales per square foot that we've had in the past and that's going to require changes in assortment broadening of some categories and reductions in others and introductions of new ones.
So it's pretty much storewide I would say Deb.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Drbul of Barclays Capital.
Well the strategies we've had in the past to continue to improve productivity in mild and hot are still in place.
And we're looking to continue traction as we have there particularly California for instance continues to be an opportunity for us.
But I would say Bob generally 2012 as I said a little bit earlier to I think Adrianne is really about improving the health of our core brick-and-mortar business and to get that business back on track.
And by definition that means that it's sort of about everywhere across the country.
I don't know if you want to add? Yes I mean the one area Bob that has incremental marketing that would be over and above last year if you guys recall in August we started a market intensification initiative in Texas.
And so for the spring season that would be incremental.
But other than that it would be just continued focus as Kev said everywhere but particularly in mild and hot.
I don't know that we're in a position to be talking much about competition.
We're so kind of laser focused on the elements of our own business.
I would say if you looked at Kohl's over time the things that have driven top line sales have always been about finding ways to uniquely operate our stores and manage our corporate environment to drive expense down and give our merchants the tools that they need to take more share.
And really that's kind of what this plan on lowering margins this year is all about -- is to sort of connect the dots on that and give our merchants the opportunity to get ourselves kind of back on track and moving in the right direction.
Yes I mean I think I want to focus on people.
Our operating margin if you do the math is still going to be 11% this year.
So it's still the highest in the industry.
We're just trying to move things around a little bit to take market share.
So I think long term we can continue the growth through sales productivity improvements as well as taking a look at SG&amp;A opportunities.
But we have a lot of room to improve everywhere in the company.
Well by definition I think as we would pilot test and experiment with new classifications and categories we're going to be merchandising new brands as part of that.
So I think generally the answer is yes.
We're continuing to drive towards introducing new brands in our existing businesses in those categories as well.
And I would hope to continue to be able to share those kind of things with you this year.
But just kind of by definition as we either dramatically expand the category or reallocate space to it and our move in to a business perhaps that we don't currently merchandise we'll be bringing in new partners into the Kohl's store environment.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Jaffe of Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I guess 2 thoughts.
One as you lower retail prices I'm thinking that some of the average unit cost inflation that existed in second half of 2011 starts to reverse.
So is that going to be a sort of a helpful part of the gross margin story? Or are prices coming down that dramatically? And then if you could also comment on how your advertising initiatives might change to be more hard hitting regarding price.
Well on the cost level I would say we're definitely seeing lower costs as we get into late in the second quarter and for sure in the fall season we are looking at costs that are substantially lower than last year.
And to some extent we've included that implication and I'm thinking it's one of the reasons why even though the first quarter is down over 100 basis points the margin in the year is only down 70 basis points.
Also obviously Richard we had a very weak performance in merchandise margin in the fourth quarter so some of that is sort of built into that assumption.
From a marketing perspective I want to make sure that we balance our message.
We're talking a lot about value and particularly the price element of value as a communication tool to our customers.
But it's also -- as I said at the beginning it's also a lot about merchandise content that we have more newness in our existing brands and introduce continued new brands.
We talked about some of those new brands today and there are more to come.
And it's also about just the message in our marketing.
So making that message cut through and be a little more effective with our customers is really really critical.
And there are changes that are happening now that I think you'll notice and you'll see and there are new campaigns coming.
And that we're really going to focus that message around.
So it's -- price is a part of it for sure but it's also really important to get the message right and get the product right.
And those are 2 things that we're equally focused on this year.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And we should see that on print on the electronic on TV [indiscernible]? Yes we use multiple media and we need to be balanced in that.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Klinefelter of Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One would be on your expectations for marketing dollars.
Wes and Kevin I guess combined.
As you look at 2012 think about the flexibility that is inherent in the model as you go into the second half I guess in particular.
Last year you poured some more marketing dollars into Q4 didn't get the return you were looking for turned out to be more directly related to pricing -- [indiscernible] in pricing.
What sort of flexibility do you have built in the model this year? If sales do track a little better than expected do you have more leverage in the back half? Or do you plan on kind of moving in lockstep and making sure that you're pouring gas more or less onto the kind of sales fire and not getting as much leverage in the second half? I mean marketing dollars for the year will be up.
We obviously would like them to be more effective in the back half than they were in the back half of 2011.
I would expect that to be the case.
But if we leverage in advertising it's going to be because the marketing is more effective because we're going to grow it faster than our sales dollar growth that we just gave you.
Research Division</strong> So you’ll grow sales dollars faster than marketing dollars? I hope so.
But right now I mean our plans from a sales perspective we haven't got to a 2 comp in a little bit.
If we can do better than that we'll leverage.
If we run a 2 comp for the year we'll probably deleverage.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
In terms of the kind of plans here for the spring summer season the first half but then you hear good things out there in the marketplace about spring product sell-throughs kind of the flip side of having a warm -- and of the winter here.
Also hearing very very good things of course about Accessories that you highlighted today.
Could you talk a little bit about the composition of what you're seeing in your sales trends opportunities there? Accessories do you have enough inventory and space allocated to the category? You know I think generally we know as sort of recognizing the guidance that we've given you we don't feel like our inventories are as well positioned as they should be not I mean from a breadth or color or style but in terms of the depth behind that.
And so to some extent one of the things that's sort of implied in how we think about the spring and year is that we're going to be in a building process.
We're probably seeing many of the same things you're hearing about which is definitely really good selling in certain spring categories certain styles particularly as we start to ramp up our price point emphasis on the opening price point.
We're seeing accelerated sell-throughs.
So I doubt that we’re different in that regard.
But again what I would say Jeff is we're just trying to be realistic after coming off a difficult fall and particularly fourth quarter we think it's going to be a building process.
And that's the expectation that we want to set with people and that we'd be delighted to over-achieve those and give better results.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful Kevin.
One last clarification on your cost of goods for the year all things considered blended first half second half together.
Give us a sense for how you're viewing your cost environment this year versus maybe '11 or the last couple of years? I don't know that I could answer all blended together.
Definitely for the second half prices on a year-over-year basis are down a lot.
And they're very similar or I'd say in some cases even lower than 2010.
I think that's right.
Yes that's fair.
And obviously with the guidance of 160 down in the first quarter and only down 70 for the year we're obviously banking on cost favorability in the back half.
But we haven't really completed all the fall perceived plans yet so I couldn't give you a blended number.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Grom of Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just Wes on that 160 bp decline here in the first quarter is there anything from clearance that you guys still have to -- any carryover from the fourth quarter? Or is it mostly price investment actions? It's mostly price investment because we're still seeing cost up kind of mid-single digit.
So that it's really reflective of that and being aggressive on -- especially on opening price point as Kevin said.
Our clearance units going into the month were actually down double digits per store and continue to be down in February as well.
Research Division</strong> And how much of the price action are you anticipating to weigh on your comp just with ticket coming down? That's a tough question.
I mean we're looking to reverse the trend so we're looking -- what we're really looking to do is change the trajectory of both the units per transaction and of course most importantly the number of transactions or in other words the customer traffic that comes in our stores.
So again we're being much more cautious in our sales in the first half of the year than by definition.
We're thinking about particularly I'd say the fourth quarter as a big opportunity for us.
So I guess if you think about it that way we're thinking it's going to take a little while to get traction.
Yes I mean we're also chasing units.
We're trying to pull units from second quarter into first quarter to -- and obviously if you’re dropping prices you need to have more units behind it to drive the comp.
And we're doing that.
Obviously it's not reflected in what we've guided for for February.
We guided below the quarter and we've only got a couple days left.
But we expect to see that occur in time for that spring break/Easter selling season at the end of March.
Research Division</strong> And then did you guys test this at all here over the past month? And I guess how do you know that that's the right steps to kind of stabilize the sales? Yes I mean we tested a whole bunch of things.
And all the things -- none of the things that we do haven't in some way shape or form been tested against customer reaction.
And so we're being -- we're very optimistic I would say Chuck.
But we also just think yet rationally we have to be rooted in the trend of our business and so I don't want to give you any impression that we're not optimistic and we don't have a base case to lean on from a testing and pilot perspective that says these strategies will work.
But we're coming off a very difficult trend and it's going to take time.
And we just want to be direct about that and set expectations at a level which we can achieve.
I mean some of it the customer post to be honest Chuck the first 3 quarters of the year private brands were up high-single digit comp and the fourth quarter they were flat.
Now some of that could have been content but a lot of it had to do with price.
And we can argue about whether or not the pricing environment in fourth quarter was rational or not but it kind of is what it is.
So we took a position that we're going to be very aggressive on opening price point and drive unit growth and drive value.
I mean I would also say -- again as I said I think to perhaps Jeff this is a balance.
If we felt for a minute that the issue that we have in our sales was strictly about having lower prices on opening price point merchandise we would say that.
That's not at all what we're describing.
We think that there has to be improvements and fundamental changes in the newness and the excitement and level of our merchandise content.
We have to change our marketing message and included in there is a focus around strong price point illustrations in our opening price point goods to reestablish our value perspectives.
So it's just one piece.
And I wouldn't want to get it out of whack.
But it's an important piece.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And just to kind of clear the air.
There's a lot of confusion out there.
These actions are offensive.
In other words these are you guys trying to correct your business not trying to react to what your competitor down in Plano is trying to do right? No.
We -- I mean first of all we operate in a much bigger environment right? I mean you never want to develop strategies based on a competitor.
You want to develop strategies based on the way your customer is reacting to what you do.
And so all the things we're doing are about our business.
It's about making our customer happy.
It's about making our stores more efficient.
It's about investing in our future.
These are all things about Kohl's.
They really have nothing to do with any other specific retailer.
I mean our strategy's always been about taking market share and that's what I think these actions are going to give us a position to do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my last question.
Just the past maybe 3 or 4 months the credit events that you've been doing have been met with less -- a little bit less than enthusiastic response to what you typically have seen.
And I guess why do you think that is? And is there any change in -- you talked about the 3 changes Kevin the newness the marketing the price.
But is there any change in the promotional intensity up or down or alterations? I don't know that there's any unique change for the credit customer.
I mean the credit customer as you know Chuck is by far our most loyal customer and she's by far the one who's most sensitive and aware about whether or not what we're selling her in our store is exciting or not.
And so she has clearly said in the last 4 to -- 3 to 4 months anyway for sure that what she sees in our store from a product perspective is not what she expects she expects more.
And so that's why I try to emphasize to everybody that we are kind of focused on improving our core business and that's got a lot of elements to it.
And what we sell is always by far and by definition the most important one.
We have to improve the product in our store.
Your next question comes from the line of Michelle Clark of Morgan Stanley.
I think it's going to continue to be a tailwind but a much more modest tailwind.
You're not going to be talking about certainly hundreds of millions of improvement as we saw in 2011.
But I do expect it to improve primarily through growth in the portfolio.
It's included in our SG&amp;A guidance.
I don't want to get into much more detail than that.
But it would be in the tens of millions of dollar range.
Your next question comes from the line of Wayne Hood of BMO Capital.
Kevin could you talk a little bit about which of the private brands will see the greatest style of content change in '12 so we can kind of watch as that develops.
And then you sit back and reflect on this and you say well is the management team within merchandising around private brands where they need to be? Do you have the right team in place to pull off these changes that you're talking about? Sure.
Our 3 biggest private brands of course are SONOMA which is sort of a modern updated brand Croft &amp; Barrow which is very classic and Apt.
9 which is more contemporary.
I would say the 2 brands that we're most focused on improving the trends of business on based on results are probably SONOMA and Croft &amp; Barrow both in terms of their impact and in terms of the opportunity.
From a merchandising perspective we're making a lot of changes Wayne.
I don't know that we will need to get into all the detail of that on the call.
But for sure there's significant amount of organizational changes in our merchandising team that we're trying to -- that we are implementing.
We're not trying to implement them we're actually implementing that involve changing the structure of the organization and most importantly strengthening the talent level.
It's just tweaks.
Remember I said we were up 9% through the first 3 quarters for the year so it's just some tweaks not transformation.
Okay.
And Wes as you look at the year and it rolls out here you talked about a 160-basis point decline in gross margin in the first quarter.
Should we be thinking more like in the second and third quarter 100-basis point decline and then you get a spike in the fourth quarter? So it's kind of back-end loaded the margin improvement? Well I think it's back-end loaded but it's probably both in the third and the fourth quarter not just the fourth given the fact that we do expect to see product costs down.
I don't want to get too far ahead of myself.
I want to see how first quarter plays out.
We'll give you guys second quarter guidance when we report in May.
But if you were trying to model that I definitely would look for a deceleration in the decline in both the third and fourth quarters.
Okay.
And then my final question.
What's the level of cash that you expect on the balance sheet at year end? Or what you need to operate with? And where do you think your inventories will be at the end of '12 on the balance sheet? We're going to stick with the $1 billion at the end of the year.
We were a little bit higher than that this year.
We guided to the $825 million in CapEx and the $1 billion in share repurchase.
Our guidance did not contemplate any additional debt issuance that's a possibility in the back half.
In which case if we did that that could possibly fund additional share repurchase but that's not implicit in our guidance.
And in terms of inventories I would expect inventory to be up at the end of the first quarter somewhere around 4% or so.
As we start to build some of the units at the back half you could see unit growth certainly up.
As to where dollar growth is going to be it's a little too far to project.
If you had to stick a number in there I think low-single digits per square foot because hopefully the units we bought we'd sell through would be a good place to end it.
Your next question comes from the line of Liz Dunn of Macquarie.
I guess as I look at the fourth quarter I looked at your prepared comments you didn't mention weather once.
And obviously you have a very sensitive business to weather.
So you're coming off of what could probably be described as one of the more difficult quarters in a long long time.
And then -- but from a weather perspective and then making changes to your business model as a result.
So why aren't we just looking at this and saying it was the warmest winter on record and not something that needs a wholesale change in the business model? Well I would say a couple of things.
First of all we're not making a wholesale change in our business model.
We're strengthening our -- hopefully strengthening our content that our customer is seeing in our stores.
We're strengthening and really trying to clarify our message more effectively and grab her attention more effectively.
And we're ensuring that our price points that we illustrate to her in our advertising are strong and powerful and really show her the value.
You know if you think about the year in totality Liz even going into the fourth quarter we had only a 2% comp.
And certainly while that is far better than we ended up the year it's probably short of what our expectations were.
So we had weaknesses in our business going into the fourth quarter that of course became much worse.
Weather certainly was a big factor in that there's no question about it.
But we look at our business in the context of the overall market and in the context of our past performance versus the overall market.
And generally I think our judgment is that we were deficient.
That as we looked at the 12-month period and we compared our performance to others and we put in sort of all the factors that we know including the hurting weather because we probably get hurt a little bit worse than others when weather turns adversely for us because we do have a very buy-now kind of shopper our sense is that we need to make adjustments.
But I would emphasize to you by no means would I describe this as a wholesale change.
I think actually what it is is really a focus around looking at the overall trend over time.
One of the big things that we tried to call out in the call in the prepared script is our feeling that we need to really take a step back and examine our brick-and-mortar environment and find ways through re-merchandising and new categories and new businesses to get that performance better.
Because we're pretty confident we'll get to 40% growth in online sales again this year but we need to have it cannibalize less of our brick-and-mortar sales.
And going forward we need to continue to execute the same.
So hopefully that addresses it.
We don't want to call out weather because everybody deals with the weather we do as well.
Yes it probably hurts us a little more relatively but it's a longer-term time that we're looking at.
Okay.
Is there any change to your thought about promotional model being the right way to go for your customer base and your stores? No.
Your next question comes from the line of Dana Telsey of Telsey Advisory Group.
As you think about the remodeled stores that you did in 2011 what changes did you make -- as you think about those stores and how they performed how did they perform relative to the base? And the new changes that you're making about the new remodeled stores should we expect those to be significantly different? And secondly on the merchandise changes you've talked about I believe you've opened a new Santa Monica California facility.
Is that where we should see some more new brands coming from? And just lastly your plans for credit and how you're thinking of that income in 2012 versus '11? On the remodeled stores basically the remodeled stores had lifts in sales compared to the non-remodeled stores in the test.
Obviously we compare remodeled stores against like kinds of stores.
So they definitely had lifts but the challenge is that the relative lift compared to what's necessary to justify the investment that we make because we make significant investments in these stores really doesn't pan out.
And so fundamentally we worked really hard at improving that experience and marketing it a little differently.
We're getting less but it's not to the degree it needs to be.
And so it really says to us hey we need to step back and think about what's inside the store that would actually improve that.
For the future yes the remodel -- we're pulling back the number of remodels this year for the sole and only purpose to really redesign it and to reallocate.
So we wouldn't be doing that if we didn't expect that that would improve the performance based on the analytics we've done in the existing remodels.
From a content perspective the expansion of design -- and additional design office beyond the New York facility out in California Los Angeles and Santa Monica is definitely a signal that we think more and more there's opportunity for us to develop new brand relationships that would be sort of rooted out there.
It's also recognition though that from a style standpoint that styling -- categories like graphic tees need to be developed more strongly out on the West Coast and we can kind of control that more effectively from out there.
And from credit I kind of already I think I answered that question maybe not to the satisfaction of everybody.
But we think income's going to go up in terms of tens of millions of dollars so certainly nowhere near the benefit that it was in 2011.
But at least from what I read from others that have credit businesses everybody's kind of thinking the same thing.
Bad debt certainly came down quite a bit in 2011 but it won't go to 0.
And so I think everybody will have modest tailwinds in 2012.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Binder of Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I had 2 questions.
First a store question.
You talk a little bit about this return on investment in the remodels.
I think you've been pleased with the smaller format returns.
Is your intention as leases come up on older stores to replace them with smaller stores? That's my first question.
Well our leases tend to run 20 years so I think you and I will be long gone by the time that happens.
But at least I will I can't speak for you.
I think when those come up that certainly would be something we would look into.
But we don't have any plans to convert prototypes into small.
To do that's very expensive and the resulting rent you'd have to get for the extra 20-some thousand square feet would be kind of cost prohibitive unless it was a really good market where real estate was scarce.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the content versus price discussion.
You've had some great brands that you've introduced in the last few years several years including last year and they seem to have done well overall.
But as you review your content I'm wondering -- I wonder if you could give us a little bit more color on what you think -- what's changing in these private labels? Is it color? Is it the quality of the goods? And further do you think there's a need to strengthen the national brand side of the business? Yes I mean by definition I think it was more people on the call would ask questions about private brands.
When we talked about improvements in our content what I talked about was improvement across the whole store.
So by definition that means inclusive of the 50% of our business that’s national brands we need to improve both the style of what we're choosing and as Wes alluded to also the depth in many cases where we lost sales because as product cost inflation hit we brought down units probably to a greater degree than we should have frankly.
When we think about our improvements in content on the 50% that we completely manage it's definitely always going to be about the combination of quality and style.
So improving the quality and style and then maintaining or as appropriate lowering the price if necessary is really the definition that we have of value.
And so it's going to be a combination of both the quality and style aspects.
Yes I mean I think Kevin's right.
If you look at the whole year private and exclusive brands were up mid-single digits national brands were down mid-single digits so I think there's opportunities across the board to improve content.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Including adding new national brands is that...
Yes and our strengthening.
Remember we talked about we did just add in January the Van Heusen brand into our Men's business.
We think it's actually going to be very very successful well known strong brand in those categories.
So I think more of that I think is definitely appropriate.
But it's probably even more about ensuring that we have the depth and the right styles of those power brands that we do have.
And to some extent we've seen in our results that there were too many cases where we didn't have the kind of depth we needed for the customer.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And my final question was related to the noncredit customer.
Some of the circulars we've seen over the course of the last I don't know 6 weeks maybe a little bit more.
Some of the deals for the noncredit customer looked better.
In some circulars President's Day I thought maybe not so much so.
What's your thoughts on sort of an across-the-board consistent improvement for the noncredit customer? And how do you go about it? Well the value’s got to be strong for everybody.
Our noncredit customer who generally doesn't shop us quite as much and is a little bit probably less loyal I would say probably will notice more quickly price point changes that bring the value equation to a stronger place.
Our credit card customer understands shopping at Kohl's.
She uses her credit discounts that she gets effectively.
And while she's going to notice them I suspect that she's always kind of realized the full value of Kohl's.
So it's not surprising to me that you might notice that impact.
I would say again though price is just an element.
And we have to improve on a lot of areas if we're going to get ourselves back to where we'd like to be.
I would reemphasize to you as I think we did with somebody earlier this is a company that makes 11% operating margin and that has typically been driven by strong sales on the top line and good SG&amp;A expense control on the bottom line.
And that's what we want to get back to.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Exstein of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I just want to thank you all for really lucid and in-depth conversation today about sort of strategy.
And following up sort of on Dan's question you continue to emphasize the 11% operating margin.
Is it possible that you're sort of focusing too much on that at the expense of the top line number one? And number two how do you get penetration -- how do you get new customers in the door because everything seems to be geared still at your most loyal customer? Well I mean I would -- I'd say 2 things.
On the operating margin issue I think that's only come up as an answer to a question because I think Wes felt a little bit that we were headed down a direction that there was something wrong.
And I think all we were pointing out is this is a company that makes 11% operating margin.
We are never Michael -- I think you know this for sure -- we have never been focused on operating margin.
We are focused on driving top line and driving our expenses down and wherever the operating margin should be to get the best top line performance that's where we'll go.
So we're not focused on it at all.
I think it came up only in the context of trying to answer somebody who sort of was headed down the path of "Hey is there something more here?" And the answer we feel is no.
So I think that's the answer to that.
In terms of new customers yes this is all about new customers.
I mean basically the things that we're talking about which is to step back and say inside the 1 127 Kohl's stores we have we are not happy with the productivity.
And the reason we're not happy is we're not generating enough new customers.
Credit card penetration actually went up a little last year I think several hundred basis points.
So our loyal customer she continued to be overall very happy.
But we're not attracting enough new customers.
And by definition to us that means we have to improve what we sell inside the store we have to communicate it more effectively and we're also saying we probably have to consider allocating our space within that store differently to make it more attractive and probably offer categories that we don't offer today or expand categories that we do offer that we think have growth opportunity.
So this is definitely all about new customers.
Your final question comes from the line of Patrick McKeever of MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> All right final question.
So on the Rock and Republic line I was just wondering if you might elaborate a bit on just the early read there and tell us how big a business that might be and whether that could have a material impact on sales in the first half of this year or really in 2012.
Well within the context of the reality that we don't ever talk about volume on specific brands Rock and Republic is a pretty broad brand.
It's a lifestyle brand so by definition it includes lots of different categories and includes both the Men's and Women's business.
The launch has been very successful.
I think to date it's essentially exceeded our expectations and I would expect we’ll be in scramble mode particularly in certain elements to make sure that we satisfy customer demand going forward.
So just from the perspective of that unique brand we're really really happy with the early results.
Thanks everybody.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Ashley and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Kohl's Quarter 1 Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made on this call including projected financial results are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Kohl's intends forward-looking terminology such as believes expects may will should anticipates plans or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause Kohl's actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those that are described in Item 1A in Kohl's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and as may be supplemented from time to time in Kohl's other filings with the SEC all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
Also please note that replays of this call will be available for 30 days but this recording will not be updated.
So if you are listening after May 10 it is possible that the information discussed is no longer current.
Thank you.
I will now turn the conference over to Wes McDonald Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Thank you.
With me today is Kevin Mansell Chairman CEO and President.
I'll start off by talking about our financial performance and then Kevin will walk through some of our merchandising marketing initiatives and close with some comments and then I'll give guidance components for the second quarter.
Total sales for the quarter increased 1.9% to $4.2 billion.
Comp store sales increased 0.2%.
Average unit retail increased 4.9% while units per transaction decreased 3.3%.
This resulted in an average transaction value increase of 1.6%.
Transactions per store were down 1.4%.
Kevin will provide more color on our sales by region and line of business in a few minutes.
Our credit share was 56% for the quarter an increase of approximately 270 basis points over the first quarter of 2011.
Our gross margin rate for the quarter was 35.9% 220 basis points lower than the first quarter of last year and below our expectations of a decrease of 160 basis points.
Our SG&amp;A expenses decreased 0.2% for the quarter well below our expectations of a 3.5% increase.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales leveraged approximately 50 basis points for the quarter.
Credit provided the most significant leverage but we also saw positive results in our store payroll and other store expenses.
Moving on to depreciation.
Our depreciation expense was $201 million in the first quarter this year versus $191 million in the first quarter of last year.
The increase is due to new stores and additional e-commerce fulfillment centers.
As a percentage of sales depreciation was 4.7% approximately 10 basis points higher than last year.
Net interest expense was $82 million this quarter up $6 million compared to the prior year quarter.
The increase is primarily due to the $650 million of long-term debt issued in October 2011.
Our income tax rate was 35.5% for the quarter compared to 36.3% in the prior year quarter.
The decrease was primarily due to a favorable settlement of state tax audits.
Moving down to net income.
Net income was $154 million for the current year quarter and $201 million for the first quarter of 2011.
Diluted earnings per share were $0.63 this year down $0.06 from last year.
On to the balance sheet and some metrics for your models.
We ended the quarter with 1 134 stores.
During the quarter we opened 9 new stores including 1 relocated store and closed 1 location.
Gross square footage at quarter end was 99 million square feet 3 million higher than April of 2011.
Selling square footage increased 2 million to 83 million.
We ended the quarter with $1 billion of cash and cash equivalents a decrease of $640 million from April of 2011.
The reduction in cash is primarily due to share repurchases.
We have repurchased approximately $2 billion of stock since the first quarter of 2011.
Cash equivalents are in money market fund CDs and commercial paper.
Moving on to inventory.
We ended the quarter with $3.4 billion worth of inventory a 7% increase over April 2011.
Inventory per store is up 3.7%.
Kevin will talk more about inventory management in a few minutes.
Moving on to CapEx.
CapEx expenditures were $177 million for the first 3 months of 2012 $44 million lower than the first quarter of 2011.
The change reflects lower spending on both remodels and new stores and e-commerce fulfillment centers partially offset by higher technology spending.
We opened 9 new stores in both March of last year and March of this year.
As a reminder we are planning to open approximately 10 new stores this fall compared to 31 last fall.
We've also reduced our remodel plans from 100 last year to 50 remodels this year and we remodeled 40 stores in the first quarter.
We'll remodel 10 additional stores in the fall.
During 2011 we also had a lot of spending related to our second and third e-commerce centers.
Spending on our fourth e-commerce center is ramping up right now.
AP as a percent of inventory was 47% versus about 44% last year.
The increase is primarily due to normalized day turns with our import vendors as well as an increase in March and April receipts.
From a capital structure perspective we repurchased 6 million shares of our common stock during the quarter and have repurchased almost 71 million shares since reactivating the buyback program in the fourth quarter of 2010.
All of these purchases were made under 10b5-1 plans.
Weighted average diluted shares were 245 million for the quarter.
For your modeling purposes I would use 241 million diluted shares for the second quarter and 239 million shares for the year.
This assumes $250 million in share repurchases in the second quarter at an average price of $50 a share.
Earlier this week our board approved a quarterly dividend of $0.32 per share.
The dividend is payable June 27 to shareholders of record at the close of business on June 6.
I'll now turn it over to Kevin who'll provide additional insights in our results.
Thanks Wes.
As Wes mentioned comparable store sales increased 0.2% in the quarter.
From a line of business perspective Men's Children's and Accessories outperformed the company average.
Men's had strength in casual sportswear basics dress shirts and young men's.
Children's was led by boys and by girls.
Notable performers in Accessories included fashion accessories and handbag sterling silver and watches.
The Women's area was essentially flat.
Active and updated sportswear were the strongest categories with low double-digit increases.
Footwear was slightly negative despite a low double-digit increase in Women's shoes.
Home reported a low single-digit decrease.
Strong performers in Home included tabletop bath and towels and electrics.
From a regional perspective the cold regions Mid-Atlantic Midwest and the Northeast significantly outperformed the warmer South Central Southeast and West regions.
The Midwest and the Northeast regions reported low single-digit increases.
The Southeast and South Central regions reported low single-digit comp sales declines and the West reported a mid-single-digit decline.
E-commerce sales increased 34% from first quarter of 2011 to approximately $250 million in sales.
On a product front we launched several new exciting brands in the quarter.
Rock and Republic launched in Women's Men's and Footwear in February.
Sales of this premium denim and sportswear brand have significantly exceeded our internal expectations.
We also expanded the ELLE and Simply Vera Vera Wang brands into our beauty offering.
We're excited about these opportunities that these new expansions bring to our beauty business and the opportunity to grow this underserved business.
We are also conducting a sales productivity test in approximately 50 stores in 3 markets Houston Atlanta and Salt Lake City.
We've expanded our Home selection in these markets.
We expect to add 2 additional markets with 20 more stores for Back-to-School.
Our plans are to read these tests through the balance of the year.
We intend to make changes to our remodels and new stores based on the results of this test and initial plans we have for other areas of the store.
Those changes will not take place until 2013.
Private and exclusive brand penetration increased 300 basis points over the first quarter of 2011.
Approximately 53% of our sales are now in private and exclusive brands.
Several of our largest private brands Croft &amp; Barrow SO and SONOMA reported strong sales; and Jennifer Lopez Marc Anthony and Rock and Republic generated higher penetration as did more mature brands such as FILA Food Network Lauren Conrad Mudd and Simply Vera Vera Wang.
On the gross margin side we're obviously very disappointed in our gross margin performance.
The difference between our expectations and our results was primarily in the depth of our promotional markdowns as we did provide great value to our customers especially around opening price point private brands.
Clearance levels were very similar to our expectations.
We do understand better how the customer will react to the lower prices and have reflected that in our gross margin guidance for the second quarter which we expect to be similar to the first quarter.
We would expect gross margin to improve in the fall season but still be down from last year.
We are seeing cost decreases in the apparel areas for fall season in the mid-single-digit range which will help on the gross margin side.
On the other hand in expense management I'm very pleased with our expense management again as we leveraged approximately 50 basis points for the quarter.
Our credit business again generated significant leverage for the quarter but we expect this improvement to moderate in the later quarters of the year and in April we annualized our new relationship with Capital One.
Substantially all of our operating stores also reported lower costs as a percentage of sale.
The strongest improvement was in our store payroll organization as our technology investments continue to drive sustainable efficiencies.
Other store controllable costs and fixed expenses were also well managed.
Advertising costs did not leverage due to incremental spend to support the new brand launches during the quarter and we also invested incremental spend on our spring television marketing campaign.
In our 2012 guidance we discussed in February we shared our belief that gaining momentum on the top line would be a very gradual process and it certainly has been in the first quarter.
We've been focused on our value product and promotion along with providing great customer experience both in-store and online.
We do believe that value message is resonating with our customer and we're priced in line with our major competitors and executing our promotional strategy while providing extra value with discounts for our credit card customers and through Kohl's Cash and buy more save more events for all.
We believe our product is now more on trend and we are focused on narrowing our assortment to ensure we have enough depth in items we believe in.
We are happy with the feedback on our spring marketing campaign and expect to continue with that theme through the Back-to-School season.
Our progress on sales has been hindered by not having enough inventory units in the stores.
We entered the quarter down about 6% in units in the stores and about 9% in the seasonal categories with receipts arriving in late April.
During much of the quarter some of our seasonal categories were down as much as 20%.
We plan to be close to flat by the end of the second quarter which is where we want to be positioned for the fall season.
I expect our inventory levels to continue to hinder our sales in this second quarter and the second quarter sales expectations as a result are similar to our first quarter performance.
We will continue to look for ways to be more efficient across the company.
Our expense performance in the first quarter was a result of sustainable improvement in the stores and distribution centers as well as continued strong credit revenue performance.
We have a continued rollout of our electronic signing initiative in the next 2 quarters which should also help our expense performance as well.
And with that I'll turn it back to Wes to provide details on our second quarter earnings guidance.
Thanks Kevin.
Our second quarter earnings guidance is as follows: Total sales increase of 2% to 3% a comparable sales increase of flat to 1%.
We would expect May to be below the quarter June to be approximately with the quarter and July to be well above the quarter.
Gross margin rate decline of 200 to 250 basis points.
SG&amp;A expense should be flat to 1.5%.
Depreciation expense of $206 million interest expense of $80 million a tax rate of 38% a share count of 241 million diluted shares and share repurchases of $250 million for the quarter at an average price of approximately $50 a share.
Including these estimated share repurchases we expect earnings per diluted share of $0.96 to $1.02 for the second quarter.
Our fiscal 2012 guidance remains the same at $4.75 per diluted share.
And with that we'll be happy to take your questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Research Division</strong> So a few questions as we look out and in terms of being more efficient with spending can you talk about if there's any changes in your marketing program? Marketing? Yes.
I think she's asking about marketing.
Yes I mean our advertising expenses did not leverage in the first quarter.
I would not expect them to leverage in the second quarter as well.
With more units we obviously expect to do better on the comp line in the back half of the year and hopefully at that point we'll start to leverage.
If you recall last year we had a big launch of Jennifer Lopez and Marc Anthony in the third quarter.
That was a -- sort of a unique spend.
So we won't spend that kind of money in the third quarter this year.
So we should do better in the back half.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then also on the expense side you talked about doing a great job in terms of store payroll and other store expenses.
With store payroll is that mainly E sign or is there anything else driving that and then also can you talk about the other stores expenses that were levered? I think it was a lot to do with E sign and we obviously continue to try to be more efficient in the stores and manage payroll as best we can to sales.
Other store expenses we've invested a lot of capital to manage electricity usage and that was down about 4% or 5% for the quarter so that provided some savings.
We also saved money in terms of CAM.
Obviously it was a very light snow season that I would expect most retailers to have saved money in as well.
But the majority of it was really with store payroll.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Kevin with just some of the changes taking place on the competitive landscape can you talk about any opportunities you have in terms of gaining share and maybe how that plays out in the back half of this year as you have more inventory? Well I mean I think our big opportunity remains internal Deb to be honest with you.
There obviously are a lot of changes happening in our industry.
But our inability to generate the kind of store-for-store sales success we've had in the past there's really been a function of us not having the kind of value we need to for our customer and not having the inventory levels in the right categories for the customer.
So it's a lot about price it's a lot about promotion and it's certainly a lot about products.
So I think the reason that we feel so optimistic about the fall and holiday is that we well understand the changes we need to make to our merchandise assortment in terms of communicating our value.
And what's happening in the competitive landscape is sort of in the background on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Adrianne Shapira with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Kevin I know you're disappointed with the gross margin performance in the first quarter.
It sounds like we should expect the same in Q2 but maybe can I shed some light in terms of what learnings you had in terms of what went well what didn't and what tweaks we should expect to the plan in the second quarter? Well I mean the things that were positive we knew -- we felt we knew that as we brought down our price points particularly around opening price points our private brands and we illustrated those in our marketing that we would in fact get accelerated unit demand.
And that definitely happened.
So throughout the quarter there was a dramatic change in the trajectory that we had sell-throughs and actual units around those key items.
And that was very visible to us in the selling rates across those items.
Unfortunately we just didn't have the kind of depth of inventory to support it and it didn't as a result I think translate to the top line to the extent that it will as we start to build those inventories more effectively.
From a portfolio perspective we also did well with our new brands.
So it's not all about our focus around opening price point we can provide great value around what we would consider kind of our best brand sothings like Rock and Republic and Jennifer Lopez or Marc Anthony which resonated well in addition.
But there's no question that changing the value that we offer to customers is making a difference in how they respond to the product.
And that we think combined with deepening the level and continuing to work on the on-trend nature of what we offer is going to be a tailwind for us as we get later in the second quarter and then certainly into the third quarter.
Adrianne this is Wes.
I also think the majority of our gross margin pressure was in the private brand because that's where we took the biggest price reduction.
It's also where we have the biggest cost increases when we start to get cost reductions in the back half.
Private brands should perform better.
We still expect our gross margins to be down in the back half but nowhere near to the extent they are in the spring.
National brands for the quarter kind of were at the same level as what our total company was from a gross margin perspective and exclusive brands by their very nature since they're a little bit less price sensitive and more in our better and best price points gross margin was down still but significantly less than the company.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just a follow-on to that it sounds like the inventory investments you think is key to help sales growth.
Since you ended the quarter with inventory up 7% how should we be thinking about that inventory to sales? Obviously it looks like it's going to be outpacing your comp plan in the near term.
How do you -- give us the confidence in terms of as you build inventory how do you mitigate any sort of markdown liability that might come along with sort of a heavier inventory debt? Well I guess from my perspective you're also starting to see cost reduction so units might be up but costs might be down.
So your dollar increase in terms of inventory won't be as great.
We look at it more on an inventory per store basis versus a overall inventory.
So our inventory was up 3.7%.
I would expect at the end of the second quarter for it to be somewhere in the mid to high single digits on a per store basis.
That will give us enough units we think to do much better.
You got to remember last year we were down significantly in inventory.
So if you go back to 2010 we're probably sort of flattish.
And it's not going to be across the board.
There are certain areas we're going to be investing in like kids definitely reacted very well to price reductions we took in the first quarter.
We're going to be very aggressive for Back-to-School on that from a unit perspective.
Obviously that's a big season for the kids business and areas like Missy's updated and contemporary we need more units.
Classic inventories on the Missy side we won't be as aggressive in.
That business is coming back a little bit.
It's probably the best quarter we've had in close to 2 years on Missy's classic but you're not going to see the kind of unit growth in that area that you will on the other 2 I mentioned.
So we're trying to be smart about it.
It's not going to be across the board and we're certainly cognizant of the fact that it's a little bit bigger unit increase than we have had in the past but we're still trying to normalize where we think demand is.
Private brands definitely were hurt by the lack of units.
We started March in a pretty good shape and then when it got hot those 2 weeks in the cold-weather regions we blew through serious amount of units in 2 weeks.
And that really dampened our April sales.
Most of our seasonal categories for the month of April were down at least 20%.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then Kevin when you talk about the value product and experience sort of that's where you're focused on to turn things around.
Obviously we're seeing the change on the...
Lost you Adrianne.
[Technical Difficulty] Your next question comes from the line of Bob Drbul with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Kevin I guess as you look at the horizon over the next several quarters from a merchandising perspective where do you see your biggest opportunities? And then from like a new brand opportunity Rock and Republic seemingly gone very well.
How's the opportunities in terms of the availability of new brands or product development from that standpoint? Sure.
I mean I think as we look at fall and holiday just on a quarterly basis just getting a little ahead of ourselves but clearly our biggest opportunity is holiday.
And we really underperformed in the fourth quarter last year and that was in particular around categories that were more gift-related across the whole store of course but gift-related categories.
So that is clearly something we're really focused on being prepared to correct this year.
I think second as Wes kind of mentioned opening price point was an area that didn't perform.
And it was really a function of us not supporting it with the kind of levels of inventory as we navigated through higher costs last year.
So our inventories and opening price points being aggressively planned up and from the positive perspective it's happening as costs are coming down.
So we're definitely buying into the right time.
There's other things as well Bob but I would just say big picture it's not about the fall and holiday.
You say hey they're really focused on building their value assortments which are a lot about opening price point that 30-plus percent of our business that's our private brands and making it right.
And then as they get into the later third quarter and fourth quarter it really really focused around a lot of different categories in the store but all around our gift strategy.
New brands continue to be important to us but I think the last year has pointed out pretty clearly that while we need to continue to introduce new brands and we will we would expect to have some new announcements for you for the fall season to share with you probably later this quarter and be delivered in the fall.
It's almost more important for us to make sure that we have new styles new colors new aesthetic in our existing brands and keep those brands fresh because those are all very important to our sales success.
Research Division</strong> Okay and Kevin when I was in the stores this quarter it seemed like colored denim trend was a good trend for you and -- but it seemed like you guys might not have had a broad enough assortment.
Is that something that you're expanding for the fall? Is that where you see an opportunity? Yes I mean definitely we had colored denim and we're -- there's no way we had anywhere near enough depth on it.
I mean it was a big mess and it's definitely an area that as we looked at our competitive set particularly in the specialty store world they did a much much better job of having depths of inventory there.
That is clearly something we are correcting and as we move into Back-to-School I think that the expectation that colored denim will be really important to the business and we'll own it in the kind of depth we want.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Swinand with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask about that credit uptick I think you said in the prepared remarks it was up a little over 2%.
What's driving that because some of the other retailers have been flat.
Is it greater penetration with existing customers? Are you able to get better approvals with the new rules out there or is it actually driving new customers into the store? And how's that all working? If you gave us some color that'd be great.
I think it's definitely not coming from approval rates.
We still have -- with the new regulations it's more difficult to approve people than it has been in the past.
We've made some changes or going to make some changes in June and July from our scorecard perspective that should give us a little more increase in approval rates a couple of hundred basis points.
But it's really just I think continued recognition from bank card customers that they can get additional value if they're willing to sign up for a Kohl's card.
So that's been really what we've done since we went public back in '92.
The 9 years I've been here the credit share has increased pretty consistently.
We have markets that are over 60%.
So we still think there's room we have markets that are in the 40s.
So we still think there's room there.
So it's just a question of time in the market.
The older markets tend to be closer to 60 the younger markets tend to be in the 40s.
So over time we would expect that credit rate to continue to increase.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a follow-up on Adrianne's -- I think it was Adrianne who asking about the units.
And on a unit basis per store are you actually down? The dollar inventory is up I think you said 7%.
Yes units were down 6% per store and seasonal categories on average were down 9%.
But that was a late-breaking development with receipts that came late in the quarter.
So like I said in the comments some of our seasonal categories in March and April depending on the week were down 20%.
So we're going to be in a better place.
We're going to improve each month.
We expect to end the quarter on a unit per store basis sort of flattish.
We obviously also have one of the things that you guys have to take into account when you're looking at our inventory total growth we're buying inventory now for 4 EFCs versus basically 2 last year.
So that's going to require a little additional inventory to support the 40% growth we expect in E-com.
Your next question comes from the line of Adrianne Shapira with Goldman Sachs.
Your next question comes from the line of Michelle Clark with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> [Audio Gap] and a key reason for the recent comp weakness how much of recent comp weakness is attributable both to the fact that Penney is having to significantly step up promotional activity as sales are coming much weaker than they expected there? I'm sorry.
We didn't hear the whole...
Your first part of the question cut off yes...
Research Division</strong> Sorry.
Okay so I'm just trying to get at -- you had mentioned that not having enough value price points and then not having enough units are the key drivers behind the comp weakness for you guys as of late.
I'm wondering how much is stepped-up promotional activity at JCPenney weighing on your ability to comp.
It would be hard to answer that question Michelle without knowing how their sales were.
I mean being honest about it if their sales in the first quarter were up over last year then I think we have to say okay we maybe lost some shares to JCPenney.
If their sales in the first quarter are less than last year then I'm thinking it'd be hard pressed for us to convince ourselves that we lost some share to JCPenney.
So without knowing how their business is it's really difficult to answer that question.
So I would imagine whenever they do release sales you will have better insight and say hey if Penney sales were better than last year then maybe part of Kohl's weakness is due to that and you'll be able to make a better judgment.
It's impossible for us to make that judgment right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay but you don't see -- we've noticed significantly stepped-up promotional activity there throughout the quarter but you don't think that that's a big negative to you guys? The negative to us is exactly what we've been discussing on the call so far.
That's what's driving the lack of sales.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then Wes you had mentioned that credit was a big benefit to SG&amp;A expense in the first quarter.
Just wondering if you can give us incremental color there how much was the stepped up credit income year-over-year and how should we be thinking about that as we go through the rest of this year? I mean it wasn't the entire beat I would say.
Credit was the majority.
Stores all in was very close to credit.
We had things that were below in terms of millions of dollars it was around $20 million.
I would expect that to not be as good in the rest of the year but it's still going to be a benefit.
We don't have the situation that another competitor talked about where they had a big onetime situation last year where they had a big influx of income and credit.
Ours will be more consistent throughout the year.
I mean credit is a tailwind in the first quarter and the way Wes is describing credit for the rest of the year is built into the guidance we give you.
Yes there's no upside to what I just told you.
I mean it went from 3.5% to flat and I just guided flat to 1.5%.
So if you're looking on the upside it's already built into the guidance.
Research Division</strong> Right.
It's included in the guidance got it.
and then you mentioned on the cost comp cadence during the quarter that May would be well below the quarter average and July well above? Can you...
I didn't say -- I just said May was going to be below not well below.
Research Division</strong> Okay below.
And then July above.
What are the drivers of that? Well the biggest thing was actually last year we thought we missed a lot of business in July.
We had a very good June.
We ran 2 credit events in June and got eliminated in LPS and we think we pulled some business forward.
That's now normalized and we have an ad calendar July that hopefully will be a much stronger July.
Research Division</strong> And then the reason for May? It's just really more I mean the whole quarter is really just more about the cadence of what we know position and promotional support to that.
And so as we're looking at each month and of course last year plays into this as Wes said as well but as we're looking at each month there's a much higher confidence that we’ll positioned to drive our sales by the time we get to the later part of the quarter.
And we also have more of an opportunity on the year-over-year basis as well.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Lejuez with Nomura.
Research Division</strong> It's Tracy Kogan filling in for Paul.
Two questions.
The first one for Wes.
I was wondering about the performance of the E-com business from a margin perspective.
With your EBIT margins down overall I was wondering if E-com was also down or was it just bricks and mortar? And then secondly as you anniversary the J.
Lo Marc Anthony launch in the third quarter I know you said marketing you did not expect to be up but just wondering what you have planned to go up against that.
From an E-com perspective it was obviously down -- when you're down 220 basis points in gross margin it's hard to be up in either area brick and mortar or E-com.
As relative to marketing goals we're still finalizing our marketing plan.
My point is we're not going to spend $20 million launching J.
Lo and Marc Anthony in the third quarter.
We might spend $15 million of that on something else but I don't think we're going to spend the entire $20 million.
Research Division</strong> Any type of launch to go up against that? We are planning new introduction to the fall season and I'd expect to be able to share that with you probably middle part of this quarter or so.
Newness is important to us.
So we're not going to slow down on introducing new brands where they're appropriate and new partnerships.
But it's also clear from our sales trajectory in the last 2 quarters in September of last year we had the most successful and largest brands launch in the company's history and we then proceeded to have the worst quarter in the fourth quarter that we've had in many many years.
So you don't want to get so fixated on new brands to drive the business.
It's got to be overall breadth of brands that drive the business and the new brands are just a little bit extra.
So there will be a new introduction in the third quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt Boss with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Any update on a new store prototype or any tweaks to the remodel program to look forward to? We kind of talked a little bit about that in the script.
We're testing the expansion of Home in those 3 markets we mentioned Atlanta Houston and Salt Lake City.
So if you guys want to travel down there and check them out that's part of what we're looking at.
We're also looking at other areas of the store where we're not as productive as the overall store.
That will be sort of in a test in a couple stores in terms of just trying to figure out how it will look.
But you won't see any of that really until 2013.
My expectations for 2013 new stores kind of what we've been telling you 20 new stores until we tell you something different.
And then in terms of remodels depending on the results of the tests I think we'll probably stick with 50 remodels for next year and get some of the kinks out of what we're trying to do in some of the other areas of the store other than the expansion of Home.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then from an SG&amp;A perspective looking past 2012 how should we think about 2013 from an online infrastructure? Where do you stand today and should we be thinking about a ramp-up in SG&amp;A around that longer term? No.
I think we've kind of guided to SG&amp;A leverage point at 2%.
We obviously did much better than that this quarter.
I'm not signing up to leverage at a flat comp and a multiyear plan.
That'd be pretty difficult.
So I would use 2% for your modeling.
We're undergoing a very methodical sort of profit improvement project through the entire company.
We've split it up into 5 waves.
We're through 2 of them.
We expect to finish it by the end of the year and hopefully we'll have some savings that we can bank on in 2013 and '14.
Not at liberty to tell you the details but it's not an insignificant amount.
How much we choose to reinvest in driving the top line kind of remains to be seen but I would just use the 2% for now.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Klinefelter with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Kevin I just wanted to follow up a little bit on the inventory Q1 inventory.
I mean in light of -- I think you're suggesting or Wes suggests seasonal inventory down I think 20% when you get into April significantly outperformed in March.
Put that in context with the overall business delivered in the first quarter.
I mean clearly there was more demand for seasonal products across the industry.
But in hindsight coming in it came in too low on that inventory.
What sort of backup plans do you or did you have for seasonal how fast can you get back into it and the same for the colored denim or any other fashion products that are trending well right now.
Well I mean I think the conversation around inventory for us is a very important one because it's definitely a key element of why we've not been able to recover on the top line as quickly as we would like.
Seasonals product which is a very important part of our business as you know Jeff because we're definitely a Buy Now Wear Now kind of retailer with our customer did not recover to the degree that we would like.
It's just taken us longer than we would have expected.
And even as we did recover and we were able to pull forward it occurred at the same time as we were driving lower prices on those products.
So we went through from a sell-through perspective a lot more units than we expected.
And I would -- I think you're right in asking about trends like colored denim.
I think generally we're dissatisfied with the speed to which we're recovering on that.
It's going to happen.
We feel really good about what we see coming in May and June to prepare us for July August Back-to-School and we'll be in a much much better place.
But it is taking a little longer than we would like and so it's certainly an area of focus for us how do we move more quickly and how do we identify those opportunities more quickly so we can react to them.
High level though we've made a calculated decision as we went into the fourth quarter last year about where we wanted to position our inventory and that was also true for the first quarter of this year.
And we're living with the results of that.
Yes I mean we can't afford to airfreight things.
So when you make a decision in January to be more aggressive on price it's going to take you to June to get the number of units you want to be where you want to be.
And that's just the reality of the private brand supply chain and how fast we can get things in.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
I'm just thinking back on I recall we went through a cycle like this back in kind of the '03 '04 time period.
I think there was a skew toward basics product basic inventory kind of in your assortments and I believe you started talking then a lot more about exclusive brands and getting a little more fashion content.
It just feels like maybe we're going through another one of those cycles.
Is the organization -- has there been a change in the organization the way you're set up to react and respond to these fashion trends as they move faster today? Yes I mean the short answer -- and we don't obviously have enough time on conference calls to go into that kind of detail but there's no question that the experience we had in the fall holiday season caused us to really rethink the entire buying planning and product development structure we have.
It's not dissimilar to 9 years or so ago where we had to rethink certain parts of our company and support it with more infrastructure both technology and people.
It's similar in thinking to that.
There have been a tremendous amount of changes as a result of the experience we've had.
And so we've made relatively for us massive changes in our buying organization and then of course planning kind of parallel as you know buying so those changes spilled over into planning.
And our focus around exclusive brands and our focus on the need to move more quickly and be more trend right has also caused us to make a lot of changes in our product development area as well.
So there's pretty significant changes.
As I said Jeff we can't get into the detail on those on the call but they're new positions the company has restructured the pyramids in the company.
So we're more efficient and more streamlined and more focused around categories that we think are opportunity businesses for us because everything you're touching on was clearly apparent in our results and it made it clear to us we needed to act quickly.
From a CFOs perspective '03 and '04 was different problem.
We had too much ugly woman stuff back then.
Now we're chasing units.
So it's a good problem for the merchants to have.
It's a good problem for the vendors to have.
We're trying to buy more products that's on trend.
So that's a very inspiring message for the merchants to go out there and get more inventory.
They like that.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the perspective.
One last thing.
Just what's on the prototype what is motivating that new prototype? Is it kind of learnings from E-commerce is it competitive environment anything else you can add to that? Well I think it's all of the above certainly.
I mean certainly number one is a recognition that online which continues to grow at a very high rate across the industry and as you know for Kohl's at a much much higher rate is a potential cannibalization of brick-and-mortar retail that sales could be happening.
And so it's caused us to just think about the longer term it's not a short-term thing.
It's longer-term thing of hey if these rates of growth continue what does that mean about what should be inside our stores in terms of what we sell to maintain if not return to higher sales per square foot? And so we've looked inside our store and looked at categories that we believe have opportunity for us either as it relates to a lower share of market compared to our core business or categories which have been running at a higher rate of growth over the last 5 years or in some cases both where we have a low-share market even though we've been running at higher rate growth.
And all of those things are kind of playing into rethinking how we allocate space and the way our stores are presented.
We're fortunate as you know Jeff in that we've historically allocated a significant dollar amount to capital around remodeling our stores.
And so what we really are able to do is simply rededicate that capital in a different way.
But I think we feel like we have a marvelous opportunity.
We don't have to spend more money.
We just have to utilize the money we're already spending in a different way.
Yes I mean the goal is really to try to get $10 more square-foot I mean deal from $220 to $230.
Home is not the highest productive square foot we have in the company but we think it's opportunity from a line of business perspective.
Categories that sell online very well we think could sell on the store very well.
We're taking a little bit of space away from Children's.
That's our lowest productivity on a sales per square foot basis.
Now part of that is because obviously the AURs in kids are a lot lower than some of the other areas.
So we have to be careful that we're driving the overall business of the store and hence the reason we're testing it through the balance of the year.
And your next question comes from the line of Charles Grom with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Maybe kind of difficult to answer but when you look at the first quarter as a whole how much do you think your comp softness was really kind of self-inflicted because of the price investments and because of the lack of inventory and I guess how much of that do you expect to kind of lead into May and into the second quarter? I mean those are -- it's always a hard question to answer because you don't want to ignore competition.
I don't want to pretend like it's not real but I think our judgment is as we look at our performance over the fourth quarter and first quarter than almost all the results that we've got were purely self-inflicted.
They were -- we have nobody to blame but ourselves and we understand that.
We understand the things we have to correct to change that.
That's not as I said to minimize the intensity of the competition and changes that are happening in our industry or other retailers performing and executing better.
That's always the backdrop but I think the vast majority of our disappointment is our own execution.
And we've -- as you know Chuck tried very hard to take those head on in not just a small way but across the company organizationally and process-wise to drive change.
And I think our feeling is that we're seeing the change coming it's coming but not surprisingly as we expected.
It just is taking long a long time.
And so yes certainly our guidance that Wes gave you for the second quarter is certainly predicated on the fact that this change is coming slowly and it's not going to change quickly and as a result it would be foolish for us to set expectations that we might have difficulty meeting.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then where you have reduced prices -- you alluded to this I think early in the Q&amp;A in brief.
So where you have reduced some of the prices and you do have the inventory could you maybe give a couple of examples of the elasticity or the response rates that gives you the confidence that when you get into this the Back-to-School period your sales will accelerate? Yes I mean 2 -- without giving you a specific item example I mean 2 places that it was very clear very quickly that by adjusting our value we changed the trajectory of demand.
One was Children's apparel for sure.
It was dramatic.
It was phenomenal.
It was very strong and the response from the customer was very very strong.
And then secondly broadly across the store in a small way in the first half but in a much bigger way we will be in the second half we've focused around what we call great value items or key items and there not in one particular area.
They could be in Home they could be in Apparel they could be in Footwear.
And on those items those great value items as we implemented changes to our pricing structure we saw the sell-through rates accelerate consistently across all the items.
So it wasn't a one-business phenomenon.
It was very clear that there was a lot of elasticity as we change the prices.
So we've got a pretty good solid basis in making the decisions we're making for the fall.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's good color.
And then just one for you Wes maybe.
You're keeping the full year at $4.75.
It sounds like the former gross profit margin guidance of 70 basis points maybe a little bit worse.
Can you give us a little bit of complexion of the outlook for the full year both on the margin front and also on the buyback? Would you still expect to do $1 billion or could we see a little bit more? Well I'm not getting into the fall season because most people don't even give guidance anymore.
So I'll stick with my second quarter guidance.
We're not done the fall plans yet.
We're wrapping them up.
Margin is going to be down in the fall.
Could it be down more than I originally thought in February? Yes.
Is SG&amp;A going to be better than I originally thought in February? Yes.
So we get paid to get to the guidance in different ways so we're just going to try to get to the guidance and give you guys the details as best we can when we're fully informed.
Right now I'm not fully informed about margin for fall.
So from that perspective on the buyback $250 million is probably on the conservative side depending on where the stock is for the quarter.
We could buy back more depending on where we are and where interest rates are.
We could issue more debt in the third quarter.
Modest we're not talking huge lever but maybe $250 million or $300 million and use that to buy back stock.
We haven't made a decision on that.
We'll talk about it in our next board meeting and probably talk to you about it next quarter as to whether or not we're going to do that or not.
I mean generally I think Chuck that the pressure that our lack of sales in the last couple of quarters has put on our share price the only positive outcome of that is it's put us in a buying position because we have pretty good feeling about the fall and holiday in the future and we just think that the current trading price is -- it's a buy.
[indiscernible] sets the guidance on the buyback but we're certainly going to be aggressive about it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could sneak one more in.
I know you did make some changes in the merchant team sort of diverging the responsibilities up amongst I think a few more people.
Can you shed a little bit of light on how quickly you think that can lead to better trends in some of the categories where you have been underperforming? I think the answer is going to be by area.
We expect that a new executive team driving our online business who's onboard and up and running.
It's going to have an effect to accelerate online sales even further for the fall and holiday.
We've named a new executive to run our young female businesses our Junior and Children's businesses.
And I feel really good that she's going to have a major impact for Back-to-School.
So the answer is going to depend by area Chuck based on when the team started and how quickly the timeline is from a process standpoint to make an impact.
Certain areas are going to be faster than others.
Your next question comes from the line of Liz Dunn with Macquarie.
I guess a few questions.
Starting with the marketing you mentioned that you didn't leverage marketing and I understand that's a -- or advertising and I understand that's a little bit because of the sales shortfall.
But what is it that you're pleased with is it these ads featuring Dana Torres and that kind of thing or can you just talk a little bit more about the marketing strategy and what's leading you to think that that's headed in the right direction? Sure.
As you said if you strictly look at it on a leverage perspective we didn't leverage in marketing.
We spent -- we increased marketing more than sales increased but I think our judgment is that's primarily the product and the depth of inventory.
When you look at it from a more qualitative standpoint and say okay what were we looking to do in the first quarter with marketing? We were looking to change the way our print and direct-mail ads look so that our price points were much more prominent and much -- provided much more clarity to customers around our value.
I feel like while we’re not there we've made tremendous amount of progress there and it's very visible to me and the ads look different and they feel different and the customer is seeing the price points clearly in the ad and they're going to see it clearly in the store.
When it comes to message behind that our message really is it's exciting to shop at Kohl's.
Our sales are absolutely amazing.
And if you shop those sales and watch our value you're going to have a great feeling and a great experience.
And I think that broadcast campaign that you're referring to does a good job of saying that in a very overt way.
So from a qualitative perspective I think we've taken some steps that to me are in line with what our objective was.
If you're looking at it strictly on a quantitative standpoint advertising didn't leverage.
I didn't expect it to leverage.
I don't think Wes expected it to leverage.
Okay that's helpful.
And then why not at this point just -- and perhaps the answer is there's not any opportunity to do so but why not reaccelerate store growth? Is that something that's off the table for the foreseeable future? Well I don't think -- I mean we're continuing to open stores which is probably a bit unusual in our industry to be honest.
If you're objective about it and look at our competitors there's really nobody who continues to open up the numbers of store as we are.
So we are continuing to open stores but I think we also are pretty objective about this and we're saying we have some issues to solve internally.
We need to focus most of our attention around improving the metrics of our business.
And once we feel better about that we can produce results not just talk about it then we'd be in a better place to consider new opportunities to grow.
Yes and we're not -- I mean to be totally honest we're not happy with the performance of our new stores in the last few years.
And when we opened them in the recession they're not hitting our pro forma because the economy is not where it was when we developed the estimates.
And in a lot of cases in some of the mild and hot markets where there are housing issues housing growth stops.
So we're not getting the kind of lift that we normally would get as the trade area matures because there's still open lots there.
So from that perspective I think 20 stores a year is what I would use going forward.
If we start to do better and our results are better we certainly could accelerate that.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Matthew and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I'd like to welcome everyone to the Kohl's Q2 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements on this call including projected financial results are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Kohl's intends forward-looking terminology such as believes expects may will should anticipates plans or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause Kohl's actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those that are described in Item 1A in Kohl's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and as may be supplemented from time to time in Kohl's other filings with the SEC all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
I would now like to turn the call over to Wes McDonald Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
With me today is Kevin Mansell Chairman CEO and President.
I'm going to take some time to go over the income statement and balance sheet and then I'll turn it over to Kevin to walk through some more specifics on our results related to merchandising marketing and expense management and then I'll close up with guidance for the third quarter.
Total sales for the quarter decreased 1% to $4.2 billion.
Comp store sales decreased 2.7%.
The comp decrease was driven by transactions per store which were 4.5% lower than the second quarter last year.
Average transaction value increased 1.8% on a 6.2% increase in average unit retail and a 4.4% decrease in units per transaction.
Year-to-date sales increased 0.4% to $8.4 billion and comparable store sales decreased 1.3%.
The year-to-date comp decline was also driven by transactions per store which declined 3.1%.
Average unit retail increased 5.5% while units per transaction decreased 3.7% resulting in a 1.8% increase in average transaction value.
Kohl's Charge sales penetration increased 160 basis points to approximately 57% of total sales for the quarter.
Year-to-date credit share is 56% an increase of approximately 215 basis points over the first half of 2011.
Kevin will provide more color on our sales in a few minutes.
Moving on to gross margin.
Our gross margin rate for the quarter was 39% approximately 160 basis points lower than the second quarter of last year but significantly better than our expectations of a 200 to 250 basis point decrease.
SG&amp;A decreased 1.6% for the quarter well below our expectations of flat to up 1.5%.
SG&amp;A as a percent of sales leveraged approximately 15 basis points for the quarter and 30 basis points year-to-date.
Kevin will provide more color on expense management as well.
Depreciation expense was $210 million in the second quarter this year and $190 million in the second quarter of last year.
The increase is primarily due to new stores remodels and IT investments.
As a percentage of sales depreciation was 5% approximately 50 basis points higher than last year for the quarter and 30 basis points higher year-to-date.
Net interest expense was $80 million this quarter and $162 million year-to-date.
The $8 million increase over Q2 2011 and the $14 million increase over the first 6 months of 2011 were primarily due to the $650 million of long-term debt issued October 2011.
Our income tax rate was 36.3% for the quarter significantly lower than our original expectation of 38%.
The decrease was primarily due to favorable settlement of state tax audits which contributed $0.02 to our diluted earnings per share.
Net income was $240 million for the current year quarter and $299 million for the second quarter of 2011.
Diluted earnings per share for the quarter this year was $1 and year-to-date diluted earnings per share for the year-to-date period was $1.63.
Moving on to some metrics for your models.
Square footage 90 848 this year versus 96 380 last year up about 2.6%.
Selling square footage 82 522 versus last year's 85 097 up 2.4%.
We ended the quarter with $600 million of cash and cash equivalents.
Moving on to CapEx.
CapEx expenditures for the first 6 months of the year are $429 million $50 million lower than the first half of last year.
The change reflects multiple changes in our capital expenditures including fewer remodels and fall new stores partially offset by higher IT spending.
As a reminder we are planning to open 12 new stores this fall compared to 31 last fall and spending on our E-Commerce facilities was relatively flat year-over-year.
Moving on to inventory.
Our inventory balance at the end of July was 3.5 billion a 13% increase over July 2011; our inventory dollars per store on a cost basis is up 9%; and our units per store are up 6%.
AP as a percent of inventory was 43.8% slightly higher than last year's 43.5%.
From a capital structure perspective we repurchased 6 million shares of our common stock during the quarter and 12 million shares thus far this year.
We have repurchased approximately 77 million shares since reactivating the buyback program in the fourth quarter of 2010.
All of these purchases were made pursuant to 10b5-1 plans.
Weighted average diluted shares were 239 million for the quarter and 242 million for the year-to-date period.
Earlier this week our board approved the quarterly dividend of $0.32 per share.
The dividend is payable September 26 to shareholders of record at the close of business on September 5.
I'll now turn it over to Kevin to provide additional insights on our results.
Thanks Wes.
Let me start by adding some color to our sales results.
As Wes mentioned comparable store sales decreased 2.7% in the quarter.
From the line of business perspective Men's was slightly positive for the quarter on strength in casual sportswear and pants and tailored and dress clothing.
Footwear and Accessories outperformed the company average.
Within those categories athletic shoes reported a positive comp as we've anniversary-ed prior year declines in the toning category.
Women's shoes also outperformed the company average.
In Accessories both sterling silver jewelry and bath and beauty reported comps of approximately 10%.
Handbags and small other Accessories were also positive for the quarter continuing their recent favorable trend.
Women's Home and Children's each reported mid-single-digit declines.
In Women's updated sportswear was the strongest category with a low double-digit increase.
Intimate and sleepwear also outperformed the company.
And as we expected the Junior business continued to be challenging.
Better performance in Home included bedding and sheets bath and towels and other domestics.
Children's apparel improved throughout the quarter as back-to-school inventory arrived in the stores and inventory levels normalized.
Active and fitness apparel which span multiple lines of business consistently outperformed other areas of the company with a low single-digit comp for the quarter.
Key contributors were NIKE and adidas as well as our own proprietary FILA SPORT and Tech Gear brands.
From a regional perspective all regions were negative with no significant variation between the regions.
E-Commerce sales increased 39% over the second quarter of 2011 to $237 million.
Year-to-date E-Commerce sales were $488 million.
The effect on the comp for the quarter and year was approximately 170 basis points.
From a brand perspective 55% of our second quarter sales were private and exclusive only at Kohl's brands an increase of approximately 200 basis points over the second quarter last year.
Substantially all the penetration increase was the result of our new exclusive brands: Jennifer Lopez Marc Anthony and Rock and Republic.
We saw notable sales improvements in many of our entry level price point brands in July as inventory levels normalized.
Our private brands reported a combined comp increase of 3% in July more similar to our first quarter results in these brands after reporting declines earlier in the quarter.
Our exclusive brands comped up low double digits for the quarter.
Strong performers included Lauren Conrad FILA SPORT Food Network and Simply Vera Vera Wang.
During the quarter we launched the Princess Vera Wang line.
This new Junior line was designed with Vera Wang and features apparel jewelry handbags and shoes that range in price from $16 to $98.
And finally in June we announced a partnership with Narciso Rodriguez who will be the first designer for our new limited edition collection concept called DesigNation.
This collection will feature fashions based on international inspiration from different premier designers across the world.
The collection will feature Missy apparel including outerwear dresses skirts pants and shirts.
The retail prices will range from $30 to $150 and be available beginning in early November.
On the gross margin front as Wes mentioned our gross margin rate for the quarter was approximately 160 basis points lower than the second quarter of 2011.
Though we're certainly never happy with gross margin declines we're pleased that the decline was lower than both our second quarter guidance and the first quarter decline.
We entered the fall season with an improved understanding of how our customer responds to our pricing fresh inventory and normalized inventory levels.
We are also seeing mid-single-digit apparel cost decreases for the fall season.
Our expectation by the end of the year is that unit and cost increases per store will be similar as we gain benefit from the lower cost fall receipts.
On the SG&amp;A line our teams once again outperformed our expectations.
Our credit operations contributed the most significant SG&amp;A leverage.
Portfolio growth and improved performance are now the key drivers however as we annualized our new relationship with Capital One in April.
Our stores organization continues to drive payroll efficiencies and reductions in the number of remodels also generated cost savings.
We also reported leverage in our corporate operations.
As expected marketing costs did not leverage as we spent incremental dollars to support brand launches including this quarter's Princess Vera Wang launch and to reemphasize the many great ways to save at Kohl's.
Distribution centers also did not leverage as we continue to develop the infrastructure for our growing E-Commerce business.
In February we laid out 4 priorities for fiscal 2012.
We've had 6 months to focus on these priorities and would like to take this opportunity to update you on our status.
Our first and most important priority was to reposition our business to allow us to improve our sales trend as we transitioned into the fall and in the holiday period.
In order to do so we identified the need to act on several fronts: stronger pricing improved inventory levels in in-stock and an improvement in the style and the quality of our merchandise content.
We have made progress in all 3 opportunities.
On the pricing front we lowered our merchandise margin plans to allow our merchants to take a more leadership position and price points in all of our key businesses.
This is especially important for us in order to expand the appeal of Kohl's value to a broader customer base.
Our customers have responded favorably to the lower prices particularly in opening price points.
On the inventory front our inventories are now where we believe they need to be in most categories.
And as that happened in the last 4 to 6 weeks our business has improved.
As Wes mentioned a few minutes ago inventory units per store are approximately 6% higher than last year and generally consistent with the second quarter 2010 levels.
The style and timeliness of our merchandise content has also improved.
We've made significant changes to our merchandise organization and continue to do so to support that effort.
We do believe we are now well positioned both in terms of units and fashion content with significant depth in key items especially in key back-to-school areas.
Though we're encouraged by recent sales results we acknowledge the challenges that are still in front of us as we enter the back-to-school season and prepare for the critical holiday season.
We recognize the gaining sales momentum as a gradual process and remain very determined and focused on meeting this goal.
Our second priority going into fiscal 2012 was to drive leverage around SG&amp;A.
As I mentioned just a moment ago our teams again delivered solid expense results in the second quarter.
Our operational process changes and technology-driven productivity changes are generating sustainable expense savings.
But we will not become complacent.
We will actively pursue opportunities to generate additional savings in the future to allow us to operate most efficiently and pass the greatest value onto our customer.
Increasing our online success was our third priority.
Year-to-date E-Commerce sales have increased 41% in line with the 40% goal that we laid out at the beginning of the year.
We’ve continued to invest around all the aspects of this business including technology improvements more efficient fulfillment capabilities and a larger and more experienced organization.
And our final priority was to reallocate our capital expense spending within our overall capital allocation plans.
We have significantly reduced our new store openings and remodel program but we have significantly increased our technology investments.
These technology investments support not only our online business but also provide ongoing operational efficiencies in our stores and our corporate location.
And beyond these capital expense plans our remaining capital allocation strategies remain intact around our share buyback and dividend strategy.
I'm generally pleased with our progress to date and the disciplined focus of our Kohl's associates.
Clearly we have additional work to do.
And as confident as I am that we'll remain focused and obtain each of our goals we also know it's important to remain realistic in our expectations for the fall season.
With that I'll turn it back to Wes to provide our third quarter earnings guidance.
Thanks Kevin.
Our third quarter earnings guidance is as follows: total sales increase of 1% to 3%; comparable sales increase of flat to 2%; we expect August and October to be at the high end of the range and September to be at the low end of the range; we're forecasting a gross margin rate decline of 60 to 80 basis points; we would expect our SG&amp;A expenses to fall in a range of up 1% to down 1%; depreciation expense of $216 million; interest expense of $82 million; tax rate of 38%; share count average for the quarter of 234 million diluted shares; and then 236 million shares for the year.
This assumes $300 million in share repurchases in the third quarter at an average price of $50 per share.
Including these estimated share repurchases we expect earnings per diluted share of $0.83 to $0.89 for the third quarter.
Reflecting our current results in our third quarter projections our fiscal 2012 guidance has been updated to $4.50 to $4.65 per diluted share from our original guidance of $4.75 per diluted share.
And with that we'll be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> It sounds like you have the units in place to drive possibly some upside to the comp in the back half.
So I was just curious as to how you're planning for the full fall and holiday season and then what you're expecting in terms of pricing and costing.
Well I think generally we're thinking that the fourth quarter will be stronger than the third quarter.
That's kind of built into our assumptions.
And the baseline for that is our comps last year historically were pretty strong in the third quarter and pretty weak in the fourth quarter.
That's probably the main driver.
In addition we think we have strategies in place to particularly drive the fourth quarter business.
We have been experiencing pretty consistent cost decreases on product and that's also built into our assumptions from a pricing perspective and from a merchandise margin perspective and that's a pretty big change from the trend in the spring season.
And as you said from a unit perspective for the first time we have units that are more similar per store to our 2-year-ago level of unit inventory.
So I think all those things are the reason we feel like we're positioned to start to get a little better business trend.
Yes I mean our goal going into the fall was to get our inventory unit levels back to where we were in the fall of 2010.
Last year as it's been well-documented and we've said many times we cut units back too far.
And so I think looking at it as we were back in 2010 is a better indicator of how we're positioning our inventory.
And I would expect our cost to be either at or lower than our unit growth by the end of the season.
Research Division</strong> And then what was the reason for the better-than-expected gross margin performance in the second quarter? Just got improvement in the July sales.
Our revised guidance after June sales was predicated on a flat comp for July.
We did a little bit better than that and the merchants were able to deliver a little better than they thought and that's hopefully a good pattern that we can continue to see throughout the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Maschmeyer with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> On the Juniors side I've noticed you've got some more colored skinny denim in there.
Could you talk about the impact that the new GMM has had so far kind of the changes that she has been making and then just update us on your merchant search overall? Sure.
Colored denim certainly has been a focus.
The new merchant leadership in Juniors identified that early on as something that we wanted to take a strong position in.
And I think in both Juniors and in Big Girls we're experiencing really positive results.
And in both cases we have pretty significantly strong inventories.
We've also changed the merchandise presentation in our stores in both those cases to try to emphasize that to a greater degree.
Other changes in the merchandise organization continue to occur.
We're not finished as I mentioned on the call.
We're looking to continue to strengthen it continue to add quality and talent.
We've made a lot of progress already and we filled a significant number of new positions in the company that helped to drive the change in our content but we're not completely done Erika.
I would say we probably won't be completely done until later in the fall season.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I know you don't have a crystal ball but based on what you've seen so far could you talk about your expectations for the holiday environment the consumer competition what you’re seeing in terms of inventory plans for your competition? Well I think from our perspective we feel like we're a little bit unique since our fourth quarter last year we struggled a lot especially in November.
I think as I read your guys' questions that you're sending me via e-mail I think one of the things we're being more conservative on for the back half than we originally thought in February is our gross margin expectations.
I think -- we think it's going to be -- every Christmas is competitive and this will be no different.
But our expectation I think going into fourth quarter given we were down in margin last year we might have more opportunity to make that up this year and we've taken a more conservative position in our early plans for the fourth quarter on gross margin.
So that's kind of my best shot at the crystal ball.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Drbul with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> This is Jessica Schoen on for Bob.
I was wondering if you could update us on the sales productivity test.
You had mentioned an expanded Home selection and I see specific markets.
I think it's still early.
We have kind of talked to you guys about really talking about it in January.
Main reason is Home is a big part of the business in the fourth quarter so our expectation would be that's when we're going to get our biggest lift.
I think we made a lot of progress.
We've learned some things about what's working and what's not.
If we choose to roll it out I think one of the things we're going to do differently -- just for ease of use we went after space and kids and shoes because they were the areas adjacent to Home made it quick and easy and my favorite thing it was cheap to do.
But if we do it going forward as part of our remodel program we'll end up taking a little bit of space from everybody and that wouldn’t provide as big a drop in sales in some of the areas that we're seeing.
But too early to really share a lot of specifics.
We'll talk about it in February at the end of the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just a follow-up on understanding the gross margin differential from your guidance.
It sounds like more leverage.
Is there -- has there been any difference in merchandise margin though? And as you think to the back half and the reversal of the input costs how your -- what your expectations are there? Well our gross margins are merchandise margins.
We don't have buying occupancy in there.
So I mean to be totally honest I gave myself a lot of room.
We were surprised in the first quarter from our margin.
We don't usually miss our margin guidance and we kind of pride ourselves in being accurate on that so I wanted to make sure we had plenty of room to make it if sales didn’t come out the way we thought.
It came out of a little bit better and so we did a little bit better.
We're still looking for relative improvement going into the third quarter.
We were down 160 basis points in the second.
We're saying we're going to be down 60 to 80 in the third.
So that's improving and that's really a function of getting that lower cost in there.
We are providing ourselves a little room in terms of reacting to competition should the fourth quarter be more competitive than we anticipated.
Your next question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about how your credit card penetration came in for the quarter and how your non-credit card customers are shopping you versus your credit card customers? Well I think our credit card customer has been the one that's been most consistent with us as we've struggled to get our units back to where we want to be.
I guess though the thing I'm excited about is our non-credit card customer in July improved quite a bit.
We've talked about the formula for us to run at 2 to 4 comp as the credit card customer kind of mid to high single-digit positive and the non-credit card customer negative low single-digits to flat.
That's pretty much how July worked out.
We're hoping we can continue that trend going into the fall.
From a marketing perspective we put a lot more emphasis on broader-reaching vehicles for fall specifically in digital as well as broadcast in terms of penetration of rating points.
Last year we added a lot of TV late in the game and paid a premium for it.
This year we plan to invest a lot more in broadcast so we got more rating points for basically the same dollars.
And those few things we think will continue help our non-credit card penetration.
But obviously the key for fall we have to improve our transactions per store.
We feel like we've got the units in the right place now and now we have to drive the traffic in especially on the non-credit side to drive the kind of comps we believe we can achieve.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the SG&amp;A in the second quarter -- in your guidance was [indiscernible] flat up 1.5%.
You obviously significantly did better than that.
What would you say were the key drivers there? I'd say the -- we'd mention credit on an absolute basis that's certainly the case.
That's the case every quarter.
On a relative basis versus last year that really helped us a little bit an $8 million benefit.
We did a great job with store payroll.
We actually got just as much leverage out of store payroll on a significantly lower comp than expected so the team did a great job there.
Also we got some favorability in terms of controllable expenses with fewer remodels.
We didn't have as much write-offs and then also managed things like electricity and repair and maintenance fairly well.
And then on corporate expenses we're accruing to a lower level bonus at this point and that provided some leverage as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question how are remodeled stores performing? I'm sorry Debbie.
I didn't get the question.
Research Division</strong> How are remodeled stores performing? Similar to how they have been.
Continue to experience low single-digit lifts and it’s one big reason we're running the sales for a productivity test with an increased presence in Home.
We're not displeased with the remodels but it’s basically acted the same as it has for the last 4 or 5 years.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Binder with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> It's Dan Binder.
I've got a couple of questions.
First outside of the Juniors area where would you say the biggest content change is for the back half? Then secondly you cited traffic the challenges there and now that you’ve got the units do you plan on increasing your marketing spend year-over-year for the back half? On the content side I think the biggest probably change from the last 3 quarters is not unique to one particular area Dan.
It's the improvements in the depth and the level of our private brand ownership and that's been a significant headwind for us.
It was particularly noticeable in the second quarter.
And so I think that's not around one unique area.
It's sort of across the store.
Disproportionately I would say areas like Women's apparel Men's casual sportswear and of course Kids see that because the penetration of those private brands in those areas is so high and such a large part of the business.
So it's probably not unique to one area but it is really important change.
From a marketing perspective we've -- Wes kind of mentioned that we've assumed that we're going to have to continue to spend and invest in marketing.
One thing which was a real headwind for us last year was that much of the marketing investment we made later in the fall and holiday was reactive and it was chasing business because our sales didn't materialize.
So as we went into this fall and holiday we've been in a better position to preplan those expenditures.
Wes mentioned one particular area which has gotten significantly increased marketing investment and that's the digital area.
And that's across a wide spectrum but it's really important and it's definitely getting us really good results.
So I think the biggest change in the marketing side is really a plan that we feel more confident about based on the experience we've had in the last 2 or 3 quarters.
Your next question comes from the line of Adrianne Shapira with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Kevin just wanted to understand as you outlined the 4 priorities for the year it sounds like you're making progress on all fronts.
I just wanted to be clear: The lower guidance for the year is a function of what? I mean what has changed in those 4 priorities to prompt you to lower guidance? I think the biggest change from our expectation in February is our gross margin expectations for the back half.
I think we've always planned from a sales perspective fourth quarter to be better than third quarter.
Ideally if we would have had a little bit of better second quarter we’d probably have been a little more aggressive in terms of our comp expectations for third quarter but flat 2% is a big improvement of down 2.7%.
So we're thinking it's going to improve.
It's going to take a while to get the traffic back as people realize we're much better in stock and we'll continue to focus a little bit more intently on the non-credit card customer.
But margin is the biggest change from where we were thinking in February.
I mean this is Kevin Adrianne.
Wes is definitely right on the numbers.
I think as we looked at what happened in our business we recognized that particularly around our opening price point but also throughout the store one of the biggest challenges we have is to appeal and make Kohl's value be more apparent to a much larger customer base.
And we've been so successful with our loyal customer base and bringing in a certain number of less loyal customers to that really high user base or credit card base.
But we have to appeal to more.
And I think one of the ways we know that we have to do that is just to offer a better value equation and that means in some cases lower pricing.
And as we've increased the amount of our private brand inventory to prep ourselves to get better sales that has implications as well.
So the change is definitely on the margin line but I think underneath that it's really about strategically saying how do we reach more customers and be appealing to more customers.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful Kevin.
And is that a function of changes that you're seeing on the competitive front? Is it just getting that much more aggressive out there? Or is it a function of what you saw in the first half to your point that the customer’s just looking for greater value than perhaps you've offered or like -- the messaging hasn't been as clear to the customer? Or is it more a response to the competition? No it's not a response to the competition.
I think it's more a function of what we've seen happen in our business over the last 3 to 4 quarters and just recognizing that where we've provided more clarity around our value and some areas are more important than others we're talking a lot about opening price point but that's a good example we get much better response.
And we know if we get better response we're clearly going to be more appealing to more customers and that's really probably the key part of our improved top line sales.
So it's really not about a competitive issue.
It's really more about looking at our own metrics and our own customer reaction.
Some of it is a little bit mix related.
I mean Kids obviously suffered last year a lot given our drops in units.
We think that they're going to be well positioned to have a good fall season and certainly a good fourth quarter.
And that slightly lower margin business for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Kevin you've talked about newness freshness and maybe give us an update on brand introductions what you're seeing perhaps not so much in the back half but 2013.
And then how does that split with -- again as you've historically looked to kind of move into perhaps better and best given the customer seems a lot more focused on the opening price point is that where you're looking to add to the assortment? How should we be thinking about new brand introductions? And where should they be coming? Well new brand introductions are continuing to be important in our thinking.
We have a lot that's new this year obviously.
We have yet to annualize either Jennifer Lopez or Marc Anthony.
We introduced Rock and Republic.
We just introduced the Junior brand Princess Vera Wang and we're introducing the first of what we hope to be very many DesigNation designers with Narciso Rodriguez.
So newness is very important.
I think you're making a good point which is that while we've focused a lot of our newness around better and best and maybe even particularly best because we were under-penetrated there we do recognize the fact that the customer is pressured.
And so it's very very important to be powerful in good which is mostly our private brands and better which is a combination of some of our private brands and some of our national brands.
So without talking about it specifically we definitely recognize that fact.
So as we look forward to next year and beyond there's a lot more focus around those kinds of price points as an important element to drive our business.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Grom with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Sales in national brands have lagged obviously the impressive numbers in exclusive and better numbers in private.
I'm just wondering why you think the national categories lagged so much.
And what steps are you taking to improve the category? And to Adrianne's question are there any new brands that you may be targeting on a national brand front? Well national brands definitely lagged the total company.
To be honest about it national brands and our opening price point brands ran pretty close to the same negative comp.
And it was just the double-digit increase in exclusive brands that lifted the comps.
So they didn't -- I wouldn't say national brands performed uniquely differently than our opening price point private brands.
Clearly there are some really important national brands that are critical to our success.
And we had some great success even in the second quarter with some of those.
We called out active sportswear as a key one.
Both NIKE and adidas were very strong and I guess that makes us I think a little optimistic about back-to-school opportunity with both of those brands as well.
Denim business is really important so while we've introduced a lot of proprietary brands in denim contemporary brands like Rock and Republic and new denim offerings with other existing proprietary brands the Levi's business is really critical and so we've put a lot of effort behind that brand as well.
We're continuing to focus on brands.
So I wouldn't want to give you any impression that all of our attention is around our own exclusive brands as we move into 2013 and 2014.
It's really important for us to have a strong position with these national brands and we’re continuing to look for new opportunities as well.
I think one of the things that you guys sometimes get too caught up in is a lot of the space we created when we introduced new exclusive brands come from what I would call tertiary national brands that really have lost their relevance with the customers.
So if you look at our top 50 brands they tend to comp much better than the brands that I would classify in the other bucket because a lot of those brands have lost space or actually don't even exist in our store any longer.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then I know it's just a couple of weeks in but we did have pass-through this past week and this morning.
Given the expectations for August to be at the high-end how the past couple of weeks have been? Well first of all it's like way too early to be talking about August sales.
We -- of course you know we don't talk about sales in the month anyway.
My sense is that based on all the research we've seen Chuck both the secondary research but also our own proprietary research that back-to-school will continue to be very late and it'll come late in the season and it has been more and more bridging August and September.
When we give these indicators on how we think the business is going to come that's kind of all they are.
I would say we're not very good at that.
We're primarily giving you those based on our last year sales so we look at it and say we had a very cold September and sales in September were particularly good so that probably is going to be the weakest month...
Then we launched J.
Lo and Marc Anthony with $20 million behind it.
Yes.
And by default that makes August and October a little weaker.
So there's no great science behind that to be totally honest with you.
I mean we're optimistic.
We're sounding optimistic probably because our later June sales and our July sales were better than the sales we had all year.
And our inventory levels are up and they're not out of line because they're basically at the same level that we were at 2 years ago so there's really no big difference.
But we're better in stock and that's particularly selling these back-to-school areas.
So we're optimistic but I also think we're fundamentally recognized.
Weather is an important factor and the lateness of back-to-school is an important factor and you're not going really know how that all works out till you get to August and September combined.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's fair enough.
And then for Wes just on the leverage front.
How willing are you to leverage up the balance here? Your adjusted EBITDA looks like it'll be on target for a little bit under 2 at the end of the year.
I'm just wondering what your thresholds are.
I mean I think it's something we're going to take a look at.
It's certainly a favorable market.
If we were to do anything it would be in this quarter.
We wouldn't want to do anything in the fourth quarter.
I'm not looking to lever up dramatically but I think there is some room to do some modest leverage on a consistent basis.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Swinand with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to keep on the SG&amp;A and gross margin and talk about the sustainability there.
I'm thinking about -- on the SG&amp;A line is some of the leverage in the store coming from the technology investments you've made there? And is the cycle of that -- where are you in the cycle of this the investment versus reaping the benefits? And I guess in the same scenario you’re talking about technology spend for online and where are you in the cycle versus reaping the benefits? Well I think on the store side of things we're about halfway through our eSign rollout which has been a pretty big benefit in terms of reducing the payroll required for setting our ads.
We expect to be through the balance of chains by the end of the fourth quarter.
So I would say we get some benefit next year and then we'll have anniversary-ed it all really when we get into 2014.
Regarding...
Research Division</strong> Is there an additional driver because you mentioned in-store payroll is driving the SG&amp;A? Is that the 90% of it or is it half? We don't try to get to that kind of level of detail.
I would say it's a part of it certainly in the stores that have it.
We've done a much better job of operating our stores in the mild and hot markets to improve sales productivity as we've right-sized the inventory levels in those stores and we're not actually having to take as many markdowns.
We're seeing a lot less drop in the gross margin in for example in California than the rest of the chains as we've gotten inventory levels appropriately sized.
It's really just the guys are doing a great job managing the business.
I mean the other thing is Paul that some technology investment while it isn't specifically targeted to the store environment it indirectly impacts the store expense structure a lot.
And the most -- the best example I can give you on that is we have not done a great job from a balances inventory perspective across the store portfolio.
As Wes just mentioned mild and hot stores have not generated the same level of merchandise margin because we carry too high an inventory for the sales they do and our sizing optimization program has not worked as efficiently as we'd like to see.
Our assortment planning strategies which are a lot about tailoring merchandise assortments more effectively have not been as successful as we'd like to see.
Those things all impact the most important thing which is inventory level and that's a key component of what stores spend payroll on which is handling and dealing with merchandise inventory.
The other thing that's not technology-related and only indirectly is as we've gone through our remodel process we've quickly come to the realization that the move of customer service to the front of the store is a really efficient move from a payroll productivity standpoint.
So it's not all about technology and it's not all about technology that you would naturally automatically think about as in the store.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Some interesting stuff there.
And then real quick on the gross margin.
I know you guys have been particularly good at offering special discounts Friends and Family Kohl's Cash various rolling or multi discounts.
Has that been increasing penetration? And is that in fact impacting the gross margin? And if so do you still see that as a positive? Or is it something you need to start to dial back at some point? Well the -- what you would term special promotions which we would call our monthly credit most loyal customer promotion and our pick-a-day promotions which run at various times through the course of the rest of the year the number of those the frequency of those I think is static year-over-year.
I don't think there's basically any change.
We tweak the percentage savings that we offer those customers across the country along the store lines based on regional needs that we see or across the year based on particular months of the year.
I don't really have the answer on that percent as it changed but it's not a meaningful part of why our margin has eroded.
Our margin plans were lowered because we made a very strong commitment to better pricing.
That's really why our margin plans are down.
Research Division</strong> And pricing you mean initial pricing to start with? Across the board.
I mean initial pricing in the spring season is very different than initial pricing in the fall season because the cost acquisition that we have is very very different.
We've gone from an environment where in spring 2012 we were paying much higher prices than spring 2011 to an environment in fall deliveries in June and July for fall selling where we were paying much lower prices than fall 2011.
So I'm talking about net merchandise margin.
Research Division</strong> Understood understood.
So by the end of 4Q do you feel like the units and the dollar inventories will start to be even? That's what we said.
Paul I'm cutting you off because we've got to get to some other guys in the queue.
Your next question comes from the line of Liz Dunn with Macquarie.
I have a question on E-Commerce.
We spoke about it a little bit during the quarter but just in terms of the profitability do you think that longer-term you could achieve the sort of profitability in your E-Commerce business that you achieve in the stores? And also as a related question how much of a drag on the stores business are E-Commerce returns? Well the last question is probably the easier one to answer.
We think obviously 95% of the E-Commerce returns happen at the store.
There's also a lot of activity with buying something when they return something because usually it's an issue with size or fit or something like that so we don't think that penalizes the store at all.
That's our point of view on that.
In terms of longer-term I think E-Commerce operating margin will probably remain slightly below the store.
We have a lot of investment planned over the next 3 years for E-Commerce.
We're going to re-platform in the spring of next year.
That requires a lot of capital.
Home is always going to be I think a little bit bigger part of the online business.
But from a return on investment perspective my expectations will be in a couple of years to be significantly better than brick-and-mortar stores even with the lower operating margin given the fact that our investment will start to tail off.
We’re -- we built 4 EFCs.
I don't have any plans to add another EFC in the next 3 years so that's a lot of growth we can accomplish with very little fixed cost investment.
I think also this is Kevin we -- Wes probably has a better handle and is more confident on the comment on return to invested capital because we have a pretty good understanding of that as it relates to our online business.
On the operating income line to be honest we've doubled the size of our E-Commerce business in 2 years literally doubled it.
So I think to some extent we're using our best thinking and it may be conservative and it may not be.
We just don't know.
I think Wes is giving you his best look into the future which is it'll probably continue to run a little lower on the operating margin line but be better on the return on investment line.
But -- so Kevin are you saying that that could be -- that could prove conservative? No I have no idea.
I mean the truth is literally the growth in that business has been so staggering and so fast that we're just learning.
And it's changed.
I mean who knows what's going to happen with free shipping 3 years out? Your next question comes from the line of Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the strategies behind improvement -- improving the Women's business the Home business and the Kids business.
Wes I think you said that Kids had really suffered because of a lack of units in that business.
Sounds like it's improving now that you've got a better in-stock position.
Is there anything else in Kids that you think is required there to accelerate that business? And just the strategies in the other categories? Sure.
I mean I think one -- certainly the key thing in Kids we're focused on is making sure that that area has sufficient depth of inventory to support its very high level of opening price point penetration and I think we feel like we are there on that front.
In some areas like Girls we've made a lot of merchandise changes as well.
The merchandise leadership that runs our Junior business also runs our Girls business now.
That's new.
And some -- so some of the influences from Juniors drift down into Girls and we think that's going to be a good thing.
On the Home side to be honest with you the results in Home over the course of a period of years and Wes can correct me on this if I'm wrong but I think it's been actually pretty good and Home has outperformed the company consistently.
The weakness in Home has been very recent.
And so we're focused on that improving that.
One area that we're really targeting is our Home décor business because that's been a drag.
And then in the Women's business there have been a lot of changes from an organizational perspective and a lot of changes from a content perspective.
If you think about the last essentially 9 months 2 of the biggest brands that we've had in Women's have been introduced: Jennifer Lopez and Rock and Republic both on -- one on each side of the floor.
And so there's been a tremendous amount of change there as well.
We just have to -- we know we have to continue to work on content in Women’s.
And your last question comes from the line of Michael Binetti with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I think there's been a lot of questions on the details in the quarter.
Maybe just a longer-term question.
As you guys think longer term about some of the structural changes going on in the industry you guys always done a good job with customers like -- groups like moms in particular and some of your competitors have talked about focusing on psychology of younger customers and the next generation.
Seems like younger moms are bigger online shoppers those kinds of things.
How are you guys looking ahead at the next-generation shoppers and how you may need to change your go-to-market strategy? Well we can -- I mean I think we obviously know we can always do better on that issue.
We have frankly I think probably a younger demographic.
Young moms generally are a larger part of our business than many of our competitors’ and that's -- you can see in our sales the penetration of our business that is Children's and penetration of our business that is Juniors is significantly higher than all of our department store competition.
So I think that clearly says to you they have a lot of young moms in the store.
It's a really important part of the business model and we're not going to give that up at all.
So we're focused a lot on improving that.
You can tell just from the merchandise organization changes we're making that certain pieces of those business are getting a lot more attention.
Juniors is a really good example of that.
From a customer preference do I want to go to the store versus do I want to go online more people across the age spectrum are going online.
Certainly younger families are more apt to be higher online shoppers at Kohl's.
But I think we're doing a pretty good job of that.
As I said we've doubled our business online in the last 2 years so I think that's pretty significant.
We're still behind so we know we've got a lot longer pathway ahead of us.
But I think we're making the right decisions in terms of where the investments go so that they follow what the customer preference has shown to be.
Research Division</strong> Let me ask you one last longer-term question on the topic.
So it sounds like -- it seems like if we roll off these cyclical input cost structures that were largely caused by spikes in things like cotton last year we're probably less in a scenario where the decade-long benefits of deflation for manufacturing in Asia are over with.
You guys made a big business out of delivering better value every year for your customer.
And as these long-term inflationary trends in sourcing seem like they're poised to change will that change the way you guys approach your value strategy with the consumer at all? No.
I mean our values are really an important part of why customers choose Kohl's.
And all you got to do is look at the last 6 to 9 months to recognize that when our value got a little out of whack our sales got a little lot of whack at the same time.
So values are really really an important element.
And as prices have moved back to more historical levels I think that's in our favor but it's more important about just making sure that we have the right mix of goods across our price spectrum enough opening price points to appeal to a customer that is value-conscious and delivering that message to a broader audience and that's why we’re spending a lot of time talking about how we communicate in our marketing to a broader audience rather than a more narrow credit card audience.
Thank you.
Thanks everybody.
This will conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Marley and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Kohl's Quarter 3 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made on this call including projected financial results are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Kohl's intends forward-looking terminology such as believes expects may will should anticipates plans or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause Kohl's actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those that are described in Item 1A in Kohl's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and as may be supplemented from time to time in Kohl's other filings with the SEC all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
Also please note that replays of this recording will not be updated.
So if you're listening after November 8 it is possible that the information discussed is no longer current.
I would now like to turn the call over to your host Wes McDonald Senior Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer.
Sir you may begin your conference.
Thank you.
With me today is Kevin Mansell our Chairman CEO and President.
I'm going to go over our financial results and Kevin will talk about some more specifics regarding merchandising marketing stores.
And then I'll follow-up with our guidance.
Kohl's sales for the quarter increased 2.6% to $4.5 billion.
Comp store sales increased 1.1%.
The comp increase reflects a 0.6% increase in average unit retail a 1% increase in units per transaction resulting in a 1.6% increase in average transaction value and a 0.5% decrease in number of transactions per store.
Year-to-date sales increased 1.2% to $12.9 billion and comparable store sales decreased 0.5%.
The year-to-date comp decrease reflects a 3.9% increase in average unit retail offset partially by a 2.2% decrease in units per transaction which resulted in average transaction value of a positive 1.7%.
Transactions per store for the year are down 2.2%.
E-Commerce sales increased 50% over the third quarter 2011 to $295 million.
Year-to-date E-Commerce sales have been $782 million 41% higher than the first 9 months of 2011.
The effect on our comp was 230 basis points for the quarter and 190 basis points year-to-date.
Kohl's charge sales penetration increased 70 basis points to 58% of total sales for the quarter and our year-to-date credit share is 57% an increase of 165 basis points over the first 9 months of the year.
Kevin will provide more color on our sales in a few minutes.
Our gross margin rate for the quarter was 38 1 -- 38.1% 44 basis points lower than the third quarter of last year but considerably better than our expectations of a 60 to 80 basis points decline.
SG&amp;A dollars increased 0.6% for the quarter consistent with our expectations of down 1% to up 1%.
SG&amp;A as a percent of sales leveraged approximately 50 basis points for the quarter and 40 basis points year-to-date.
Kevin will provide some more color on expense management as well in a few minutes.
Depreciation expense was $210 million in third quarter this year and $202 million in the third quarter of last year.
The increase is primarily due to IT projects.
As a percentage of sales depreciation was 4.7% for the quarter 5 basis points higher than last year.
Year-to-date depreciation increased 6% primarily due to new and remodeled stores and IT projects.
Net interest expense was $80 million this quarter and $243 million year-to-date.
The $5 million increase over the third quarter of 2011 and a $20 million increase over the first 9 months of 2011 are primarily due to the $650 million of long-term debt issued in October of last year.
Our income tax rate was 37.8% for the quarter slightly below our expectations of 38%.
Diluted earnings per share increased 14% to $0.91 for the quarter.
Net income was $215 million for the current-year quarter and $609 million year-to-date.
Year-to-date diluted earnings per share was $2.54 this year and $2.56 last year.
Moving on to square footage.
We currently have 1 146 stores with gross square footage of 99.58 million square feet and selling footage of 83.09.
Square footage is approximately 1% higher than last year at this time.
We ended the quarter with $550 million in cash and cash equivalents.
Capital expenditures were $641 million for the first 9 months of 2012 $114 million lower than the first 9 months of last year.
The change reflects multiple changes in our capital expenditures including fewer remodels and fall new stores partially offset by higher IT spending.
As a reminder we opened 12 new stores this fall compared to 31 last fall.
And capital expenditures are projected to be $800 million for 2012 $25 million less than our previous guidance.
Our October inventory balance was $4.8 billion a 17% increase over October of last year and AP as a percent of inventory was generally consistent with last year at 50.5%.
Weighted average diluted shares were 235 million for the quarter and 240 million year-to-date.
Earlier this week our board approved a quarterly dividend of $0.32 per share.
The dividend is payable December 26 to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 5.
I'll now turn it over to Kevin who'll provide additional insights in our results.
Thanks Wes.
Let me start by adding some color to our sales results.
As Wes mentioned comparable store sales increased 1.1% for the quarter.
Footwear was the strongest category of the strength in athletic shoes.
Men also outperformed the company average for the quarter with notable performance including casual sportswear pants basics and active.
Children's reported a low single-digit increase on notable strength in toys.
Home is positive but below the company average.
Better performance included bedding electrics and bath.
Women's was essentially flat for the quarter.
Active was the strongest category with a double-digit increase.
Updated and contemporary sportswear classic sportswear and intimates also outperformed the company.
As we expected the juniors business continued to be challenging.
Sterling silver jewelry was the strongest category in accessories.
Handbags and small leather accessories and bath and beauty also outperformed the company.
From a regional perspective the South Central was the strongest region.
All regions ran from slightly positive slightly negative.
From a brand perspective 53% of our third quarter sales were private and exclusive Only-at-Kohl's Brands an increase of approximately 150 basis points over the third quarter of 2011.
This increase was the result of our new exclusive brands Jennifer Lopez Marc Anthony Rock and Republic and Princess Vera Wang as well as strong sales in Chaps LC Lauren Conrad and FILA SPORT.
On Wednesday of this week we launched the first of our DesigNation collections.
This limited edition collection was designed by Narciso Rodriguez and was inspired by his recent travels to Istanbul.
On the gross margin front as Wes indicated our gross margin rate for the quarter was approximately 40 basis points lower than the third quarter of 2011.
We enter the holiday season with an improved understanding of how our customer responds to our pricing fresh inventory and normalized inventory levels.
Total inventory units per brick-and-mortar store are up approximately 14% over October 2011 and 3% over October 2010 meeting one of our goals in getting inventory units in the stores back to those levels.
The vast majority of these increases are due to our gift and great value programs as well as in the areas that are performing well.
Our expectation by the end of the year is that unit and cost increases per store will continue to converge as we gain benefit from the lower-cost fall receipts.
We will be bringing in significant amounts of transitional goods in December and early January to be better prepared for spring selling.
Our expectations would be that inventory per store on a dollar and a unit basis would be up low double digits per store at the end of the fourth quarter.
On the SG&amp;A line we performed as expected.
Our store organization continues to drive payroll efficiencies.
Our fixed costs generally were flat as a percent of sales.
We also reported significant leverage in our corporate operations primarily due to lower incentive costs.
Marketing costs did leverage in the third quarter despite spending to support brand launches including this quarter's Princess Vera Wang launch and to reemphasize the many great ways to save at Kohl's.
We would expect marketing to leverage in the fourth quarter as well.
Our credit operations slightly deleveraged to last year.
Our performance will be predicated on the future on our portfolio growth and managing the customer servicing and marketing functions more efficiently.
I would expect our profitability to grow in the fourth quarter versus last year but perhaps not as fast as sales.
Distribution centers also did not leverage as we continue to develop the infrastructure for our growing E-Commerce business.
We opened 12 new stores this quarter bringing our current store count to 1 146.
All but one of these 12 new stores are small stores with less than 64 000 square feet of retail space.
We expect to open 12 stores in 2013 9 in the spring and 3 in the fall.
Consistent with this year's new stores we expect all but one of the 2013 stores to be less than 64 000 square feet.
Year-to-date we remodeled 50 stores.
We expect to remodel 30 stores next year.
Most of these remodels will occur in the fall season.
As you know we've temporarily reduced our remodel program until we have final results from tests we are doing in our home accessory and beauty areas.
We will make changes to our remodels based on the results of these tests and expect to accelerate our remodel program back to a more normalized run rate of approximately 100 stores per year beginning in 2014.
Last week we announced our integrated marketing campaign emphasizing gifts to dream of at unprecedented values this holiday season.
Our fourth quarter marketing will emphasize the unbeatable savings opportunities that Kohl's offers.
This year shoppers will have extra days to both earn and redeem Kohl's Cash.
In addition every day between Black Friday and Christmas Eve Kohl's will pick up the tab for one randomly selected shopper in every store and Kohls.com as part of our Dream Receipt promotion.
We will also once again open nationwide at 12 a.m.
on Friday November 23.
Stores will be open for 24 straight hours from 12 a.m.
until midnight on that day.
From a media mix perspective we intend to significantly increase our digital marketing and broadcast spending in the fourth quarter.
In closing our improved third quarter sales results are hopefully a harbinger of good things to come.
As we enter the critical holiday season we believe we're in a great position.
On the merchandising front we have several brands which are new to the holiday season: Princess Vera Wang Rock and Republic and Narciso Rodriguez.
And we've reenergized several of our existing brands Chaps LC Lauren Conrad and FILA SPORT.
As I just mentioned our marketing program focuses on the gift opportunities and great values that are available at Kohl's.
We've made a significant investment in inventory in order to improve our in-stock position.
And we've invested in the Kohl's store experience and as a result our customer service remains best in class.
We know that the economy is going to be tough but we believe that the focus on value and gifting will win over the consumer in what we expect to be as always a very competitive holiday season.
Earlier this week our Board of Directors reaffirmed our commitment to return value to our shareholders by increasing our share repurchase authorization.
Our existing share repurchase program was increased by $3.2 billion up to a $3.5 billion level.
Our expectation at this time would be to repurchase the shares over the course of the next 3 years.
With that I'll turn it back to Wes to provide our fourth quarter earnings guidance.
Thanks Kevin.
Our fourth quarter earnings guidance is as follows: total sales increase of 7% to 8%.
This includes the 53rd week; comparable sales increase of 3% to 4%.
We expect November to be below that December to be at the high end of the range and January to be at the low end of the range; a gross margin rate decline of 80 to 110 basis points; SG&amp;A expenses including the 53rd week will increase 3.5% to 4.5%.
Excluding the 53rd week we expect SG&amp;A to increase 1% to 2%; depreciation expense is forecasted to be $212 million; interest expense $86 million; and a tax rate of 37.8%.
Our guidance also assumes 230 million diluted shares for the fourth quarter and 237 million shares for the year.
This assumes $300 million in share repurchases in the fourth quarter at an average price of $55 per share.
Including these estimated share repurchases we expect our earnings per diluted share to be $2 to $2.08 dollars for the fourth quarter.
Reflecting our current results and our fourth quarter projection our fiscal 2012 guidance has been updated to -- excuse me $4.52 to $4.60 per diluted share from our previous guidance of $4.50 to $4.65 per diluted share.
And included in these results are the following estimated impacts of the 53rd week in fiscal 2012: sales of $180 million; SG&amp;A $30 million; net income $20 million; and diluted earnings per share $0.08 per diluted share.
We will give you those exact amounts at year end in order to adjust your go-forward earnings models.
And with that we'll be happy to take your questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citi.
This is Nathan Rich filling in for Deb today.
I first wanted to ask about E-Commerce.
It looks like you guys had the strongest E-Commerce growth that you've had in almost 2 years.
Can you talk about what's driving that? I mean I think from our perspective it's just continuing to gain market share with the customer.
I think we've invested a lot of money in digital marketing this year to drive traffic to the site.
Our conversion rate is also improved over the course of the first 3 quarters.
We just installed guided navigation recently and we expect that to be a benefit for the holiday season.
And we've also increased the number of SKUs we have available online.
So I think it's just -- are starting to mature as a business there.
And we've been behind in terms of some of our competitions but we're catching up very rapidly.
Great.
And then if I could ask one question on holiday.
You guys provided a lot of color around what you're doing from an inventory and marketing standpoint.
I wanted to ask how you're using technology differently this holiday season.
I mean I think from a technology perspective we're testing a few things mostly related to E-Commerce.
We're fulfilling not only from our E-Commerce fulfillment centers but we're sending ship-alone SKUs from our 7 retail DCs.
We're also testing order online ship from store.
That's just a very small test if -- and we'll get a lot of learnings in that -- from that and that'll be very beneficial for next holiday.
We have electronic signs up in almost all of our stores now so that should save us a lot of money in terms of our ad set quantities.
But those are probably the main things.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Grom with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on the fourth quarter guidance.
It looks like you tweaked it down a little bit from your former implied guidance that you guys gave out back in August.
Just wondering if you could kind of walk us through what changed from your perspective.
Sure.
I mean I think fundamentally it's about sales.
We pulled sales down a little bit from what we might have been thinking about for the fourth quarter and there isn't anything really specific in there.
And we definitely have been impacted in November by the hurricane on the east coast.
That's certainly an impact.
I think our expectation -- our hope is that we'll get at least some of those sales back but it's definitely part of the process.
And I think the other one is just overall I'm trying to make sure we're taking a kind of conservatively rational view of the opportunity.
We had a good third quarter but it was essentially in the middle of what our expectation was.
And so mainly the difference in the fourth quarter is about sales.
Yes.
I would say Chuck we basically -- the reason we guided November below the end of the range we're just assuming we make our plan the rest of the way.
So obviously we didn't make our plan the first week because of the hurricane.
If we get some of those sales back that would be upside to what we just guided to.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a follow-up to that.
How are trends sort of outside the Northeast? Has there been any CNN effect or election effects for you guys? Well I mean there's the seasonality in the business when you get down to that element of business by day or pre-election postelection.
We kind of looked back historically at past election years to sort of plan the days so that's sort of built into our plan.
I mean typically there is some impact pre-election and...
A little postelection.
A little postelection and the business kind of accelerates.
But that's sort of built into our planning process.
You can never plan Halloween or Election Day too well.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
And then just the obvious concern continues to be kind of the inventory level.
Can you maybe walk us through a little bit more detail in terms of the content by category? Where are you placing the biggest bets? Sure.
I mean from an inventory perspective I would say I'd kind of break it into 3 things as we go into holiday and then one additional thing as we transition from holiday out.
On the 3 things going into holiday first and foremost was we've been working hard at managing inventory levels and service levels are the percentage of times we're in stock for the customer up year-over-year.
Because we know we disappointed a lot of customers last year in our ability to do that.
So there's a general focus on ensuring that we're in stock by size and color across the portfolio of the store with particular emphasis around areas that are trending categories that are doing particularly well.
Second we know last year that we were not well positioned for gifts and we lost share to others when it came to the gift-giving categories.
And so there's been a very big focus on creating a gift headquarter strategy for November and December for the customer for holiday.
And you should be able to see that in our stores in both our in-aisle and in-department outposts and presentations.
It's built around this marketing handle of dream for Christmas and that's been a focus area as well.
And then the third area probably just as important as the gift has been our great value program.
And the great value program generally is about opening price point items throughout the store in every single category that are -- probably lean more towards basic I would say.
They're not all basic items but they have a tendency to lean that way.
So those are kind of the 3 things where we've focused inventory going into the holiday.
And then the last thing which is really important is last year with the results that we had we did a very poor job of transitioning into new spring selling.
And so in many parts of the country as we moved into December we didn't have new fresh receipts coming in to be prepared to service the customer in January and February and March and that's been a major course correction for us.
So those are kind of the 4 elements.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And then my follow-up question is just -- in the past few months there's been some positive developments in your business with traffic getting better and some better trends in the non-credit customer.
When you looked ahead how confident are you guys that those trends are going to continue? Well I mean all the elements are in place.
I mean I think we've spent a lot of time studying what went wrong in the fourth quarter last year and continued into the spring as you know.
And a lot of it was about servicing the customer properly being competitive and being a gift headquarters for holiday and -- with particular emphasis on these kind of narrow and deep really important items we call them the great value items they're really key items and a constant flow of receipts.
So I mean I guess to the extent that you can be confident coming out of a quarter that had improved sales results October was a really good month for us.
We saw it building so all very very positive.
Your next question comes from the line of Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to get a little bit more color on the remodeling program.
I thought that you were going to expand that program pretty dramatically in 2014.
Can you talk a little bit about how those remodels have trended recently? Well I think actually we've taken a step back when we've been testing some of these things in home and beauty.
We remodeled 100 stores as recently as last year so -- or maybe 2 years ago 2010.
But that's the run rate we need to achieve -- basically to achieve our goal of remodeling a store on average every 10 years.
So the remodels continue to trend up low single digits.
The reason we've cut back the remodels and tried to test some different things in terms of in store and home accessories and beauty is to try to raise that to a mid-single-digit comp which is kind of the comp we would like to have in order to achieve a return as good as a new store for example.
So that's why we're testing the 2014 acceleration to 100 assume that we can make some progress in achieving that goal.
Quite honestly if we can only get to a low-single-digit remodel we still will continue to remodel that 100 a year because we feel like that's something we have to do from a strategic perspective to continue to invest in our fleet and make our stores look better than the competition.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Maschmeyer with Baird.
Research Division</strong> Can you -- I guess just a follow-up on Lorraine's question talk a little bit about some of the early learnings and kind of how you're feeling about the tests that you're doing in home and beauty.
I mean the short answer is no.
We're planning to talk about that for sure.
It's part of our plan to talk about it at our year-end call.
Some of the categories that we're focused on as you know in those efforts are very intensive fourth quarter kinds of categories.
So holiday home home accessories beauty.
And so to be fair I think to give us a complete and full read we're planning on dealing with it in February.
I mean we feel good about some things and as you can imagine not good about other things.
But we'll talk about it more in-depth on that call Erika.
Research Division</strong> That is fair enough.
And then on that gross margin side is kind of why shouldn't gross margin sequentially improve a little bit in Q4 versus Q3? I guess could you walk through the puts and takes for those margin -- merchandise margins? And how do you expect AUC to play out for you over the next few quarters? Well I mean from a margin rate perspective what's driving our margin rate is really kind of 2 big factors.
Obviously one is this very focus that we have on being value right.
That's a critical element and we want to be very competitive for the holiday season.
The second thing is that some of the categories that we're looking to intensify in the holiday season are lower margin.
And so categories like home which is an integral part of our gift strategy; toys which is an integral part of our gift strategy are both lower margin in the overall store.
And as you can imagine our online business which also carries a lower merchandise margin as well is growing it had its biggest growth in the third quarter with a 50% increase is growing a lot.
And from a mix standpoint that also impacts it.
So I'd say the way I'd think about it is it's sort of mix and that's mainly online.
It's classifications that we're driving which are categories like home and toys that are big parts of our gift strategy and then it's an intense focus on making sure we have great value as witnessed by the great value item program.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Jaffe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a follow up on the E-Commerce rapid growth.
Historically that's been not as robust a gross margin business as your regular businesses because of its emphasis on home.
And are you seeing a rebalancing in your E-Commerce business and as a result some higher margins coming out of that business? No.
I mean I still think that overall the factors that drive the margin lower than the brick-and-mortar margin are still in place.
I mean we're still -- those categories are growing rapidly and they're a headwind from strictly a margin perspective now.
I think you know Richard that while merchandise margin is really important for us to manage we're also really focused on our returns.
And our return on investment in our online business is really really healthy and we see a bright future in that.
So you don't want to get too focused on just the absolute merchandise margin rate.
But I think Wes the factors are all still on in play.
Yes.
I mean shipping costs obviously are a big part of merchandise margins in E-Commerce.
And that's something that continues to be very competitive in the fourth quarter especially most people that have shipping with thresholds drop them to $50.
We do the same for competitive reasons.
So with E-Comm actually overachieving their plans.
That's put a little pressure from a mix perspective on the fourth quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Wes I'm wondering if you can talk about the inventory management.
And is -- the 3% increase in inventory units relative to 2010 is that comp store inventory? Does that exclude E-Commerce? And how does that compare to your store volumes today versus 2010? That's store only.
So E-Comm obviously the growth over 2010 is a lot higher than that.
And our store volumes since 2010 -- obviously last year we ran basically a flat comp.
We're down 0.5% today so pretty similar.
I guess you can count new stores would be well not as much.
From our perspective this is the right thing to do for us.
Last year we only got -- cut units significantly.
We're investing as Kevin mentioned in the 3 categories: gifts great value and areas that are trending.
So our exclusive brands for example year-to-date are up 11%.
That is mainly concentrated in our update in the contemporary businesses.
So their inventory units relative to 2010 are up double digits in both men's and women's.
Other areas such as home decor which aren't trending this year are actually down double digits to 2010.
So we've tried to invest in the areas that make sense.
And it's not inconsistent to be honest what we've been telling everybody since February.
This is the results of our strategy and we hope our sales continue to improve.
And if we're able to run the kind of comp that we've guided to we'll have a good fourth quarter.
We'll continue to invest in inventory as we move into the spring as well because obviously it's been well documented and we've talked about it quite a bit.
We missed a lot of business this spring as we continued to chase inventory to catch up with our price reductions.
Research Division</strong> So as you will get like a normalized level of inventory do you think that you do need to have higher inventories relative to your sales per store sales per square foot going forward? Or do you think this is just sort of temporary? I'm just looking at the store sales being flat to down 0.5%.
And since inventory's up 3% it just -- there seems to be a little bit of mismatch.
I would tell you this is our strategy.
I would expect dollars and units to grow faster than sales until we get to the fall of next year.
And then we'll be normalized and we'll start to focus on bringing our inventories growth less than sales.
I'd -- we missed gross margin in the fourth quarter -- I actually mean the first quarter this year.
Prior to that we've grown gross margin or made our gross margins most of the time in the almost 10 years I've been here.
In second quarter and this quarter we also made our margin.
So we're managing the business how we think it should be managed but we need to get the stores in a better in-stock position.
Your next question comes from the line of Liz Dunn with Macquarie.
My question is on the juniors business.
Can we just have an update on -- obviously that's been an area where there's been a bit more of a content problem instead of a quantity problem.
How are you feeling about that business? And when do you think we might see -- start to see some better merchandise? I mean I think our expectations for the fourth quarter in juniors are to continue to trend similarly to the way we've trended in the third quarter.
So that's not good.
It's far below the rest of women's but it's kind of baked into our sales assumptions that we've given you for the fourth.
So we're really kind of focused on transitioning into the first quarter of next year in a better place in juniors.
But our assumption is Liz that the fourth quarter in juniors while it might be modestly better is not going to be a whole lot different than it's been.
And that's a little bit less from a performance standpoint than the rest of women's.
Women's has outperformed juniors consistently over the course of the year.
And it's mostly a tops problem is that right? Yes.
It's definitely driven by tops.
No question about it.
I mean in the third quarter we made a big commitment for instance to colored bottoms.
And colored bottoms were very successful and drove our overall bottom business to a better performance.
But yes it's definitely driven by our top business.
Okay.
And then just one more if I may.
In terms of the buyback should we think about that $3.5 billion as being somewhat linear over the next 3 years? And how should we think about that in terms of your preference for dividends versus buyback? Well I think from my perspective that would be the best way to model it if you're looking out 3 years.
How we actually do it will obviously depend on the stock price.
In terms of dividends assuming that you buy back that number of shares over the next 3 years that would pretty much build in a double-digit dividend increase every year holding the actual payout in dollars to be about $300 million.
So that's how we're kind of modeling over the next 3 years.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Binder with Jefferies.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I had 2 questions.
First around the gross margin guidance.
I think last year [indiscernible] guidance you were kind of positioning yourself to be able to respond to competition as needed and it turned out a little bit better.
I was just kind of curious when you think about the promotional environment going into fourth quarter what you're assuming and how much leeway you've given yourself as you drive the gross margins today.
Right.
I mean I think what you're just asking is without the rationale that I think behind the gross margin guidance which really is about -- primarily about mix and it's this dramatic increase in our expectation for our online sales.
We just finished the third quarter when we were -- in which we were up 50% which is the best performance we've had in a long time and it does operate on lower merchandise margins.
And then secondarily the categories in which we're focused in both our gift and our great value programs have lower merchandise margins in them.
So categories like home which is a really big part of our gift strategy and toys which is a really big part of our gift strategy have lower margins than the overall store.
I think those are the 2 big things Wes.
Yes I mean I'd just try to make it simple.
If you assume we were to run 44 basis points down in the fourth quarter versus last year the difference between that and our guidance about 1/3 of it's gifts and about 2/3 of it's E-Comm.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
But from a promotional standpoint what are you guys sort of planning for or what are you expecting out of the industry this coming fourth quarter? Well I don't know if it's more promotional.
I think it's really just as Kevin mentioned the mix.
I mean toys fragrances and small electrics carry lower margins than our average and we're investing a lot more inventory in those to drive traffic and hopefully other sales in the store.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> My second question was just around inventory levels.
You've given us a lot of detail already.
I'm just curious at these levels what would you assume? Sort of is markdowns sort of the normal course of markdowns in the business after the season get back to levels that we saw in 2010? Or do they end up being higher? And then if you could give us an update on sort of the inflation-deflation situation that we're looking at.
Well I mean we're coming -- we're planning to come out of the fourth quarter I think in a low double-digit range.
So from a flow standpoint that's being driven by a focus on transitioning into the spring season much more aggressively than last year.
Because last year we made a big tactical error in not doing that.
So just strictly thinking about what's assumed in terms of how to move through inventories in the fourth quarter we're kind of assuming it's going to be very promotional Christmas similarly to last year maybe not any more so but probably certainly not any less.
And the margin rates are slightly lower because of the mix of our business driven by our online and our gifts and great value programs are driving that a little bit lower.
So that the overall markdown mix as it relates to our level inventory is kind of the same.
There's really no difference than last year.
Yes.
I mean it's pretty simple Dan.
If we run a 3 to 4 comp we're going to make the earnings we said.
If we run a flat comp we'll have margin issues like any other fourth quarter.
It's not really related to the investment in the inventory.
If in the fourth quarter you don't run the comp you think you've got to get rid of the units.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes okay.
I guess what I was getting at was really just the level of markdowns that you would typically see in the business.
So I'm assuming last year it was very low.
This year it goes up a little bit back to sort of normal.
But maybe if we could just move on to the inflation -- or excuse me sorry the deflation.
I mean I think the short answer really is we're focusing on the out-the-door retails on like items being lower than last year.
So that's going to really involve more promotional markdowns than clearance markdowns.
If our strategy works we should have similar clearance markdowns in terms of percentage of inventory leftover in January as we had last year.
Your next question comes from the line of Jessica Schoen with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the investments in technology.
And what kind of impact you've seen -- in addition to the strong performance in the E-Commerce business what impacts have you seen that you feel are a direct result of those investments? Well I mean I think the biggest impact this year has been the rollout of electronic signs in our stores.
That's allowed us to reduce our ad set payroll by about 90% in the stores that have them.
I think we're down to about maybe 100 stores left that we'll do in January.
That's probably the biggest thing that I can talk to you about from an SG&amp;A perspective.
We made an awful lot of investments in E-Commerce in terms of giving the ability for people to develop gifts the guided navigation I talked about earlier product reviews online all that's really contributed to our growth in E-Commerce being so robust.
We continue to work on longer-term projects involving the merchants in the stores.
We have a pilot on our system we call merchandise locator system which allows us to find product more easily in the back room which would cut down on replenishing the floor.
That's working out very well in the pilot stores so far and we'll continue to roll that out.
And we're working on various systems to allow our merchants to be more effective in terms of planning their assortments regionally.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then I know you've answered a lot of questions on the gross margin.
But I was wondering if you could tell us about how the mix between private exclusive and national brands impacted the beat in the quarter and your expectations for the fourth quarter.
I think the mix on private exclusive is about 53%.
It's pretty much what we kind of expected.
So that really didn't have a meaningful impact on how we came out in the third quarter.
And it's sort of thought -- the way we're thinking about the fourth quarter is that that mix will probably hold very similarly to what it's been trending at which is a little bit higher than last year.
Not a lot higher but a little bit higher than last year.
I mean the biggest improvement in terms of comps was actually with national brands.
They were still negative but negative low single digits versus negative mid-single digits.
So that helped us as well.
Private and exclusive as Kevin said were pretty much the same.
Your next question comes from the line of Greg Hessler with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So my question is just a follow-up on the buyback piece.
How should we be thinking about that in light of your commitment to the high BBB credit rating and kind of your leverage target? Is that something where you could increase the pace by funding with incremental debt? Are you asking about the pace of the buyback? I think -- you were cutting in and out but I think I got the gist of it.
We're going to continue to manage our buyback with a debt-to-EBITDA target of 2 to 2.25.
It's been communicated to the rating agencies.
They're comfortable with that.
That would allow us to take modest leverage on every year of roughly $300 million whether we do that or not is really up to the interest rate environment.
In terms of the pace of the buyback as I mentioned earlier the best way to model is probably equally.
But if stock seems cheap we'll buy more quicker.
If it's expensive we'll buy less like all you guys out there.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Boss with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So you've spoken about 5-phase SG&amp;A deep dive longer term.
As we look out how should we think about the fixed cost leverage points and efficiency opportunities going forward in the model on the SG&amp;A side? Matt I think the goal for us has always been from a long-term perspective to leverage at a 2% comp.
We're obviously going to do better than that this year for 3 main reasons.
Stores have done a phenomenal job in terms of managing the payroll.
We've also gotten the benefit of the electronic signs I mentioned earlier.
Incentive comp obviously is a lot less than last year given our performance thus far.
And we continue -- although the benefits in credit weren't great in the third quarter we did get strong performance in the spring season.
Those are something we expect to continue to achieve going forward.
The 5-phase thing that we're working on right now is really to drive incremental cost out.
The goal is to allow us to drive enough savings to maintain that 2% comp leverage point going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the gross margin front I think you did a really good job of breaking out the different buckets for 4Q.
As we think to next year and beyond do you -- is there opportunity on the gross margin front? Or is this is a line that we should be modeling flattish going forward? Or just kind of any color around longer-term gross margin.
Well I think there's opportunity going forward.
I would plan it modestly up 10 or 20 basis points a year.
We've -- that's really with the assumption that costs continue to decline.
We've seen that obviously in the fall.
We've mentioned that.
All-in our cost decline is probably around mid-single digit depending on the category.
We're seeing cost reductions so far on some of the spring receipts we've placed for next year.
Assuming that continues I think we can have modest gross margin improvement.
If we can out-comp 2% comp obviously that could provide more opportunity than the 10 to 20 basis points I talked about.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick McKeever with MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about the impact of weather on your business in last year's fourth quarter just given the fact that it was so warm across much of your geographic footprint? And just what kind of weather outlook do you have baked into or assumed with your 3% to 4% same-store sales guidance for the fourth quarter of this year? Well our -- we have a couple weather services we use and they're basically saying starting next week through the balance of the quarter it should be colder than last year.
So that's certainly built into our thinking.
Obviously the weather affected the results early on in November with the hurricane and now you guys I guess East Coast are getting a snowstorm today or yesterday.
So we think that's going to be good for business.
But outerwear as a category has declined in importance the last few years as more people have been layering.
But colder for our business is always better this time of the year.
Research Division</strong> And then just on -- maybe you could give us a little bit more color around the impact of the hurricane how many stores you had closed that sort of thing.
Well I mean with the peak the first day we had about 200 stores closed and then it went down to 60 down to 30s for balance of the week.
And then by the following Monday we had every store opened.
For the most part we had some generators and a lot of stores that ran out of fuel but you're talking about double digits by the weekend.
We do have one store that's going to be closed for a significant amount of time in Caesar's Bay in Brooklyn.
That will be closed through at least the fourth quarter.
I mean the hurricane impact really hit a significant number of stores as it did I think for most national retailers across both the Mid-Atlantic and of course particularly the Northeast.
And that hangover lasted more than just a day or 2.
So it dramatically impacted the first week of November for sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
I was wondering if you'd comment -- as you think about the fourth quarter and promotions and clearance and the balance between the 2 is there a difference between the margin on clearance and the margin on promotion and how that trends during the year? Sure.
I mean our merchandise margins because of the type of selling proposition we have which is highly promotional we were very event-driven.
Our merchandise margin results are primarily driven by our promotional markdowns.
And of course the fourth quarter of all the quarters the impact of transitioning out of holiday goods into spring is proportionally a little bit higher than it is in any other particular quarter.
But I would say -- and Wes should jump in here but I think for sure the promotional markdown rate is what drives our merchandise margins up or down.
Yes.
And then the mix of our business as we've talked about is a really important factor on that as well.
So I don't want to make it sound like clearance and how we clear goods is not impactful to our performance of margin.
It is.
But it's not the most important factor.
Yes.
I mean most quarters throughout a number of years we've ended the quarters with clearance less than last year.
So as Kevin said it's really about the promotional markdowns.
And we do have time for one final question which comes from the line of David Glick with Buckingham Research.
Just a couple quick questions.
Wes could you just clarify your November guidance? I think you said below 3% to 4%.
But I was just wondering are you expecting a positive...
Positive but below 3% to 4%.
And then more importantly in terms of the non-credit sales and traffic obviously that helped you improve your trend in Q3.
I'm just wondering how you'd strategize the fourth quarter on that front and how you've geared your marketing spend.
You mentioned digital and broadcast as being increased.
How much are you increasing your overall spend? And how disproportionate is that increase in digital and broadcast? And obviously I think it's geared towards driving the non-credit customer and traffic overall.
But if you could just give us some color on that I'd appreciate it.
Sure.
I mean I think Wes -- this is Kevin David.
I think Wes guided to a 7% to 8% total sales increase for the fourth quarter with the impact of the additional week on our accounting calendar.
In the context of a 7% to 8% sales increase we do expect marketing to leverage.
So it's less than an increase of 7%.
But that's a significant amount of dollars because the marketing dollars in the fourth quarter are very very significant.
The areas of digital particularly are dramatically higher than that.
I don't even actually have a specific number but it's double probably the rate of our overall marketing increase.
So if sales are up 7% to 8% and marketing is up but not up 7% to 8% let's just say 5% or so then digital particularly is well more than double that rate of increase.
Broadcast is also higher but not as increased as digital.
So hopefully that helps you.
Thanks everybody.
Thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brent and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Kohl's Fourth Quarter and Year-end 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made on this call including projected financial results are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Kohl's intends forward-looking terminologies such as believes expects may will should anticipates plans or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause Kohl's actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to: those that are described in Item 1A in Kohl's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and as may be supplemented from time to time in Kohl's other filings with the SEC all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
Also please note that replays of this recording will not be updated.
So if you're listening after February 28 it is possible that the information discussed is no longer current.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Wes McDonald Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
With me today is Kevin Mansell the President Chairman and CEO.
I'll walk us through the balance sheet and P&amp;L and give you some forward-looking guidance and Kevin will take you through some of our merchandising and marketing strategies for 2013.
As a reminder the 2012 fiscal year was a 53-week year for accounting purposes.
All results reported today are 53-week results with the exception of comp sales metrics.
Details on the impact of the 53rd week are available in the text of the earnings release.
Comp sales increased 1.9% for the quarter and up 30 basis points for the year.
The quarterly comp increase reflects a 4.2% increase in units per transaction offset by a 2.5% decrease in average unit retail.
Transactions were essentially flat for the quarter.
For the year average unit retail increased 1.8% and transactions per store decreased 1.5%.
Units per transaction were flat for the year.
Total sales increased 5.4% to $6.3 billion for the quarter and 2.5% to $19.3 billion for the year.
Kohl's charge sales penetration increased 80 basis points to 54% of total sales for the quarter.
Our annual credit share was 56% an increase of 130 basis points over fiscal 2011.
Kevin will provide more color on our sales in a few minutes.
Our gross margin rate for the quarter was 33.3% approximately 290 basis points lower than the fourth quarter of last year.
SG&amp;A increased 3% for the quarter better than our expectations of up 3.5% to 4.5%.
SG&amp;A as a percentage of sales leveraged approximately 40 basis points for both the quarter and the year.
Depreciation expense increased 10% over the fourth quarter of 2011 to $214 million.
For the year depreciation increased 7% to $833 million.
The increases are primarily due to IT investments.
Net interest expense was $85 million this quarter and $329 million for the year.
The increases are primarily due to debt issuances in September 2012 and October 2011.
Our income tax rate was 37.1% for the quarter 70 basis points below our expectation of 37.8%.
The difference is due to tax credits that were extended when the fiscal cliff deal was finalized.
Diluted earnings per share decreased 8% to $1.66 for the quarter.
Net income was $378 million for the current-year quarter and $986 million for the year.
For the year diluted earnings per share were $4.17 this year versus $4.30 last year.
The 53rd week increased our current-year EPS by approximately $0.06.
Some information for your models.
We currently have 1 146 stores with gross square footage of 99.57 million square feet and selling square footage of 83.09 million.
Square footage is 1% higher than last year at this time.
Moving on to some balance sheet metrics.
We ended the quarter with $537 million of cash and cash equivalents.
Our CapEx expenditures were $785 million for 2012 $142 million lower than 2011.
The change reflects changes in our capital expenditure mix including fewer remodels and new stores partially offset by higher IT spending.
As a reminder we opened 12 new stores this fall compared to 31 last fall.
Our projected CapEx for 2013 is $700 million.
Our January inventory balance was $3.7 billion a 16% increase over January 2011.
On a per-store basis inventory dollars are up 12% consistent with our previous guidance.
And compared to February week 1 which is a more apples-to-apples comparison inventory is up 6% per store.
Kevin will talk more about inventory management in a few minutes.
AP as a percent of inventory was 330 basis points lower than last year at 35.2% primarily due to slower inventory turnover.
Weighted average diluted shares were 228 million for the quarter and 237 million year-to-date.
On February 27 2013 our board declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.35 per share a 9% increase over our previous dividend of $0.28 per share.
The dividend is -- or $0.32 per share excuse me.
The dividend is payable March 27 2013 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 13 2013.
I'll now turn it over to Kevin who will provide additional insights on our results.
Thanks Wes.
Let me start by adding some color first to our sales results.
From a line of business perspective children's reported the strongest comp for the quarter primarily on strength in toys.
Women's and men's apparel were both above the company average per quarter.
In women's active apparel was the strongest category with an increase in the high teens.
Updated and contemporary sportswear and classic sportswear also outperformed the company.
As we expected the junior business continued to be challenging.
Notable performance in men's included both basics and active.
Footwear was slightly below the company average.
Athletic shoes were by far the strongest category.
Home was also below the company average.
Notable strong categories included housewares bedding and small electrics.
And finally accessories was the only line of business that did not report a positive comp for the quarter.
Sterling silver jewelry watches and bath and beauty were the strongest performers in the accessories category.
From a regional perspective the West was the strongest region for the quarter.
All other regions were slightly negative.
E-commerce sales increased 43% for the quarter.
For the year e-commerce sales were $1.4 billion 42% higher than the prior year.
E-commerce contributed 320 basis points to our quarterly comp and 230 basis points to the annual comp.
From a brand perspective 48% of our fourth quarter sales were private and exclusive Only-at-Kohl's Brands an increase of approximately 30 basis points over the fourth quarter of 2011.
The increase was a result of our newer exclusive brands Jennifer Lopez Marc Anthony Rock and Republic DesigNation and Vera Wang as well as strong sales in more mature brands such as Chaps Lauren Conrad Vera Wang and FILA SPORT.
On the gross margin side as Wes mentioned our gross margin rate for the quarter was approximately 290 basis points lower than the fourth quarter of 2011.
While this was lower than planned we were able to clear much of our seasonal merchandise in order to make way for our spring assortment.
We believe that our value equation is now right and we expect gradual improvement in our gross margin throughout 2013 as a result of lower costs.
Moving on to expense management.
On the SG&amp;A line we performed slightly better than we expected.
Our store organization continues to drive payroll efficiency.
Our fixed costs generally were flat as a percent of sales and we also reported significant leverage in our corporate operations primarily due to lower incentive costs.
Marketing costs as a percentage of sales were flat for the year.
Our credit operation is leveraged again this year.
Our future performance will be driven by our ability to grow the portfolio and to manage the customer service and marketing functions more efficiently.
We would expect more modest contributions from credit in 2013.
Finally distribution centers did not leverage as we continue to develop the infrastructure for our growing e-commerce business.
However we were very pleased with our improvement in shipping costs and e-commerce fulfillment expenses as a percentage of e-commerce sales versus the prior year.
Moving on to the store experience.
We ended the year with 1 146 stores 19 more than the year-end 2011.
During 2012 we opened stores in 20 new locations.
We relocated 1 store in Michigan and closed 1 store in Ohio.
Our current plans are to open 12 stores in 2013 9 in the spring and 3 in the fall.
Consistent with 2012 new stores we expect all but 1 of the 2013 stores to be small stores with less than 64 000 square feet.
We remodeled 50 stores in 2012 and we expect to remodel 30 stores in 2013.
Most of these remodels are expected to occur in the fall season.
As of year-end approximately 1/3 of our stores now have customer service in the front of the store.
This change has been received extremely well by our customers who appreciate the convenience of having the service at the front rather at the back of the store.
Additionally all stores now have electronic signs.
Relocating customer service and installing electronic signs are key contributors to the payroll savings which allow our store organization to consistently deliver store payroll leverage.
Last year we tested several sales floor productivity ideas in selected markets across the country to drive sales.
In general the sales lift in those departments that were expanded primarily home did not exceed this loss of sales in the departments reduced.
As a result the test will not be rolled out.
However several ideas developed from the test around more emphasis on certain categories again particularly in home that will be pursued company-wide.
We believe strongly in the importance of testing new ideas and concept and we'll continue to do so this year as well.
Those tests whether product display ideas technology or marketing all help us to ensure our ROI goals are met and reduce the probability of mistakes with the customer experience.
Moving on to our investments in e-commerce and in IT.
Since its inception in 2001 our e-commerce business has grown at a compounded annual growth rate of more than 50%.
In 2011 we reached $1 billion in revenues and this past year revenues exceeded $1.4 billion.
Growing sales and improving profitability of this channel has required investments but we are going to continue to make those investments.
On the human side we're investing in e-commerce merchants planners and technology positions.
We're also improving the foundation of the website and expect to be in a new more versatile platform this summer partnering with Oracle.
We continue to stress the value of the Kohl's credit card to our online shoppers.
Kohl's charge penetration is higher online than in our store which has improved profitability.
We've also made significant progress in reducing shipping costs and continue to identify ways to improve EFC processing costs.
We're also making the necessary investments to ensure our customer has the omni-channel shopping experience that she desires.
All of our stores are now equipped with WiFi so she can share her shopping experience real time with her friends.
We replaced our gift registries with more modern kiosks and have plans to further improve the kiosk and the gift registry experience on it later this year.
We will pilot mobile POS in the third quarter.
Through our global inventory visibility project we'll be able to better track our in-store inventory the first of many steps necessary for us to offer in-store pickup for online orders.
During holiday 2012 we tested fulfilling online orders from stores and expect to expand this test to 100 stores by holiday of this coming year.
We've also expanded our RFID pilot to additional stores as well.
Finally we're making investments in the infrastructure which supports our operations.
We'll be implementing a new after [ph] data management system which facilitates seamless inventory across all channels and stage deliveries within the period.
We're investing in price management the second generation of markdown optimization which focuses on promotional and permanent markdown.
And additionally we're investing in new purchase order and new data warehouse system.
Moving on to marketing on the marketing front our objective is to reenergize the Kohl's brand to drive more engagement and ultimately traffic.
In 2013 our advertising will continue to emphasize our value proposition but will be especially targeted at moms particularly in the 35- to 54-year-old age group.
We'll also shift our marketing towards channels that we believe will maximize our marketing dollars.
This includes significantly increased TV and digital exposure.
In addition we'll have a more balanced presentation between our private and exclusive national and our national brands in our both broadcast and circular efforts.
In fall of 2012 we piloted a loyalty program in 100 stores which provided additional flexible value to shoppers who either don't qualify for a Kohl's credit card or simply prefer not to use credits in payment.
As with our other pilots this loyalty program pilot has provided us with significant insights into how our customer shops and how we're able better to influence their shopping behavior in the future.
Though we still have more to learn we are pleased with the initial results of this pilot and we'll be expanding the pilot to more markets in the spring season.
Before Wes provides 2013 guidance I'd like to make some overall comments regarding the year.
From a strictly financial results perspective 2012 was a disappointing year for our company.
While sales grew for the year in total there were a number of categories where our growth was not at the rate we had planned and some where we actually lost market share.
Just as importantly our growth came in at higher cost to profitability than is acceptable.
We didn't serve our customer at the standard we have set for ourselves.
It's also been a year of tremendous change and transition.
From a business standpoint we struggled to find the right delivery of value in our prices the appropriate level of inventory in each of our key businesses and to evolve our marketing message to engage the customer more consistently.
As a result of that we had a mix of successes and failures and a series of fits and starts throughout the year.
Some changes we tested took hold quickly with customer and we implemented them.
Some needed to be revised and continued to be adjusted throughout the year.
On the organizational side we have gone through a significant amount of change as we put in place new structures and added new talent to leadership positions in many of our key areas.
Frankly there's probably as much changes we have ever had in my time at Kohl's.
We entered 2013 as a smarter and more focused organization.
Our strategies are clear and are more precise as is our plan to achieve them.
We will own savings.
We will focus on moms our most important customer and we'll increase her confidence in Kohl's from all aspects.
On the savings strategy we believe strongly that savings isn't just about the lowest price.
It's about price quality style and the experience the customer gets at Kohl's.
Owning savings includes focusing our marketing message to consistently position Kohl's as the savings leader.
It includes ensuring that our prices are competitive first and then even better with our value-added offers.
It includes building increased style and quality into the products that she buys.
And finally owning savings includes leveraging our interactions with our customer in our stores every day.
Our second strategy.
Increasing her confidence in Kohl's is about providing the assurance that Kohl's will always come through for her and that she knows we have the store for her having what she wants to when she wants it whether it's in our stores or online.
And the third key strategy is focusing on mom.
Though moms are our most loyal and highest spending customers we believe we have significant opportunity to capture a larger share of her wallet.
We know that the customer has a lot of choices.
They'll only choose us if we provide the best value the assurance we have that they need every time they shop and show we are their store through our message our merchandise and the experience we provide.
We're committed to doing that this year.
So with that I'll turn it back to Wes to provide our first quarter and fiscal year guidance.
Thanks Kevin.
Our 2013 earnings guidance is as follows.
Total sales increase of flat to 2%.
The reason -- comparable sales will also be flat to 2%.
The reason is due to the 53rd week in fiscal 2012.
Our gross margin rate increase will be 15 to 30 basis points.
SG&amp;A expenses are expected to increase 1.5% to 3%; depreciation expense of approximately $910 million; interest expense of $330 million; and a tax rate of 38%.
Our guidance assumes 216 million diluted shares for the year.
This assumes $1 billion in share repurchases in 2013 at an average price of $50 per share.
And including these estimated share repurchases we expect earnings per diluted share of $4.15 to $4.45 for the year.
For the first quarter our guidance is as follows: total sales increase of 0.5% to 2.5%; comparable sales increase of flat to 2%; gross margin increase of flat to 20 basis points; SG&amp;A expenses increasing 2.5% to 3.5%; depreciation expense of $221 million; interest expense of $84 million; and a tax rate of 38%.
This should result in earnings per diluted share of $0.55 to $0.63 for the first quarter.
And we'll be happy to take your questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Matt Boss with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So as we progress through the year what shall we be watching in stores from a merchandising standpoint? I thought the smaller Coach fragrances and Spanx were moved in the right direction on the national brand side.
But can you talk about any initiatives or categories that we should be focusing on? I think -- this is Kevin Matt.
Generally the focus is pretty broad.
As we mentioned in the script itself we have essentially a new merchandise team across the entire company.
They've been charged with really kind of delivering on ensuring that we have in stock for the customer what she wants so this is a high degree of focus around basics and in stock.
So our service levels on those areas need to improve and remain consistent.
I think that's one thing you should look for.
I think the second thing Wes sort of mentioned it we've been focused on improving our performance with our key national brands.
We made some progress on that particularly in the first -- fourth quarter.
I think the fourth quarter was the first quarter to be honest in several years where national brands actually grew on a comp store basis.
I think that's another thing to look for our key national brands improving in the presentation in the store and the breadth of assortment and in how much space and attention they get in our advertising as well.
I'd say the last thing is about clarity in assortment.
We're working hard to remove duplication.
That's probably particularly so in our private and exclusive brands.
As you know we've expanded the number of private and exclusive brands a lot over the last 3 years.
What's happened as a result of that of course is that there has been some redundancy and things that are carried in one of our private exclusive brands sometimes show up as well in another.
So we want to definitely eliminate that.
That was part of our effort in our reorganization.
Adding new talent and new leadership into private and exclusive brand product development; organization is going to help us do that.
So I'd say those are probably the big 4 things.
Generally those things apply to the whole store.
So it's less about one particular area.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then on the gross margin side I mean do you believe the pricing and the depths of promotion today is where you want it? And aside from easier comparisons how shall we think about the primary drivers of expansion this year? Yes I mean I think we're -- as you know we're very promotional store.
That's what drives our traffic and drives our business.
I don't see us really changing that certainly not in a downward way.
But I also don't see us increasing either the level or depth of promotion.
I think again much like our merchandise assortments providing more clarity paying more attention to the product and to the brands in our advertising and most importantly probably as I mentioned in the call putting more emphasis around media that will reach a broader audience for us.
And of course television is the key one and with our growing online presence our digital efforts is the secondary key one.
Those areas are going to get significantly higher spend.
That's going to come at the expense of areas that have traditionally gotten more of our weight particularly newspaper advertising and direct mail outside of our credit card business.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Drbul with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Kev could you talk a little bit just on your confidence level around the fact that you have the pricing right in the stores now after a lot of changes last year sort of coming out of the fourth quarter? What gives you that confidence right now? Well I think there's -- I mean the metrics that we watch on that are the underlying metrics to make up our comp sales.
So obviously average unit retail is a key one of those.
We report to you average unit retail for the company.
So that can sometimes be affected by mix as one business grows and another one shrinks.
But generally for the year average unit retail was up.
It was up quite a bit in the first half of the year.
In the fourth quarter average unit retail was down.
And when we look at it on a trend basis there was a real consistency to it.
As we brought our prices down we started to reach levels that were more similar to 2011 on an AUR basis.
So I think our sense is that you're never going to be perfect on prices.
We always have opportunities to improve but the combination of the AUR metrics looking this year versus last year and this year versus historical gives us a lot of confidence.
And secondarily of course we're pretty aggressive in understanding how our prices look compared to competition and we try to look at that on the basis of what our sale prices are compared to competitive sale prices not including their value-added triggers.
So we have as you know really big value-added triggers that we think put us in a premier price position.
So that's probably a long-winded answer to say to you yes my confidence now is pretty high that our value equation is pretty well set.
I mean...
Yes I mean I think in November December obviously we had a lot of clearance in January.
That drove the AUR down.
But if you look at November and December combined our AUR is down about 1% and our units remained up 4%.
So that means the customer in my opinion felt like they were getting  some value.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the sort of new 0 to 2% comp assumption for the current quarter and for the year essentially what do you expect the growth of credit card sales on a comp basis versus non-credit card? Like how does that sort of flow through as the year progresses given the penetration level of your credit business right now? Well I think from my perspective I think the non-credit card business has to be sort of flattish and the credit card business will kind of be up mid -- or low to mid-singles.
4% and flat would get you to 2% roughly.
And we've seen that in the fourth quarter.
Our non-credit card business actually in the fall season was basically flat versus being down 6% in the spring.
So that in my opinion gives you some additional ammunition to support Kevin's confidence and the fact that we're priced right.
Your next question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Kevin you discussed some of the changes to your marketing plan a move towards more digital and TV.
Can you expand on that as well? I think we -- let me back up on it a little bit Deb.
We -- as we went through last year I think one of the efforts that we did talk to you about is Wes' effort around improving SG&amp;A efficiency and improving costs.
As part of that we partnered with outside help to really try to dive into a lot of our key expense areas.
Naturally one of the biggest experience areas we have is marketing.
We spend almost $1 billion a year in marketing.
And as we did that and really more finely looked at efficiency one of the things that became very clear is that our share of voice and our impact with the broader swath of customers reaching a larger audience was not where it needed to be.
And when we dove further into that it became really apparent that broadcast was an area that we needed to really make a more significant investment into to carry more weight with the customer and make us more appealing to a wider audience.
Mainly that is going to be event broadcast and it's going to be more timed around our big events.
So it's trying to support other efforts that we have in media as well.
But I would say that's the biggest single learning was we needed to raise our share of voice in broadcast because we need to reach more customers outside of our core customer particularly our credit card customer.
And that's the way in which we're going to be able to compete more effectively.
Obviously this is a 0 sum game so there were other areas that provided lower productivity.
And we're also sort of overreaching the same customer over and over and over again.
And those areas have been scaled back as a result of that.
Hopefully that gives you the answer you're looking for.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's helpful.
And then as we think about the 0 to 2% comp for the quarter and also for 2013 I mean there's a lot of it sounds like very positive changes taking place.
Are those more back-end loaded? Or how should we just think about all of the different initiatives in place and the comps that you're guiding to? I mean we're -- we haven't given any specific quarter comp on the first one.
The first quarter I think Wes just said he's forecasting 0 to 2% as well.
I don't know -- unlike last year I would say last year at the beginning of the year we really kind of felt that the year was more back-end loaded because we were just recognizing that there were just so many changes that needed to be made that we weren't going to get traction until late in the year.
And that turned out to be true.
I mean our best comp it wasn't what we'd like to be but our best comp was in fact the fourth quarter for the year.
I think this is more even.
We do have Deb as you know essentially an entirely new merchandising team.
And Dave joined our organization in various times during the course of the year.
So I recognize in some cases it takes time to get traction there.
But I don't know that I see that particularly affecting the individual quarter comps.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Maschmeyer with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk a bit into your gross margin plans for Q1? What proportion of the hit from clearance inventory did you take in Q4? And what do you think is remaining in the Q1 and how does that play into your gross margin guidance? Well we obviously took what we thought was appropriate.
And in Q4 we didn't need to raise our markdown reserve at the end of the quarter.
We'd continue to sell outerwear in the first quarter.
That will have additional markdowns.
All the markdowns we need to clear the remaining.
Fall inventory are in the flat to 20% gross margin.
A lot of them the fact that our inventories are up or because we have more transition merchandise in there than we did last year I think I spoke to some of you guys about that when we did our January comp call.
So we feel much better about where we are positioned for spring selling.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And actually just a follow-up on that point.
Could you talk a little bit more about the areas where you've got -- where you have increases in inventory for the first half of this year and how that really is different from your merchandising strategy in Q4? With the areas that have come into this year and I think Wes described our inventory position in 2 different ways: one was just the absolute number that we reported fiscally; and the other was to try to provide a more apples-to-apples consideration.
So that number I think was more in the mid-single digits up to last year.
So using that as a context if the company was running mid-single-digit inventories higher than last year it was pretty broad across the store.
I mean there were a couple of exceptions on the high side due to business trends and a couple of exceptions on the low side due to business trends.
So an example I would give you is juniors.
I think actually on that apples-to-apples comparison it had less inventories than last year.
And that was a result of the fact that we've had very difficult business in juniors so they need to run with less inventory.
An area like athletic footwear our athletic apparel across the whole store which has been very very strong has been running with much higher-than-average inventories than last year.
So I think we actually feel pretty good that the balance of our inventory is sort of directed to the places that are either driving our business or if they're not driving our business they're not being funded with inventory.
I mean I think in comparing that to fourth quarter I think that was another part of your question.
We obviously went very deep in gift strategy.
As Kevin mentioned in his comments we had some successes and some failures.
Big successes were toys.
We were up 25% comp in toys for the quarter.
Small electrics was another big success up mid-teens.
Some things that didn't work out as well were our investments in seasonal apparel and some of our jewelry and accessories categories.
Those obviously being fourth quarter and very seasonal-related have very short shelf life.
Our inventory in the spring has a very long shelf life.
It's obviously not very warm out here in Milwaukee so we just had 7 inches of snow yesterday.
So we're not selling a heck of a lot of shorts right now.
But we have a long time to get through all the short inventory and it will get -- eventually get warm in the Midwest.
And the stuff we are carrying now doesn't have a lot of markdown risk in the first quarter.
Your next question comes from the line of Richard Jaffe with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And I guess a question about marketing and the mix in the margins.
Wes you've touched on some of the successes such as toys and small electrics but in more modest margin business.
And I'm trying to understand how that -- some of the marketing initiatives for fall or for 2013 become clearer and more compelling to the consumer and also perhaps more focused on higher-margin categories? And could you also talk about mix through the online channel and opportunity to shift that to higher-margin product? We'll try to take that one piece at a time.
I think a part of your question had to do with how marketing will target the categories of businesses that we think are opportunities and might even be higher margin.
The way we're thinking about our marketing efforts this year is that we're really adjusting the balance of our investments by media type pretty significantly.
And that adjustment on obviously spending a lot more dollars on broadcast and digital there are 2 elements to that effort.
One is just our media weight more a lot more to increase share voice and presence; and second is message and the message is going to be broader so not so targeted to individual items or categories but broader -- a broader message of savings and value across the store.
And it's targeted to brands because we think our key national brands should be part of that.
And our very key most important exclusive national brands should also be part of that.
So the message is definitely very different than it was last year.
When it comes to the category investment that gives sense to a lot of details.
It's probably not good for the call.
But I think just stepping back you'd say okay they definitely are spending -- are going to spend a lot more in television and a lot more in the digital platform and that that investment is going to be a broad message across the whole store about savings for mom and getting her confident again that we have great prices that she can actually believe in and that we give them to her all the time.
And from an e-com perspective I think you're -- and against the headwind there because home is a very highly penetrated area there for us for a couple reasons.
One it's really where we started.
The website was a majority home for a number of years.
And two just the giftable nature a lot of things for weddings and things like that makes it easy to ship it online.
Having said that one of the things our e-com folks are focusing on is more direct shift categories and to broaden the assortment which is going to be in higher-margin carry -- categories and also carry much higher AURs.
One of the issues with our e-com profitability is our AUR is a lot lower than our competition.
And to ship a t-shirt for $10 is the same cost as to ship a t-shirt for $30.
So from that perspective we need to raise the average ticket to reduce the drag on our margins from shipping costs.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Will that initiative be reflected on the e-commerce advertising? Would that be integrated into that? Well I mean it's going to be on the website obviously with the broader assortment and we'll be able to offer more categories.
I mean we're going to try to sell what sells.
We're not going to just hang the high-AUR things.
We have to have a good mix just like we do in the tab.
Your next question comes from the line of Liz Dunn with Macquarie Capital.
I guess as a follow-up to the last question do some of these efforts around shipping costs change your viewpoint on e-commerce profitability over the long term? Because I think in the past we've talked about it being sort of at a mid-single-digit operating margin in that business.
Do you think you can get it higher? Yes I mean we've made about 100 basis points improvement this year and we're not fully automated in the 4 EFCs that we have.
The key is you have to look at operating margin and return on investment.
I think those guys out in Washington don't have a real high operating margin but they have a really good ROI.
It's from -- I mean talking about Amazon.
So one of the things we got to do in continuing to grow and we tested it last year was the ship-from-store initiative.
That allows us to service the customer during the 4- to 6-week peak which is where -- really where you need it.
The rest of the year we can comfortably accommodate growth for a number of years in our 4 existing EFCs to crack the code.
And raising it from mid-single-digit profitability to high single-digit profitability is really going to be able -- come down to how do we service that customer in that peak period without a lot of capital investment.
And that's what we're going to try to do with the ship-from-store initiative.
Do you currently have a position on price matching like if somebody shows you lower price online? Sure.
Not a specific position on price matching online.
That's different than our stores.
We have a service promise which we're very good at I think in our stores and online which is yes we can.
And we're going to take care of the customers.
So not to the extent you're talking about.
Obviously a very large percentage of our businesses comes from our own private and exclusive brands.
I mean it is definitely one of the strategies that we thought that was really important for us to drive over the last 5 years because we just anticipated that transparency in pricing was just going to grow.
And more and more we need to be unique in our offerings.
So I think to some extent this is a smaller issue for us and secondarily I think a smaller issue for us because as you know over 80% of our business is apparel and accessories.
Okay.
And then just finally I'm sorry if I missed it but what's the reason that the SG&amp;A growth rate is higher in the first quarter versus the full year? A lot of it is in terms of shift of remodel expense.
So we have more remodel expense in terms of writing off things and preparing for the remodels in first quarter where last year we would've done more remodels in spring and taken the SG&amp;A hit in the fall.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Fuhrman with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I just want to talk a little bit about shipping and handling revenues and costs as that becomes a bigger part of the business.
If I'm interpreting your prepared remarks correctly it sounds like shipping and handling costs as a percentage of sales or at least e-commerce sales was down year-over-year.
Will be curious to know kind of how the net shipping margin if that has also improved year-over-year or if that might have been offset by lower shipping and handling revenues collected from customers as a percentage of sales? And then if you can just talk about kind of what are the longer term -- as this channel grows to a double-digit penetration what are the opportunities to contain that net shipping margin over the next couple of years? And clearly with the growth -- I mean are there other certain scale levers that you'll hit over the next few years that will enable you to bring shipping costs down or perhaps be a little bit more dynamic in how you fulfill those orders? Or is there anything we should be thinking about as the e-commerce business scale that might mitigate the gross margin impact? Yes I think I partially answered that question with my remarks to Liz.
But I mean our shipping costs in the fourth quarter improved about 270 basis points that's on a net basis and for the year improved about 100 basis points.
So we're definitely making progress.
It's on the cost side.
It's not really on the revenue side.
We don't make a whole lot of money from a shipping revenue perspective.
We have free shipping pretty much at $75 most days.
Sometimes we do $0.99 an item but primarily it's $75.
And then in the fourth quarter we take it down to $50 to be competitive with the rest of the folks.
So our focus on net shipping is going to be really on the cost side and it's going to be augmented and helped improve when we automate the fourth EFC balance the inventories a little bit better.
And then obviously in the fourth quarter it's going to be real important to be able to ship from store to help offset the peak.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Binetti with UBS.
Research Division</strong> So last night we heard J.C.
Penney talk about switching back becoming more promotional.
I'm wondering how you think about that as you think about the guidance for the year.
Anything that you got -- you've kind of withheld in the guidance to say "We need to switch back to be more promotional to defend share " anything like that that you can talk about with it maybe some changes ahead on the competitive landscape? No I mean I think as we sort of covered in the call last year was not the kind of year we would like to see.
We didn't -- while we grew we didn't get the growth rate that we were looking for.
But more importantly profitability really suffered as a result.
In some cases I think a poor execution on our part and then some cases of us being very aggressive in going after share.
That eventually didn't come.
Our promotional positioning is plenty aggressive.
We have great voice with the customers and we kind of touched on the fact that we're reallocating that voice to areas that we don't feel as strong in.
But overall we have very aggressive marketing so we definitely drive traffic to our stores.
People know what Kohl's stands for.
We know from our own research from independent survey price data that our prices are more than competitive that Kohl's stands for savings but also stands for great value.
So I don't think there really need to be any tweaks on that.
That's really not where our focus is.
We need to hone our position more effectively by improving all these other things which to a great degree is about presenting better products and better ways to the customer in reaching more customers.
So what's happening in other competitors first of all it's obviously outside of our control but it's not really what our focus is.
Our focus is internal.
Research Division</strong> Can you just help us think about the composition of how you're thinking about the same-store sales guidance for the year between transactions and AUR? I think historically you've done better in an environment where you've been able to drive sales through transactions.
I only see one year looking back when your total comps went the opposite direction of transactions.
So is this a positive trend? Yes I mean I think every year for us is set out to be a transaction year.
We're not usually baking a comp assumption based upon the increase in ticket.
So a lot of what we talked about today is to driving the customer into the stores and broadening our media mix to reach more non-credit card customers.
That's going to be the key.
So I think if we have a good comp this year it's going to be mostly driven by transaction.
Research Division</strong> And just for the models is there any reason why there's such a big jump in D&amp;A? This year it looks like it's up 9%.
Is there anything in there Wes? We're spending a lot -- hell lot of money on IT which has a life of 3 to 5 years and also more money on remodels.
And new stores are coming down.
Remodels are depreciated over about a 8-year period and obviously new stores much longer than that.
So as that becomes a smaller part of our mix new stores you're going to see D&amp;A is going to grow faster than sales.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> The e-commerce business drove the entirety of the comp growth last year with in-store sales down.
With the kind of a modest remodel program can you provide a little bit more detail on how you expect to actually drive traffic in the doors? I mean you mentioned a different advertising strategy.
Maybe you could elaborate a little bit more on that? And also while I noticed you're opening fewer stores this year have we kind of potentially reached the point of kind of where you think your store count will be kind of in the future? I mean from a marketing perspective I think we spent a big part of the call talking about it and we're not really willing to get into any more detail than we already have.
Our new store slowdown is really a function of our performance of our new stores over the last few years.
As we've grown our e-commerce business that's come out -- some of it come out of the stores.
By our best estimates about 1/3 of the e-commerce growth has come out of the stores and we're not getting the same kind of returns on our new stores like we used to.
That's why we're bring it down and we're focusing more on IT investments to help make the existing stores more productive and focusing more on remodels to try to add some different things to them from a category perspective to make those more profitable.
We talked about the sales productivity test.
We learned a lot there.
Some of the stuff we'll roll out to all the stores going forward.
There's some different nuances in the remodels that we're doing this year which should help us grow sales per square foot.
But again they're just testing so that's what we have to do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then -- maybe I missed this but does your buyback plans for $1 billion this year does that include adding debt similar to what we saw this past third quarter? No our target is a BBB+ rating.
We've communicated to the rating agencies that we will manage a range of 2 to 2.25.
If you do the math on this year's results it gets pretty close to that 2.25.
If our results are better than what we said it's possible we'd add a little debt.
But at this point if we're within the 0 to 2% range we will not be adding any debt this year.
Research Division</strong> And then just last you spoke Wes earlier about the snow and certainly weather has been unfavorable this month.
Could you just speak to where trends are quarter-to-date and are they at the low end of the range or a little bit below with the expectation of just seeing some improvement as the quarter progresses? This is Kevin.
I mean obviously we can't talk in any detail about what the performance is for the month of February specifically.
The trend of our business is incorporated in the guidance that we give you.
I will say that I think like many other retailers that I have listened to trends of business late in January continued to be weak into February.
So I think that's definitely accurate in our case as well.
I'm sure that that -- it looks to be a combination of factors from economic factors like the payroll tax change to probably gas prices.
Late tax refunds.
Late tax refunds to unfortunately weather not favorable for selling forward merchandise.
So it's probably a combination of things.
But I think our experience late in the month of January and continuing into this month in February has probably been like many other retailers which is the business has gotten a lot weaker.
But the beautiful thing about moving to quarterly comp is we can actually look more than 30 days ahead of time.
Your final question comes from the line of Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> This is Heather Balsky filling in for Kimberly.
Just returning to merchandising strategy I was wondering if you could talk about some of the progress you've made in the juniors in terms of improving merchandising? And then any learning you may have had from the Narciso Rodriguez launch in November? Sure.
I mean I think generally as you know juniors trailed the store by a lot last year.
It's part of our women's overall line of business so we don't break down junior specifically but it trailed the rest of women's apparel significantly.
I think we're starting to feel a lot better about it as we look at the trend of business in the last 4 to 6 weeks in juniors.
It's changed pretty dramatically.
It looks a lot I think Wes more like the store right now.
Yes.
Which would be a huge change in trend from what it was in 2012.
I think that impact is being driven by better merchandising decisions new merchandising team new leadership team in place and a real focus on more clarity in our assortments being faster but more edited and deeper around the things we believe in.
So we're not -- we don't want to get ahead of ourselves at all but it certainly feels better.
So I think some of the things that we talked about in the call that apply to the whole store eliminating duplications eliminating redundancies getting more focus around brands that matter are working in juniors I would say.
And we're starting to feel better about the results.
No I think in January the regular-priced business in January I believe was flat which is a big improvement of trend for last year.
So we're looking forward to better things out of those guys this year.
Research Division</strong> And the Narciso Rodriguez was there any learnings from there the last? Yes I'm sorry.
The Narciso Rodriguez launch was our first launch in our DesigNation effort which continues this year.
I think there were some significant learnings not surprisingly probably are the impact of that business online was out of proportion to our typical apparel penetrations I think by multiple times if I remember right Wes? So the amount of goods we sold online as a percentage of a brick-and-mortar business was way more than we would typically have in the overall brick-and-mortar business.
I think we learned a lot about breadth of what we offer and depth of what we offer.
And we learned a lot about making sure we have clarity in that in our store from a presentation perspective.
I think generally our in-store experience on the brand was pretty good right at the launch.
And we need to do a better job of maintaining that then through the period as well.
I think those were probably the 2 big learnings I would say.
Thanks everyone.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Brent and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Kohl's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made on this call including projected financial results are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Kohl's intends forward-looking terminologies such as believes expects may will should anticipates plans or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause Kohl's actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those that are described in Item IA in Kohl's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and as may be supplemented from time to time in Kohl's other filings with the SEC all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
Also please note that replays of this recording will not be updated.
So if you are listening after May 16 it is possible that the information discussed is no longer current.
Thank you.
I would now like to hand the call over to Mr.
Wes McDonald Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks a lot.
With me today is Kevin Mansell Chairman CEO and President of Kohl's Corporation.
Total sales for the quarter decreased 1% to $4.2 billion.
Comp store sales decreased 1.9%.
The decrease in comp sales reflects a 2.4% increase in units per transaction which was offset by a 1.1% decline in average unit retail and a 3.2% decrease in number of transactions.
Kevin will talk more about our sales in a moment.
Our gross margin rate for the quarter was 36.4% approximately 50 basis points higher than the first quarter of last year and significantly better than our guidance of flat to up 20 basis points.
We continue to believe that our value equation is right and we expect improvement in our gross margin throughout 2013 as a result of lower costs and better inventory management.
SG&amp;A decreased 1% for the quarter better than our expectations above 2.5% to 3.5%.
SG&amp;A as a percent of sales deleveraged approximately 10 basis points for the quarter.
Store payroll continue to be managed very well despite our volatility in sales during the quarter.
Our store controllable line achieved significant leverage in remodel-related costs as all 30 2013 remodels will occur in the fall.
Overall store expenses deleveraged through the inability to leverage our fixed costs with the lower-than-planned sales.
Advertising expenses leveraged for the quarter.
We expect to invest more money in advertising in the second quarter after seeing some of the results of our advertising test in the first quarter.
Our credit operations continue to provide leverage as revenue increases more than offset increases in marketing and servicing costs.
Distribution centers and information technology did not leverage due to growth and infrastructure investment in our e-commerce business.
We continue to improve our efficiency in e-commerce fulfillment and they achieved significant leverage as a percent of e-commerce sales.
Depreciation expense increased 6% over the first quarter of 2012 to $214 million.
The increases is primarily due to technology investments across the company.
Net interest expense was $83 million this quarter up $1 million compared to the prior year quarter.
The increase is primarily due to the September 2012 debt issuance.
Our income tax rate was 37% for the quarter.
This is approximately 150 basis points higher than last year's first quarter which included the impact of favorable state audit settlements.
Net income decreased 4% to $147 million and EPS increased 5% to $0.66 per diluted share.
For your modeling purposes gross square footage at the end of the quarter was 101.07 million and selling square footage was 83.536 million.
During the quarter we opened 9 new stores and also reopened our Caesar's Bay store in New York which had been closed since Superstorm Sandy last November.
Moving on to the balance sheet -- we ended the quarter with 1 155 stores.
Our plans are to open 3 new stores and remodel 30 stores this fall.
Moving on to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with $518 million of cash and cash equivalents.
Capital expenditures were $135 million for the first 3 months of 2013 $42 million lower than the first 3 months of 2012.
The decrease reflects multiple changes in our capital expenditures including fewer remodels and new stores partially offset by higher IT spending.
Our April inventory balance was $4 billion a 15% increase over April 2012.
And our brick-and-mortar stores' inventory dollars are up 10% per store over last year.
Kevin will talk more about inventory in a few minutes.
AP as a percent of inventory decreased from 46.6 at quarter-end 2012 to 36.7 this year.
Weighted average diluted shares were $223 million for the quarter.
And on May 15 2013 our board declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.35 per share which is payable June 26 2013 to shareholders of record at the close of business on June 12 2013.
I'll now turn it over to Kevin who will provide additional insights on our results.
Thanks Wes.
Let me start with sales.
As Wes mentioned comp sales were down 1.9% for the quarter.
Though we don't provide details by month when spring finally arrived in April we saw significant comp improvements in our weather-sensitive markets including the Midwest Mid-Atlantic and Northeast.
For the quarter the West was the strongest region and was the only region which reported higher comp stores.
The Midwest Northeast Southeast and South Central regions all reported mid-single-digit comp decreases.
E-commerce sales increased 31% for the quarter and contributed approximately 210 basis points to our comp.
The seasonal apparel was down 8% for the quarter and negatively affected sales by approximately 320 basis points.
Moving on to a line of business perspective.
All lines of business reported modest sales decline as higher sales in basics and other non-seasonal merchandise were more than offset by lower sales in seasonal merchandise categories.
Home accessories and footwear were the strongest categories performing better than the company.
Within home electrics and luggage were very strong.
Within accessories strength was in bath and beauty watches and sterling silver jewelry.
And athletic shoes were the strongest footwear category.
Women's was consistent with the company average.
Notable performers again included the active and fitness category.
Intimates and sleepwear and special sizes outperformed the company average.
Men's reported notable strength in the tailored and dress category.
And finally children's reported the largest sales decreases.
Results were generally consistent across all kids' apparel categories.
From a brand perspective private exclusive and national brands performed very similarly in the quarter.
Private and exclusive brand penetration grew 30 basis points versus last year for the quarter in total.
Our newest brands such as Jennifer Lopez Marc Anthony and Rock and Republic continue to achieve solid double-digit growth increases.
And several of our largest brands such as NIKE and Chaps also reported strong sales.
From an inventory standpoint as expected our inventory levels are up low double digits on a per-store basis over the first quarter 2012 levels.
As you may recall our inventory levels were uncharacteristically low as we were chasing inventory in many categories through most of the spring season last year.
We would expect to end the second quarter up low- to mid-single digits per store versus last year.
Most of that investment would be in key back-to-school areas like children's and young men's as well as areas that were short [ph] of seasonal products such as men's sportswear.
In marketing we've been able to read some of the marketing tests we did last fall and in the first quarter.
Many of those tests have proven successful and we are increasing our marketing spend modestly over last year in the second quarter as a result in order to drive sales.
We continue to be very pleased with the early results of our loyalty program which we launched in approximately 100 stores last fall.
We expanded the test to the state of Texas earlier this month and are planning to expand it to other markets in the third quarter.
We've listened to our customers in the pilot stores and have made some notable improvements to the program.
Included were changes in threshold levels redemption timeframes and in-store communication.
At this point we're seeing both existing Kohl's Charge customers and bank card customers embrace the program.
We've not seen our credit card penetration dip in these markets and loyalty is increasing the likelihood of the bank card customer applying for a Kohl's Charge Card.
We're also pleased with the financial results in terms of frequency and spending so far.
The program continues to provide us with significant insights into how our customer shops and how we're better able to influence our shopping behavior.
We plan to use these learnings to further improve the program before a rollout to the entire chain.
In the area of information technology during the quarter we made significant additional technology investments.
They were to support our online business to provide ongoing operational efficiencies in our stores and corporate locations and to provide the omni-channel shopping experience that our customers desire.
We are on track to replace our e-commerce platform in the second quarter.
This upgrade will be virtually invisible to our customer but is foundational to our omni-channel roadmap.
We also expect to have the necessary infrastructure in place to expand our ability to fulfill online orders from stores.
We expect to expand shift from stores to 200 stores by this holiday 2013.
We will also expand our RFID pilot to additional stores and departments later this year.
This project improves our on-shelf availability and reduces replenishment costs.
Mobile POS is a key benefit of our POS re-platform project.
We will pilot mobile POS in the third quarter.
And finally our global inventory visibility project will improve our ability to track in-store inventory and is the first of several steps necessary to offering in-store pickup for online orders.
Each of these investments either has been or will be adequately tested before it's rolled out to ensure it meets our ROI goals and does not negatively impact the customer experience.
In closing from a strictly financial results perspective first quarter results were better than expected.
We're pleased with the management of both our gross margin and our expenses.
Our customers continue to give us very high marks on our customer service noting the improvement in our inventory levels in all of our survey results.
The West region is starting to get momentum on the sales line after we improved our store operations there over the last few years.
The region has now led the company in sales for the last 2 quarters.
However we're not satisfied with our progress on the top line across the company.
Our e-commerce business has remained strong and we'll continue to invest in its growth for the long term.
And as I mentioned earlier we've had some success with the marketing tests we've been running and I do believe you will see that in our future top line results.
There's also a lot of pent-up demand for spring merchandise out there.
We'll be in a much better inventory position in the second quarter than we were last year and we think it will allow us to take advantage of some pent-up seasonal demand.
And finally our organizational changes are having additional 3 months to take effect.
As a reminder our 3 broad strategies for 2013 were: to own savings; to focus on mom our most important customer; and to increase our confidence in Kohl's from all aspects.
On the savings strategy we believe strongly that savings isn't just about the lowest price.
It's about price quality style and the experience the customer gets at Kohl's.
All-in savings includes focusing our marketing message to consistently position Kohl's as the savings leader.
It includes ensuring that our prices are competitive first but then even better with our value-added offers.
It includes building increased style and quality into the products that she buys.
We made a decision to expand our loyalty program to broaden the customer base with access to value-added offers and we believe long term it could be a very powerful tool to broaden our reach.
Our second strategy increasing her confidence in Kohl's is about providing the assurance that Kohl's will always come through for her and that she knows we are the store for her having what she wants and when she wants it whether it's in store or online.
With our increase in inventory levels we have seen improvement in our in-stock levels on replenished goods.
As we enter the fall season we would expect to improve on that further as we focus the increasing depth of customer choice while reducing the number of choices.
In 2012 our offerings became too broad and our assortments lacked focus.
Most importantly our organizational changes should have their full impact as we enter the back-to-school season.
The third key strategy is focusing on mom.
Though moms are our most loyal and highest spending customers we believe we have significant opportunity to capture a larger share of her wallet.
We continue to do a significant amount of customer research both quantitatively and qualitatively to learn how we can serve her best.
In summary our #1 goal is to drive sales.
In order to do that we have to continue to improve the quality of our merchandise and offer items at a great value.
I'm pleased with the progress we've made in our marketing.
We need to continue to progress in order to drive increases in transactions per store.
Driving traffic will allow us to gain market share consistently from competitors.
With that I'll it turn back to Wes to provide our second quarter guidance.
Thanks Kevin.
For the second quarter our guidance is as follows: total sales increase of 1% to 3%; comparable sales increase of flat to 2%; gross margin rate increase of 10 to 20 basis points; SG&amp;A expenses increasing 2.5% to 3.5%; depreciation expense of $228 million; interest expense of $83 million; and a tax rate of 37.5%.
This results in earnings per diluted share of $1 to $1.08 for the second fiscal quarter.
With that we'll be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Bob Drbul with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
The first one is when you look at the inventory levels is there a different way to look at it on a sort of calendar comparable basis? Did the calendar have a significant impact on your reported levels? Not for this quarter really.
It was relatively same.
I think what did have an impact was the receipt level.
Obviously with seasonal merchandise not selling very well in the beginning of the quarter we were able to cut some receipts in April.
The accounts payable dropped about $150 million.
About $100 million of that was due to just receipt reduction in April.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question is when you look at the sales performance this quarter just the weather impact in the first quarter how much of that do you expect to get back in the second quarter? And can you quantify any estimate around how much it did hit yourselves this quarter especially when you look at some of the competitive data that's out there? I think Bob as far as the first quarter goes probably the clearest way to quantify it is the way we did in our summary which is to say that seasonal categories which are the classifications that normally come to mind when you think about spring and summer selling t-shirts tanks shorts sandals were down 8% comps.
So they had a significant negative drag on our total business.
We've included in our assumptions for the second quarter basically our base assumptions for the year which is a flat to 2% comp.
I do think that there's probably a lot of pent-up demand and we saw some of that breaking news in April as we mentioned.
The trend change in April was pretty dramatic.
So we'd like to be optimistic and say we could get a lot of that back but our base case comp assumptions just include our full annual comp assumptions of flat to 2%.
Yes I think Kevin mentioned that on the call.
But if we were to run flat and seasonal the comps for the quarter would've been 320 basis points better.
Your next question comes from line of Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> You didn't comment on your prior full year guidance of $4.15 to $4.45.
Does that still stand? Well if we don't comment it means it didn't change.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just thinking about the second half what categories do you see the most comp opportunity from having better inventory position and having some of these new merchants in place? Well I mean I think that first of all generally the basic classifications have great opportunity to grow.
And actually in spite of the weak demand in the first quarter which meant weaker traffic drove that basic categories actually performed pretty well.
So I think that's encouraging.
Our in-stock service levels are up significantly over last year.
That remains an opportunity for us going in the fall and holiday because we didn't do a good job on basic categories.
And then we've had a pretty broad wholesale organizational change.
So I don't know that I would call out any particular category.
I think our opportunity in the store in total is pretty wide to be honest with you Lorraine.
So I would expect that all of our key 6 businesses could contribute to sales growth in the back half.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then can you quantify the impact that the better credit had on SG&amp;A? $10 million.
Your next question comes from the line of Erika Maschmeyer with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> You're up against or you used comparison in Q2 and you're obviously giving comp guidance that's in line with your full year guidance.
I mean so should we think of it more on the high end of that range? Or it sounded like you were pretty optimistic on the opportunity for pent-up demand.
I mean just is there any other shift in advertising or marketing or promotions or anything else that would be a headwind for the comp in Q2? No I mean there aren't any specific headwinds in the second quarter.
I think we're optimistic that we'll get some pent-up demand because we are positioned to take advantage of it.
And as you said last year our performance was driven by a lack of in-stock in those categories.
So we do think it's an opportunity for sure.
But no there's no specific other headwinds.
I think we did mention that we are investing a little more in marketing.
That's due to the results of the tests that we did in the fourth quarter and the first quarter.
Those were primarily around loyalty of course but they were also around application of expansion in broadcast both event television and radio and also changes in our direct mail strategy.
So I'm hopeful that those also could have a positive impact.
Research Division</strong> On the advertising front so you found an encouraging ROI from expanding the broadcast in the quarter.
Is that fair to say? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So then should we think of that as probably continuing through the holidays.
And I guess any other early thoughts that you might have on the competitive environment for the holidays and how you plan on increasing your share of mind share with the consumer? No I mean I don't think we're prepared to talk about back-to-school or holiday at this point.
We're really focused on taking advantage of the opportunity in front of us in the second quarter.
But one of the things we work diligently at is to formulate many many tests and pilots in marketing because we do know that that's an area that has not leveraged effectively for us and needs to perform better from a productivity standpoint.
So I would expect that to continue.
We're going to continue to be testing piloting and then applying those learnings to our broad company-wide effort.
Your next question comes from the line of Dan Binder with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
First on expenses.
I guess relative to your expectations in Q1 was it just simply better layer management that allowed you to keep the expense growth down? And in longer term just curious based on the cost-cutting initiatives that you've taken and pursuing for the last year or so I'm curious where we are in that in recognizing them.
Well we've put $80 million in our plan so far either fall last year or for 2013.
I'd say our SG&amp;A performance quite honestly every area in the company other than store fixed expense beat their plans.
So my guidance to you guys earlier in the quarter is based on what our plan is and the comparison outlines just really our result.
So the plan -- but every team in the company really did a great job of managing expenses across the board.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the inventory front I know you guys were under inventory this time last year.
So when we look at the increase at around 15%.
I guess how much of that is sort of catch-up to getting to where you should be versus just being heavy because of a soft Q1? And is the mix of the excess inventory primarily seasonal? No I mean the total inventory ending for the quarter is frankly exactly where we thought it would be.
And that includes being as you said light in our revenue expectations.
So we made adjustments during the quarter to make sure we manage that effectively.
I -- from my perspective and I think Wes and I both feel strongly that the basic in-stock commitment we made we're living up to and that's going to benefit us.
But on a year-over-year comparison we're up quite a bit as a result.
And then on the seasonal classifications those are reclassifications that we were way under inventoried and going into the second quarter last year so it is definitely a correction to last year.
Yes I mean as I look at the buckets of inventory our seasonal inventory is up a little bit more than -- per average store it's not material.
We're actually up a little bit more in things like denim and non-denim long bottoms.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then just one final one on credit.
I think you were doing some work with Capital One to mine the data better then give you an opportunity to go a little bit further down on the FICO score spectrum in terms of what you approve and don't approve.
Any updates on that? Well I put a new scorecard in last October and that's been running since then.
So I guess what I would tell you it's -- we've been able to maintain our approval rate either a little bit above last year or at last year.
One of the things that just came out from Washington is they're going to come up with some rules that's going to make us -- allow us to grant credit to stay-at-home spouses which is obviously a big part of who shops our store.
And we're anxiously awaiting those rules to come out so we can change some of our criteria on our scorecard to allow us to approve more people.
Your next question comes from the line of Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering how should we think about inventory management in the back of the year? And as you were going through the first quarter with sales that were running below plan did you have any opportunities to cancel or cut back on any second quarter deliveries in order to try to respond to that situation? Yes I already sort of answered that.
I mean I said $100 million of the AP drop was due to cut in receipts in April and we'd obviously adjust the receipts in the second quarter as well.
We said the inventories at the end of the second quarter will be low to high -- or excuse me low- to mid-single digits on a per-store basis.
And then as we go into the fall obviously especially at the end of the year when we are very heavy in inventory I will expect us to be a lot lighter than.
We haven't broken out the merchant plans yet by quarter.
We're getting ready to do that but I would expect both quarters to be down with the fourth quarter being down more significantly.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Boss with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> You doubled your target for door-to-store rollout to 200 stores by the end of the year.
Can you speak to some of the learnings from the pilot test thus far? Yes I mean as you can imagine the test has been very positive.
I mean we -- generally what we've seen is that the costs to shift customers from our test stores which we're anticipating to be able to do from 200 stores in the Fall/Holiday are similar to the costs from our e-fulfillment center.
But the customer service levels are dramatically improved because the store location compared to the customers' residences is very very close.
So essentially we're getting much higher service levels for the customer for the same cost to the company.
Yes.
And the shipping cost is a little better which is another thing.
And I guess the last thing is we don't want to build another e-fulfillment center.
We've maximized our transportation savings with 4.
The only reason to build a fifth one is for capacity.
And we have 1 155 stores.
We'd like to use the store as the excess capacity for peak season and also as Kevin mentioned would increase the speed of shipping to the customer.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then with your comments on April improvement in the release have you seen these more robust trends continuing May to date? And also could you speak to the expected progression of monthly sales in 2Q? Well we're not giving monthly anymore so that we won't speak to.
The only thing I would say about -- because we obviously can't comment on trends in the quarter but the only thing about May that is obviously there's a benefit early in the month because of the calendar shift.
Mother's Day sort of appears a little bit earlier in the month.
But that's probably true for all retailers.
Your next question comes from the line of Nathan Rich with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> It's Deb Weinswig.
So in terms of looking at the quarter Kevin you've said that your first quarter results were better than expected.
What were the key drivers behind that? Well I mean they were to be honest with you with the very notable exception which I'll be clear to admit our top line which was still disappointing but I really do feel that was driven strictly by seasonal weather issues.
With the exception of that I think we were almost happy with every other single performance.
Inventory management was well done.
We ended the quarter with the inventory we expected to even though we didn't get the topline revenue we expected.
Merchandise margins exceeded our expectations and they were wide spread across the company.
And as Wes said I think almost every single area contributed to our expense results.
And the only area that didn't -- of note that didn't really leverage was store payroll but -- the store expense [ph] I'm sorry because of the sales results.
So I think one of the things that makes Wes and I both feel so great about the quarter is that it was very broad and that's important.
Research Division</strong> And then you laid a lot of tech investments that have happened but it sounds like there's a lot that's coming.
How would you kind of prioritize in terms of 2013 and also 2014 what you think will be the most important in terms of driving the business? In terms of which area though Deb? IT.
Research Division</strong> Your IT investments.
I think it's -- it would be almost impossible to be specific about a specific year's impact.
Some of these things are taking hold this year.
But as you know it takes time to sort of gain traction and gain momentum.
A good example to me is the re-platform right where we invested a lot in the re-platform and there's expectations that with that more robust ability to be more personal in our communication and deliver better service levels.
Combined with our ship-from-store capacity it will give us long-term growth.
But to be able to quantify how much of that growth can be at the back half of the year this year versus next year gets really difficult.
And I think the kind of the same is true for most of the other items.
I think generally there's positives for the Fall/Holiday but I think the bigger positives are quite coming in 2014.
Yes I mean there's a lot of systems that we're working on that are foundational in the merchandising area in partnership with Oracle to basically rewrite almost -- or replace almost every PO item-type system that will allow a lot more flexibility in terms of analyzing the business.
But Kevin is right the e-com platform is definitely going to help us this year but it's going to hopefully help us in the next years and the following year to come.
It was expensive so hopefully we have a multiple-year payback on that.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Swinand with Morningstar Investment Research.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on your comments that you have narrower and more focused assortments.
In your prepared remarks you've mentioned that.
Do you believe that's influencing gross margin and even inventory turns? Or is it still sort of in the transition phase? I mean I don't know that it's had a significant impact right now.
I think we see it as a really important driver of 3 things.
One is top line results because we think of a more focused assortment presented on the floor just gives us a better platform to present to customers but definitely an impact on both inventory turn and the resulting merchandise margins because we know that we got unfocused and over-assorted and that cost us a lot with the customer.
And it cost us an awful lot in terms of margin over the course of last year.
So I think we see it affecting all 3 things.
You'll see more of it in the fall.
I've been sitting through the fall planning meetings and we've really made it a big focus to look in every division choices versus last year and then depth versus last year.
So it's something the team has really embraced across all merchandise areas and that's when I think you should see it.
Research Division</strong> What do you think led you to get unfocused? Was it just testing to try to see what would work in a tough sales environment? Or...
Well I mean without rehashing sort of old news but I think one of the things we recognized last year is that we needed to improve the quality of our decision-making on our merchandise assortments broadly across the company.
And that led us to strengthen our merchandise team almost every single area of planning buying and product development.
And as you know it's not as if we don't have good system capabilities to make these decisions but ultimately it's about leadership.
And we've as you know made significant amounts of leadership changes at the end of last year and we're thinking that that's going to have a positive impact as we go into fall and holiday.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Lejuez with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions.
On the near-term stuff you mentioned some weakness in the weather-sensitive categories in the first quarter.
But you also saw strength in some of the non-weather-sensitive like home accessories and footwear.
So I'm just wondering if maybe you saw a dollar shift out of the weather-sensitive stuff and into non-weather-sensitive and if you could see kind of a giveback in the second quarter when the weather turns.
And then also I'm just wondering if you could share the comp metrics that you gave.
I guess those always include e-com.
I'm wondering if you could share what they were at the store level.
On the looking forward versus looking backwards where the business came from I mean basic categories performed better than non-basic categories but I don't see the results of those being dramatically inflated by the lack of selling in the seasonal merchandise.
Generally when seasonal merchandise is a little soft basic categories are a little stronger.
That's been consistent forever and I am sure that will be consistent going forward.
But no I don't really see that as a headwind at all for basic categories in the second quarter particularly considering as we talked about the tremendous effort and investment we've made in inventory in basic categories to be in stock in the second quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> But when you say basic you're not talking about home accessories and footwear though are you? Certain classifications and assuming most to home is basic.
I mean the vast majority of home is basic.
And footwear categories it's sort of a -- it depends.
In the area of athletic footwear we find that there's a lot less seasonality in the business.
In the area of casual footwear of course with categories like sandals being really important and really heavily seasonal businesses.
And then the other things that we kind of throw in the basics are the basic categories like underwear and dress shirts and ties denims categories that you would normally assume.
And for your other question I mean e-com was up 30% -- a little over 30% and was 210 basis points on the comp.
It obviously had better traffic than the stores.
I'm not interested in really breaking that up that much.
Given the fact that it's less than 10% of the business the metric differences aren't material.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just maybe longer term as you look at the strength in e-com and I guess maybe weaker store traffic does it make you rethink what the right number of stores are just in terms of your overall footprint over the long term? Because it does seem like e-com sales are potentially coming out of the stores and I'm just wondering if you rethink the number of stores that you should have longer term.
Well I think they're coming out of everybody's e-com business.
We're not alone in that.
Well I think we're just a little more honest about it than other people.
If you look at our sales per square foot with e-com it's basically been flat for the last 5 years.
So as far as reducing the number of stores we look at everything on an incremental cash flow basis.
If it doesn't provide incremental cash flow we'll close it.
And there's a handful of stores but I'm not thinking we need to close a large amount of stores at this point.
You're talking about a handful.
I mean the most significant impact of online on our strategy on the stores to be honest with you is to make the stores smaller and to take advantage of the online.
And I think it would be very difficult for Wes and I to look way out in the future and decide whether or not the total number of stores Kohl's could ever have is going to be dramatically influenced or not.
But certainly in the short term we're opening fewer stores.
Your last question comes from the line of Michael Binetti with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just I guess if you can help me just break down the gross margin year-over-year changes in the quarter a little bit you said -- I think you said gross margins exceeded your expectations.
So maybe you could help us think about how much of the year-over-year change was due to seasonal markdowns how much was related to cost benefits and maybe just some of the components there? Yes I mean we don't get into the detail of where the margin came from from which area.
I think the most I could provide color on that is to say that the margin improvement was widespread and it was across the company.
And it was both brick-and-mortar and online.
So it's pretty consistent I would say.
Yes and we gave you guys -- obviously we have higher expectations internally than we give you externally.
and I would tell you the merchants made their plans.
They haven't made that in a while so I'm very happy about that.
And we can continue to do that.
I think we'll have good margin performance throughout the balance of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if we could talk about the components of the comparison or the comp sales maybe in the second quarter.
Frankly you obviously lapped your biggest AUR hurdle from last year in the second quarter.
So if I try to look at some of the -- your guidance going from 0 to 2% and then if I want to look at the positive comps is it safe to say that baked into that assumption is that from the transaction sluggishness in the first quarter was pushed into May and probably still see a negative AUR in the second quarter? Yes I mean I think if I was trying to prognosticate I would say the transactions need to be positive for us to -- flat to positive for us to run a positive comp.
AUR is probably going to be down and UPT will probably be up.
And as we move through the back half especially in the fourth quarter I would expect AUR to be up given our margin performance last year and units to be down.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question.
Obviously we don't have a lot of details yet on the changing strategy of J.C.
Penney but it seems intuitive that those guys can look to drive traffic with heavier promotions and that they would more likely to do that in categories like the basics that you talked about today where they can mark the product down with less gross margin damage.
Have you seen any early reads if they've I guess started dipping their toe back into heavier coupons here in recent weeks that we could think about? Not really and to be totally honest with you I just don't think we're in a position to talk about that anyway.
Your next question comes from the line of Alex Fuhrman with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> I would love to talk a little bit more about the e-commerce fulfillment strategy and I think in prior quarters you've given a little bit more color about the actual impact to gross margin from shipping and handling.
And it sounds like from your prepared commentary that you're sort of talking about some fulfillment efficiencies.
I mean with that could you actually see an improvement year-over-year in your net shipping margin? And then kind of looking forward to the balance of the year obviously e-commerce as a percentage of sales is going to be a lot higher.
I mean is there an opportunity to stem the margin erosion from shipping and handling just given the improvement in the net shipping margin even as your e-commerce business grows? And then if we could just clarify quickly Wes I think you said that the cost of fulfilling an order from one of your stores is about the same as it is from your DC.
Is that just the marginal cost of one order? In other words is it still cheaper to do from the store when you factor in the depreciation associated with having to build out another DC? Well I think if you'd factor in the adding of an incremental DC then yes the store would be cheaper.
In terms of your earlier question the shipping cost has improved dramatically year-over-year.
It's still -- and because of the cost as a drain on the margin you'll get more details in the Q but it hurt our overall margin rate this quarter by 10 basis points.
Much less than it has in the past.
Your next question comes from the line of David Glick with Buckingham.
Kevin just a question on your national brand strategy.
It sounded like in Q1 the performance was similar to private and exclusive.
And then you talked a quarter ago about putting more emphasis on those brands in marketing.
Just wondering if you could update us on your thoughts to sort that business as well as some potential opportunities in the center core area where you're underdeveloped and possibly have the sales opportunity in accessories? Well in national brands and the private exclusive brands essentially ran almost the same performance for the quarter which was the second quarter in a row where national brands performed at or better than the overall stores.
So from a trend standpoint to be honest that's a pretty big change in the trend.
I think as we talked about at the beginning of the year we're really focused on making sure that our most important national brands are getting their due in inventory investment premier floorspace visual and more prominent marketing.
Much of that is sort of emerging in the second and the third quarter.
I think that we believe that that'll be particularly noticeable by the time we get to fall.
So I'm optimistic that we'll see even more traction as we go into the third quarter with national brands.
On the center core business it's definitely a business we're focused on.
We -- the business that outperformed the store though it wasn't exciting in terms of its results because as we said all 6 areas of business were in fact slightly negative.
But I do believe that with some of the testings and remodels that we're doing there's a lot of good things to come in that world.
So I would expect that world to perform better as we look through the rest of the year.
Are there any brand opportunities that you can talk about at this point Kevin? Or...
No.
Yes it would be premature to talk about any details.
Your next question comes from the line of Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
Can you talk a little bit about your credit card sales growth versus the non-credit card sales growth? And then as you had mentioned mobile is the mobile pilot still on track for the third quarter and has anything changed? In terms of credit versus non-credit for the quarter credit was up low-single digits and non-credit was down mid-single digits so a little disappointing from that perspective given the performance in the fourth quarter.
But I expect some of the things we're doing with loyalty as well as some other advertising changes in the second quarter I think will get the non-credit customer back onboard.
They also have a reason to buy because now they can buy shorts because it will be warmer than it was in the first quarter.
So I think we'll make some progress there.
And the mobile initiative is really tied to the re-platform so assuming that the re-platform goes in you'll see some of those initiatives happen in the fall.
Your next question comes from the line of Patrick McKeever with MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> Just wondering if you could maybe give us a little more -- or a little color on the DesigNation initiative how that's doing how the Derek Lam merchandise is doing right now.
Is that -- has that been less weather-sensitive than the rest of the store if that merchandise is selling better in-store or online that sort of thing and what's the plan there going forward? DesigNation as you know this is our second launch with the designer.
We had Narciso Rodriguez in the Fall/Holiday and Derek Lam just a few weeks ago.
I think the consistency that we see is that there's a lot of excitement with consumers around it.
That's a positive thing for word of mouth and for keeping consumers engaged.
So that's definitely fulfilling our expectation there.
Second it's very very strong online.
Maybe that's not a surprise to you but both the first launch and this more recent launch have both performed exceptionally well online where we got a lot of consumer engagement.
The actual performance of each of the brands has driven -- been driven a lot of course by also overall traffic.
So I think we probably didn't do quite as well in April with our Derek Lam expectation but -- as we had originally planned in our brick-and-mortar.
But unfortunately as you know we had lower traffic than we expected as well.
So I don't know the exact number Patrick.
I don't know that we made the plans but we came pretty close I think.
Your final question comes from the line of Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just to follow back up on gross margins could you just speak about the contribution of the lower sourcing costs as well as what was the impact of markdowns during this period if any? And also just on inventory do the move from being up 10% per store to low- to mid-single digits is that just a function of the comparisons or just -- if you can just help us get more comfortable with that? Well the drop is a function of the comparisons.
We really didn't have any seasonal inventory in May and June and we delivered polos the Thursday before Father's Day.
So we were chasing most of the quarter.
And as far as the components go I think it was pretty much balanced.
We had less clearance markdowns than we thought and a little bit better markup with the lower costs.
So to get more granular than that there's a lot of moving pieces and I'm just happy we beat our guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And operating income was down again this quarter year-over-year and share repurchases is helping the bottom line quite a bit.
Just as we look at your cash balance which is half of what it was a year ago I know you noted the AP is down but in order to get to that $1 billion in buyback for the year should we expect for you to add debt in the third quarter as you did a year ago? No we won't add any debt and the cash flow will get better towards the end of the year as the inventory comes down.
Thanks everybody.
Appreciate your time.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Jennifer and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Kohl's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made on this call including projected financial results are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Kohl's intends forward-looking terminologies such as believes expects may will should anticipates plans or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause Kohl's actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those that are described in Item 1A in Kohl's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and as may be supplemented from time to time in Kohl's other filings with the SEC all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
Also please note that replays of this recording will not be updated.
So if you are listening after August 15 it is possible that the information discussed is no longer current.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call over to Wes McDonald Senior Executive President (sic) [Senior Executive Vice President] Chief Financial Officer.
Sir you may begin.
Thanks.
With me today is Kevin Mansell President Chairman and CEO.
I'll go over some highlights in our financial statement and then Kevin will walk through some of our sales and marketing and store initiatives.
Comp store sales increased 0.9% for the quarter and decreased 0.5% for the year.
The quarterly increase in comp sales reflects a 4.8% increase in units per transaction that was partially offset by a 3.6% decrease in average unit retail and a 0.3% decrease in the number of transactions.
For the year units per transaction increased 3.6% but was offset by a 2.4% decrease in average unit retail and a 1.7% decrease in the number of transactions per store.
Total sales increased 2% to $4.3 billion for the quarter and 0.5% to $8.5 billion for the year.
Kevin will talk more about our sales in a moment.
Moving down to gross margin.
Our gross margin rate for the quarter was 39.1% which is 2 basis points higher than the second quarter of last year and slightly lower than our expectations of a 10- to 20-basis-point increase.
So sales were in the middle of our guidance.
SG&amp;A increased 2.6% for the quarter which is at the low end of our expectations of up 2.5% to 3.5%.
SG&amp;A as a percent of sales deleveraged approximately 10 basis points for both the quarter and the year.
Credit and corp operations provided the most significant leverage for the quarter.
Credit revenues increased $7 million primarily on higher late fees.
Corporate expenses leveraged as savings in payroll and benefits including incentive compensation were partially offset by increased IT spending related to growth and infrastructure investments related to our omni-channel strategy.
Store expenses deleveraged for the quarter as expense timing related to our remodels and beauty tests differed from last year.
Offset continued strong management of store payroll.
We also incurred expenses related to rolling out our merchandising location system which should be more than offset by payroll savings in future quarters.
Distribution costs increased slightly for the quarter.
We continue to improve our efficiency in E-Commerce fulfillment which reported significant leverage as a percent of E-Commerce sales.
Advertising deleverage for the quarter has increased our spending in digital and broadcast as well as added Texas to our loyalty pilot.
Year to date advertising lending leveraged approximately 10 basis points.
Depreciation expense increased 7% over the second quarter of last year to $225 million.
The increases are primarily due to the rollout of our e-Sign technology IT investments and other capital projects.
Net interest expense was $84 million this quarter $4 million higher than the prior year quarter.
The increase is primarily due to September 2012 debt issuance.
Our income tax rate was 37.1% for the quarter.
This is approximately 80 basis points higher than last year's second quarter which was positively impacted by favorable state audit settlements.
Diluted earnings per share increased 4% to $1.04 for the quarter.
Net income decreased approximately 4% for both the quarter and the year to $231 million and $378 million respectively.
For the year diluted earnings per share were $1.70 an increase of 4%.
For your modeling purposes we ended the quarter with 1 155 stores gross square footage of 100 107 000 square feet and selling square footage of 83 536 000.
Our plans are to open 3 new stores and remodel 30 stores this fall.
Moving on to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with $590 million of cash and cash equivalents.
Capital expenditures were $284 million for the first 6 months of 2013 $145 million lower than the first 6 months of 2012.
This decrease reflects the fewer remodels and lower E-Commerce fulfillment spending partially offset by higher IT spending.
We generated almost $300 million of free cash flow this quarter and year to date free cash flow was $426 million more than 3x that of spring 2012.
Our ending inventory dollars per store excluding E-Commerce were 6% higher than the end of the second quarter 2012.
This is within the low to mid-single digits per store increase that we guided to in our first quarter earnings call.
As expected most of the investments is in key back-to-school areas like children's and young men's as well in areas that were short of seasonal products last year such as men's sportswear.
AP as a percent of inventory decreased from 43.5% at quarter end 2012 to 36.2% this year.
The decrease is primarily due to reducing our second quarter receipts to manage our inventory levels as well as a slower inventory turnover.
Weighted average diluted shares were 222 million for the quarter.
Earlier this week our board declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.35 per share which is payable September 25 to shareholders of record at the close of business on September 11.
I'll now turn it over to Kevin who will provide additional insights on our results.
Thanks Wes.
Let me start with sales.
Comparable store sales increased 0.9% for the quarter.
That increase reflects higher units per transaction and higher E-Commerce traffic partially offset by lower average prices and lower traffic in our stores.
E-Commerce sales increased 28% and contributed approximately 160 basis points to our comp.
All of our warmer weather regions West South Central and Southeast reported positive comps for the quarter.
The Midwest and Northeast reported low single-digit declines and the Mid-Atlantic is the poorest performing region.
Looking at our results per line of business.
Children's was the strongest categories.
Footwear and men's also outperformed the company.
Kids and active footwear were the strongest footwear categories and men's was led by tailored dress basics and active.
The home business reported a positive comp but was slightly below the company average.
Notable home categories included luggage beddings and electrics.
Women's saw strength in active fitness and in national branded bottoms.
And in accessories bath and beauty was the strongest category.
Private and exclusive brands accounted for 56% of our sales for the quarter.
More than a year after launch Jennifer Lopez Marc Anthony and our Rock &amp; Republic brand continue to achieve solid double-digit growth.
In our private brand portfolio So and Jumping Beans also reported double-digit increases.
We're also very pleased by the improvement that we're seeing in our national brand portfolio.
Carter's Lee Levi's and Nike our 4 largest national brands reported mid to high single-digit increases for the quarter.
In the area of technology during the quarter we made substantial progress in several very significant IT projects.
First and foremost we successfully launched our E-Commerce re-platform.
The re-platform occurred in stages throughout the second quarter.
Second our ship from store RFID pilots mobile POS and mobile inventory visibility projects are progressing well.
Each of these projects represents our commitment to meeting the changing needs of our customers to strengthening our omni-channel experience and to investing in our future in a strategic and profitable manner.
In-store our goal is to deliver great in-store shopping experience to our customers in a consistent basis throughout the country at all times of the year every customer every time every store.
A key element of this strategy has historically been an impressive remodel program.
In 2012 however we temporarily reduced the number of remodels as we evaluated and tested different categories and space allocation in our stores.
We're now returning to remodeling with 30 stores this fall.
In addition one of the key areas that we tested over the last several quarters is cosmetics.
We believe we're significantly underserving our customer in this multibillion dollar market.
We're continuing to test both the size of the area and location of the area within the store in over 150 stores this fall including our remodels.
We expect to continue our tests and incorporate the changes in more stores in 2014 based on those results.
From the marketing side as we stated in the last conference call we increased our marketing spend in the second quarter after successful tests last fall and in the earlier part of this year.
Our marketing remains focused on the great value that Kohl's offers but also has an increased emphasis on the great brands that we offer.
This includes both our Only-at-Kohl's Brands but also our iconic national brands.
As I mentioned a moment ago this marketing message has had a positive impact on our national brands especially our largest ones.
Our marketing dollars have shifted towards channels that we believe will maximize our marketing dollars.
This includes increased TV and digital exposures.
We're significantly increasing our GRPs without increasing our TV marketing dollars.
We also have created new partnerships with some of the most well-known names in the advertising and marketing industry.
We're excited for the opportunities that this multi-source and agency approach brings to our marketing strategy.
We're also pleased with the results of the loyalty program pilot that we launched in the fall of 2012.
The program continues to provide significant insight into how our customer shops and more importantly how we are better able to influence their shopping behavior.
We're listening to our customer and modifying that program based on her needs and desires.
We will be rolling the program out to our California stores later this fall after a very successful launch in Texas in May.
In closing I'm pleased with the progress we've made in the second quarter.
Sales improved significantly over the first quarter and our gross margin improved over last year.
Expenses remained well managed.
The West region is starting to get momentum on the sales line after we improved our store operations there over the last few years.
The region has led the company in sales for the last 3 quarters in a row.
We're also extremely encouraged by our early back-to-school business.
Kids juniors young men's and footwear are all off to a good start.
We're especially happy though with the improvement in our national brand performance.
We expect this trend to continue and accelerate as we increase our marketing emphasis in the fall.
We know that our customer appreciates the value and style of our exclusive and private brands but we also recognize the traffic and sales lift that increasing the focus on our national brands can provide.
In order to achieve the type of sales increases we are looking for we must increase sales levels of all 3 brand types.
We made a decision to expand our loyalty program to broaden the customer base with access to value-added offers and believe long term that this could be an incredibly powerful tool to broaden our reach an important tool in our strategy to own savings.
We continue to focus on increasing the number of our non-credit card customers and better marketing and in addition our loyalty program to give them better value and a reason to shop at Kohl's more frequently.
We continue to increase our confidence in Kohl's as we see the improvement in our in-stock levels on replenishment of goods noting the improvement in our survey results throughout this first half of the year.
As we end the fall season we would expect to improve on that further as we focus on increasing depth of customer choice while reducing the number of choices.
Our organizational changes should have full impact at the end of the back-to-school season.
We expect to continue to make progress on our inventory levels and I would expect our inventory per store to be down low-single digits per store at the end of the third quarter.
Finally I'm excited to welcome Michelle Gass as our Chief Customer Officer.
She's quickly learning the current state of our operations and developing her vision for how we can more fully engage customers.
Stay tuned as I believe great things are on the horizon.
Our #1 goal is to drive sales.
In order to do that we have to continue to improve the quality of our merchandise and offer items at great value.
I'm pleased with the progress we've made but we know we need to continue to progress in order to drive increases in transactions per store.
Driving traffic will allow us to gain the market share from our competitors.
And with that I'll turn it back to Wes to provide our third quarter guidance.
Thanks Kevin.
The third quarter our guidance is as follows: total sales increase of 1% to 3%; comparable sales increase of 0 to 2%; gross margin rate decrease of 60 to 40 basis points; SG&amp;A expenses increasing 2% to 3%; depreciation expense of $229 million; interest expense of $85 million; tax rate of 37.5%; and share repurchases of 325 million and estimated average diluted shares of 218 million.
This results in earnings per diluted share of $0.83 to $0.92 for the third quarter.
The low end of our annual guidance remains unchanged at $4.15 per diluted share.
We have narrowed the high end of our guidance to $4.35 per share.
And with that we'll be happy to take your questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Deborah Weinswig with Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> As we're still fairly early in the earnings season we've heard a lot of color around the consumer I was wondering if you could just give us some color around the credit card customers versus the non-credit card customers what you're seeing and what you're hoping to see over the holiday season.
Well the credit card customer we had a positive low single-digit comp; non-credit negative low single digit.
As you guys know kind of the goal to get back to running better than a 2 [ph] comp would be for credit to be up mid-single digits and non-credit to be flat.
Having said that we definitely saw some improvement in both from the first quarter and are pretty happy with the results there.
In addition our loyalty pilot in Texas is also driving additional credit applications as they start to realize the value that they can get from Kohl's.
And so that's something we think will give us benefit in future quarters and makes us excited about rolling the pilot to California here in the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then with a lot of tech investments that you're making what will be the biggest changes that we'll see year-over-year during the holiday season? Well I think -- I mean Wes can add.
It's Kevin Deb.
I think the biggest opportunity that we have frankly is the re-platform that has now been completed in our E-Commerce business.
And as you know a number of companies have gone through re-platforms in the course of the last 12 to 24 months not always perfectly.
And our team has done a great job.
Our new platform is available to consumers and is working.
Our sales in the second quarter in E-Commerce dips a little bit on a relative basis because of it which we fully expected but handily beat the plan we had and I'm thinking we're going to continue to beat that plan as we go through August.
So I just think the robustness of that platform and the ability that we have to transact over it as we go into the fourth quarter is a huge positive for us.
Deb when Kevin said dips he really meant they were up 28%.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then lastly as we look at the remodel that you have coming how are you picking those stores to be remodeled? And what had been the experience that you've had with the remodels that you've done? I mean the remodels continue to be up low-single digits.
That's been pretty consistent for a number of years.
We don't expect anything different.
I think the key learning for us in the fall and going into next year will be what we learned from the various beauty tests that we're doing.
We're testing different sizes and also different locations within the store.
So I look forward to reading those results post holiday and we'll make a decision on further rollout as we get into 2014.
And our next question comes from the line of Bob Drbul with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Wes I don't know if you gave -- did you give credit penetration? Credit penetration our share was 58% up about 130 basis points.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And when you look at -- I think you said the late fees are really driving some of that.
Within the credit business could you elaborate a little bit more on some of that trends that you're seeing there for the -- like health of the consumer as well? Yes I mean our finance charges are a little bit less than last year for 2 reasons.
Our credit sales were a little lower than what we expected as well as people are paying a little faster than we planned in terms of the payment rate.
And then moving down to bad debt bad debt is up a little bit but we also have taken a little bit more risk with -- in conjunction with Capital One.
So we're seeing overall better yield on those customers as finance charges and late fees offset the rise in bad debt as evidenced by the fact that credit income was a little bit better this year in the second quarter than it was last year.
Research Division</strong> And Kevin can you comment a little bit on the promotional environment sort of how much more aggressive Kohl's is being in this environment and less aggressive in terms of what you're seeing on the competitive front from that perspective? I don't think there's any new news on that Bob.
We're sort of investing as you know.
We talked about investing more in the second quarter in marketing based on the tests that we had done in the fourth quarter and the first quarter or earlier.
And that looks like they're working.
Many of those changes are working.
We have a whole bunch of more changes as we go through back-to-school and the holiday season.
Our eye on the target is all -- the target we have our eye on is about engaging more customers more broadly.
And so you know how important our credit card customers are and they continue to be so -- but we know that the need we have is to drive more traffic into our store and that means engaging more people.
So I think -- I'm really excited about the loyalty pilot because the loyalty pilot to me is the future.
And as you know California is a really important state for us as a company.
It has more than 10% of our stores in it.
It's not a state historically we've been as successful in and I think the loyalty program rolling out into California is going to be a big plus for them.
So I don't think the environment is much different than it's been to be honest with you.
And your next question comes from line of Matthew Boss with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about the early indications from your beauty test and any progress with new brand introductions potentially on this front? I mean we're not going to talk in detail Matt about the test stores other than to say obviously we wouldn't be expanding it to 150 stores and -- if we didn't feel really positive about what we're seeing.
We're making progress pretty much on all fronts.
We're testing different locations within the store.
We're testing different square footages within the store.
We're testing different assortments within those stores.
And I mean I fully expect to be able to say that we've identified the best way forward and the new stores that we'll roll out next year we're going to be rolling out a lot more beauty stores next year we'll incorporate all of those changes.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then secondly can you walk through the embedded drivers of growth margins down 40 to 60 in 3Q? And then should we expect the sales to reverse in 4Q given inventory plan down year-over-year? Yes sure.
I mean I think we built in negative gross margin way back in February for the third quarter given our performance last year.
If you recall we were only down 40 basis points in the third quarter.
In the first and second quarter I think we were down over 200 in the first about 150 or 160 in the second; and obviously the third quarter was a disappointment being down 300.
So we're a little worse than what we thought in the beginning of the year.
We have a little bit more summer carryover in terms of shorts and sandals that we'll work through in the third quarter.
But our expectations for gross margin you guys know I'll back into the fourth quarter now that you have 3 quarters' worth of results and guidance.
We're going to be up somewhere between 80 and 100 basis points for the third quarter which is -- fourth quarter excuse me which is not heroic given our performance last year.
But with a short calendar we're leaving ourselves plenty of room to be competitive for the holiday season.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Grom with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Kevin could you address the opportunity to attract more national brands to the portfolio? What hurdles are out there if any and I guess what the margin implications could be if you would increase your exposure in that sub-category? I think we still have opportunity.
We're -- obviously based on the way we discuss the performance in the second quarter we're very focused on national brands because we do recognize that perhaps one of the things that we've done over the last couple of years as we've developed new exclusive brand is to put too much attention on them and we haven't been well balanced across all 3 brand types.
So I think it kind of shows you the commitment we have to national brands.
We're kind of excited about it because we're seeing the results.
And we just talked about some of those results particularly around our biggest brands which gives us a lot of confidence going to the fall and holiday.
So we're focused on looking for new national brand opportunities and I would expect actually to have opportunities to talk about as we go through the fall and holiday season for the future.
And the margin implications of that obviously a lot depends on what classification categories they're in how they impact the overall mix.
But I think the key thing that we're focused on Chuck is really driving traffic because if you go through the numbers we just laid out for the second quarter we had basically a one comp.
But it was driven not by increases in traffic.
And we need to get increases in traffic long term.
And I do think that one of the components of that has to be a really strong national brand portfolio.
I mean we're happy with our improvement in traffic in the third and fourth quarter.
We were basically flat this quarter.
We were basically flat first quarter.
Obviously we're disappointed.
But we're moving in the right direction.
And overall I think we haven't managed our inventory perfectly.
No retailer does.
So we have plenty of opportunities to improve our gross margins in the future just from better inventory management.
Research Division</strong> I agree.
Okay good.
And then just a follow-up.
Just wondering with Don's focus on removing duplication within the private and exclusive offerings and where you guys are on that process today what it means for opportunities to attract different categories within private and exclusive down the road.
I think we're pretty far along.
It's been a focus since last fall/holiday.
You probably know that we have new leadership in place under Peggy Eskenasi's direction.
We have a new head of our New York design office.
We have a new head or our private brand here in Milwaukee.
We just finished our sort of annual strategic meeting with our board yesterday.
And one key threat that went through all of those presentations was a really key focus on avoiding duplication eliminating duplication with the objective of providing a lot more brand clarity so that each of our brands stand for something different and therefore we can maximize inventory effectiveness.
And I think the team -- it's probably their #1 focus frankly.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then last question for me.
Wes just wondering if you could give some color on how the comp trended during the quarter.
Do you have any sense for how much the calendar shift topped you guys out here in the last week? And then any thoughts on August trends to date or early back-to-school? Well the trend -- we had a very good May obviously as there was pent-up demand from the weak weather in the first quarter.
June was a little tougher and then July was better.
In terms of back-to-school and into August I think Kevin mentioned we're very pleased with our start to back-to-school especially in the back-to-school categories which are key for us like kids and juniors and young men's and then athletic and kids' footwear.
So we're off to a good start.
It's 10 days in the quarter.
Hopefully it will continue.
And then in the back half of the quarter we obviously have hopefully some benefits from the shift of November week 1 which everybody remembers with Superstorm Sandy.
And there was a lot of business lost there.
And hopefully we'll get some of those business back this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Paul Lejuez with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> With inventory up a bit payables down and having to cancel some orders or reduce purchases how fresh do you feel your merchandise is at this point? Do you have the freshness that you're hoping for? And then just secondly from an inventory perspective as you think out to the fourth quarter how do you drive the positive comp given that you're up against a pretty heavy inventory position next year? Do you feel that you can? And if so what are the drivers? Well no.
This is Kevin Paul.
I mean on the inventory positioning I mean my best parameter in that truthfully is always sales.
And one of the things that makes us feel really good is we just came off of a better second quarter granted it's a 1% comp.
But we feel like it's a step in the right direction.
July was better than the quarter.
August has started out well and started out well particularly in the areas that are important to get good sales results during the month kids young men's juniors footwear.
So I think one thing we've all learned of course is the quality of what we have is a lot more than the quantity of what we have.
And being more effective in how we make color and style from size choices in our store is what really drives customer purchasing not having more inventories.
So I don't think any of us see inventory as a preventer or a limiter of positive comps growth or acceleration.
In this quarter or our fourth quarter frankly at all.
We're being somewhat conservative as we look at the holiday season because as you know there is a shorter number of days between Thanksgiving and Christmas.
And so I think we're just trying to be sensible about that and say "Hey between the period can we do the sales?" Yes we feel like we can do the sales but we want to be conservative from an approach standpoint.
But inventory won't be the limiter on that for sure.
Yes I think the receipts we got in the second quarter were more related to the spring/summer receipts.
We didn't cut transitional receipts that we needed for back to school.
We were able to make the cuts early on in the quarter.
So the cargo shorts are still cargo shorts.
There are just fewer of them than would've been if we went ahead and ordered them.
So I don't think that's going to be a problem.
Your next question comes from line of Paul Swinand with Morningstar Investment.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to continue the kind of the private label national brand discussion.
Is it true that your national brands are still offering you something that's somewhat different or not exactly the same as what they're offering the other retailers? I mean short answer to that is no.
Every relationship we have is obviously unique and different and so it varies broadly across the spectrum.
I mean national brands are obviously a very large percentage of our business so we deal with a lot of different types of partnerships.
But I think in a broad sense the answer to that shortly is no.
What becomes different with a national brand assorting process is that those assortments are always going to be tailored to the customer demographic of particular distribution points.
So Kohl's is very focused on a moderate consumer who really appreciates value and accordingly is buying in the price points that reflect that.
And so our assortments naturally are going to reflect that and we're going to be highly focused on that part of our assortments where the same brand with a different retailer or more perhaps upscale retailer is going to sort of align their assortments to their own customer demographics.
But there is no universal answer to your question.
I'm not dodging it.
I'm just telling you the truth.
And it differs greatly by brand.
But the key strategy is really how do we assort so that the Carter's assortment or the Lee or the Levi's NIKE or the Adidas assortment reflects what our customer wants.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And just so I understand you're going to use that to drive -- to advertise and drive the traffic more.
That's part of the strategy.
And I guess I'd also assume that you'd maybe advertise a little different in different areas depending on whether it's a more of the urban customer or rural customer depending on the region.
Is that fair enough or -- ? Yes.
I mean I think generally -- I think on this issue of balanced portfolio across private brands which are basically our opening price point; exclusive brands which are sort of in the most part our better price point; and national brands which are typically our best price points all we've -- all we're trying to say is as we look at our performance over the last 2 years or so 2 or 3 years probably we have put an inordinate amount of emphasis on our private and exclusive brands.
Rightfully so because we've introduced so many of them we've created so many of them and they've all been in sort of evolution phases.
And in that process we've recognized through both our own results and through customer research that the customer feels that we're not focused enough on all the great national brands we do carry.
And so whether it's inventory emphasis presentation emphasis in our store marketing emphasis as well we're just trying to more balance that across these 3 types of brands categories.
Our next question comes from the line of Dan Binder with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> It's Dan Binder.
I had 2 questions.
First if you could just address the comp performance across the regions.
Was it primarily weather hitting the Midwest and Northeast versus the other regions? Yes.
I mean basically the Northeast and Midwest regions which underperformed the warm weather regions of the West South Central and Southeast the delta by far was the biggest in all of our seasonal classifications.
The delta there was significantly larger than the delta between the overall business in the various regions.
So yes if you had to look at a culprit and say "Hey if you did well in the warm and hot regions like the West South Central and Southeast why couldn't you do well in the Midwest and Northeast?" The short answer is that seasonal categories which are important driver of our business and those regions May June July a very important driver did not perform well.
The assortments were the same.
So it really was a weather factor in those cases.
Research Division</strong> And then on the reduction of the high end of the guidance obviously the first half of the year you weren't at the high end.
So that's I think about $0.06 or so.
But the other $0.04 looks like it's coming out of the back half.
Just curious what the change is primarily the Q2 margin guidance? You mean the Q3 margin guidance? Research Division</strong> Yes Q3.
Sorry.
Yes.
I mean that's probably most of it.
And again as Kevin mentioned -- I mean I hope everybody realizes we're going into the fourth quarter.
That's 14 weeks last year and 13 weeks this year.
So it's going to be very hard for people to run a total sales increase.
And I think with the shorter calendar we're being very conservative on what our comp expectations are going to be for the fourth quarter.
If we do better than that we should be able to beat the high end of the guidance.
But we're being very conservative on the comp expectations for the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one last one if I could on credit card approvals.
How is that looking? Our approval rate's gone up about 300 basis points since the changes we put in.
I think that was now a few months ago.
That's an improvement.
The overall rate's still not where you'd like it to be but it's moving in the right direction.
So hopefully that will also give us some benefits in the fall season.
As well as we're in the middle of a reissue on our credit card and hopefully that will give us some benefits as well.
Our next question comes from line Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Wes and Kevin could you answer a few questions here on the loyalty program for me if you will? At the end of this year once you get through California where will you guys be with respect to the total penetration of -- on the loyalty program across the chain? And if anything you could do to share with us around metrics of how the pilot's performing relative to the balance of the chain whether it be comp profitability e-commerce behavior something like that conceptualization would be helpful.
And then related to this as well have you done anything with your mobile engagement on the loyalty program specifically pilots to kind of really better engage with your customers through the mobile engagement? Okay yes.
It's Kevin I'll give you the answers that I know and Wes will correct me when I say something wrong.
I think that the total number of stores that will now be on the pilot there are about 300.
We started with about 100.
Texas was about 100 and California as you know is a little more than 100.
Second question I think you had is a -- on that pilot what are you seeing in terms of results.
The fall test was different than the Texas spring test and we incorporated the learnings from the fall into the Texas spring.
And then Texas since it was an entire state which involved some major metro markets we were actually able to go to market with the customer so that -- that was different than in the early-stage test where we did it much more randomly and we couldn't market.
So the performance in Texas accelerated a lot over the original pilot.
And naturally we're now going to go back in the original group of stores and add in the same elements that we've done in Texas.
We're really pleased by the Texas results.
It's 3 months.
But fundamentally what we were looking for right was to engage a lot of people.
That has definitely happened.
We've enrolled a significant number of reward or loyalty customers that we didn't have before and those are all potential customers for us to engage with going forward with great ideas.
Second obviously was what is due for the overall results in that state and I think Wes would tell you we're pretty rigorous in our pilot and testing phases and things.
So we established control markets and control groups and look at the performance.
Texas handily beat the control markets that -- much better than the other markets.
And now what we're moving on to is harvesting the new enrolled customers and also continuing to build.
So what's exciting about Texas to us is we're continuing to add each and every week a significant amount of new accounts to the rewards program and that says a lot of positive things for what's going to come.
Obviously as we add more stores to it it gives us the opportunity to engage a lot more.
We can start to create new opportunities and mobile is a key element of that.
So mobile has always been a sort of part of the plan.
You got to get the loyalty program installed.
You've got to get the customers signed up.
Those boxes were checked.
You got to look to see if those customers are responding.
That box definitely got checked.
And now we can start engaging more fully.
And as you heard during the call we are investing a lot across technology platforms e-com included mobile included to sort of prepare for being able to do that.
One of Michelle Gass's key priorities that I've given her is to really make this rewards program world class and I think she's fully focused on it.
So we're definitely very -- I'm sure you can hear in my voice I'm very optimistic.
Wes is always trying to temper it.
But I think we have a great program that is going to serve us for years and years and years.
Yes.
I mean one of the things that we're trying to evaluate in the tests is obviously how it affects our different customers.
So we look -- we're looking at lifts we get from our MBC customers those who spend the most with us our Burgundy or our normal credit card customers and then obviously the bank card customers.
We're getting lifts in all 3 categories which is very good.
We're obviously getting the bigger lift from the bank card customer because the other guys have value already.
The one thing that would make me be just as excited as Kev would be to see how it tests on some of our higher-credit penetration markets which we're doing in the third quarter as well.
Texas is -- from a credit share is in the mid-40s so it's pretty low relative to our total.
We are testing it in a couple of high-credit penetration markets and that'll give us some good data on whether or not it'll be successful chain-wide and we'll decide to roll it out next year after we look at the tests.
I mean the other thing that -- one of the reasons that I'm so bullish on this is I do have the benefit of being here long enough to have seen us grow our credit card loyalty program from frankly in the teens in penetration to as Wes just said I think we did...
58% more.
58%.
And that credit card loyalty connection is what drove our business over the course of the last 20 years.
And rewards -- the loyalty pilot the loyalty rewards program that we're launching has the possibility of doing all the same things for just a much much larger audience of customers who aren't either qualified or maybe more importantly frankly interested in carrying a department store credit card.
So I just see the possibilities are incredible.
And technology being what it is today we can use those platforms which didn't exist when we grew the credit card program to make it even better.
So I'm very positive about it.
Research Division</strong> We share your enthusiasm indeed on this as well.
I just want to clarify one thing.
Wes you said that pending the California rollout you could go balance the chain next year.
Is that...
Yes.
I mean I think we're going to evaluate it and we're going to make a decision probably in the first quarter next year.
I mean really mainly what it's about is timing.
Wes wants -- and Michelle I think are going to want to look at how customers behave.
So that when we pull the trigger on the remaining 900 stores the program is fully developed the way we want it to be and we're not still testing and piloting but we've discovered all the triggers.
Yes.
We -- I mean the guys that we roll it out last October we don't want to have them have 4 different flavors of program.
Once we go through California we want to make sure we've got it the way we want it before we roll it chain-wide.
Our next question is from the line of Richard Jaffe with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on e-commerce.
With the launch of the new platform are you seeing a change in the mix or offering a broader mix of merchandise and also a change in the outlook for the profitability of e-commerce versus stores? I think it's too early for us to answer the first part of the question which is the change in the mix.
It's just too early.
It's not that we don't know but I think it's really early.
The main thing we're seeing is when we look back at other retailer's experience with re-platforms it's certainly is a -- it's a big challenge.
And so we've -- the teams built into the plan the possibility that there would be mistakes and errors along the way and we would suffer from a top line perspective as we went through the re-platform.
That team the IT team along with their e-commerce partners have done an incredible job.
And so we're benefiting from the fact that we planned the softness and we're starting to get a lot of acceleration over that plan.
So I think that we are seeing Wes I think consistently.
Yes.
No I agree.
I mean as far as profitability goes to be honest Richard it's getting so blurred now and it will get even more blurred as we start to do 200-some ship from store locations in the fall.
Next year we're going to be doing pickup in store.
As you know we have kiosks in store where -- which generate roughly 10% of our e-com sales.
People reach -- 95% of the returns go to the store from e-com but then they buy other stuff.
So it's getting more and more blurred.
We're just looking at total profitability as a whole.
And as long as we can continue to grow that that's really what we're looking at.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Binetti with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of modeling questions for you.
Could you help us sort of fine-tune what the implied guidance on the comp is for the fourth quarter? Just -- for maybe the range there so we can -- there's obviously some differences in comparisons there.
We want to make sure we get the model right.
Yes.
I mean I -- that's an interesting question.
We -- I mean I kind of gave you the margin guidance.
I mean I won't evade it.
We're not planning a positive comp for the fourth quarter.
The implied guidance is kind of down 2% to flat.
If it's better than that they'll be generating a lot of upside in terms of earnings.
But the shorter calendar is a little -- it's a pretty big hurdle to overcome.
It means you got to do more business prior to Thanksgiving than you did the previous year obviously and that's going to be how excited you can get the customer to think about Christmas before Black Friday.
And I'm glad that's marketing's job and not mine.
But I think we'll do as -- a good job on that but we're just being conservative.
And hopefully that's the case and we'll do better than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the -- within the guidance of 0% to 2% same-store sales can you just talk about what you expect on AURs as we move through the year considering the comparisons we're looking at here? I still think you're going to see AUR down in the third quarter and units up.
That would probably reverse.
We had a pretty low AUR last year because of all the clearance we had to go through.
So I suspect in the fourth quarter you'll have AUR could be up and units could be down.
And then as we kind of continually have said traffic will be the determiner on whether or not we're at the low end or the high end.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then you guys obviously talked a lot about being fairly weather sensitive.
We all know how the last 2 winters went.
How are you thinking about planning inventories for winter this year? Well we've been conservative.
But -- I mean the weather forecast is looking favorable for the fall.
It's not going to be dramatically colder than it was last year but it's going to be slightly colder nowhere the difference we saw in March for example where in a lot of areas the country it was 10 degrees colder on average this year versus last year.
But colder in the fall always helps a little.
Research Division</strong> All right.
So conservative.
Sounds like -- to me it sounds like you planned conservatively but maybe hoping for some positive catalysts that could help in the second half from a sales perspective.
We're definitely planning conservatively.
Your next question comes from line of Liz Dunn with Macquarie Capital.
Relative to the rebalancing of private exclusive and national is there a percent you're targeting in terms of national or is it just really about getting a little bit louder about the message to consumers that you do have national brands I guess is my first question? Yes.
I mean I don't -- it's Kevin Liz.
I don't think there's a percent that we have in mind.
I mean the customer basically always decides that for you.
It's really more a direction and a focus across all of our areas that when a customer sees Kohl's in an ad customer visits a Kohl's store a customer sees and visits our e-commerce site that national brands are a meaningful part because they're almost 50% of our sales of what they see.
And so that can be visual enhancements in a store space enhancements fixture enhancements more inventory investment a focus on a higher in-stock right size and color.
It can be on our site a bigger focus around national brands.
So there's so many ways to do that and that's really what we're looking for.
So that the customer walks away going "Hey they carry great national brands." And we own them in depths and we show them in both our ads and our store accordingly.
So I think -- I mean we're getting progress and most of our efforts frankly are sort of in the future.
So it's really kind of this third quarter where a lot of those things are coming to fruition.
But we're already getting progress.
National brands are doing significantly better.
Yes.
I also think you'll see not -- maybe some this year but more next year a lot more of investment and partnership with some of the national brands in terms of in-store presentation.
We have spent a lot of money over the last 5 years on exclusive brands.
As Kev said earlier rightfully so we think that we were introducing them.
But now that we've got a pretty good balance it's time to go back and refresh some of those national brands and a lot of the partners are helping us with that.
Okay.
As I think about your stores it seems like some brands are merchandised by brands and others areas are merchandised by category.
So is it about maybe pulling out some of those areas that are -- brands that are merchandised as categories like I don't know just Levi's as example and maybe creating more of a branded pad for them? Yes.
I mean I think the best example you could see right now that is complete is we've implemented a new presentation strategy for our most important children's brand which is Carter's and that exists in our stores right now so fixturization improvement pad improvement visual improvement.
And it's significant.
So obviously Carter sits within a pretty large world from newborn and infant up in kids.
But Carter's is presented altogether.
A second great example would definitely be Levi's.
That is not fully implemented in the stores today but will be and I think that's another great example.
So it should be very visibly -- certainly right now if you were trying to say to yourself "Hey how do I see this come to life in a Kohl's store?" Go look at our Carter's shops and our stores right now in kids.
Okay.
And then finally just on guidance.
For the fourth quarter as I think about inventory being down the shorter calendar maybe a little bit less promotion it sounds to me like the conservative stance for the fourth quarter comp is appropriate.
But as we think about the balance and the potential risks is it better to walk into the fourth quarter with less inventory sort of always in an environment like this or are you worried at all about missing some sales? No.
I think it's the position that we have going into the -- going into this quarter even but certainly going to the fourth quarter is the right place for us to be for sure.
And we're getting -- as inventories come down if you just think about it really high level inventories are coming down and sales are actually going the other way.
So it's definitely much more about being positioned right from an inventory investment standpoint.
And more clarity less color choice more depth that's what's going to get us better results.
I actually feel really really good about where our inventories are going to be at the end of the third quarter.
Yes.
I have a feeling you'll never hear us both say we need more inventory.
Next question comes from the line of Mark Altschwager with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Great.
A quick follow-up on the beauty tests that -- we've seen the setup and it looks great.
The customer service approach seems a bit different with more emphasis on the product testing.
Just curious how that's gone over so far and then how the labor model in that department may evolve relative to other areas of the store? Well there definitely is a different labor model in the test stores that we've done so far and that labor model is being implemented in the 150 stores we talked about for the fall/holiday.
All those things are obviously built into the guidance we give you.
That's all part of the overall SG&amp;A that we provide in terms of forecasting.
We're seeing good results from it but we know we need to get a larger number of stores to get -- as we do in all these things.
Testing is really important.
We're big believers in it and using testing control to look at that you're making the right decisions is really important.
So I think this fall/holiday expansion to a pretty significant number of stores is going to tell us a lot both about the top story of the top line which we think is significant but also how the whole model will work and translate to the bottom line.
Yes.
I mean the key to all this is really getting the extra trip.
Beauty in and of itself isn't going to excite you guys as a strategy.
We certainly expect the beauty sales per square foot to grow significantly.
But getting the customer to come to us for beauty versus somewhere else that's really going to be the big win.
So I mean I know you I think got a chance to look at one of the stores.
And so you've got the benefit of also seeing the experience and the experience is pretty exciting.
Research Division</strong> I'd agree.
Kevin and then -- now that Michelle has been onboard for a couple of months any thoughts she's developed on the business that you can share and specifically interested in any opportunities she sees in loyalty e-commerce and evolving the brand message.
Yes.
I mean she's been with us about a month actually.
And I think what I see is somebody who's incredibly enthusiastic about what she sees Kohl's really is as a brand.
Obviously she knew what Kohl's was as a brand from the outside.
But as she gets inside the company and understands better how we do things she's incredibly excited.
She was very successful in her career in this area of customer engagement loyalty rewards.
She had great learning she can build on for sure.
I think she would say to you if you spoke to her right now "Boy I love the fact that we already have something in place that's being evolved." But the thing she loves the most is that she can get it to evolve.
So she's in a unique position in that she's looking at a couple of hundred stores with the loyalty program what I call loyalty program basic one.
And she can make it whatever she wants to make it.
But I think she would tell you she's very very excited about the opportunity here.
And as I said I go back and I just -- I know what happened over the years as we evolved our credit card program.
When we started it was not what it is today.
It was a transactional kind of a card where people paid for things.
Today it's incredible.
The relationship we have with credit card customers and I think we can do the same thing with loyalty.
So she and I have sort of agreed on what her priorities are.
Loyalty is at the top of the list.
And our last question comes from the line of David Glick with Buckingham Research.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Kevin I just had a follow-up on the center core area.
You talked about some exciting initiatives in cosmetics.
I'm wondering what other opportunities you guys see in further developing the assortments the -- how you present in the front of the store and whether your -- the national brands you're looking at will help augment the growth of that category.
I think we're earlier in some of the other categories.
I mean the business that we're most focused on in there is our handbags.
The -- I think the jewelry business generally broadly -- this isn't a statement necessarily uniquely about Kohl's.
It has been a tougher category for sure.
I don't think we're unique in that.
It doesn't mean we don't have opportunities but it's just a recognition of a slower trend business.
You know David that part of our strategy at the beginning of this year was to sort of reorganizing our merchandise teams so we had more focus.
So we do have a GMM who is entirely focused on the center core and footwear and I think that's going to serve us well.
We haven't talked a lot about the organizational changes more broadly.
But we have a new team and I'm really excited about the new team.
And every single one of those executives is going to make this business better and I think the merchants are a key part of that for sure.
So I can't really get into the detail outside the beauty piece in the center core other than to say to you it remains an opportunity and I think handbags is our GMM's focus right now.
Thanks everybody.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Toni and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Q3 2013 Earnings Release Conference.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made on this call including projected financial results are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Kohl's intends forward-looking statements -- forward-looking terminologies such as believes expects may will should anticipates plans or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause Kohl's actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those that are described in Item 1A in Kohl's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and as may be supplemented from time-to-time in Kohl's other filings with the SEC all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
Also please note that replays of this recording will not be updated.
So if you are listening after November 14 it is possible that the information discussed is no longer current.
I would now like to turn the call over to Wes McDonald Senior Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
With me today is Kevin Mansell our Chairman CEO and President.
Comp store sales decreased 1.6% for the quarter and down 90 basis points year-to-date.
Our average transaction value was down 80 basis points for the quarter and up 40 basis points year-to-date.
Units per transaction increased in both periods 1.1% for the quarter and 2.7% year-to-date.
Our average unit retail was 1.9% lower for the quarter and 2.3% lower year-to-date.
Transactions per store were down 80 basis points for the quarter and 1.3% for the year.
For comparative purposes to those retailers who report shifted comp sales instead of fiscal comp sales our shifted comp for the quarter was basically flat down 20 basis points and year-to-date is down 1.2%.
Total sales decreased 1% to $4.4 billion for the quarter and year-to-date were flat to last year at $12.9 billion.
Kevin will give more color about our sales in a little bit.
Our gross margin rate for the quarter was 37.5% which was 60 basis points lower than the third quarter of last year and consistent with the low end of our expectations of down 40 to 60 basis points.
SG&amp;A expenses decreased $4 million or 40 basis points from the third quarter of last year but deleveraged 15 basis points.
Higher late fees drove a $12 million increase in net revenues from our credit operation.
Corporate expenses which include IT expenses decreased $11 million and leveraged for the quarter.
Decrease was primarily due to lower incentive cost.
Both store expenses and distribution costs increased $8 million for the quarter.
Despite strong expense control and operational efficiencies these businesses did not leverage for the quarter.
Our marketing costs were $3 million higher than the third quarter of 2012.
We continue to focus our marketing efforts away from print and into the more effective direct mail and broadcast media.
Depreciation expense increased 9% over the third quarter of 2012 to $228 million.
The increases are primarily due to technology investments and other non-store capital projects.
Net interest expense was $84 million this quarter $4 million higher than the prior year quarter.
The increase is primarily due to debt issued in the September 2013 -- 2012 debt issuances.
Our income tax rate was 37% for the quarter 50 basis points lower than our guidance primarily due to tax credits which were identified during the quarter.
Our diluted earnings per share were $0.81 for the quarter and $2.51 year-to-date.
Net income was $177 million for the quarter and $555 million year-to-date.
We ended the quarter with 1 158 stores gross square footage of 100 275 000 square feet and selling square footage of 83 671 000.
Year-to-date we have generated $480 million more in free cash than we did in a comparable prior year period and ended the quarter with $598 million of cash and cash equivalents.
Our capital expenditures were $465 million for the first 9 months of 2013 $176 million lower than the first 9 months of 2012.
The decrease reflects fewer remodels and lower E-Commerce fulfillment center spending partially offset by higher IT spending.
We currently expect capital expenditures in fiscal 2013 of approximately $725 million.
Our October inventory balance was $5 billion a 2% total increase over October 2012 but a 1% decrease on a per-store basis including E-Commerce.
On a shifted basis the best way to evaluate our inventory given our heavy November 1 week receipts that now in this year are in October week 4 our dollars per store are down 5% excluding E-Commerce.
Kevin will talk more about our content of inventory in a few minutes.
AP as a percent of inventory decreased from 50.1% at quarter-end 2012 to 45.6% this year.
The decrease is primarily due to reducing our third quarter receipts to manage our inventory levels as well as slower inventory turn.
Weighted average diluted shares were 218 million for the quarter.
And we repurchased 5.3 million shares of our stock during the quarter and 10 million shares year-to-date.
On November 13 2013 our board declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.35 per share which is payable December 24 2013 to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 11 2013.
I'll now turn it over to Kevin who will provide additional insights on our results.
Thanks Wes.
Let me start with sales.
Comparable store sales decreased 1.6% for the quarter.
E-Commerce sales increased 15% and contributed approximately 120 basis points to our comp.
That increase is lower than our historical growth rate but is generally consistent with our expectations given our re-platform this quarter.
We fully expect E-Commerce sales to reaccelerate in the fourth quarter now that the re-platform has been completed.
The West Coast region again reported the strongest comp for the quarter.
We're especially encouraged with our results in California which has the highest comp of any state for the year.
We expect the loyalty program which rolled out to California in September to further enhance performance.
The Northeast also outperformed the store average.
All other regions reported low to mid-single-digit comp declines.
Looking at our results by line of business.
Accessories was the strongest business.
Strong results in our beauty categories reflected positive impacts of our beauty remodel program and the new brand launches.
Sterling silver jewelry was also strong.
Notable performance in our home business included bedding luggage electrics and other soft home categories such as rugs and pillows.
Men's and women's both outperformed the company on strength in the active apparel category.
Men's also saw relative strength in both the basics and the tailored and dress categories.
In women's contemporary sportswear was a strength.
We are also very encouraged by our juniors business which reported a very solid comp in October and for the first time in many quarters was consistent with the company's performance.
Children's and footwear were below the company.
Within children's infant and toddlers was the strongest category and outperformed the company.
Athletic shoes reported a positive comp making them the strongest footwear category.
Fashion boots are also off to a good start for the fall season.
We're very pleased by the early results of our renewed emphasis on national brands.
For the first time in recent memory our portfolio of national brands reported higher comps in our private and exclusive brand portfolio.
National brand penetration increased slightly for the quarter to 47% of our sales.
Strong performance included Nike Adidas Carter's Van Heusen Gloria Vanderbilt and our intimate apparel brands.
Despite the focus on national brands our customer continues to drive higher sales in our key private brands.
Croft &amp; Barrow Apt.
9 SO Jumping Beans all reported higher comps for the month.
In our exclusive portfolio Jennifer Lopez FILA SPORT Rock &amp; Republic Lauren Conrad and Candie's also reported higher sales.
In the area of store experience we opened 3 new stores this quarter bringing our current store count to 1 158.
For the year we opened 12 new stores.
We expect to open approximately 10 stores in 2014.
We remodeled 30 stores this year.
We're in the process of finalizing our 2014 remodel plans and expect to remodel between 35 and 50 stores.
The wider range is to allow us flexibility in our rollout of beauty as well as give us the opportunity to test additional store refresh concepts throughout the year.
Approximately 280 of our stores now have a renovated beauty department.
There are 3 different versions of the department: an expanded footprint with new fixtures; new fixtures in the current beauty area; and existing fixtures retrofitted with new acrylic overlays.
Our new brands in beauty are performing very well and are exceeding our expectations.
And although it's very early we have seen significant beauty sales increase in the renovated stores.
On the inventory front as Wes said we've made progress each quarter on rightsizing our inventory levels.
In spite of our lower-than-planned sales in the third quarter we achieved our ending inventory goal in terms of both level and more importantly composition.
Our fall receipts are down double digits to last year while both our replenishment and spring transitional receipts are planned up high single digits in the fourth quarter.
We believe these levels will put us in a better position exiting the holiday season.
On the loyalty front we expanded our loyalty program to California and the Pittsburgh market during the quarter.
Including Texas in the original test markets the program is now available to customers in almost 30% of our stores.
Initial results are showing a low single-digit sales lift in loyalty markets versus the control market.
And our current plans are to expand the pilot to additional stores beginning in spring.
On the brand front we have 3 exciting new national brand announcements to share today.
These new brands will increase our relevance create excitement in store and online.
In spring 2014 we will launch an exclusive children's clothing collection which combines the quality and value of our Jumping Beans brand and the magic of Disney.
Made for infants and young children the collection will feature beloved Disney characters.
A new collection will launch each season at Kohl's stores nationwide and Kohls.com.
Also beginning in fall of 2014 we will offer IZOD branded menswear in Kohl's stores nationwide and on Kohls.com.
The IZOD assortment will feature sportswear and dress apparel including golf separates woven sport shirts sweaters knit shirts shorts suit separates dress shirts and dress pants.
And in addition beginning also in fall of 2014 we will launch the Juicy Couture brand.
We have licensed the Juicy Couture brand partnering with the Authentic Brands Group where we will be developing a broad range of merchandise targeting our Missy contemporary customer and exclusive to Kohl's.
The Juicy Couture assortment will include women's and girls apparel footwear and bags and fashion jewelry as well as bedding and home accessories.
On the marketing side consumers continue to be very focused on value finding what they need at the best quality for the best price.
We're delivering added savings opportunities in many different ways this holiday season.
Shoppers will have more ways to save this year with additional Kohl's cash earn and redeem days added savings opportunities for Kohl's Charge Card customers and additional sales offerings through Kohl's social channels.
We're offering compelling free shipping offers every day throughout the holiday season.
We're reaching our customers in the channels they use most through the lens of the new media landscape leading to increased spending on our part in both digital and broadcast.
We're also finding new exciting and more disruptive ways to reach her in the channels that she is using the most including premier TV program integrations and brand spots on highly watched event TV.
This month just prior to Thanksgiving Kohl's is presenting the New Artist of the Year for the American Music Awards.
We will also be airing spots during upcoming NFL Thanksgiving Day games for the first time.
Our customers think of Kohl's as a Black Friday destination.
If there are places to shop that are open we need to be there to serve our customer.
We want to be shoppers' first stop for everything they need on Black Friday and throughout the season.
Even before Black Friday we're showcasing how we have what she needs throughout the season including entertaining and toys early on.
We're proud to share great product and value and are planning exciting events and campaigns connect with customers and remind them even more why they love Kohl's.
In closing as I said just a minute ago our customers continue to be very focused on value.
But value is more than just the best quality for the best price value also includes how shoppers connect and engage with us.
And they have more resources and information at their fingertips to do this than ever before.
We're excited about the direction we're going with our omni-channel experience.
It aligns with the way our socially connected customer interacts with their favorite brands across all of our channels.
Throughout our omni-channel efforts we're building connections and improving the customer experience wherever and however she interacts with us.
It's an incredibly fast-growing area for us and we've made and we'll continue to make big investments to increase our capabilities and provide an innovative seamless customer experience.
We expect a competitive holiday given the shorter calendar this season and are prepared from a merchandising and marketing perspective to go aggressively after market share.
On an extremely positive note the month of October ended the third quarter very strongly and we significantly exceeded our plan.
That strength further fueled by seasonal weather has continued into November.
Achieving our sales goal continues to be our #1 priority for the holiday.
So with that I'll turn it back to Wes to provide our fourth quarter guidance.
Thanks Kevin.
For the fourth quarter our guidance is as follows: comparable sales flat to down 2% on a fiscal basis; the calendar shift will affect the reported fiscal comp by approximately 160 basis points; total sales down 2% to 4% -- as a reminder last year's fourth quarter included an extra week -- gross margin improvement of 70 to 90 basis points; SG&amp;A expenses are expected to increase 75 basis points to 1.25%; depreciation expense of about $227 million; interest expense of $85 million; a tax rate of 37%; share repurchases of 325 million; and estimated average diluted shares for the quarter of 213 million.
Average diluted shares for the year are an estimated 219 million.
This results in earnings per diluted share of $1.59 to $1.74 for the fourth quarter.
EPS for the year is now expected to be $4.08 to $4.23 versus our previous guidance of $4.15 to $4.35.
And as we stated in our earnings release we will provide only annual guidance beginning in fiscal 2014.
We'll be happy to take your questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to follow up a little bit on the gross margin line.
Can you just give us some clarity on how the quarter went and what caused you to be at the lower end of your gross margin guidance and then where you see the opportunities for the fourth quarter? Sure.
I mean generally I think our experience has been there was a slide in the range on margin depending upon how sales develop.
And as you can see sales didn't develop in the third quarter the way we would have liked so it didn't surprise us at all that margins were more near the lower end.
The quarter flowed very inconsistently.
As we mentioned at the end of the call October actually was a very strong month particularly the last few weeks of October and we actually exceeded our plan by quite a bit.
And of course the mix of sales during the quarter like the third quarter has a lot to do with what margin rates we achieve.
Research Division</strong> And then outlook for the fourth quarter? On the margin front? Research Division</strong> Right.
Where -- what are the puts and takes that we should expect? Obviously there's a lot of opportunity because of the excess inventory from last year.
We had a lot of opportunity from last year given the dramatic markdowns we had to take so we're assuming we don't have to take those.
Having said that we're also leaving ourselves a lot of room given what we feel is going to be a pretty competitive Christmas.
I mean the biggest biggest biggest positive by far for us is that our inventories going into the fourth quarter even considering lower-than-expected sales are exactly where we planned them to be and we still have the same exact expectations coming out of the fourth quarter.
So as you know we really were hurt in merchandise margin last year in the fourth quarter by very high inventory levels and those inventory levels have been really well managed going into holiday.
Your next question comes from the line of Charles Grom with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> When you dissected the comp miss versus plan in the third quarter I'm just wondering what factors led to the miss? Well I mean there's always multiple factors.
But I think it's primarily all about traffic didn't drive good traffic consistently throughout the quarter.
We had a relatively good start.
We had a phenomenally good ending but the middle was weak.
It was all about traffic.
So many of the other metrics that we try to manage around average unit retail around average transaction value all were pretty much in line with what we expected.
And the difference was all about driving traffic.
Overall our overall performance was also as you know negatively impacted by the re-platform of our E-Commerce site.
That was -- we knew that was coming and that was assumed to have a negative impact.
But when you compare the relative performance of the company in the third quarter to the trend that we had our outlook for the fourth that was a pretty big factor.
We had been running up about 30% or so in our E-commerce business.
And then in the third quarter we only ran up 15% and it was all about the re-platform -- of the changes that were made.
We're implying in our fourth quarter that there's an expectation that we'll return to our former run rates and we're pretty confident about that.
I'd say those are the big things: traffic number one by far particularly in the middle part of the whole quarter; and second E-Commerce as expected really slowed down through the re-platform and it wasn't until the end of the quarter that it started to accelerate back up again.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just with the pickup here in the past sounds like 4 or 5 weeks is there certain geographic regions certain product categories that have inflected positively to help you guys up? It's been pretty widespread.
Seasonal categories have been positive.
I would say they probably led the business over the course of the last few weeks including into November.
But generally it's just been about much improved traffic trends.
That's really been the big difference.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then as you do this loyalty card test in Pittsburgh and Texas and California can you talk about the performance in the non-credit customer? And has that led to the low single-digit improvement that you spoke to? Yes I mean I think we're seeing lifts across all categories.
We look at 3 different buckets our MBCs which are best credit cardholders or Burgundies and then bank cardholders or cash and debit.
We're obviously seeing bigger lifts from the non-credit card customers.
They're shopping more frequently.
And it's a much lower base but we're seeing lifts in our credit card customers as well.
So that's given us a lot of confidence that the loyalty program will eventually be rolled out to more markets in the spring.
We're trying to tweak a few things and then have a very well thought-out program so when we launch it to the balance of the chain we don't have to make a lot of changes.
I mean the positive on loyalty is even in the markets that were in the original pilot.
They -- it continues to grow.
So that to us is a sign that it's engaging new customers.
And as Wes said that some numbers kind of backed that up Chuck.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just the last question I have is with the addition of Juicy and IZOD.
And I know that the game plan is to add a few more national brands over the next few years.
And if you kind of look back the mix of your exclusives in nationals used to be 10 years ago 80% national 20% branded and the gross is more closer to 33%.
Today the mix is closer to 50-50 and the grosses are 400 bps higher.
When you think about the next 5 to 10 years for Kohl's what's the right mix for the company? And how should we think about the implications for merchandise margins along the way as you gravitate towards a different mix? Well I think on the mix question I mean the honest answer on that is we don't know.
We're going to have to find our way on what the right mix of high-quality identifiable credible national brands is for us to improve the traffic trend.
I think the -- I mean honestly I think the customer will tell us that that she'll dictate that.
There's no question that the brand penetration of national brand is going up.
It's going to go up for sure.
I think Wes would tell you that the math is that for each percent increase in penetration of national brands there's a corresponding adjustment in the mix as a result of margin of 5 to 10 basis points is not a big deal.
It's a very different business that we run today Chuck as you know than it was 15 years ago when we were 80% national brand.
Yes I mean it's probably closer to the 5 Chuck.
Most of the -- we're private brands -- we're always going to have private brands.
They're always going to be a significant part of the business.
That's the biggest margin differential.
I would suspect if national brands grow penetration it will come out of exclusive brands which have a much closer margin to the national brands.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Binetti with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Could you help us on some of the diagnostics on the comps in the quarter? Could you help us think about how -- what the magnitude of October was versus the rest of the quarter and then maybe what October's comp would be excluding the calendar shift just so we have an idea of where those metrics came out? Well I think we will probably -- we'll probably going to try to stay away from talking about specific relative numbers to one another because we do look at the quarter in total.
And of course we're responsible for the quarter in total.
But the shift was dramatic from our September trend to our October trend.
I mean that's the way I would characterize it Wes.
And it was all -- as I said it was all driven by traffic really didn't have anything to do with average transaction and really didn't have anything to do with average unit retail.
But traffic trends just markedly improved.
And as I said they've continued to be very strong.
And they've been fueled I think to some extent by some seasonal weather.
That's been positive for us as well.
Research Division</strong> We've seen some -- I guess some industry data saying that overall mall traffic or retail traffic is very hard particularly in the beginning of November deeply negative.
Have you guys seen at least positive trends in traffic in early November? Yes.
I mean as we've mentioned the strength we saw in October has continued into November thus far.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Do you think -- so all these initiatives -- we step back for a minute.
All the initiatives that we're talking about the national brands and loyalty do you think these initiatives cause an inflection point in traffic for Kohl's specifically at some point in time? I don't think you'd be as excited to invest in all these things if they meant you were going to continue to be at the whim of what we all know are sluggish industry-wide traffic trends.
I'm just trying to think through as we look at the path forward here when do you think that Kohl's traffic trends can break apart and say we really -- we see the consumer embracing more national brands the loyalty program hits critical scale those kind of things? Yes I mean many of the things that we -- first of all let's be clear we're disappointed in the third quarter results.
They were less than we expected on the top line.
Having said that to be honest I think the team did an incredibly good job managing all of the other metrics gross margin [indiscernible] expense control.
As we look at all the initiatives that we've been talking about with investors they are definitely all forward-looking long-term kinds of initiatives that our sense is there will be a gaining traction sort of forward move.
Loyalty is working.
It's only x percent in the stores and it's only been in place x percent of the time.
The national brand refocus has literally just begun and that's going to take some time to get hold.
The new national brands we just spoke about don't even hit our assortment till next year.
Our E-Commerce particularly omni-channel efforts took a hit in the third quarter which we knew was the right thing to do because it now allows us to accelerate the growth way into the future.
And we didn't have the capability to that given the platform we were on before.
We talk about beauty in 280 stores sounds like a lot but the 280 stores happened essentially in the third and fourth week of October.
It literally just took place so it hasn't had any impact yet.
The West Coast particularly California that has been a pattern that's consistently grown over the course of the year.
And I'm really optimistic about that because as you know we operate more stores in California than any other state in the country.
And then many of the concepts both in the marketing and the engagement side that our new marketing and customer service focus has involved and is being led by Michelle Gass.
They're just starting to happen.
So I think you're going to get a little glimpses Michael into it.
I've referred to in the call [ph] for instance some of the new creative and new thinking on placement that we're going to be launching just prior to Thanksgiving.
I think that we're going to engage customers in a lot of different ways that -- as a result of that.
But that's a long-term strategy.
That's not going to change the trend of our business in a week.
And then finally we've been talking a lot to investors about our organizational changes.
And that for sure is something that I see gaining traction right now.
And so I think that's probably the thing that I'm looking most far is that those changes are finally starting to take hold.
So I guess that's a long way of saying to you we feel pretty confident in our forward results for the rest of this year.
But almost everything we're talking to you about is really for the future and it's really for the next years.
And it's not a 1-year effort it's going to be building 1 year on top of another.
Your next question comes from the line of Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> If I could ask just 2 questions here.
Kevin for you first on the re-platforming.
It seems like you guys obviously started to see some business disrupt and then also start to improve.
Are you guys already tracking back up to your historical run rate post the re-platforming? And then what specifically from a strategic perspective are you looking to do most out of that re-platform for 2014? Is it about the mobile side of your business? And then I have a follow-up.
Well the re-platform dramatically impacted the business in the quarter in total and it most impacted the business I think Wes in August and September.
Yes.
By far.
And as we've finished the re-platform and then all the changes that were necessary to tweak it to get it to operate most effectively began to take hold the improvement in the business primarily as driven by both traffic and conversion improvement started to occur.
I think the re-platform really is another one of these initiatives as I just talked about with Michael.
It has to do with the future.
If we had not re-platformed we were not going to be able to reach our full potential online.
And the re-platform gives us that potential to now drive forward.
So it's not a fourth quarter initiative it's a next-3-year initiative that just went through.
And as I said I mean it wasn't a surprise.
We're doing the re-platform and we knew it's going to hurt our online business but our expectation is as we go into the fourth quarter the sales trends that we had pre-re-platform will reemerge.
Research Division</strong> And then if you could -- if you guys could talk a little bit about the loyalty.
I don't if you indicated your plans for rollout for 2014 but it seems like it's going well you're pleased with it.
I mean could we see balance of chain rollout for Q1 next year? No it definitely wouldn't roll -- I mean we don't have the plans finalized.
In total transparency here the thinking is we'll add more stores in the first quarter.
Michelle has been onboard for about 3 to 4 months and she thinks we have a great platform to work from with loyalty.
I think she's excited about the fact that loyalty is in place.
But she also thinks it needs to be changed and adjusted and become much more engaging with the customer.
And she has some very specific ideas about that and that's going to take some time.
So I think you're going to see just further rollouts next year.
I'm not willing to commit that we'll have it in the whole company by the end of the year.
I'm not saying we won't we may but it's definitely going to be a different loyalty program than we currently have today.
Research Division</strong> And last just real quick on the inventory so if I heard you correct your inventory in dollars per square foot at store level on an adjusted basis were down 5%.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> So I was just trying to dig a little bit more into the quality of the content of the inventory.
I mean obviously your seasonal carryover is down from a fall perspective.
So just wondering if you could give us some other metrics around whether or not -- the businesses that are doing well like juniors inflecting here positive for the first time and women's active doing very well.
Have you fed the businesses that are doing well and starved the ones that aren't? And can I even ask are you going to have enough inventory to drive the top line for Q4? Maybe you can give some perspective.
No yes I mean we had a huge excess of inventory last year so having enough inventory to drive a comp in the fourth quarter won't be an issue.
Yes I mean that's what you do.
You feed the businesses that are working well and you cut back on the ones that aren't.
We cut a tremendous amount of receipts out for fall as we mentioned on the call down double digits and it was very significant while feeding the replenishment businesses in the businesses that are working.
And our plans are to have a much stronger spring transition especially in model hot markets as we exit holiday and move into January and February for next year.
So I feel like our inventories are going to be in a good place and we'll continue to make progress.
I would expect our inventories to be down sort of low to mid single digits at the end of the quarter depending on where we end up on the comp.
And then generally the quality of it should be a lot of better in terms of a lot more spring transitional receipts.
I mean we had the worst case scenario.
Going into last year we had exceptionally high inventories on a historical basis.
We had aggressive assumptions on sales increases in the fourth quarter and they didn't materialize which led to massive markdowns late in the fourth quarter which impacted merchandise margin a lot.
I think what Wes is saying we're going into this fourth quarter with lower inventory levels than last year but more importantly significantly lower on fall and holiday.
And receipts as planned for the fourth quarter are actually up on spring receipts [ph].
So I just think -- our feeling is it's not only about the lower level and the quantity being more right but it's also about the mix.
Your next question comes from the line of Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I have an inventory question and I just wanted to ask a little bit more about the category performance.
You listed a number of things that actually performed well in the quarter including accessories beauty and then some items within home.
With the negative comp I'm wondering what were the categories where you fell short of your expectations? And then for Wes on the inventory it sounds like your accounts payable to inventory balances are down and that would suggest some aging inventory.
I'm wondering if you can just update us on the aging of the inventory and if you feel like you've got enough new fresh interesting receipts here to drive business this holiday.
Yes I guess I can take the inventory question and maybe Kevin could take -- as I've mentioned a number of times we've cut billions of dollars of receipts out of -- in terms of out of retail.
So hundreds of millions of dollars of receipts at cost in the third quarter because we bought way too much on the apparel side and accessories side last year.
So we rightsized our quantities from that perspective.
And the other thing that works on accounts payable when you have struggles on margin you get better allowances from vendors and those are actually up over last year.
So combination of those 2 things is why our AP is less at the percent of inventory.
As far as sales go...
In the product I mean first of all don't forget that we had a negative comp so all of the relative performance is off of that negative comp.
So when we tell you that the business is better or worse it's off of that number.
The categories that did not perform to the company and underperformed to the company included children's.
Children's was way well under I think the company average.
And footwear in total was well under the company average.
The athletic footwear business actually I think was better than the company.
In fact it had a positive comp.
But the non-athletic to casual footwear category was very very weak.
So I would probably call out children's and footwear as by far the weakest performing business relative to the company having a slightly negative comp.
In terms of strength we talked about a couple of the categories that you mentioned.
One that we also mentioned which only ran with the company so it did not perform but is definitely improving a lot is junior.
Juniors ran with the company which is not that exciting on the surface but given the fact that we've had historically really underperformance in juniors that's a positive thing.
Your next question comes from the line of Daniel Binder with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> It's Dan Binder.
Just I wanted to have a point of clarification.
On the re-platforming I think you said earlier that that contributed to the comp miss but you also said that it decelerated as expected.
So I just wanted to understand it while you expected it to decelerate did it decelerate more than you expected contributing to the comp miss? Or it just seems like you had a bit of a contradiction there.
Yes no I can clarify.
We assumed in the guidance we gave for the third quarter that there would be a lower increase in E-Commerce sales and that the lower increase did materialize about to the level we expected.
If you look at the quarter in total though and just think about the performance of the company in the previous quarters E-Commerce was a big positive contributor to our comp.
And naturally with a much lower increase this quarter it wasn't anywhere near as important to our comp.
So we pretty much made our E-Commerce plan for the quarter.
It just was a much much lower increase.
Research Division</strong> And then the other question was around these calendar shifts.
In the last call you called out the 150-basis-point hit to Q4 from the calendar shift.
You didn't call out the Q3 and that ended up being fairly substantial too.
Was that a surprise? No I can do math.
It wasn't a surprise.
We just didn't perform as well as we would have anticipated coming off of relatively weak third quarter last year.
And the reason I gave the shifted comp was for clarification because there's -- some people report fiscal comps and some people report calendar comps.
I wanted to give you guys a flavor because of the people have already preannounced their sales and they've -- they announced it as a shifted basis.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
And then on the loyalty program just curious as you looked across the different markets that you have tested it in is the list that you're seeing fairly similar or does it differ much from market to market? And can you expand a little bit on what Ms.
Gass has intended to add to this program to make it better? Well the lift differential is not significant.
It's 100 200 basis points really difference market-to-market.
And as you know in short periods of time that can often have to do with something else -- the market overall might not be performing.
I think the honest answer on Michelle's thinking on loyalty is that it's evolving and she knows she's got a great platform and she knows she's got a tool to engage and she's got some experience that has taught her the right ways to do that so that it's not about only giving a better deal or a better price or a better value but it's about engaging on many other platforms.
And I think she's going through the process of thinking about how do we do that most effectively for Kohl's? Or what are the triggers that we get people excited about joining loyalty beyond the obvious trigger which is hey I can get a better deal by doing it.
And so she's -- I think she's evolving her thinking on that and my expectation will be we'll probably try out different things.
Research Division</strong> So one more if I could sit on brands.
You have not a lot of brand introductions recently.
It seemed like it was a bit of a challenging task.
And now you've come up with 2 pretty good brands I mean I'm just kind of curious what's changing in the conversations with these brands that allowed you to get these 2? And do you expect to have many more behind them? Well I think really most of the changes really in terms of our -- the insights that we've learned by the results in our own traffic trends that the insights have clearly indicated a need to strengthen the portfolio of national brands that we have to restore the level of credibility customers have with the value we give.
And so we're just being much more proactive Dan on our side reaching out trying to identify the white spaces brands that would make most sense in each of the categories.
As you can imagine we're working with a sense of urgency on that.
I would expect to have new brands consistently.
So this is not going to be a one-quarter thing.
I would expect to be talking to you about this issue in February at the end of the fourth quarter as well.
So I think most of it is on our side.
And then naturally as brands see brands launching at Kohl's and the way in which we can do it and the commitment that we'll make to delivering a credible presentation and the aesthetic of the brand that gives other brands more confidence that it might be the right thing to do for them.
Your next question comes from the line of Liz Dunn with Macquarie.
Just a follow-up on the E-Commerce re-platforming.
So I -- just like your site is down right now.
So is the re-platforming done or -- and will there be any carryover impact on fourth quarter? Because I thought you said that things would -- that this would better for the fourth quarter.
It will be.
The site's down for planned maintenance.
We -- it's our last stress test before we go into peak season.
And we moved it a little bit forward so people could use our Kohl's Cash that was expiring at midnight.
And that's -- it should be back up here briefly.
It was scheduled to be up around 10:00.
Just the re-platform is done and it's very effective and it's working and it's going to allow us to maximize sales in the fourth quarter.
We're really confident about that.
Okay.
And then setting aside the re-platforming where do you currently stand on the profitability of the E-Commerce business? I know that's something you've been making some progress on.
Yes I mean the way we look at it I would say we're still in the mid-single-digit operating margin range.
We think that a couple of things that are working for us going forward will help us with that.
Shipping costs as we roll out ship-from-store should be reduced because you won't be shipping across zones so that should be a benefit.
And we have our fourth E-Commerce fulfillment center up and running and automated this year.
Last year it was mostly manual.
And that should help us.
It's the optimal number of ECs you need to minimize your transportation costs so that will help on the shipping cost.
And we're starting to get some traction in terms of seeing some apparel growth faster than home.
Home has been a bigger part of the business which carries a little bit lower margin.
But as we get more scale I think we should start to do a little bit better on the operating margin line.
But I think it will be difficult for it to be the same operating margin as brick and mortar.
Okay.
And then finally I know you're probably sick of this question but to the extent that J.C.
Penney was able to pull off a strong positive comp for the fourth quarter would you view that as a risk for you guys? Or do you think since you didn't get a lot of the share it's really you're kind of operating in a different -- with a different customer base? I think it looks to me like the latter.
Just having gone through the 18 months of their change and transformation and the modest to say the least impact it had on us I would expect the same -- I mean kind of going the other way.
And even as they've become a more promotional store in the very very recent past the differences in performance on our stores relative to their stores by trade area it's just negligible.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Grambling with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> As you think about the new beauty assortment can you just talk about one I guess how that basket compares in the beauty shop versus your average? And then is there still an opportunity to get more brands as you demonstrate success with the rollout? I think it's just too early for us to give you any commentary that would be any good for you on the beauty baskets.
We're just kind of looking at a business that was -- the reconstruction the new service model and the delivery of the new brands all basically happened in October.
And most stores were not set until the last week of -- third to fourth week of October.
We just know that initially the results look really really good.
We've had a big first in sales in beauty.
And of course it depends on which of the 3 types of environments a store has as to what kind of increase we're getting.
I think that the beauty initiative similar to some of the other initiatives we've talked about is a long-term initiative.
And certainly there are certainly suppliers who are probably more in the wait-and-see mode.
They'd like to see what the environment really looks like.
They'd like to see what the results really are.
They'd like to experience the customer service levels that the brands that we do have get.
And given those results I suspect will be more or less open to considering distribution at Kohl's.
I would tell you that in the environments we've set they're very well done and they're being very well serviced and the results are really good.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then a quick follow-up on the non-credit card customers.
You did mention that you're engaging new customers so can you talk about how maybe that basket compares to the credit card customers both in terms of categories and then also just the sheer size? Well the basket for non-credit card customers is always going to be smaller on the average.
Our averages by default of credit card customers' basket is higher.
It's really -- the non-credit customer is really more about visits.
These are new visits.
And so regardless of what their relative basket size is on the visit it's adding a visit that we weren't getting before.
And what we're really focused on is just customer acquisition.
And so getting more customers in the door has consistently been the challenge and we know that that's where our attention has got to go here.
And we think loyalty it's not the only tool by any stretch of imagination but it's a key tool to do that.
Research Division</strong> And understood on the lower basket.
But I guess relative to the non-credit card customers who are already existing I guess is my question and also on the categories just as a follow-up are there specific categories that they're being drawn to when it's a new customer? I don't think either of us probably have the answer to that.
I don't.
Yes I mean the basket for a credit card customer is roughly 10% higher than a bank card customer.
But in terms of mix we've looked at it there's not a significant mix difference.
I'd say new customers are more prone to buy our national brands which is sort of a reason why we're using that strategy to get more new customers.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
One last one if I can just on CapEx.
It looks like there's a fairly large increase in the fourth quarter.
Is there something specific driving that? I think you referenced IT maybe.
Yes most of it's related to IT projects that will get installed then.
So that's really it.
We're also closing on some doors for next year.
We have more spring stores next year than we had this year and a couple other non-retail or -- yes non-retail CapEx projects that we're working on so...
Your next question comes from the line of Dana Telsey with Telsey Advisory Group.
Can you talk a little bit about -- on the expense side you mentioned that store expenses and distribution costs increased for the quarter that they didn't leverage; and marketing expenses $3 million higher.
How are you thinking of that for the fourth quarter and going into next year? And where are you on the tally for share buyback this year? Well on the share buyback we should be if we buy the 325 million somewhere around 820 -- between 825 million and 850 million I think so a little lower than what we thought.
We do all of our share repurchases on a 10b5-1 plan.
And we can adjust that in the last month of the quarter through the earnings call.
So when the stock got higher we obviously in the plan have bought less.
So that's why we fell a little short of what we wanted to be in the third quarter.
And in terms of expenses when you're -- if you're adding new stores your expenses are going to go up for stores.
And distribution most of the distribution expense increase was related to E-Commerce.
Some of the store increase was related to payroll especially with the beauty rollout that we had as Kevin mentioned earlier.
Marketing expense is up slightly.
It leverages on a year-to-date basis.
But we're investing a lot more in marketing in the fourth quarter which is why you see the expenses go up in the fourth quarter.
Your next -- your final question comes from the line of Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Kevin and Wes you've spoken about increasing the marketing spend.
And I just wanted to maybe have a discussion about choosing to go kind of that route versus the actual discounting or amount of promotional kind of intensity that we're seeing in the stores of your peer group.
How do you kind of think about advertising more versus actual price points and providing value on the products especially as we head into the holiday period? I mean I think generally Paul that all of the research and the insights that we gathered from that research have indicated that we don't have a problem at all with customers on pricing credibility on being a low-priced leader on offering great sales on offering big discounts on offering great value.
So spending more both in the past and even in the future against that would not make a lot of sense based on the results that we've gotten in the past and the research that we've done.
What is lacking is more customer engagement.
We're not gaining enough new customers.
And I think that has everything to do with reaching them in a different way evolving our message which we're just beginning to do and I would expect it to evolve a lot as we go into 2014 and reaching them on new platforms more aggressively.
So we mentioned digital as a specific example.
We mentioned television as another.
Not that we don't advertise on television we always have but we are doing more on the integration side and more what I would describe as breakthrough kind of advertising.
I think if Michelle were here she would talk to you about being more disruptive in the marketing that we do.
And so some of the things like the American Music Award effort which I think is going to be very unique as the reach of that is going to go way beyond just the people who see the spot and our advertising on the NFL on Thanksgiving Day these are new venues for us.
So we're very convinced that the changes in our marketing are much more important than spending that money against lower prices because we're already where we need to be on pricing.
Yes I mean from an AUR perspective I think I mentioned on the call we're down about 2% for both the quarter and the year.
I would expect our fourth quarter AURs to be up a little but that's only because of we should have a lot less clearance.
Our out-the-door price during the competitive holiday season should be at or below last year's.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then maybe just touch base quickly just kind of on the overall holiday kind of merchandise strategy as well.
I mean I noticed in the Black Friday ad I mean the first few pages are certainly full of kind of non-core items such as toys and electronics and TVs and DVDs et cetera.
I know inventory levels are down overall but can you maybe just kind of give us some color on where you stand on some of these kind of gift-giving niche kind of holiday specific items versus the apparel? Yes sure.
I mean it's along the same items as what I just spoke about on an overall basis which is to try to surprise our customers to try to give them something different and more unique.
If you looked at the Black Friday ad you probably also have noticed that there are items that are only available in-store and that's something new for us so that that customer gets something very specific and unique.
So on that that all came out of and was informed obviously by our own results last year but just also the research that we've done.
Yes and our -- we've always had a big toy business.
It obviously gets exacerbated in the fourth quarter.
But last year we ran a 25 comp in toys so it's a big business for us in the fourth quarter.
It's a big business for us and we expect it to be a big business again in the fourth quarter.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then just my last question is the guidance before Q gross margins was tweaked to 7 -- up 70 to 90 basis points.
If there was to be upside to the fourth quarter could you just kind of highlight where you think that would come from? In my mind the upside for the fourth quarter is on the top line.
That's where we're focused on all these new initiatives.
The marketing strategies that are a little different.
We're focused on exceeding that and we have assumptions in the fourth quarter plan that we think are sensible given the trend of our business but we're focused on upside on the top line.
And that was your final question.
Do you have any closing remarks? Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Ginger and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Kohl's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference.
[Operator Instructions] Certain statements made on this call including projected financial results are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Kohl's intends forward-looking statements terminology such as believes expects may will should anticipates plans or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause Kohl's actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those that are described in Item 1A in Kohl's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and as may be supplemented from time-to-time in Kohl's other filings with the SEC all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
Also please note that replays of this recording will not be updated.
So if you are listening after February 27 2014 it is possible that the information discussed is no longer current.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Wes McDonald.
Thank you.
With me today is Kevin Mansell Chairman CEO and President.
I'll walk through our P&amp;L and Kevin will talk a little bit about our merchandising and marketing initiatives and then I'll conclude the call with our guidance for our fiscal 2014.
Comp sales for the quarter decreased 2%.
As a reminder our actual comps and our guidance excluded the 53rd week in fiscal 2012.
Some of our competitors especially in specialty retail report on the shifted calendar which excludes the first week of the 2012 fiscal quarter.
On this shifted basis our sales -- our comp sales decreased 0.4% for the quarter.
Our average transaction value increased 2.8% the largest increase in more than 2 years.
AUR was especially strong up 3.6% partially due to significant reductions in our January clearance sales.
Transactions per store were slightly negative during the holiday season but fell off significantly in January.
For the quarter transactions were down 4.8%.
Kevin will provide more details on our sales in his prepared remarks.
Our gross margin rate for the quarter increased 71 basis points consistent with the low end of our guidance.
We are especially pleased with this performance given the shipping challenges that we experienced in the quarter in our E-Commerce business.
A shortened holiday shopping season inclement weather and our own operational challenges in our fulfillment centers all contributed to higher shipping costs as we use faster more expensive shipping methods to fulfill our customers orders.
We also saw a higher percentage of our online sales during the highly promotional Thanksgiving and Cyber weeks.
Our SG&amp;A expenses were 2% higher than last year which was more than our expectations of a 75 to 125 basis point increase.
Higher fulfillment expenses for our online business were the primary reason for our actual costs exceeding our original guidance.
Marketing expense also exceeded our original plans.
Depreciation expense increased 5% over the fourth quarter of 2012 to $224 million.
The increase is primarily due to depreciation at our E-Commerce fulfillment centers and IT amortization.
Net interest expense increased $2 million to $87 million for the quarter.
The increase is primarily due to the September 2013 debt issuance.
Our income tax rate was 36% for the quarter a full percentage point lower than our expectation of 37%.
The change was primarily due to favorable state audit tax resolutions.
Net income was $334 million for the current year quarter and $889 million for the year.
Diluted earnings per share was $1.56 for the quarter $0.03 higher than the guidance we provided earlier this month as final gross margin was stronger than expected.
We opened 12 new stores this year bringing our current store count to 1 158 our gross square footage to 100.3 million square feet and our selling square footage to 83.7 million square feet.
We expect to open 5 new stores this spring including one relocated store.
We also plan to permanently close 2 stores and temporarily close one store for a complete rebuild.
We expect to open another 4 stores in the fall including the rebuilt store.
So for 2014 we'll have a net increase of 5 stores.
We remodeled 30 stores in 2013 and expect to remodel approximately 35 stores in 2014.
We ended the quarter with $971 million of cash and cash equivalents an increase of more than $400 million over a year in 2012.
We generated $1.1 billion of free cash flow in 2013 almost 3x the level generated in 2012.
Our capital expenditures were $643 million for 2013 $142 million lower than 2012.
The decrease reflects multiple changes in our capital expenditures including fewer remodels in new stores and lower E-Commerce fulfillment center spending partially offset by higher IT spending.
We expect capital expenditures in 2014 to be approximately $725 million.
Our inventory -- our January inventory balance was $3.9 billion a 3% increase over January 2013.
On a per-store basis inventory at cost increased 1%.
The increase is primarily due to our renewed focus on national brands which have a higher cost than our private and exclusive brands.
Kevin will talk more about inventory management in a few minutes.
AP as a percent of inventory was 35.2% 30 basis points higher than last year.
The increase reflects lower markdowns and better payment terms partially offset by slower inventory turn.
Weighted average diluted shares were $215 million for the quarter.
We repurchased 4.6 million shares during the quarter and 15.4 million shares for the year.
To reduce some confusion we are now separately presenting our share repurchases and shares withheld on restricted stock vesting separately in our statement of cash flow.
On February 26 our board declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.39 per share an increase of 11% over our previous dividend.
The dividend is payable March 26 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 12.
I'll now turn over to Kevin who will provide additional insights on our results.
Thanks Wes.
As Wes mentioned our fourth quarter comps were down 2% on an unshifted basis and down 0.4% on a shifted basis.
We're very pleased with the results in the November and December holiday season.
By extending our hours on Thanksgiving we were able to be the first stop for our customers and she responded well driving significantly higher sales on the Black Friday weekend.
We set record levels of both transactions and sales both in stores and online on individual days several times over the holiday period.
Sales for the combined November and December period were well above plan.
This momentum did not carry into January as lower levels of clearance inventory resulted in sales which were significantly lower than our expectations.
Earlier this year we completed our E-Commerce re-platform.
The re-platform provided the backbone to support current and future omni-channel initiatives.
From a customer-facing perspective the re-platform provided an improved checkout experience and effectively handled the incremental holiday traffic.
E-Commerce sales increased 16% for the quarter.
The customer responded very well to our offerings and we posted strong results during 2 of the most important weeks of the year at Thanksgiving.
For the year E-Commerce sales totaled $1.7 billion.
Our E-Commerce sales have now almost doubled since 2011 and have increased at a compounded annual growth rate of almost 40% over the last 5 years.
On a regional basis the Southeast West and South Central regions reported the strongest counts for the quarter while the more weather-sensitive regions the Northeast the Mid-Atlantic and Midwest underperformed the company average.
Looking at our results by line of business apparel categories outperformed non-apparel categories.
Men's reported the highest comp on strength and outerwear and active.
Women's also outperformed the company on strong outerwear and active sales as well.
Children's apparel was consistent with the company average.
Toys was slightly positive after posting a 25% increase in the fourth quarter of the year before.
In home business the customer responded well to our new premium electronics offerings which included Beats headphones and speakers and LG televisions.
In accessories strong results in our bath and beauty categories as a result of our beauty remodel program and the new brand launches were offset by lower jewelry sales.
And finally in footwear footwear saw strength in both juniors and active.
Our renewed emphasis on national brands continues to generate positive results.
In recent years we introduced many successful new private and exclusive brands Jennifer Lopez Mark Anthony and Rock &amp; Republic as examples.
We continue to aggressively support these brands but believe it's important to rebalance our product offering between our quality Only-at-Kohl's Brands and our iconic national brands to drive maximum customer traffic and to maximize sales.
During the fall season national brands consistently outperformed the company total.
On the inventory side we're very pleased with our efforts to bring down our inventory levels in 2013.
We decreased our fall receipts significantly in order to ensure we ended the season clean.
On a unit basis our inventory per store excluding E-Commerce is down 4% with our clearance units per store down 15% from last year.
National brands are flat on a unit-per-store basis while private brands are down 7% and exclusive brands are down 10%.
Moving over to marketing.
During the holiday season we focused on delivering strong value while finding new exciting and more disruptive ways to reach our customers in the channels they use most.
From powerful broadcast integrations to exciting new product offerings in store and online our efforts resonated.
This spring we're building on that positive momentum with Wink of Pink an omni-channel campaign that leverages the trend color of the season to tell a compelling story from a board assortment of merchandise to meaningful new national initiatives that build on our commitment to women's health.
We expanded our loyalty program to California and the Pittsburgh market in the third quarter of 2013 and plan to roll to additional markets.
After that spring rollout the program will be available in approximately 30% of our stores.
We continue to be very pleased with the sales lifts that we are seeing in our current loyalty markets and we now expect to have loyalty rolled out to all markets in the company by the end of the fiscal year.
In closing as we look forward to 2014 we do so with a renewed focus on connecting with our customers and providing their families with the amazing product easy experience and incredible savings that they expect from Kohl's.
This year we'll add several new brands to our portfolio.
In the spring we'll combine the magic of Disney one of the most recognizable brands in the world with our highly successful Jumping Beans brand.
In only 5 years the Jumping Beans brand has become our fourth largest brand with annual sales in excess of $600 million.
We'll also launch the next DesigNation designer Peter Som.
We'll roll out 2 new brands in the fall IZOD and Juicy Couture.
The IZOD rollout will be one of the largest menswear rollouts in our history.
The Juicy Couture brand will be part of our efforts to capture more of the athleisure market.
We also will continue to strengthen our current mega brands.
In 2013 Croft &amp; Barrow SONOMA and Apt.
9 reported a combined $3.7 billion in sales almost 3/4 of all Kohl's consumers purchase one or more of these brands last year.
We continue to see good results from our national brands as investments in inventory and in-store presentation and marketing led to their outperformance in the fall season.
Our renovated beauty department brings an exciting new shopping environment to customers in approximately 280 stores.
Early sales results continue to be very promising with increases in beauty sales of 20% to 30% and we expect to roll out an additional 200-plus stores this year.
We continue to experiment with different in-store environments for beauty in order to maximize our return on investment.
With these renovations international beauty and fragrance brands that we launched this September we believe Kohl's is becoming top-of-mind might as our customer chooses where to shop for their beauty products.
We're making significant investments to create an exciting omni-channel experience for the customer whether she's shopping in one of our stores from her phone or from her laptop we're creating a consistent experience to ensure she can connect with us wherever and however she wishes.
And with that I'll turn it back to Wes to provide our annual guidance.
Thanks Kevin.
For the fiscal year our guidance is as follows: Comparable sales flat to up 2%; total sales up 50 basis points to 2.5%; gross margin improvement of 10 to 30 basis points; SG&amp;A expense dollars increase 1.5% to 2.5%; depreciation expense of $950 million; interest expense of $342 million; tax rate of 38%; and share repurchases of $1 billion and estimated average diluted shares of 204 million shares.
This results in earnings per diluted share of $4.05 to $4.45 for fiscal 2014.
And with that we'll be happy to take your questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from Neely Tamminga from Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Obviously November December I'd love to talk a little bit more about that.
In terms of the loyalty program and some of the initiatives you said could you give us a little bit more color as to -- maybe just isolating November December how that new loyalty program performed relative to balance of chain or some sort of control group? And just one other big picture question for you Kevin if you will.
On mobile for 2014 I would imagine mobile continues to be the significant source of additional growth for your E-Commerce business.
Are there any sort of key initiatives we should be looking for in '14 as it relates to mobile? I'll take the loyalty one and Kevin can take the mobile one.
Loyalty we've just been seeing relatively consistent results.
I'd say the lifts depending on market have ranged from 1.5% roughly on the low end to 3% on the higher end.
Interestingly our biggest lift has come in Pittsburgh which is our highest credit penetration market in the tests so far so that's very encouraging.
In some of the markets that we're rolling out in the spring we're going to roll it out to additional high-credit penetration markets to see if we can replicate that lift.
But we're very encouraged with the loyalty program thus far.
We're making some tweaks to it in terms of making it more than just about encouraging transactions at Kohl's to make a more emotional connection.
And Michelle has been working on that quite feverishly over the last few months and that'll be something that will be integrated in the loyalty program as we roll it out by the end of the year.
Neely on the mobile side the largest percentage of our total investments in CapEx for this year are in technology.
And within the technology investment the largest percent by far is in omni-channel and personalization initiatives that we're launching this year.
There's a whole bunch of mobile-enabled customer experiences that we plan to begin to roll out.
They include things like the next chapter of loyalty an effort to create a new tablet-centric site enhancing our mobile wallet experience and then developing and launching a whole series of in-store experiences around location-based marketing personalized offers and more product information.
So we're highly focused on it.
Obviously mobile is driving visits and it's important that we have best-in-class mobile experience.
Your next question comes from Bob Drbul from Nomura.
Research Division</strong> I guess the first question is on the mix versus the gross margin can you just give us updated thoughts around how you see this playing throughout 2014 around some of the mix shift with the national brands and gross margin implications -- the current thinking on that? Sure.
First of all national brands increased in penetration in the fall season both in the third quarter and the fourth quarter.
So we're very happy to see that take hold.
I reran the numbers yesterday so it's a good question.
If 100 basis points goes up in national brands in terms of penetration if it comes out entirely of our private brands which we would not expect we would expect it to be more likely from the exclusive brands it would be 7 basis points of headwind.
If it came out of entirely of our exclusive brands it would be 4 basis points of headwind.
The shifts were not going to be dramatic on an annual basis from our penetration in national brands.
We're certainly going to pick up quite a bit in 2014 in the back half when we roll out IZOD.
But I don't think there's going to be any gross margin pressure at all from any shift in terms of moving more to national brands.
It'll be offset by the fact that we're going to try to improve our gross margin through inventory management in all 3 types of our brands.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And on the fall brands the Juicy line is that a line that the men's piece will be a big portion of? And Wes would you be expecting to use your employee discount on a lot of the Juicy products? No I think it's pretty much just going to be on the women's side of the business.
But it is athleisure so who knows.
Your next question comes from Oliver Chen from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> Regarding your gross margin outlook what are the main drivers for the nice look forward to the upside there? And also as we look at the comp going forward and you engage in the national brand and beauty side what are the main enthusiastic drivers in terms of what will support the comp in terms of unit versus transaction and traffic? This is Kevin Oliver.
On the margin I think the way you want to think about the margin is as Wes said the move to more aggressively support our national brands is really sort of neutral.
I don't think we expect really any significant change in our margin performance because of that.
We're working as you can tell really hard on managing our inventories more effectively.
So I think the tailwind that we see on margin would be the continued execution of our inventory management strategies which would lead to improved sell-through lower clearance levels and therefore better merchandise margins.
The headwind that of course we're facing is the impact of the growth of online because our online business does operate at lower merchandise margins primarily due to merchandise mix more than anything else.
So the improvement in our merchandise margins and brick-and-mortar is obviously more substantial than the overall improvement we're guiding to because of the headwind from the other side.
On the comp performance there's a series of initiatives that we think we're really -- have been talking about probably now for the last 2 quarters that we think are going to drive sales.
National brands is obviously one of them.
Our recommitment to that is important to get the customer more engaged.
Our loyalty program is working.
It's being expanded and we fully expect to have it completely rolled out by the end of the year but more importantly a more comprehensive program that would enable us to engage on more things other than just a better transaction for the customer -- a lower-price transaction.
Beauty is working as we said.
Comp increases in beauty in the beauty stores compared to the non-beauty stores are anywhere between 20% and 30%.
New brands.
We've been in the last couple of years efficient on new brand introductions.
You heard about a whole bunch of new brand introductions beginning this spring and then more aggressively in the fall.
All of those things I think are really positive from the sales side.
I don't know if I missed anything Wes.
Yes I mean I think the biggest thing that's going to drive comp we have to get transactions per store moving in a better direction.
The average transaction value that was up this quarter we fully expected given our performance last year especially on clearance in January.
So it was no -- we knew AUR was going to be up pretty significantly this quarter but that's not going to be an ongoing thing.
And for -- in order for us to drive comps better than what we've been running the last few years we've got to get transactions per store more visits per store moving in the right direction.
Your next question is from Matthew Boss from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> [indiscernible] comp at the higher end of the range for this year what would be the underlying traffic and ticket components as we think about it? Should we think about the year as second-half loaded? And any comments on February so far? Yes.
I mean I think we're obviously thinking that comp's going to come mostly from traffic.
I can't tell you if it's going to be 1 and 1 or traffic's up 2% ticket's flat.
I'm hoping that we get a slight ticket benefit just from better management of our inventory.
So AUR's going to be up slightly not to the extent that it was in the third quarter.
Definitely with the new brands coming in the back half with IZOD and Juicy we would expect fall to be a little bit better than spring.
And in terms of February our business hasn't been any different than everybody else that's reported already.
It was pretty slow in the beginning of February and it's picked up recently.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the marketing front can you just -- can you talk to some of the things that Michelle is working on and what we should look for as the year progresses on that front? Yes.
I mean we test on a few of them frankly during the course of the call.
If I was prioritizing them I would say #1 priority that Michelle has been focused on is to evaluate our current loyalty program and create a more improved platform to go forward with.
And so I think she's happy about the fact that she has something to work with but she also knows that it could -- it needs to be enhanced substantially for it to be most effective.
So we're getting lifts.
So that's really encouraging just the fact that we're getting lifts.
We're definitely highly focused on identifying new customers.
So there's a whole series of initiatives that Michelle is focused on from the way we deliver our marketing literally in our print and in our broadcast to the loyalty initiatives and other initiatives that she's working on and it's highly targeted towards expanding our reach.
So as I said our #1 priority is to identify ways for us to broaden the reach to improve transactions.
Loyalty is probably right now the #1 way we're going to get there but there are a whole series of other ideas that she's working on.
And we've had some success; she had some great success in a few instances in the fourth quarter particularly around the Thanksgiving Day period and we benefited greatly from it.
As you saw our November December sales were almost up 1% comp so we had some great success.
Your next question is from Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Wes if you can just go back and talk about some of the hurdles in the fourth quarter with shipping and just maybe kind of outline to us how that -- you plan to improve upon that? For this upcoming year any investments that need to be made on the shipping side? Sure.
Well I think the issue it really comes in to 2 different buckets.
I guess the first thing I'd say is our peak I think is a little bit different than other retailers.
The week of Thanksgiving we get 10x our average volume.
So that creates a pretty big spike and we planned for that backlog.
We just didn't execute in all of our distribution centers.
We did a really good job in one of them.
On the West Coast we did -- we were affected by weather in our Dallas DC as other people were in that area.
But we have to solve the throughput problem.
So in order to that a couple of different things we're doing.
We're taking our ship from store -- number of stores up to at least 500 for this year that will help significantly.
We're also moving more units to our regional distribution centers.
That's our brick-and-mortar.
They're going to handle the more bulky stuff that has to do ship alone anyway.
So those are 2 things we're focusing on.
We're also looking at a bulk another bulk distribution center whether we run it temporarily or we use a third-party service provider to do it.
So again alleviate that peak demand.
We're also really working on practicing peak everyday in the off season where we're trying to drive as many units as we can on a daily basis out and getting as many units out in one day as we possibly can.
The shipping costs that was really -- so that was really all about expense.
The shipping costs really just occurred as we had to use more expensive units or methods of shipping with FedEx and UPS as we got closer to Christmas.
I don't think we were alone at that.
I think we are all going to have to in retail rethink the cutoff dates because there's only so much capacity in the pipeline that FedEx and UPS can provide.
And I think everybody read about some of the issues they have on the shipping side with just meeting the demand that's out there.
So we all have to be -- in a business -- more realistic as to what we can get delivered those last few days before Christmas.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
And then just on the balance sheet.
I know this past fall you went to the markets and got some debt.
Is there any expectation to lever up this year in order to complete the $1 billion in buyback? No.
I mean the function of really completing the $1 billion in buyback this year we were light.
I have to put in a 10b5-1 plan the third week of November and it just runs automatically.
And the way that we built the grid it wasn't able to complete what we thought given the movement of the stock price.
No I don't expect to go to the markets.
We ended the year with almost $1 billion in cash.
We're going to generate another $1 billion in free cash flow next year I believe as well.
So I think we'll use the free cash flow to buy back the shares and then take the cash balance down a little bit towards the end of the year.
We don't need to necessarily have $1 billion at the end of the year.
I think we've been targeting somewhere around $500 million or $600 million.
So no need to go to the markets in 2014.
Your next question comes from Lorraine Hutchinson from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> It's Heather Balsky on for Lorraine.
I was hoping you could just talk about your outlook on inventory over the course of the year and also for the long term.
In addition address some of your plans to better manage inventory during the year.
Yes.
I mean I think our goal really over the next 3 years we've been pretty consistent with this is to try to take inventory down roughly 5% mid-single digits on an annual basis.
So we're a little high now due to the mix of the business.
We'll work through that and we'll be more aggressive as we move through the year.
I would expect at the end of the year if we're talking a year from now we should be -- our inventory should be down somewhere x E-Comm mid-single digits.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And can you also just talk about your strategies in terms of pickup from store and how you're thinking about that for this year? Sure.
We're -- from ship from store I mentioned earlier we're doing about 500 stores.
Pick up from store we're doing tests in 2 significant markets.
What we would expect to do is read those tests and we'll have the ability to do it in more markets just this question of reading the test.
One of the things we want to make share we can do is deliver obviously on the promise to the customer on the pickup and make sure that they can identify -- our store associates can identify the items in the store and pick them quickly.
And we just have to figure out as we test that whether that's 1 hour that's 4 hours whatever the right level is we want to make sure we have that figured out before we roll it out to more than just those few markets.
Your next question is from Michael Binetti from UBS.
Research Division</strong> If you -- can we talk a little bit about the E-Comm? I think you said 16% growth in the quarter.
Was that right Wes? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then so obviously there was some fulfillment issues in those.
Just want to think about how that trend should stretch into early 2014 both on the top line -- is that where -- where you think the throughput issues are contained in the quarter? And just due to capacity or should we think about a more muted growth rate than we saw in the early part of last year? No I think the throughput issues are really a 2-week issue.
So we won't have any throughput issues for sure.
I think we need to regain some trust from the customer and we're working on that.
We disappointed some people and we've tried to make them whole the best that we can.
But we won't be limited in terms of throughput any time in the first 3 quarters.
It's really about getting them to the site.
Kevin talked about mobile.
One of the things that we worked on last year as you guys all know was our re-platform.
We did not put a lot of effort into enhancements on our tablet app and our smartphone apps because we were focused on doing the re-platform.
You'll see a lot more change on both tablet and smartphone this year which is going to help our conversion rate.
Desktops have a better -- higher conversion rate than tablets which have a higher conversion rate than smartphones.
With a lot of the traffic moving to mobile we have to develop a much better app for both tablet and smartphones in order to drive the conversion rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just bigger picture and longer term as you think about so much of the world shifting to E-Commerce and online and certainly we get a lot of questions about whether the consumer had a tipping point with how they are going to conduct their holiday shopping going forward.
When you guys think about the store portfolio at 1 100 stores is that still the right number of stores for you guys long term? Yes.
I mean I -- we talked about -- we're closing a couple of stores whose leases came up.
I think you'll see that more in the future.
We have a watchlist of stores that are negative cash flow; there are about 5 to 10 that we look at on an annual basis.
A lot of those have improved over the last year so -- and it's not significantly cash flow negative.
What I think we need to do a better job of is utilizing those stores as multipurpose assets if you will.
Ship from store is certainly going to be used in more and more stores.
I'm not sure if it needs to be in every store.
There's some very high-volume stores that we have where they're probably busy enough servicing the customer in those stores to worry about shipping from the store.
But at some point buy online pick up in store is going to be everywhere.
And that's going to be I think a big help because it drives traffic to the store.
And as I've read through some of the notes from our other competitors they're seeing store visits and store shopping from those pickups as well.
So I think we just have to do a better job of making our stores multipurpose.
Research Division</strong> And finally as you think about the CapEx for the year is there -- and maybe some of the planned spending in stores and the investment that you guys do in the stores? Is that -- can you -- is that a composition of what you think you'll be spending on this year in the stores? How is it different from some prior years or what are the priorities in store here? Well the majority really is -- or not the majority but we're spending about $275 million in IT.
That's actually a little bit less than this year but we don't have the re-platform.
I think a lot of what you'll see in store is more about merchandise presentation.
So obviously with the IZOD and Juicy rollouts you're going to have some pretty impactful strike points in the stores as well.
We've put in the infrastructure to do ship from store and to buy online pick up in store in those couple of markets I talked about.
We're also doing RFID and in certain merchandise categories in most of our stores now.
Those are the -- and then obviously beauty we're rolling out to over 200 stores.
I think it's 214.
We are testing in beauty I think we mentioned it in the script a sort of in-between concept.
We have a full shop and then a relatively inexpensive retrofit.
What we've seen so far is in our high-volume stores the full shops are doing very well.
In our lower-volume stores what we need to do is put more of those less expensive retrofits.
What we're trying to figure out from an investment perspective is in the middle-volume stores what's the best way to treat beauty.
So we have developed a prototype that's kind of in between in terms of cost and we're going to be testing that as part of the 214 stores.
And that should give us a good read as to how quickly we can roll out beyond this year.
Your next question comes from Charles Grom from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Just on the omni questions at what point will your inventory systems be able to speak to one another so you can essentially do all that including site to store to door? They do today.
Research Division</strong> They do today okay.
So at some point in the next couple of years you should be able to do the whole platform -- site to store to door pick up store...
Well I think our -- I mean the truth is Chuck that we can do that right now and we have the capability of doing buy online pick up in store and ship from store now.
What we're feeling our way through is how many stores do we want to use ship from store on that would give us the highest level of productivity because as Wes said high-volume stores are probably not the stores we're going to use for that.
We'll use stores that are in the more middle of the pack or lower end of the pack of stores to ship from store because they're geographically across the whole country anyway and they'll make those stores a lot more productive we believe; at least in the initial test that's what we're finding.
And then on buy online pick up in store that's just how fast we're going to move on it.
And we're going to launch it and we're going do it in major markets and we can roll it out as aggressively as we want based on what we learn in the findings.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then on the fourth quarter the shipping and -- the higher shipping costs and the higher fulfillment costs any sense of magnitude that you like to share with us for how much that cost you guys? No.
I mean it's hard to -- there's so many elements to that because if you start to go down that road a little bit you also get into well how much did it impact the sales.
So if people were dissatisfied did they not come back later in December and buy.
It's a significant number.
I mean we had incredible success in the 2-week period of the week before Thanksgiving and the week after Thanksgiving.
And at the end of the day we weren't able to deliver the traditional customer service that we would expect to those customers online in terms of shipping it.
And then we felt the aftereffect of that between then and the Christmas Day.
Yes.
I mean I would expect to be more productive in 2014 in the fulfillment center.
So hopefully we'll do better on the SG&amp;A line.
I couldn't tell you right now on the shipping cost part just because we're going to have to ship things more expensively to meet the peak demand.
That's one of the things we learned last year.
And I do think that the capacity that the FedExs and UPSs of the world that they won't -- they're going to have -- they only have a fixed capacity.
So it's going to move back I think in terms of what they're willing to promise all of us as shippers that they can deliver in time for Christmas so...
Again we're back to why ship from store is really important [indiscernible] And pickup.
[indiscernible] Buy online pick up in store and why that's so important.
Research Division</strong> Exactly right.
Okay.
And then on that AUR increase is that mainly a function of the -- down 2.4% from a year ago or was it because of the increase in penetration in national brands? Or was it some cost inflation? I'd say it was more about the January clearance.
If I look at the AUR through November December it was up a little.
But not to the -- it was significantly up double digits in January.
Yes it's all -- it's just about the mix.
We had so much lower level of clearance.
Research Division</strong> And then just on the comp for the full year is there any shifts in between quarters marketing events? So just -- as we kind of start to put the model out by quarter is there anything we should think about? No except for the Easter shift we're almost back to normal.
I mean the only thing as Wes mentioned I think the earlier question or maybe in the call the weight of our new initiatives as you heard in the call have a tendency to be -- beginning more in the second quarter and accelerating into the third quarter.
So whatever implication that would have on our expectation that would move it I would say.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then just on that February comment you made earlier I mean have you guys taken a look at your good weather markets versus your bad weather markets? Do you think that slowdown in the front half was mainly a weather issue? Or do you feel like that the consumer is under a little more duress lately? I think that -- I mean I think the consumer's definitely under duress no question about that.
When we look at the business in both January and February frankly our West Coast business which has had good weather particularly for spring selling has performed really well I think Wes consistently very well.
So that gives us a lot of optimism relative to the product offering and availability of selling spring once there's more reasonable weather in particularly the Midwest and Northeast.
Yes it's minus 3 this morning Chuck out here so Kevin and I are not updating our polos yet.
Your next question is from Liz Dunn from Macquarie.
I was -- wanted to circle back on the loyalty program and just sort of understand what kind of a penetration are you achieving? And does it vary in markets like Texas or -- versus Pittsburgh where you might have a different penetration of the card? And then are any of the things that you're learning about loyalty impacting some of the card benefits? And then finally what's the -- what are you doing for marketing in terms of increase in dollars for 2014? I would imagine that's an area you continue to kind of distort spending.
On the loyalty thing the penetration frankly is pretty consistent across the whole country.
And to be totally honest with you that's probably a little bit -- has been a bit of a surprise to us because we had some expectation that markets which had really high credit penetration might not be as successful on loyalty because there were just so many existing credit card customers that the opportunity to attract new customers that are non-Kohl's card customers might be less.
That's actually not proving out to be the fact.
And in fact one of the highest credit card penetration markets we have is the Pittsburgh market in the whole country.
And we chose that market as one of the test markets just to see the impact of loyalty in that market and that has been an incredibly successful loyalty market.
It actually might be the most successful loyalty market that we have.
So we're -- that probably fuels a lot of optimism about the fact that loyalty is actually not in essentially any of our highly penetrated credit regions.
So it's not in the Northeast it's essentially mostly not in the Mid-Atlantic or the Midwest to any significant amount.
So that's a big positive as we see it.
The amount of new customers so that's outside of the current credit card customers who might also sign up for loyalty I mean I think they're running pretty close to 50% I think right Wes? I mean about half of the -- if we have x number of loyalty customers in a test store a little more than the cap [ph] of...
A little higher than non-credit yes.
Are non-credit.
So that's really exciting.
That was always the big objective is get these new customers engaged more effectively through loyalty.
There are really are no impact to the card benefits.
The card customers get everything they always got.
They just get a little more.
And as I said I think Michelle's excitement is focused around the delivery of loyalty what does loyalty look like how does it get engaged online what are the benefits that are outside of just the transactional benefit of maybe getting an additional $1 back on a purchase.
And I think she's pretty excited about some of the ideas that are being generated.
There is a new level of loyalty marketing that is going to be launched this year -- completing a new campaign.
It looks totally different.
The communication is totally different from what we've done but it's built fundamentally on the learnings that we had during the course of the test.
So as you can hear I'm very optimistic about loyalty.
And I think every day that goes by I get more confident about the possibility in loyalty.
On the marketing side we're essentially pretty much holding our marketing for the year overall.
But obviously loyalty is getting a pretty big increase.
So some of that money comes out of more traditional marketing that hasn't been as effective for us.
Your next question is from Dan Binder from Jefferies Company.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on this discussion of loyalty.
I'm curious what percentage of the transactions in these test markets are -- what percentage of sales are with loyalty cards? And then I think with the credit card there is some sort of profit-sharing relationship with the bank.
And I'm just curious when you get a credit card customer that signs up for the loyalty card are they doing anything in terms of picking and choosing events and how to use the card that would cause the economics of the credit card to erode? No.
Wes can add some value on the credit card piece.
On the percent of business I think we're just not at a point we want to share that because we'd send you down a path that might turn out to not be true when we expand it because we're essentially only in roughly 25% of the stores.
So we don't have a big enough base to speak confidently about that.
And secondly as I said loyalty is going to look very different going forward in terms of the customer face of it.
And so that could very well change what we're experiencing.
We're not thinking it's going to be negative.
We're thinking it's going to be an accelerant for sure.
Generally our credit card partner Capital One has been our partner on loyalty.
They're engaged on this issue.
We've made them a partner every step of the way and we've actually accelerated their engagement.
So they understand that loyalty is not a threat at all to the card business that we have to them.
It has nothing to do with the profit-sharing arrangements.
So that's...
Yes we haven't seen any change in behavior where people would be using their bank card more often.
It's a good question Dan.
It's one of the things I was a little concerned about in the beginning.
But we have enough data now that I'm not real worried about that anymore.
What we've seen is they've continued to use the credit card whether or not it's a credit event or not.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
My second question is on brands.
You obviously had a few that you've already announced and are planning to roll out this year.
I'm just curious from a pipeline perspective is -- I'm assuming you're not stopping there.
Is there any other potential brands you could announce this year even if you don't want to be specific today? We're definitely pushing hard on this topic.
The way I would characterize it -- I think over the course of the next few months we're going to probably be sharing a little bit longer-term view of what we see as the sort of accelerants to our business and trying to provide more detail about the implications on that on our future -- next 2 3 years business.
Brands are an important element of that and they're particularly important as we'll share with you in certain segments of our business where we think we can take a really leadership position.
So I don't want to get ahead of myself on that but there are certain areas in the store and certain areas of customer interest that we're going to heavily focus on and that to some extent will drive the areas that we're most interested in accelerating our brand penetration.
An easy example would be active and wellness.
Active is an area that we're highly penetrated in both in apparel and footwear and we know we have a huge opportunity to expand that platform into other categories and also to increase what we're doing in active in the existing world.
And those would be for instance one of the things we'd probably be talking to you about and that would therefore imply really be focused on new brand initiatives in that world.
Research Division</strong> And then just the final thing was on expenses.
You've done a remarkable job managing in the last few years and I think you had some consultants helping you get some costs out of the back non-customer-facing parts of the cost structure.
I'm just kind of curious if you can give us an update on where you are in that process and what you're doing this year to still manage that pretty tightly.
Well we've -- when we've uncovered them we've obviously put them in the budgets and taken the work out where appropriate.
I would say that we've built it into our guidance.
So if you do the math we expect to leverage at a 2% comp that's what we guided to.
The remaining initiatives from that lie mostly in IT and credit and they're related to finishing some IT work on some projects that we have planned for this year.
So we have a lot built into the next -- for this year.
We have a little built in for '15 and then we'll have to relook at it because we have to continue to improve.
And then your next question is from Mark Altschwager from Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow-up again on the marketing side.
Can you just talk a bit more about the response to some of the changes on that front with the higher profile ad buys and focus on broadcast and social media? And then it sounds like the budget is saying relatively consistent.
So maybe where are you pulling back with your greater emphasis on loyalty and these higher cost avenues? Well we definitely have had some successes.
Michelle likes to talk about those as green shoots so things that she's been able to focus on in a very short period of time with her team and create change and we've seen some really exciting results around that.
Probably the one that's the easiest to understand that I'm sure you saw was our effort prior to the Thanksgiving event around the MAs and an effort with Jennifer Lopez and that had a tremendous amount of impressions and a tremendous amount of excitement generated and it translated into traffic and it translated into sales.
Obviously she knows full well that those small steps have to now translate into bigger steps.
We have an initiative underway right now.
One of the color trends of the season is for sure pink.
And there's an initiative that launched just at Presidents' Day and has been ongoing around that.
I think those kinds of things you're going to see a lot more of an awful lot about loyalty.
Obviously it's a 0-sum game so we're planning on spending essentially anymore in marketing.
And if we're going to fund loyalty and we're going to fund some of these big ideas then there are other areas of funding that have occurred in the past that we've identified that haven't produced results.
And Michelle is focused on those and those are the areas that are going to be pulled back.
Print is clearly one of those areas for sure.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then following up on the beauty side any data you can share on how the tests are impacting frequency of visits in those stores? And then any data you have on the costs associated with the further rollout? Well we've seen -- it's very early so I don't want anybody to read a whole lot into this.
We've seen low-single digit overall lifts in the stores which is critical to the success of the program.
So from that perspective I think we're very pleased with what has been going on.
In terms of investment it really varies.
I don't want to really get into specifics.
It's -- at the low end it's tens of thousands of dollars in investment; at the higher end it's hundreds of thousands of dollars.
And like I mentioned earlier we're just trying to find the right mix in terms of looking at the sales volume because that's important.
Obviously a 1% lift in a store that does $12 million is a lot different than a 1% lift in a $24 million store.
So that's something that we're going to work on and finalize this year.
We'll have a really good plan to roll out the balance of the chain in '15 and beyond.
Your final question comes from Dana Telsey from Telsey Advisory Group.
As you think about remodels we've heard a lot about marketing and the loyalty program.
Connecting it with the stores and the remodel program how do you see the stores matching the marketing program and sending the message? What should we be looking for in the remodels this year that may have been different than last year? I think -- yes Dana.
I think one of the things we're looking at in remodels we're going to continue to do a significant amount of total store remodels going forward.
But more and more we're highly focused on identifying new initiatives that would require capital that could make the store look different and also generate very specific returns both in the business and in the overall store traffic.
A good example of that is beauty.
So as we looked at spending a fair amount of money on the beauty initiative because it's a significant capital expense both last year and this year we were looking at the results of that and saying that "Hey it would be better for us to roll out beauty to the whole company quickly in various formats " depending upon what gives us the best return than it might be to remodel completely 20 other stores because we're looking at the lifts and the lifts are good.
Loyalty the implications of loyalty in the in-store environment would be another thing.
Moving customer service to the front of our stores from where it was in the back in some cases that might be another thing.
New brand initiatives require capital and we're saying that we're serious about new brand initiatives particularly national brands like Disney like IZOD like the DesigNation definitely like Juicy Couture.
Those require capital -- significant capital investments.
And we're seeing better results by accelerating those kinds of initiatives again than we're necessarily seeing from remodeling a whole store somewhere.
So I just -- we're going to spend just as much money on investing in our existing infrastructure.
Wes talked about some of the operational pieces like buy online and pick up in store and what that requires or ship from store and what that requires or mobile enhancement in-store and what that requires.
We just believe it will be spent a little differently than maybe historically we've looked at investing in our store base.
Yes most things will touch every store instead of just a few.
Okay.
Thanks everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for participating.
At this time you may now disconnect.
Good morning.
My name is Shirley and I will be your conference operator today.
At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Kohl's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference.
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise.
After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions).
Certain statements made on this call including projected financial results are forward-looking statements within the meanings of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Kohl's intends forward-looking terminology such as believes expects may will should anticipates plans or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause Kohl's actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those that are described in Item 1A in Kohl's most recent annual report on Form 10-K as well as maybe supplemented from time-to-time in Kohl's other filings with the SEC all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
Also please note that replays of this recording will not be updated.
So if you are listening after May 15 2014 it is possible that the information discussed is no longer current.
I will now turn the call over to our host Mr.
Wes McDonald Chief Financial Officer.
Sir you may begin.
Thank you.
With me today is Kevin Mansell our Chairman CEO and President.
I'll walk through our actual results and Kevin will talk a little bit in more detail about some of our merchandising and marketing initiatives and then we'll wrap it up with the close and take your questions.
Comp sales decreased 3.4% for the quarter.
Our average unit retail increased 2.6% while units per transaction decreased 1.5% which leads to a 1.1% increase in average transaction value.
Transactions per store decreased 4.5%.
Total sales for the quarter were 4.1 billion a decrease of 3.1% from the first quarter a year ago.
Our comps were lower than our plans but we continue to expect improvements in comps that we progress throughout the year.
Kevin will talk more about our actual sales results in a moment.
Our gross margin rate for the quarter was 36.8% which was about 40 basis points higher than the first quarter of last year and slightly higher than the rate assumed in our annual guidance.
SG&amp;A was 3 million higher than the first quarter of last year.
Marketing costs were lower than last year as we shifted some spending to the second quarter.
Our credit card business reported higher revenues.
Partially offsetting these improvements were higher remodel costs as our remodels are occurring earlier this year than they did last year and higher investments in our E-Comm fulfillment centers and information technology.
Depreciation expense was 216 million for the quarter essentially flat to last year.
We are decreasing our annual depreciation guidance from 950 million to 900 million.
Most of the change is related to remodels which are lasting longer than the depreciable lives that we had originally given them for accounting purposes.
Our interest expense was 85 million for the quarter up 2 million due to the $300 million of debt issued in September of 2013.
Our income tax rate was 36% for the quarter.
This is lower than expected as we had a favorable state audit tax settlement during the quarter.
Our diluted earnings per share were $0.60 for the quarter down $0.06 from the first quarter of last year and net income was 125 million.
During the quarter we opened four new store locations and relocated one existing store.
We permanently closed two stores.
One store is being temporary closed and rebuilt and will reopen with three additional new stores this fall.
We ended the quarter was 1 160 stores gross square footage of 100 340 000 square feet and selling square footage of 83 715 000.
Our plans are to remodel 33 stores this year.
This is generally consistent with last year.
Most of this year's remodels will be completed in the spring season.
Capital expenditures were 176 million for the first quarter of 2014 41 million higher than the first quarter of 2013.
Most of the increase is related to a call center that we purchased in Texas.
Remodels were also higher as our remodels are occurring earlier this year than they did last year and IT spending was also a little higher.
We ended the quarter with 717 million of cash and cash equivalents higher capital spending and the timing of tax and non-inventory payments resulted in negative free cash flow for the quarter.
We ended the quarter with 4 billion of inventory a 1% increase over last year.
Kevin will talk more about inventory in a few minutes.
AP as a percent of inventory decreased from 36.7 of the quarter 2013 to 34.7 this year.
Our first quarter weighted average diluted shares were 208 million.
We repurchased 3 million shares of our stock during the quarter.
On May 14 our Board declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.39 per diluted share which is payable June 25 to shareholders of record at the close of business on June 11.
We continue to expect earnings per diluted share of $4.05 to $4.45 for fiscal 2014 consistent with our previous guidance.
I'll now turn it over to Kevin who will provide additional insights in our results.
Thanks Wes.
As Wes mentioned our first quarter comps were down 3.4%.
Though sales were below our expectations for the quarter I am encouraged by the consistent improvement that we saw as the quarter progressed.
Looking at our results by line of business children's and footwear outperformed the company.
In children's infant and toddler sales were strong and in footwear strength continued in our athletic shoe business.
Men's and women's apparel performed with the company.
Notable performance in men's included active apparel and young men's.
In women's for the first time in many quarters juniors was the strongest category achieving a positive comp.
Intimates also outperformed the company in women's.
Accessories and home underperformed the company.
In accessories the new beauty brands continue to contribute to strong sales and soft home was the best performing category in total home.
On a regional basis the West was the strongest region.
The Southeast and South Central regions also outperformed the store average.
The Midwest was generally consistent with the store average and the Northeast and the mid-Atlantic regions were the most challenging.
From a mix perspective we're pleased with the results that we're seeing in our national brands since renewing our emphasis on them last fall.
For the third consecutive quarter national brand penetration increased.
The national brands reported a higher comp result in our private and exclusive brand.
Our renewed emphasis around national brands does not mean we are abandoning our exclusive brands.
Our customer continues to recognize the value these brands provide and we expect to continue to innovate on the product side and deliver the incredible savings customers expect from us on these brands.
In April we launched the first collection which combines the magic of Disney and the quality and value of our Jumping Beans brand.
This was a tremendously successful initiative and will be rolling out new elements around more of the Disney portfolio throughout the rest of the year.
This June we're launching Fit Bed as part of extending our active and wellness business.
And finally this fall we're on target to launch both the IZOD brand in men's and the Juicy Couture brand in women's.
A partnership with Elie Tahari will be introduced as the next phase of a DesigNation strategy this fall as well.
On the inventory front on a per store basis excluding E-Commerce inventory dollars were down 1% while units were down 4%.
We continue to make investments in national brands increasing their inventories while reducing our private and exclusive brand inventory.
We ended the quarter with seasonal inventories down to last year and well in line with our plan.
In closing I want to take a moment and give you some insight into our thinking and strategy for the longer term.
As you know we build a new leadership team across the company over the last year and a half.
Frankly that's been driven by the need to drive better results particularly on the top line and evolve our business more fully and with much greater speed.
The only remaining leadership role to be filled is our Chief Merchandising Officer position which we will fill externally.
We built and grew a very successful business on brands value and convenience; elements that remain core to our heritage and are important to today's families.
Change in our industry is happening faster than ever.
Competition has intensified.
Consumer behavior is shifting and expectations surrounding the speed and choice continue to be raised.
We need to evolve as a company and we're ceasing this opportunity to refocus reenergize and pave our path forward with a new and clear purpose.
We expect greatness and we have a plan to get there.
Over the last six months or so the new leadership team has created the plan we are calling Our Greatness Agenda.
Our Greatness Agenda is a multiyear vision built on five pillars; ideas that are fundamental to the way we do business their amazing product incredible savings easy experience personalized connections and winning themes.
To explain each a bit more; first amazing product.
We've always had amazing product but our customers' wants and needs continue to evolve.
As a result we've got a renewed focus on providing the right merchandise mix being more locally relevant and tailoring products to every customer across every channel.
Our new beauty offerings are just one great example of the amazing new product that customers can find in many of our stores and online.
By yearend almost half of our stores will feature a new and exciting beauty department.
Second incredible savings helping every customer get more from every dollar.
We provide ways to save that families won't find anywhere else like Kohl's Cash our Kohl's Charge Savings and most recently our loyalty program pilot.
We continue to see very positive results in our loyalty test in California Texas and Pittsburgh but continue to improve and evolve the program to make it even more compelling to our customer.
We're now more convinced than ever that the vision and loyalty that has come out of the testing will be a key element of driving our top line in the future.
We'll be introducing that new vision to the Milwaukee market and re-launching it in the Seattle market later this quarter with a plan of rolling it chain-wide by the end of the third quarter.
Third easy experience; consumers demand a seamless easy inspiring experience whenever they shop.
We continue to make significant investments to improve the shopping experience for our customers wherever or however they choose to engage with us.
Between last year and this year we'll have invested almost $600 million in capital spending on technology projects that make that experience better than ever.
Last year we focused on moving E-Commerce infrastructure to new providers to give us the capability to grow our digital sales and platform.
This year we're building on this with significant investments as well around mobile and in-store technology.
Fourth personalized connections; it's all about building lasting relationships with our customers both current and prospective.
Those relationships are based on the customer's experience in the store and online as well as how they perceive us contributing in the communities in which they live every day.
We're focused on localizing and tailoring what we sell and how we communicate our amazing product so they see us as their store.
We know that our product and our offers have to be personally relevant to each and every customer.
At the same time personalized connections is about contributing to causes like children's health and education or the environment so they see us as sensitive to the issues that are important to them.
And the last pillar but certainly not the least is winning teams.
We already have a winning team of 140 000 associates nationwide.
We're as committed as ever to building teams of engaged talented empowered and result-oriented associates and to attracting developing and retaining the very best talent.
As a leadership team we've had the opportunity to share our Greatness Agenda with every one of our associates as well as begin conversations with our key business partners including merchandise suppliers.
Across the board the response has been incredibly positive.
I'm inspired by the energy and the commitment we are seeing throughout the organization in the last few months.
Teams have been formed to support the very specific plans in place around these five pillars and new ideas continue to surface every day.
We've had some early exciting wins.
One of those has been the response to our Power of Yes campaign which launched in April across a variety of media.
That campaign includes 30 second television commercials which celebrate yes moments that most families can relate to in their own lives.
The campaign is authentic and it's grounded in our heritage that allows us to refresh who we are and connect with the customer in a new and different way.
On the brand side our new partnership with Disney and our latest design partnership with Peter Som have been incredibly successful.
I'm confident this is just the beginning.
I recognize that we need to accelerate the impact of these efforts on our results quickly most importantly on the sales line.
We are evolving rapidly and are using the wins we see to build momentum.
We plan to share significantly more depth on our Greatness Agenda as the year progresses and we have planned an Analyst Day here in Milwaukee at the end of October.
At that time I would expect you to be able to hear in great detail the moves being made to support our pillars of the Greatness Agenda meet our new team in person and get a view of our three-year financial plan.
Finally one piece of great news that we included in our release is about the extension of our credit card partnership agreement with Capital One.
As you know the Kohl's credit card has been an important element of our engagement with our most loyal customers.
We partnered with Capital One three years ago in a seven-year agreement to help manage this very important relationship.
We chose them at the time because we felt they exemplified the type of partnership we value; one where both partners are focused on the same important themes; driving profitable sales and creating lasting strong relationships with our cardholders.
Our experience since then has reinforced we made a great choice.
As a result we're announcing an extension of the original agreement for an additional five years along substantially the same terms.
We have both identified a myriad of opportunities for the long term to build this business to an even greater height.
The agreement provides the certainty to allow us to do that with a long-term view and we look forward to working towards that goal with their team.
We'll be happy to take your questions at this time.
Welcome to the Kohl's first quarter 2014 earnings call.
Your first question comes from Dan Binder.
Your line is open.
Hi.
It's Dan Binder.
Wes I was hoping maybe you can give us a little bit of – more color on two things.
One the performance to the quarter and then two just the puts and takes on the full year guidance being maintained? It sounds like you had this relative to your expectations for Q1 but appreciation is coming down.
If there's any other color you can add to it? Well other than just saying that it improved each month throughout the quarter I don't want to really get into quantifying – that's kind of why we went to quarterly guidance but it definitely did improve throughout.
And in terms of the guidance obviously the depreciation number was included in our thinking of maintaining the guidance.
We have a lot of sales to go and we think it's going to improve for the reasons Kev talked about in the call.
So I can't tell you if we're going to hit the flat to 2 for sales but I mean we think we have a pretty good shot at it and we – the other lines of the P&amp;L I think we've proven to manage pretty well.
Great.
Thanks.
Welcome to the Kohl's first quarter 2014 earnings call.
Your next question comes from the line of Bob Drbul.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
When you guys look at I guess the traffic in the quarter and the down 4.5% what do you think can turn that from your perspective and when do you think we can start to see some traction on the comps? And how much of it do you think was really weather in the quarter? This is Kevin Bob.
I think it's hard for us to quantify the various drivers of the performance.
As we progress through the quarter each month got better particularly as we ended the quarter.
Seasonal categories definitely underperformed the company substantially.
On the positive side there we ended the quarter with inventories in seasonal categories quite a bit less than last year so we're really actually in a pretty good shape on that.
I mean fundamentally Bob one of the reasons we spent a more extended time to provide some clarity into our thinking going forward is to make sure that you heard what our focus is and as you heard it's built on these five pillars and those five pillars are really what is going to have to drive the change.
So product is a big part of that new savings initiatives in a big part of that and then new concepts like the beauty concept as an example is another big part of that.
Got it.
And Kevin I just have a question on the fragrance piece of it.
When I was in the stores last week there was a lot of – in some of the fragrance areas like Nicki Minaj versus Jennifer Lopez type of fragrance in there like which one of those are driving the business and sort of how are they performing versus the rest of the category? Is that the Bob's stumps Kevin question which you definitely have me on? Fragrance is as you can imagine not performing on a year-over-year basis for the same extent as overall beauty because the overall beauty has a lot more new initiatives involved in it.
But the individual performance Bob you got me.
All right I'll follow up with Wes.
I think he'll figure it out for me.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Oliver Chen.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thank you.
On the opportunity to broaden the appeal and the beauty the brands in the loyalty side where are the catalysts for the loyalty program in terms of where you see the next milestones there? And then just on the brand side I was just curious about if we dissect that further which classifications may have the most incremental opportunity for you as you engage in more improved product? Thank you.
I think on the loyalty side we continue to see comp outperformance versus the control group from approximately 150 basis points to 250 basis points.
That's been relatively consistent.
Texas has now been rolled out for a whole year now and they got about 150 basis points lift versus the control group.
So we feel good about that.
We're going to roll out the two additional markets like Kevin mentioned in the second quarter the balance of the chain in the third.
One of things you'll start to see more of in the store as we roll it out is additional pieces to the loyalty program broader than just savings and we'll let those play out as we roll that out.
On the beauty side of things post holiday we've seen increases in the beauty business of 35% to 45% depending on the type of presentation and the sales volume store and our total store lift in some of the ones with more extensive renovation has gone from about 1% to almost 2% now so that's very encouraging.
One of the things we're thinking about is trying to accelerate next year as many of the higher volume stores that we can with the more extensive investment.
We had planned a lot of those for 2016.
We're trying to see how many of those we can move up into next year as we feel like those for sure will be successful.
We're still evaluating on the beauty side a brand new option that we rolled out which was sort of in between our acrylic low investment and our higher investment.
We're opening those stores this year.
They have proven to be successful.
It's possible we could accelerate beauty on a more quicker timetable.
On the brand side Oliver I think as time wears on we're more and more thinking about brands that relate to lifestyles that are important to our customers.
So as an example for instance active and wellness is an area that we've identified that we have strengthen already on a share basis in our active apparel and active footwear categories but there's opportunities for us to extend that even further.
So active and wellness is an opportunity category for us and that really impacts men's apparel women's apparel children's apparel footwear and home to a great extent.
Home is another category.
I think that we have identified as a category that we could strengthen our national brand portfolio particularly in classifications that are core to us like the housewares business.
And then I think the third thing is more what I would call unique ideas.
So they might not be the obvious ones.
The best example of that I would give you is the recent Disney partnership.
So we have a phenomenally successful children's business but finding that combination of a great brand with a great value really hit a homerun in there.
And then finally online.
I think the omni-channel team is working hard at extending the categories that we typically sell in our store outside of those and there has been a great deal of success in doing that and presenting new brands as a result of that.
Great thank you.
Best of luck.
Our next question comes from the line of Liz Dunn from Macquarie.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Thanks and thanks for all the detail on the new initiatives.
I guess just a couple of questions.
In terms of the lift you're seeing in Texas is that versus all stores or is that versus some other hot market control group? It's a control group.
Okay.
I guess in terms of the shift in marketing spending from the first quarter to the second quarter is there any way you could quantify that? Sorry if I missed it.
No it's a few million dollars.
I mean it's really a shift to support the loyalty rollout in the two markets we mentioned.
Okay.
And then just trying to understand the puts and takes on the depreciation versus the modest miss in earnings.
I mean the miss in the first quarter was fairly modest but I guess 50 million in depreciation looks more like I don't know a $0.15 shift.
So is it that you've kind of adjusted your go-forward expectations or is it just that you're still looking at it in the range and you're not necessarily saying that you've taken $0.15 out of the operating performance to offset this $0.15 depreciation? No I'm just saying we still think we can make – your calculation is pretty close.
It's really not a comment on anything other than it's a pretty wide range we gave.
Our biggest issue has been sales.
We believe sales are going to improve.
First quarter sales I don't think we – you're starting to hear reports.
I don't think anybody is going to knock the cover off the ball.
So we just wanted to make sure we can maintain our guidance and as sales improve if we can get closer to the high end of the range and that would be viewed more as incremental to the guidance if we start running one comp which would be better than what we're running today that will allow us to finish somewhere in the middle.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Trussell from Deutsche Bank.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
Just circling back to the breakdown of the comp I believe you said AUR was up about 2.5% or 2.6% or so.
If you can just describe what is driving that lift? Is that more the national brands in the mix or just what's providing that gain? Thank you.
I think it's a combination.
It's less clearance that's contributing to a part of it.
National brand mix is contributing a little bit to it but it's actually been more on the private and exclusive side.
I think part of that is what we're selling right now since seasonal businesses are pretty tough.
Those tend to be like tees and tanks are a little lower priced than some of the wovens and things we're selling in the women's and junior businesses so that's driving the comp or the AUR up a little higher than it would be normally if you were – seasonal weather.
And so Wes could you just remind us what is the expectation for AUR versus traffic for the full year? I mean the goal is to get traffic to be at least flat and we think we'll have a modest gain in terms of ticket.
It's going to be driven by AUR and UPT if I had to tell you.
My estimate now would be we probably have a slightly higher AUR and a slightly lower unit but still kind of average the ticket to where we were for the quarter up about 1%.
But we need to get transactions per store back to flat.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And my last question is just on the E-Commerce initiatives.
I apologize if I missed it.
What was the E-Commerce growth in 1Q? And then if you can just update us on the test for order online pick up in store as well as your ship from store initiatives? On the ship from store we're still in a little over 200 stores.
We'll be rolling that out to over 800 stores for the fall and that will happen sort of in the third quarter timeframe.
The buy online pick up in store test will be also in the third quarter in a couple of markets; Chicago Milwaukee and San Diego that will allow us to advertise that a little bit since we can do versioning.
From an E-Comm perspective we were below our plan but still up double digits.
Obviously E-Comm was also affected by some of the difficulty from a weather perspective in the quarter.
And it's getting difficult – once we get more stores on ship from store and do buy online pick up store it's going to become very blurred so it's going to be all just kind of in the total sales number.
Understood.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Michael Binetti from UBS.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I'm not sure if I missed it but could you tell us – did you mention the growth of E-Commerce sales in the quarter? That was the question that was just asked and we said it was below our plan but still up double digits and it's getting more difficult because the ship from store and buy online pick up from store… Okay.
And many of our competitors sort of say it's blurred and we agree with them.
Okay sorry if I missed that.
Does the Capital One renewal include a change in the economics or is that just a change in the duration of the contract right now? No we're just extending the contract and basically the new extended agreement or substantially the same terms as the old agreement.
Okay.
And then I know you've answered questions on AUR and traffic but I was a little – I was surprised to see the mid-single digit AUR increase again in the quarter.
Was it…? Actually low-single digit was 2.6%.
I'm sorry low-single digit yes and I know that was similar to last quarter.
I know you said there was some reduced clearance in there Wes but do you think at this point as you look at pricing you need to make some adjustments there to help stabilize the traffic number or are there any change in how you were thinking about this 90 days ago as far as where you want pricing to be for the year to help traffic get to that zero that you were talking about? Like is said clearance was a part of it and then as you look at the brands it came more from private and exclusive and if you looked at the line of business it was primarily in women's.
Women's consist of juniors and misses.
Juniors ran a positive comp for like the first time in three years at least so I don't think it hurt their business.
I think it's really just a mix within women's.
We weren't selling tees and tanks which have lower AURs we were selling more wovens and long bottoms and those have higher AURs.
So I think as we move through the spring the AUR should come down a little bit.
It should be a little higher than last year just because of less clearance to be honest but I don't think it's going to be any higher than what it was this quarter.
Okay thanks for the detail.
And then if I could ask just one last one is just on the gross margins as we think about our models here it seems like after the first quarter if I just extend that out you might be on track toward the higher end of that 10 to 30 guidance for the year… Yes it all depends on if spring ever comes and we're able to sell through the seasonal inventories that we do have.
We are lower than last year but we have to sell them.
So if we get normal sell-through in Q2 I would suspect us to be in pretty good shape.
It's very hard to anticipate in the first quarter what your full year margin is going to be.
A lot of that is going to depend on how competitive the fourth quarter is.
Okay.
Thanks a lot guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Boss from JP Morgan.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Hi Matt.
On the expense side as you ramp distribution and IT to drive online and clearly you have a number of initiatives in place here how should we think about investments and the SG&amp;A leverage point going forward? Well I think our goal remains to leverage at a 2% comp.
We gave guidance for the year of 1.5% to 2.5%.
We did better than that in the first quarter.
I'm trying to target towards the low end but we are going to continue to drive IT and E-Commerce investments.
You have to do that but there's a lot of things going the other way too.
Our stores are very very productive absent technology investments.
I don't see us being able to squeeze a ton of payroll out of that.
We have to be more efficient from a marketing perspective not necessarily spend less money but drive more sales.
But we'll continue to do what we can to try to manage our expenses but we still think over the long term we're going to need a 2% comp to leverage SG&amp;A.
Great.
And then on the gross margin side given what you have seen with traffic and I know you're expecting some improvement in the back half but what do you think on pricing? Do you think you guys are appropriately priced with your private label with national brands or do you think you need to invest in price a little bit more going forward? No.
I mean generally as we've looked at it external data our price points relative to competition are in pretty good shape.
I mean primarily what's driving the slight increase in AUR are mix issues… Specifically in women's is the biggest driver.
Exactly.
So it's really not – as we go through it Matt when we look at each individual category by itself and look at the average in our retails that are being produced they look basically really similar to last year.
But the mix of what we're selling is driving that.
And as Wes mentioned clearance particularly in the first quarter had an effect on that as well because we had much much lower levels in our clearance inventory.
Okay.
Good luck guys.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Swinand from Morningstar Incorporated.
Your line is open.
Inc.</strong> Thanks for taking the questions.
I just wanted to drill down on the national brands a little more.
I guess a two-part question.
When do you think that now that you are in this reinstitution of the national brands is that a traffic driver and do you think if that builds you'll start to have an impact on traffic? Yes.
I mean fundamentally I think what we've seen in our results in the last couple of years and also in the research we've done with customers is that we've lost some traction with our core customers as the place to get great brands as they recognize.
And so it's hard to see those changes on a month or quarter basis but we're pretty certain based on our own results and the research that over time as we build that we'll kind of get back into the sweet spot that we need to be to be recognized as a place to go for great brands.
And fundamentally that's what the traffic driving is all about.
Inc.</strong> But that's more like an opinion of the store rather than a promoted or featured item? Well I mean it's a combination of both to be honest with you.
The customers have been pretty clear that they want more national brands and secondarily the results as we've built them have kind of reinforced that right? The brands are outperforming the store… Three quarters is a row.
…substantially and consistently.
I mean is it a perception for sure.
That's the research part but the results part are pretty clear.
That's statistical both poor results prior to our change and better results after our change.
Inc.</strong> Will that obviously then drive down your clearance if people tend to buy national brands with less discount or just more frequently? Well I mean I think the advantage that probably comes with this strategy but it's not – the driver is that that business has a tendency to be more flow.
There is certainly a lot more strength in basic categories as a result of that.
So yes there's an opportunity I think to improve the mix of clearance versus non-clearance.
I mean as you know the national brand on a purely merchandised margin rate basis are always going to be a little bit lower than our proprietary brand but they come with substantive less risk.
And at the end of the day if they're driving more traffic it doesn't really matter anyway.
So I feel like we're hitting our stride on this and we definitely are responding to what the customer wants.
Inc.</strong> Great.
Thank you very much and best of luck.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Neely Tamminga from Piper Jaffray.
Your line is open.
Great.
Good morning.
Kevin a strategic question for you and I've got some housekeeping as well.
So in listening to you talk about the Greatness Agenda it seems to me that the third and fourth pillars around unique experience and personalized connections are really kind of wrapped up maybe in some of your mobile strategy as well.
So could you talk a little bit about what you've been seeing on some of your early initiatives around integrating Kohl's Cash on the mobile app? Are you seeing people engaged more and use that savings wallet to drive conversion through your E-Commerce or digital channels? And then related to that Wes on the transaction per store being down 4.5% do you have a sense as to what the conversion versus traffic dynamic is there? It's Kevin on the mobile question.
I think it will be hard for us to point at some change in our trend of customers redeeming or how they redeem due to strategies that we're implementing around mobile.
First of all a lot of the mobile strategies are really more back half loaded and not front half loaded.
Kohl's Cash specifically has always been a very high usage online and particularly as you can imagine as you get near the end of the redemption period and in an event there's substantial utilization.
I don't know that I could tell you Neely that it has risen.
It's something we can definitely have Wes take a look at and probably give you some color on later.
Yes.
You'll see a lot of changes to both our smartphone app and our tablet – more importantly our tablet app over the course of the year.
If you guys recall when we did our re-platform last year we basically just replicated what we had on the previous platform to make it simpler and reduce the risk of having something go wrong.
This year was always planned to add more functionality to tablet and mobile tablet much more important is that's where the traffic is really going.
There is a lot of browsing on the phone but not as much transactions.
So we're spending most of our time on the tablet app but you'll see changes to the mobile one as well.
And on the traffic versus conversion Wes? I'm sorry what was the question about? So your transactions per store were down 4.5 but what was the conversion versus traffic on there? Transactions per store and traffic for us are one and the same.
We have traffic counters in about 100 stores but it hasn't been a meaningful change year-over-year in terms of what people are converting at.
So we look at transactions per store.
And then Kevin if I may one more.
On the timing of the chief merchandising position it sounds like you obviously plan on having that person installed by the Analyst Day.
But where are you right now in the process and what does the caliber of your candidates look like at this point? Thanks.
Obviously one of the reasons that we set the Analyst Day in the fall there were really two drivers.
One we were pretty confident that we have a full team in place.
And two as I sort of described in the call we have a pretty strong outline of a path forward.
And by the time we get to the early fall we'll be in a position to talk to you in great detail.
We're shooting high on leadership and merchandising.
That's what we do right as our product is a huge driver of our success.
And much as we did when we filled and created the Chief Customer Officer role and we're able to recruit Michelle Gass in for that role we want to make sure we shoot high and we want to make sure that we get a capable executive who is able to make an impact on the business first but also that they're an executive who can grow in the future as well.
So improving the overall team is a pretty big factor as well Neely.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Lejuez from Wells Fargo.
Your line is open.
Hi guys.
Thanks.
Hi Paul.
You had some pressure with E-Comm in the fourth quarter.
Just wondering how the profitability of that channel looked in the first quarter and what actions have you taken that will make sure that you don't run into some of those same issues in 4Q again this year? Well we made money not as much as money as I would have liked to make.
Some of the actions that we're taking our guys in the EFC are really treating every day as a peak day and we're trying to simulate the pace of what we're going to see in the fourth quarter.
I think our average was 1.3 days from orders shipped which is pretty good much better than we did last year and sort of the pace we have to maintain to be successful in peak.
Some of the things we've done from a planning perspective we went from 200 in some stores to 800 from ship from store.
That should increase our throughput quite a bit.
We've increased the number of SKUs that we use from a bulk position in our brick and mortar DCs since their peak is a little earlier than the E-Comm peak we're able to use that labor force in that space to do that and we've been successful in doing that the last few years.
And then I guess finally the third is really to engage a third party logistics company to evaluate our operations and we made some changes because of that as well as we're using a third party logistics to help at the peak season with some of the additional bulk products.
I think we have a pretty good plan.
We also made some management changes in some of the EFCs which we think strengthen the team.
And one of the DCs performed very well last year.
We just have to get all four of them to perform as well as that DC last year and we should be in good shape.
Got you.
And then just one more.
On the five pillars just wondering what does that imply from a CapEx perspective? Do you need any additional infrastructure to receive those five pillars as you think about the next couple of years? And also just wondering which of the five do you think is the most low-hanging fruit? Thanks.
First of all for this year the answer is no.
We're not making changes in our capital spend.
I think what it probably implies is that you'll continue to see a significant part of our over-capital moving against technology because many of the pillars are fundamentally focused around improving the experience and making it more seamless.
There is certainly nothing as we think through the next few years that we're not able to do from a liquidity or cash perspective but it really doesn't appear to us to any of the pillar strategy is going to dramatically change what our CapEx spend thoughts were since the beginning of the year.
We'll give more guidance from a three-year plan in the future but if you modeled somewhere between 750 or 800 a year on average that's probably – we're a little lower now but as we ramp up beauty and ramp up remodels perhaps in the out years that 750 to 775 is probably a good average.
Got you.
And any low-hanging fruit on the five pillars in your view? Well I think each one of them is individually unique.
The two that obviously we're looking at in the near term; one is around incredible savings in particular the loyalty program.
I think that's clearly an obvious one.
Price second and I want to say it is second in priority but is another obvious one our product changes.
So as Wes described the acceleration in the beauty rollout and the launch of what we think are going to be two really powerful brands IZOD and Juicy Couture in the fall I think are going to be a driver for sure.
When we look at it a little bit longer term some more third fourth quarter building into next year I think it's an awful lot about personalized connections and making that seamless experience better and we've got opportunity on both of those fronts.
But it's harder for us to pinpoint that as let's say a driver of third quarter sales.
I think that's more of an ongoing driver.
Got you.
Thanks and good luck guys.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Charles Grom from Sterne Agee.
Your line is open.
Good morning Kevin.
Good morning Wes.
Hi Chuck.
The improvement in gross was impressive despite the comp shortfall.
Just wondering if you could flush out the drivers on that front? And then on inventory if you could speak to the units across the three categories; national exclusive and private brands what did they look like relative to last year? Well from an inventory perspective I think we actually get this weather forecast in advance and we bought seasonal down about 10% coming into the year so I think that was a pretty smart move.
We thought we could chase if it turned out to be wrong and it turned out to be right.
So I think we're in pretty good shape.
From a unit perspective we're up a little bit in national brands kind of like low-single digits and down mid-single digits in private and exclusive.
On the margin side I think we had pretty good consistent performance across the store.
I mean it was planned to improve and it did improve.
It probably actually improved a little bit more than we expected it to and I think a little bit more than if I'm right Wes a little bit more than the guidance we gave for the year.
Yes.
All the lines of business expect for kid's beat LY from a margin perspective.
Okay fair enough.
And then on the comp down 3 and 3.4 just wondering if you guys have looked at how big a delta existed between some of the markets.
You called out the West and parts of the South being strong and parts of the Northeast and mid-Atlantic being weak.
I'm just wondering how big a comp gap there was between the good and the bad markets? It was relatively substantial.
I think the way we try to deal with this issue of lines of business or regional performance Chuck is if a region or a business is within 100 or 150 basis points to the average we're not even going to call it out as a strength or a weakness.
It needs to be more substantial than that for us to call it out and we definitely wanted to call out the West as clearly outperforming.
We definitely wanted to call out the Northeast and mid-Atlantic as clearly underperforming.
So it's relatively substantial.
And is it safe to say that some of those underperforming markets in the quarter have improved in April and I guess sometime here in the first two weeks of May? Yes I think – Wes has shaken his head in the background.
I think the performance in April started to kind of come together more is the way I would say it.
And so the Northeast and the mid-Atlantic which were the most underperforming early in the quarter began to look a lot more like the company in the end of the quarter.
Is that right Wes? Yes I mean it's still worse but it improved certainly from where they were in the beginning of the quarter.
Okay.
And then just bigger picture Kevin I was wondering what's the expectation for future national brands? How the conversation is going with potential vendors? And is it your expectation that beyond IZOD and Juicy that we'll have some new brands in the store this time next year or into the summer of next year? Yes.
I mean the short answer is yes.
It's a high priority.
When we talked about the pillars the first pillar we talked about is product and within product it's an awful lot about the brands we sell.
So it's probably our number one priority in terms of creating new traffic driving ideas and I'm really optimistic that we'll have some new things to talk about before the end of this year that would impact next year's business.
Okay cool.
Thanks a lot.
Our next question comes from the line of Mark Altschwager from Robert Baird.
Your line is open.
Great.
Good morning and thanks for taking the question.
There are various comp drivers in the second half with the loyalty beauty marketing and national brands.
I'm just curious now that you have more test data can you talk more about the order of magnitude from each of these initiatives? Well I think the biggest short term is national brands.
They outperformed the last three quarters.
We would expect that.
We certainly would think that would ramp up in the third quarter with the launch of IZOD.
Secondly I'd probably say beauty.
It's going to be in 512 stores before holiday.
Last is loyalty just because it's not in as many stores as beauty and we'll roll it out in October probably but you only have a quarter worth of business.
But we're up to 8 million loyalty members now in the 300 stores we have so it's definitely gaining some traction and we've seen some pretty consistent list versus the control group.
But we're not going to get 8 million people to sign up in the fourth quarter it's going to take time.
Okay.
And then any sense for how much these initiatives are impacting new customer acquisition versus better traffic from your core customer base and any goals on that front as each of these things roll out? Well we want to do both that's for sure but I do – the early reads are that we're making some headway with customers who are new to us are at the very least not highly loyal meaning they are non-Kohl's charge customers.
So our sense is that what our hope was which is to focus on customer acquisition and be a little more relevant to more customers these specific initiatives are actually starting to drive some of that behavior.
Great.
Thank you.
Yes.
Our next question comes from the line of Lorraine Hutchinson from Bank of America.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Can you give a little more detail around the strength in juniors this quarter? Was that driven by particular product categories by national brands sort of how you're looking at that business for the rest of the year? It was pretty broad.
I mean if there was one sort of underperforming classification in juniors it was the common denominator to the rest of the store and that was denim and denim underperformed but I think that I suspect that Kohl's is not unique in that at least in listening to sales results of others I think denim has been an underperforming category but other than that I mean there is really great strength across the juniors world.
We've had early initiatives around color the Wink of Pink promotion.
We had some initiatives mid-quarter as we moved into Easter around dresses but there's pretty broad strength across the whole area.
If there's one thing we can point to is a business that made a lot of changes in terms of how they manage the flow the inventory level and the content.
That is a business that was focused on and then they got some great results.
And as Wes said I don't know exactly how long it's been since we had a positive comp in juniors but I think he's probably right it's been several years.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Stephen Grambling from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good morning.
It's Stephen and thanks for taking the questions.
I guess first following up on personalization and the customer connections online.
As you look beyond the kind of ship from store and click and collect can you talk about some of the capabilities you currently have to tailor the online experience? And maybe what initiatives you have planned to improve these digital connections? Sure.
I mean things that we're working on obviously loyalty is a big part of this because basically all of our loyalty engagement is going to be online.
And so whether we're communicating to them and through them as Wes described on the tablet device or we're communicating to them and through them on a desktop device a lot of that engagement is going to be very personal because the loyalty customer is a customer we're going to learn a lot more about and therefore we're going to be able to appropriately personalize the offers we might make to them.
Other than that there are things going on in terms of reaching customers when they come into the store.
We're planning to expand that quite a bit as we move into the fall and holiday season.
I'm trying to think – Wes anything else you want to call out? We can do the geocoding when they're in the store.
We can shoot them an offer if they come in from your buy online pick up in store.
If they come into the store we know they are there and they opt into the Wi-Fi we can shoot them an email or an offer via their smartphones.
So we're really just starting on this.
We've been working with a consultant to try to help us sort of jumpstart this and have started to do some segmenting of emails and retargeting of customers based on their browsing behavior online.
So I'd say we're in our infancy on this and certainly going to see more of this throughout this year and into next.
And then one quick clarification on just E-Commerce versus in store.
Can you talk about the differences you see in the mix of national brands online versus in-store versus the exclusive and private label? Well I think national brands have always penetrated a little higher.
Yes because home is bigger online.
That's going to drive a bigger national brand penetration.
So I'd say it's a little bit higher nationally just because home is about 30% of the business online versus less than 20% overall.
If you target them at the acceleration of the penetration online versus brick and mortar I don't know that we have that number in front of us but it's definitely something we can give you some color on later.
Great.
I'll follow up.
Thanks so much.
Our next question comes from the line of David Glick from Buckingham Research Group.
Your line is open.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Kevin just following up on the CMO search it sounds like – listening to your strategic objectives it sounds like you're trying to evolve the culture of the organization to move faster and take more calculated fashion risks and I guess are you seeing that come to fruition in juniors and it sounds like you're trying obviously to spread it to the rest of the organization? But with that as a backdrop what kind of specific background and skill set are you looking for in a prospective Chief Merchandising Officer? Is it more specialty retail department store? Obviously you said you're shooting high.
You're looking for someone who can continue to grow in the organization from a leadership perspective but how are you thinking about that position and the impact on your strategic objectives specifically in terms of taking more calculated fashion risks? Well just real broadly without getting into the detail I mean we would be looking for an executive who has exhibited speed to act so decisiveness and speed are really critical factors.
Second obviously it goes without saying we want someone who has been highly successful and has demonstrated an ability to get results over a period of time.
Third we think we have a great leader in Michelle on the customer engagement side and it would be great to balance that with more deep knowledge on the product side for sure.
And then most importantly probably of course of all is find somebody who will fit from a leadership perspective somebody who can inspire and lead because we have a very talented team underneath and they're very capable when it comes to understanding the product in the various businesses but we need somebody who definitely can lead them from an inspirational perspective and style perspective that will fit in the culture of the company.
So there definitely is some very specific filters that we're sifting through.
This is a really phenomenal opportunity it really is.
It's very unique.
I don't think there are many cases where you get in – or somebody who gets an opportunity to come into a business that's almost $20 billion in scale and make an immediate contribution and at the same time have a chance to develop their career even further over time.
So I feel good that we are going to be able to get a great leader.
Thank you very much for that color and perspective.
Good luck.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Dana Telsey from Telsey Advisors.
Your line is open.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Hi.
As you look at the store remodels how are they doing? What are you seeing in their performance? And any adjustments that you're making to any of the new remodels as you go forward? And then lastly with the new product introductions set for the second half with Juicy and IZOD marketing plans budgets what should we be looking at as that gets introduced? Thank you.
Hello? Ladies and gentlemen this is the operator today's conference will continue momentarily.
This is the operator.
Today's conference will continue.
Dana Telsey from Telsey Advisors please ask your question.
Hi I hope everything's okay.
Just wondering on the performance of the store remodels any further color on how those are doing and any changes you're making to future remodels? And lastly with the big introductions of IZOD and Juicy in the fall marketing budgets for marketing how are you thinking of those product introductions? Thank you.
There are specific things that we've done that are definitely big winners.
Three that we've called out one is operational and it might not be that exciting but from a customer's perspective it's got great impact and that's moving our customer service space to the front of the store at the door adjacent to our POS.
It gives us incredible leverage on the payroll side but most importantly it's given us a much better experience.
And as we think about the importance that buy online pick up in store will have which will all happen in customer service we think it's going to just grow in importance.
Second is beauty and you can tell we're pretty excited about the beauty results.
We're accelerating the rollout of beauty.
We're looking at ways to accelerate it even faster because we are getting actual dramatic lifts in beauty and lifts in total store as well in the beauty test stores.
And then third probably the area that has some of the biggest facelifts on the product side are the juniors accessory worlds and again we've had great response and you can see for the first time it's certainly not about necessarily the environment but we've had pretty dramatic improvement in our juniors business.
On the product side we're going to support the IZOD and Juicy launch significantly.
So it will have the full weight of our marketing efforts both online and in-store.
And it will be across our platforms of print direct mail digital and broadcast.
And we know the importance of those two brands to our fall business and they're going to be supported as a result of that.
Overall that was always built into our original plan for marketing so there is really no change in that.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
Our next question comes from the line of Patrick McKeever from MKM Partners.
Your line is open.
Okay.
Good morning.
I know you're not giving quarterly guidance anymore but just wondering if you might have some thoughts on just the second quarter going up against the only positive comp from last year any thoughts there? No.
I mean overall I think on the positives if you think about puts and takes in the second quarter stacked comps I think are probably not a reliable predictor of performance for anybody.
So whether we were positive or negative last year I think has little to do with whether we will be positive or negative this year.
I think the driver is going to be some of the things we've talked about in the call.
On the positive side I would say I don't know that you can ever hope to make up sales in categories like seasonal-related businesses.
When they don't happen early in the year it doesn't translate into incremental sales in the second quarter.
But I also would expect fully to be honest that we would have more normalized sales in those seasonal categories.
So I think that just in the background is generally kind of a positive thing for the second quarter.
I don't know if there's anything else Wes you'd call out? No I think we expect improvement; how much remains to be seen.
A lot of it's going to depend on what you talked about in terms of weather demand.
The second piece is obviously we called out clearance as a headwind in the first quarter year-over-year clearance inventories were down substantially and naturally that translated into lower sales.
We're pretty much anniversaried that and so as we go into the second quarter we wouldn't expect that to be a headwind the way it was in the first few years.
Okay.
And then just a question on beauty care.
How big a business is that for you as a percent of total sales and how big do you think it can be as you roll out the expanded footprints? It's less than 2% of total sales and our goal would be to double it in five years and we're well on our way to that all-in since we launched it probably somewhere in between 30% and 40% all-in.
Great.
Okay thanks guys.
Thanks Pat.
Our last question comes from the line of Stephen Grambling from Goldman Sachs.
Your line is open.
I think you guys already got me but maybe I will sneak one other in there.
You already got two questions.
All right.
Thanks Stephen.
Thanks Stephen.
Thank you.
Bye-bye.
Thanks everybody.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Kohl’s Q2 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Certain statements made on this call including projected financial results are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Kohl’s intends forward-looking terminology such as believes expects may will should anticipates plans or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause Kohl’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those that are described in Item 1A in Kohl’s most recent annual report on Form 10-K as well as maybe supplemented from time-to-time in Kohl’s other filings with the SEC all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
Also please note that replays of this recording will not be updated.
So if you are listening after August 14 2014 it is possible that the information discussed is no longer current.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder today’s conference is being recorded.
I will now like to turn the conference to our host Mr.
Wes McDonald Chief Financial Officer of Kohl’s Department Stores.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
With me today is Kevin Mansell Chairman CEO and President.
I’ll walk through our results for the quarter and Kevin will give us some more color in terms of merchandising and marketing and then we will end the call and take your questions.
Our comps sales decreased 1.3% for the quarter.
Components of the comp were as follows average unit retail up 3% units per transaction down 1.1% for an average transaction value increase of 1.9%.
Transactions per store decreased 3.2%.
Total sales for the quarter were $4.2 billion a decrease of 1.1% from the second quarter last year.
Year-to-date comp sales decreased 2.3% and total sales decreased 2.1% to $8.3 billion.
Kevin will share some more details on our sales in a couple of minutes.
Our gross margin rate for the quarter was 39.0% which were 6 basis points lower than the second quarter of last year.
All of our decrease can be attributed to a higher mix of lower margin sales.
For the spring season our margin rate increased 16 basis points over last year.
Our SG&amp;A expenses decreased 2% and leveraged 20 basis points compared to the second quarter of last year.
Our credit card business reported a $13 million increase in revenues this quarter.
In our stores both store payroll and controllable costs decreased as did our overall corporate expenses.
Our retail distribution centers reported lower costs but our E-Commerce fulfillment centers reported higher costs.
Advertising expenses were also higher as we continue our efforts to drive traffic to the stores and online year-to-date SG&amp;A decreased 1% and deleveraged 30 basis points.
Depreciation expense decreased $3 million to $222 million for the quarter.
Most of the decrease is due to the maturing of our store fleet.
Net interest expense was $85 million for the quarter up $1 million due to the $300 million debt that we issued in September 2013.
Our income tax rate was 36.6% for the quarter.
This is lower than we expected as we had a favorable state audit tax settlement during the quarter.
Net income was slightly better than last year for the quarter and diluted earnings per share increased 9% to $1.13 for the quarter.
Year-to-date EPS increased 2% to $1.73.
Net income was $232 million for the quarter and $357 million year-to-date.
Consistent with Q1 we ended the quarter with 1 160 stores gross square footage of 100.34 million and selling square footage of 83.72 million.
This fall we open -- we plan to open four stores including one store that was temporarily closed in the first quarter for a complete rebuild.
We completed 16 remodels during the quarter.
This is an addition to the 15 that were completed in the first quarter.
We have two more remodels which will be completed later this month.
Capital expenditures were $374 million for the first half of 2014 $90 million higher than the first half of 2013.
The increase is a combination of earlier remodels the purchase and build-out of our Texas call center and higher IT spending.
We ended the quarter with $746 million of cash and cash equivalents and generated almost $300 million of free cash flow for the season.
Inventory per store was 1% higher than at the end of last year’s second quarter but units were 3% lower excluding receipts that we accelerated into the second quarter in anticipation of a purchase order system upgrade for some of our replenishment merchandise inventory per store decreased low single digits.
Additionally clearance units are down almost 20% from the end of Q2 last year.
AP as a percent of inventory increased from 36.2% at quarter end 2013 to 37.9% this year.
The increase is primarily due to timing of inventory receipts.
For those of you looking to update your models our second quarter weighted average diluted shares were 205 million and we had 204 million shares outstanding at the end of the quarter.
During the quarter we repurchased 4.3 million shares of our stock.
On August 12th our Board declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.39 per diluted share which is payable September 24th to shareholders of record at the close of business on September 10th.
I’ll now turn it over to Kevin who will provide additional insights on our results.
Thanks Wes.
As Wes mentioned our second quarter comps decreased 1.3% which was consistent with the expectations included in our annual guidance.
More importantly we saw strong improvement throughout the quarter.
Results were especially strong in July as we reported a positive comp for the first time in several months.
I’m especially pleased but not surprised by the renewed momentum in our E-Commerce business.
Last year our E-Commerce sales were affected by the re-platform from July through October.
July sales this year returned to rates that we have not seen since updating our platform last summer they ran up over 30%.
On a regional basis in our stores the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast regions which have underperformed in recent quarters outperformed the store average.
Warmer weather and pent-up demand contributed to the improvement.
The Southeast and the West regions also outperformed the store average both regions have consistently outperformed other regions over the last two years and the Midwest and South Central underperformed the store average.
On a line of business basis home was the strongest business with solid comps in both luggage and electrics.
Children’s was also positive and was driven by the infant toddler business including new non-apparel online offerings and the Jumping Beans Disney partnership.
Footwear outperformed the company but was slightly negative athletic shoes were again the strongest category.
Men’s and accessories were consistent with the company.
Men’s was led by young men’s and active and accessories saw significant strength in beauty.
Women’s was slightly below the company.
We are extremely pleased with the progress we are seeing in our Juniors business.
Juniors outperformed the company with the strongest women’s category for the second consecutive quarter and produced a strong positive comp.
Active also produced a positive comp.
As you know national brands are a key component of our greatness agenda and one of the many areas that we are focused on to increase traffic and grow sales.
National brand comps were higher than private and exclusive comps for the fourth consecutive quarter and were positive for the first time in many quarters.
Year-to-date national brand penetration has increased 90 basis points to 46% of sales.
As we enter the back-to-school season we are encouraged by the sequential sales improvement that we experienced throughout the second quarter.
I believe our customers will be excited by the newness that they find in our stores when shopping online this fall.
In mid-September we will launch both IZOD and Juicy Couture.
IZOD will bring another strong national brand to our men’s sportswear and dress clothing department which already include brands such as Nike adidas Levi’s Van Heusen and Converse.
Similarly Juicy Couture a proven casual luxury brand will offer another exciting athleisure apparel option as well as handbags fashion jewelry bedding and home accessories.
To expand our offerings in the rapidly growing active and wellness area we are excited to introduce the Puma brand in spring 2015 in a number of stores and Gaiam Yoga product this quarter both in-store and online.
In addition to adding new brands to our existing portfolio of powerful and well-recognized brands we will be introducing a number of notable improvements to the shopping experience.
We will be piloting buy online pick up in store at approximately 100 stores this fall.
Once successful the pilot will be rolled out to all stores nationwide.
Buy online pick up in store provide our customers with another option to shop when they want and where they want.
Our loyalty program is currently available to customers in approximately one-third of our stores.
The response to that program has been incredibly positive.
We will be rolling out the program to the remainder of the chain in October just in time for holiday shopping.
I believe that will eventually be more impactful than our industry-leading private brand credit card program and allow us to create a much more emotional and personal connection with our customer.
Just as exciting as the new loyalty program is a new beauty department.
The new beauty environment was completed in an additional 47 stores in July and will be expanded to another 178 stores in August and September.
Stores with a new beauty department continue to outperform other stores both in the beauty department and across the entire store.
We continue to see lifts versus our control groups of approximately 2% in the higher volume stores.
From a marketing perspective we continue to explore disruptive and surprising new ways to reach our customers.
More broadly we continue to evaluate the effectiveness of our marketing strategies and modify channels as necessary to ensure we are maximizing the return on our advertising investment.
Finally by the end of the third quarter approximately 800 of our stores will be equipped to fulfill online orders.
We think this will improve shipping times and provide additional e-fulfillment capacity during the peak holiday season.
Last quarter I walked you through our greatness agenda amazing product personalized connections easy experience winning teams and incredible savings.
These are the pillars of our greatness agenda.
These are the fundamentals that drive our day-to-day operations and our long-term decisions but perhaps more importantly these pillars are a unifying strategy for more than 140 000 Kohl’s associates in our stores merchandise distribution credit IT and other corporate functions.
I’m pleased with the positive momentum that the greatness agenda has already generated and I’m confident that this momentum will continue to grow throughout the back-to-school and holiday season.
In closing as part of our practice of issuing annual earnings guidance at the beginning of each fiscal year we plan to provide an update to this guidance once per year typically at the end of the third quarter.
We may choose to provide additional updates to our guidance in the event of extraordinary circumstances.
With that we will be happy to take your questions at this time.
(Operator Instructions) And we will go to Charles Grom with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Kevin.
Good morning Wes.
Hey Charles.
Just wondering if you could give a little flavor for the sequential trend in the quarter if you could quantify that for us and if you could give us any color on August sales and just amplify your commentary on back-to-school? For the second quarter I think the way we would characterize it is it was consistent improvement over the quarter and it ended with positive comps in July up 2% and the strongest part of the July period was definitely the end of the month at the beginning of the back-to-school period.
We don’t comment on in quarter sales results but I would just say that the start to back-to-school as indicated from our July performance was exceptionally strong.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just to clarify so going forward we shouldn’t expect to get a guidance update from you guys at the end of the first or second quarter and the practice will be to just give an update at the end of the third quarter so should we take away that you are still comfortable with the 405 to 445 view? I mean that first of all the facts you have that’s correct that plan is we will give annual guidance at the beginning of the year.
We think it’s probably appropriate at the end of the third quarter when 60% to 65% of our sales and earnings are in that we would update it.
We just don’t think it serves any purpose to provide continual updates on an interim basis absent some extraordinary circumstances.
Something that would cause shareholders to believe we were deviating from our plan for the year we would definitely inform everybody.
Okay.
Great.
And then just if you could expand on the progress of the head merchant search and when we should expect to hear that announcement? Sure.
I mean the search continues we are making what I would describe as excellent progress.
I think I indicated earlier in the year Chuck that my objective was always to finish this search in sufficient time prior to our already scheduled end of October Analyst Day so that the new leadership team would be in place and I don’t see anything that would preclude us from doing that at this point.
Okay.
Great.
See you in October.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Our next question from Matthew Boss with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
So you guys have a number of initiatives which should be accretive to back half comps we’ve talked about E-Commerce loyalty beauty? I guess what is the best way to think about the core underlying base? Now what are we building off of and any initiatives to the core? Well I mean obviously we are highly focused on the improvement in the core underlying trend.
We’ve put a lot of focus in the third and fourth quarter just because as you indicated many of the drivers of the incremental traffic are all happening beginning this September October but we are highly focused on underlying trends.
So as an example that is why we are talking about the improvement in our Juniors business because that is clearly as you know Matt been a drag on our business and that is no longer the case.
I think home is probably another good indicator of how we are focused on the underlying trend.
That has in the recent past been a bit of a drag on our overall underlying trend and that looks like it is improving a lot.
Wes I don’t know if you have anything to add? Yeah.
I mean I think when Kevin talked about the July comp being positive too that didn’t all come from E-Commerce.
We got a lot better in the brick-and-mortar stores as well.
I think the basis really is to get the stores to run in a flat comp and then with the E-Comm growth we can get to the two and hopefully once we get some momentum from all these initiatives we can do better than that.
But the key is to get the brick-and-mortars from running negative to flat that’s what the rest of the businesses have to do over and above all the initiatives we’ve talked about.
Great.
And then in terms of July and it sounds like early August in the back half I mean is it traffic that you really saw as the difference here in same-store sales or I guess anyway you can break down some of the components of that plus 2 that you saw in July to help us think about the opportunity looking forward? Well Wes can give you that better… Yeah.
I mean traffic definitely has to improve and did in July.
So that’s good.
The average transaction value should remain relatively constant for us to get back into consistently running a positive comp.
We have to get traffic at least to flat.
And then in terms of drivers on a category basis I think pretty much across the board the back-to-school businesses were strong some of them were exceptionally strong.
Great.
Best of luck guys.
Thanks.
And next we will go to Oliver Chen with Citi.
Please go ahead.
Congratulations on really solid results and momentum.
Regarding your inventory levels and the clearance being down year-over-year does that bode well for the gross margins in the back half and if you could speak to I mean your comments about a higher mix of lower margin sales will that trend continue if you could just help us understand the puts and takes in that line item that would be great? I will touch Oliver on the inventory and maybe Wes can give you some more color on the mix opportunity.
On the inventory level I actually think we feel like we are in great position on inventory.
We would have easily achieved our original goals of a low single digit decline in inventory per store but we made I think a really strong strategic decision to accelerate receipts on what we thought could be a slowdown coming in the dock strike possibility.
And secondly we just launched I think Wes referred to it a new PO system and just to avoid any complications as we move through that process we accelerated basic replenishment receipts.
So more broadly I think your question is about inventory management and I think Wes would probably tell you we feel better about our inventory management right now than we have in a long time and generally that is certainly the driver of merchandise margin and if we manage inventories right we will come out well on margin.
Yeah.
I mean the goal for the back half would be to be slightly down at the end of the third quarter and then down sort of 3% to 4% at the end of the year is kind of what we are driving towards.
In terms of low margin versus high margin businesses it’s really just a reflection honestly that home and kids performed better than some of our other areas kids is a business that is obviously very price-sensitive and carries a lower margin than the company and we had very strong business.
And our home business mostly in the hard side of home and electrics which is also a little bit lower so I expect as we get through the back half that hopefully all six lines of businesses will improve and the mix won’t be an issue but it was still just slightly down to last year.
Okay.
And the comparisons you use in third quarter but then get a little harder in fourth quarter? Is there anything we should know as we look at our models on the GM line? No I mean I think that the important things to note about the fall and holiday are that all of the key initiatives that we’ve talked about since the beginning of the year to drive our business.
Our E-Commerce acceleration our beauty rollout our loyalty launch our national brand focus are on target on time and scheduled to happen.
So I think it is a lot less about the comparisons and a lot more about the initiatives taking hold to drive the business.
Having said all that I would expect more improvement in the fourth quarter than the third.
That is just the way it normally happens.
Most of your agreements with vendors in terms of margin occur on a seasonal basis so you will settle up in the second and fourth quarter and that is where I would expect to see the most improvement.
And our last question on a follow-up is the junior’s performance was very exceptional.
What do you think is happening there in terms of your success and your back-to-school trends sound really encouraging.
How do you attribute that it feels like there is a bit of a mixed consumer picture so you are likely gaining share? Well I think juniors has been improving.
So it is not necessarily brand new.
I think we probably ran a positive comp in the first quarter as well in juniors so we saw some traction.
While it might not have been positive in the fourth quarter last year the trend was clearly moving in the right direction.
So I think fundamentally there is a great leadership team in place in our juniors business.
They are definitely delivering on our focus on narrower assortments but deeper assortments.
They are definitely delivering on speed to market with exciting new product and styles.
So I think it is the fundamental pieces of our business that are definitely driving it but it’s not necessarily brand new I think Wes.
Juniors I think has been improving for -- this is the fourth quarter in a row.
It’s been on an upward trend.
Thank you.
Best regards.
Thanks.
And next we’ll go to Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Yes good morning Kevin and Wes.
Just going back to your comments on the loyalty program I know one-third of the stores have it today.
Could you quantify or remind us what is the performance of those stores versus the rest of the chain? And then also if you could just clarify the comments you made about the beauty the stores with the beauty concepts? I believe you said it -- those stores are outcomping the rest of the base by 2%.
Is that correct? Yeah loyalty is 150 basis points basically.
That’s been pretty consistent.
That is what we have built into our expectations going forward.
The Milwaukee launch that we just did had the same initial lift after a couple of months as Texas and California did.
So we would expect it to achieve at least that if not better.
And so I feel pretty comfortable with that lift.
The beauty stores we are getting so far just a lift in the higher volume stores.
So it’s the sort of more than $15 million that’s what we are talking about on the 2% lift.
The stores under $15 million tend to have a very significant lift in beauty but we are not seeing an overall lift in the store quite yet.
We have tested a new configuration in those lower volume stores that provides a little bit better environment for the product to really pop.
And we haven’t gotten enough months behind us yet to read that.
That is just getting installed right now in about 80 stores.
So we will have more to talk about on the third quarter call perhaps but certainly on the fourth quarter call on that.
But we are very confident that we are going to get a lift in beauty in those higher volume stores.
And we have actually accelerated the number of stores next year to do close to 400 stores to roll out beauty next year which will give us at the end of ‘15 close to 900 stores.
I mean a thing I would add to that Paul is I think Wes would agree that the evolution of these two initiatives while perhaps seemingly painfully slow to you to us they have allowed us to learn along the way and then evolve the final product that gets delivered to the customer in a great way.
And so the loyalty -- Wes is using a loyalty in this existing historical result of a lift of 1.5% and that’s definitely the right way to look at it.
But the product that we will now deliver to customers in October I believe and Wes would echo is a better consumer product and that’s why we are so optimistic about the results on the other two-thirds of the store.
Beauty I think is identical to that.
We are focused on higher volume stores first naturally because we have seen that work.
And so we are going to move forward.
The lower volume stores got the lift in beauty but not the lift in the whole store.
And so we made adjustments and those adjustments are now coming to fruition in the stores we are launching right now.
I think our expectation is they are going to address that issue and we will see similar kinds of lifts in those stores.
That’s very helpful.
Thank you.
Moving to SG&amp;A it was a good performance in 2Q.
But I believe the credit benefit helped by about 30 basis points or so in the quarter how should we think about credit or what are you forecasting for the second half and are there any other factors that may swing growth rates in expense? Yeah credit did better than I anticipated.
In fact most of the lines versus our plan you guys always focus on last year but almost every one of our areas beat their SG&amp;A expense plan in the quarter.
The two that did not were for strategic reasons.
We are spending more money in our ESCs to drive speed through the facility to get product to the customers faster and also do what we would call practice peak every day.
So we are able to meet the big spike in demand that’s going to occur in the fourth quarter.
And then from an advertising perspective we are doing a lot of testing in terms of things regarding personalization and different ways to drive traffic to both stores and online.
And some of those have been successful and worked well some of them didn’t work but that is why you test.
So going forward for the fall we are not going to spend less money than last year that’s for sure.
And we also have to roll out beauty which requires additional payroll that wasn’t in there last year as well as loyalty which is also going to require SG&amp;A.
I would look at the SG&amp;A guidance we gave for the year and bank our good performance for the spring but kind of go back and look at what we guided for the year.
I’d say for the year we should be closer to the low end of our guidance than the high end but it is definitely going to be higher than what we experienced this spring.
Lastly and very quickly the buyback guidance of about $1 billion for the year is that still your target Wes? Yes it’s still our target.
I mean we have been pretty consistent in what we do.
We put in a target for 250 every quarter.
We put in a grid we let it run.
This year it got -- this quarter it got a lot closer to the 250.
There is room to go above that within the plan that we filed.
So it’s possible we could get to $1 billion but it is also possible we could get under.
We’ll continue to put that grid in and target 250.
So if we were -- if we hit it we would be at $900 million for the year.
But if the stock moved in a direction that was lower we’d buy more and get closer to the $1 billion.
But I’d say right now I’d achieve $900 million and it could be higher than that.
Thanks.
Good luck guys.
My next question is from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Could you talk about drivers behind the higher AUR this quarter? A lot of that is national brand right.
We are focusing in on national brand.
That carries a higher AUR and they have outperformed four quarters in a row and run positive comps.
So it is not that like items are higher than last year.
It’s really just a lot to do with the mix of business.
And then on the remodels any analysis behind those that tells you what types of returns you are getting and what should we expect in the out years? Sure.
I mean that is definitely a topic that we will be talking about pretty thoroughly at the end of October at the Analyst Day meeting.
We’re trying to look at refreshing our stores in a new and different way Lorraine.
So the traditional way that we might have done it in the past which would be to go into a store and completely remodel that store that will still be in place for stores that definitely need that stores that haven’t been touched in a while or stores that are more mature or stores that are very heavily shopped high-volume stores? But we are also trying to take a different view and say what are we doing that would create a new experience in every store not just in a subset of stores that we are going to spend capital on on a remodel.
And we are going to go into quite a bit of detail on that at the Analyst Day.
And it’s going to be everything from technology improvements new creative ways to give the customer a new shopping experience new ideas that we are going to implement.
And we’ll definitely -- it is a key topic for the Analyst Day meeting.
But we don’t have any news to share with you on our remodel program far beyond this year.
Yes I guess the best way to think about it is in the last four years we spent roughly $300 million to $350 million in what I would call store refresh initiatives.
But remodels used to be $100 million this year on our net stores -- and this year they are $33 million.
There’s just a lot of initiatives that we have that are touching every store instead of just a subset.
Thank you.
Our next question id from Paul Swinand with Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Just wanted to follow-up on both the national brands and the beauty initiative.
Is that attracting a new customer or is that just selling a higher price product a higher end product to the existing customer base? If you take them one at a time both of them are intended to do both.
Both of them are intended to drive our transaction value in the store.
The key proponent propelling so for both of those initiatives is really all about driving visits.
And I think Wes on the beauty side of the business we are definitely… Definitely skewing younger on the younger side of that with more -- we get more customers in the 18 to 34-year old range than we had previously.
On the beauty initiative I think we are also getting more visits.
Yes.
I’m sorry.
So there’s actually more transactions happening in the stores in which we launch beauty.
The national brand initiatives is probably a little tougher for us to analyze the visits versus the transaction value.
But as Wes said it has really been the driver of AUR increases because we are not really increasing individual AURs but the mix is causing the AUR to go up.
Okay got it.
And then just think about -- I think you mentioned the unit per transaction and the transactions per store being down.
Is there any way to analyze that further? Some people are talking about customers targeting stuff online and even if they don’t buy it buying it in the store but then not spending as much time shopping.
Is there any analysis -- further analysis you can add or color you can add to that? I mean traffic transactions per store for the most part have been the issue with our comps for the last few years.
So that’s why we are focusing on increasing and that is a function of better product and better marketing.
So I don’t really have a better answer for you on that.
I mean as you well know traffic into brick-and-mortar stores is generally a focus of probably most brick-and-mortar retailers.
Many of the initiatives we are talking about Paul are definitely designed to push people into our stores by giving them a new a different and sometimes unexpected experience from the one they have had in the past.
Those include things like buy online pickup in store because we think that the convenience that that provides will really give customers another reason to make a visit that they otherwise might not have made.
So it is all about traffic.
I mean that’s what we are focused on.
It is all about traffic.
Okay great.
Best regards and best of luck back-to-school and going into the holidays.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Then we’ll go to Bob Drbul with Nomura Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
Hi Bob.
Kevin couple questions.
The first one I think you said national brands.
So this was the fourth consecutive quarter that comps in national brands were higher than private brands.
Wes can you give us an update on what you are seeing on the gross margin impact as that mix is shifting and like your updated thoughts around it from what they were previously? Excellent question Bob.
It’s the same as I have been telling everybody.
It’s been around 5 basis points of mix headwinds.
So that really didn’t have anything to do with the margin deterioration that I spoke earlier.
It was really a function of where the comps increased and just overall business not really a mix issue with national versus private and exclusive.
Got it.
And then Kevin on the E-Commerce business like the sort of revival that you are seeing.
Can you talk a little bit about the opportunities in the back half of the year? I don’t know if this is Wes or Kevin but like the profit opportunities that you see and sort of how you are planning differently than you experienced in the second half of the year last year? Sure.
I mean I think the first focus of course we have Bob is on the top line.
So we had as you remember a huge technology replatform of our E-Commerce interface that happened during the third quarter last year and it dramatically changed the pace of our sales growth for a period of time.
That is now in front of us and we think that’s probably an unbelievable opportunity to drive top-line sales.
We are probably more confident about that today because we just came out of the first month of that three or four month last year replatform and we ran well over a 30% increase in E-Commerce.
So there’s a lot of confidence about what E-Commerce sales are going to look like in the third quarter due to the anniversary of the replatform.
Beyond that there is a whole bunch of merchandise initiatives that are in place that we think are going to drive the top lines in E-Commerce.
On the bottom line in terms of improving profitability I would say our focus there is probably more on the fulfillment side.
As you remember in the fourth quarter while our topline sales on E-Commerce started to improve again we really had some significant difficulties serving the customers through our infrastructure and we have had a year to plan and prepare for that.
We’ve strengthened the organization.
We have strengthened the process.
We have strengthened facilities.
We have gone from 200 stores to 800 stores in Ship from Stores.
We are utilizing third-party providers on high velocity items.
We have essentially changed almost the entire process of fulfilling in our EFCs.
We’ve made management and leadership changes in that area as well.
And so I think all of us feel like one thing we are going to do this year for sure is serve the customer a lot better.
And I think fundamentally that will lead to a better result in the bottom line.
Got it.
Again and then just one last question for you Kevin.
In the juniors business can you just talk about -- has the grunge revival trend been a positive factor in what you are seeing there at all? You’ve stumped me again Bob.
And the fact that you can answer -- ask these questions without laughing are beyond my belief.
I will have to get back to you but we will make sure Wes gets back to you with a succinct answer on that.
Thanks Bob.
Thanks Kevin.
Our next question is from Paul Lejuez with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thanks guys.
I just want to go back to July for a second.
Curious from a promotional perspective was that part of the strength in July was it more of a promotional month? Did that play a role in driving that positive comp that you saw? And then second just looking out to IZOD and Juicy can you just talk about what brands will be displaced by the introduction of those two? Thanks.
On the month of July no I mean the promotional calendar was essentially identical to last year.
And we had pretty good strength throughout the month.
But as I said when back-to-school took hold in the third week and then particularly in the fourth week that trend of business improved quite a bit.
It also improved particularly in those back-to-school businesses in areas like juniors areas like young man areas like kids.
So I would say no promotional calendar our timetable our discounting really didn’t as I see play any role in the performance.
Broadly IZOD and Juicy have taken space from some of our proprietary brands and without getting into detail about how many fixtures this brand lost or this brand lost.
I mean just in general that’s kind of where the investment in inventory came from.
Thanks guys.
Good luck.
Thanks.
Thanks And we’ll got to Dan Binder with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Just a couple points of clarification on the high-volume stores for beauty I was just wondering if you could just give us a rough idea of how many or what percentage of the store base falls into that high-volume category? 60%.
60%.
And then on the credit income of $13 million I was just curious how much of that was actually above your expectation? Wes is looking right now I think.
For the quarter it was a couple million above our plan.
Okay.
And then on the cash flow side you obviously have great free cash flow characteristics a little bit behind on the buyback versus the 250 per quarter any thoughts about doing an ASR or perhaps taking the dividend payout ratio up? But at this day each of those decisions is something of course we regularly discuss at the Board level.
We are committed to the current guidance we have given on dividend.
It’s a discussion every year so that could change at the beginning of next year and we might decide to do something different.
I think Wes answered the share buyback Yeah.
We did an ASR.
We didn’t feel like it was very beneficial to us at the time.
I would be hard-pressed to see a situation where we would do that again.
I think the more consistent way to do it is better.
Like Kevin said visiting the dividend payout ratio is something we will do at the end of the year with the Board.
We obviously have a lot more people invested in the stock that are interested in value and dividend.
So that would -- take that into account every year when we talk about what we want to do for next year.
But we are committed to increasing it at least 10% annually and we will take a look at that at the end of the year.
And then on the back-to-school business I think a lot of industry observers would say that that could be a precursor to a good holiday.
Just kind of your thoughts broadly as you looked over the years what you think that tells you about your holiday if it is telling or not telling? I think last year we had a really good back-to-school business and then business died mid-September.
So I am not sure.
When you do the math on the correlation there is a little bit of a correlation there.
But I think every year is different every year is volatile.
Weather for us is a big factor.
I think we just got to continue to focus on our initiatives and getting better product.
And hopefully we can continue the improving trend we had in the quarter.
And lastly on brands you started this sort of new flow of brands each quarter every other quarter.
Any thoughts as you look beyond Puma areas that you want to add brands and if you’ve got stuff that’s work in progress? Sure.
I mean areas that we’ve talked about in the past around our key initiatives would be areas we are highly focused on.
So the active and wellness initiative which is one of the major moves we are making underneath the pillar of amazing product.
Active and wellness is going to be a category that we are going to continue to add new classifications as well as new brands.
I think a category like beauty the results are creating an environment that we have a good story to tell.
So we are going to be highly focused on trying to add more brands to our beauty portfolio.
It is working and I think people are recognizing it is working.
Unexpected product is also another bold move that we are focused on underneath amazing product.
And so we are trying to find opportunities that might make customers who visit our stores view the experience in a different and unique way.
So we will probably talk a little bit more about that at the end of October.
But we do think that is an opportunity as well.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Michael Binetti with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Congrats on a nice quarter in a tough market out there.
Kevin I know you said a couple times that E-Commerce accelerated 31st July better than 31st.
Would you mind giving us what it was for the full quarter just so we can have it in our models and track that trend? We are trying to -- it is starting to get blurred when we start to do both of this.
I would tell you it is something we are not going to really be giving out going forward.
The only reason we called it out in July there was a lot of notes out there that doubted our ability to achieve the bump in E-Commerce that we said we were going to achieve and that’s why we put it out there.
But the only thing I would tell you is it was a better increase for the quarter than it was in the first quarter.
And we would expect it to continue to be better in the third and fourth quarters as well.
Yes I mean in fact the commentary on E-Comm in the second quarter is something that would fall under the extraordinary circumstances that we talked about because last year we were entering this period of the replatform and our sales dramatically slowed for a period of about four months almost total 3.5 for sure.
So we thought it was really important in this particular case to kind of give you transparency and visibility into the dramatic acceleration as we hit that period.
But in total you want to just stick with Wes’ earlier comment which is we are planning I think E-Comm to contribute around 200 basis points.
It is just going to get greater and greater and greater as we launch buy online pickup in store.
Sure okay.
One thing with the different initiatives I guess of two of the big ones beauty and loyalty.
Are there any markets where those two intersect where you have got beauty and loyalty up and running in the stores at the same time and maybe you could talk a bit about those? I am trying to think about whether those stores are adding to the big goal that you guys keep talking about which is traffic positive at brick-and-mortar? There definitely are markets in which stores have an intersection of loyalty and beauty.
We don’t really -- we haven’t really launched beauty in a market environment.
Now we are getting ready to.
We are launching beauty in all stores in some markets in order to then market around that.
So Michelle’s team will have an opportunity to start communicating that and as we get results on that I think we will be able to provide visibility into it.
But right now it is sort of a case where there are stores in let’s say Milwaukee that have beauty and stores that don’t but the whole market has loyalty.
We try to keep them as separate as possible to be honest to try to measure the individual contributions.
I mean is your instinct that we could see traffic turn positive as we get an intersection of these?  Well that is certainly the goal for sure.
Okay.
The assumptions that we are making Wes covered pretty well.
But whether or not the goal all along has been to acknowledge that there is no single silver bullet to change our trend in traffic and it is going to require the intersection of a number of different initiatives all taking hold across the company.
That’s how we’ll get positive traffic and that’s the goal but we are not relying -- Wes jump in here but we are not relying on any of these individually to make it happen.
Yeah.
I mean what we really need is to have every line of business do what juniors did and move in the right direction absent all these initiatives and the initiatives would kind of be the gravy on top.
And Wes I guess one last question as we talked earlier in the year I think you guys obviously had a number of execution issues on top of the replatforming last year online.
And the margins for the online business were a big concern of yours earlier in the year.
Obviously you’ve got the replatform causing some accelerated E-Comm sales and it sounds like Kevin you said you have got some contingencies in place to make sure you guys can execute as we head into peak periods in the holiday.
If we try to add all that up is there -- what’s your thinking that’s baked into how you guys have guided us for the year as far as what the opportunity is on margins to improve the E-Commerce business in the back half? Thank you.
Honestly we are focused on sales.
And we are making assumptions on profitability in E-Commerce based on our past historical experience.
That is what is really kind of driving it.
Our focus is on the sales line and our focus is on the customer service line as I covered earlier.
It’s all about how do we drive sales with our new platform and our new customer engagement in E-Comm.
And secondly how do we give the customer an incredible experience like the one she gets in our stores every day.
And where that leads to on the P&amp;L basis strictly in E-Comm we are working on but we are not making any assumptions I would say that there is going to be some dramatic turnaround in profitability in E-Comm short-term.
I would say it is not going to be a headwind but I don’t expect a big tailwind either.
All right.
Thanks a lot guys.
Our next question is from Stephen Grambling with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning and thanks for taking the questions.
This is somewhat of a follow-up to other questions on the call but with E-Commerce now growing 30% plus.
Can you just discuss some of the differences in trends in that channel versus the stores to help us evaluate how much is incremental versus how much is coming at the expense of the stores for example details on the customer overlap category performance? I mean generally the answer is no.
Because as I said earlier we are really just not in a position to be able to kind of break down the differences to the degree that we used to when they were very separate so overlapping today.
I’d say though having said that merchandise categories and items that are exclusively offered on the web are driving sales on the web to a larger degree than merchandise categories and classifications that are also offered in our store.
I think that is true right Wes? Yeah.
And that has been somewhat consistent over time but if anything it perhaps accelerated as we’ve made a big focus on driving sales and the merchandising teams in E-Commerce are looking for categories and brands that are unique that give a different experience.
And then I guess just as a follow-up to that are there geographies where there is a big delta between E-Comm and the stores.
And how would you even start evaluating potentially closing stores or is there just not that big of a delta at this point? Thanks.
The most productive stores in the company are also where we have the highest penetration of E-Comm sales.
So that would be mostly Midwest Northeast and Mid-Atlantic but the most improvement is coming in places like the West and the South Central.
That’s super helpful.
Thank you so much and good luck.
Thanks.
And next we go to Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks.
Hey Kevin just a question here on the E-Commerce business.
Two things one would love to hear your thoughts on how mobile has been layering into your better performance.
I know that mobile has been like a primary portion of your overall planned CapEx for technology so how does that fit in with this acceleration in E-Comm? And then secondly related as well if you think about your SKU expansion opportunities you just mentioned the exclusives that are on the web.
To what extent can you work with your vendors to really expand that online assortment and maybe just facilitate some drop shipping for consumers as a means to drive this? Thanks.
Sure.
I will take them one at a time on mobile and Wes can add whatever he wants to.
But I mean mobile is driving the E-Comm business.
And essentially a large portion of the increase in mobile in E-Comm traffic has been accounted for on-mobile devices and the shift from desktop to mobile both phone and tablet is dramatic accelerating and doesn’t appear to have any slowdown insight.
The technology teams and the E-Comm teams have really done a great job in preparation for that trend and have built the infrastructure that we’ve been launching and all of the new initiatives we are launching things like Yes to You Rewards the loyalty business with the mobile platform in mind in fact at the forefront of their thinking.
So I do believe that while we have got lots of opportunity to improve on all of the interface with our customers.
This is an area that the team has really been ahead of the curve on and I think when we launch loyalty nation-wide you are going to see the application on mobile devices is pretty spectacular frankly and its… Was it Kevin can I just pause on that point real quick and clarify? Are you seeing an-- I think everyone is seeing an increase in mobile traffic are you also seeing an increase in mobile traffic and mobile conversion?  Mobile conversion itself Wes.
It’s getting better.
The whole issue that we are all struggling with is conversion on a smartphone is a lot less than conversion on a tablet or a desktop.
So one of our focuses for this year and into next year is in as Kevin mentioned is improving the mobile app to where it is easier and you can check out in fewer steps because on a phone they are buying fewer units as well.
So we have got to make it a lot easier for them to do.
And you talked about drop shipping or direct shipping we already do that.
It’s about between 20% and 25% of our business is direct ship.
So it is something that merchants are really focused on trying to expand categories in areas like big and tall and special sizes where we are somewhat constrained by the floor pad there but we can definitely broaden the assortment online in those types of businesses.
Thank you so much guys.
Best of luck out there.
Our next question is from Liz Dunn with Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
Just a lot of little follow-up questions.
So on the 30% plus E-Commerce comp in July you are saying that part of that is obviously anniversarying this period of disruption? Are you able to break out how much was that versus a lift that might be sustainable? I mean the honest answer on that Liz is it is difficult.
We definitely -- there are things that are happening in the business like the growth of our WebEx or our Web-exclusive product categories that would indicate those are probably sustainable and those are unique and separate from the anniversary of the disruption.
But we also definitely want to acknowledge that last year there was a tremendous slowdown and therefore this year by default becomes an opportunity to anniversary that.
So it’s definitely both but it’s really really hard.
If we had a good answer on that we would definitely give it to you.
It is just really difficult for us to separate those things.
Yeah.
I’d focus -- we plan to grow E-Commerce 20% a year.
So we underachieved that for a variety of reasons in the first quarter.
We are going to overachieve that in July August September for sure and then it should go back to a normalized 20% going forward.
Okay.
The lift you have seen in beauty so do I understand you correctly that that is really without marketing that beauty has changed because you haven’t been able to market because it is not in any one market in total is that correct so it has just been the customer sort of discovering it? Yeah.
We have done some small marketing like there is a couple markets that we have real small but nothing like Milwaukee or New York that we’ve seen.
We’ve seen a little bit bigger lift in advertised markets versus unadvertised but I wouldn’t tell you that we are going to get some additional lift after that because I just don’t have enough data to say that with a lot of confidence.
But fundamentally the results to date on beauty do not include any marketing component.
Okay.
And then finally on the loyalty I was interested in your comments that I’m paraphrasing that you want to build a deeper connection with the customer and that you think that it could be more powerful than your card.
So two questions there that sounds like it is more than just discounts that there’s more substance to it a then do those whatever those benefits are that you have identified that you can offer to the customer does that translate to the card as well could it be a benefit to the card over time? Thanks.
I mean first of all definitely loyalty is not fundamentally focused on the saving aspect.
So that’s sort of a price of entry.
We know that to have a great loyalty relationship with the customer that has to be some incredible savings aspect to it and that’s fundamentally kind of underpinning our loyalty strategy.
But we also look at given the number of loyalty programs across retail hospitality and other consumer categories.
It is very clear that some are extremely successful some are very mediocre and some just really don’t work well.
We are focused on trying to understand the components of the ones that are super successful and our program that we are launching in October combines the savings aspect which is important with a sharing element and a surprise element and a connection element that we think will make ours unique because that is really what this is about.
Just having another loyalty program that is not going to do anything fundamentally but if we combine all these aspects we’re trying to use best in class they are not necessarily in our sectors they are probably in many cases outside of our sector to design the overall overreaching aspect.
So far the credit overlap has probably been the most exciting thing.
I think as we went into loyalty one of the concerns we had is we didn’t want to do anything that would be positive on the loyalty side with a broad array of customers but somehow perceived negatively by our current loyal customer in our credit business and that has definitely not been the case.
And as we have looked at loyalty members by store the percentage of members who are credit and noncredit is pretty exciting we have more noncredit members that’s the objective for sure but we also have a substantial amount of credit members.
Yeah.
We also think it could over time act as sort of a feeder program into credit.
We will be able to analyze our activity and if they give us information we can actually even prescreen them when they come to the register and if they qualify offer them an opportunity to apply for a Kohl’s charge.
So I think it is something that could actually augment the credit program at this point versus hurting it.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Good luck.
Thank you.
And the next question if from Richard Jaffe with Stifel.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much guys and exciting to hear about July.
I’m wondering -- I am looking at the specific success stories within the July positive comp? Can you guys sort of drill in and answer on a high level or as much detail as you can? If you have got the product to back up the successes of July if you weren’t cherry picked and now have to chase successes but just the opposite there is the inventory and replenishment possibly in the successful categories and key items? Well we have tried to be on the inventory front we’ve tried to be particularly aggressive around our basic replenishment categories you heard Wes talk about that that we funded those businesses proactively.
I don’t think we see anything in our inventory plans that would cause us to be worried that we are going to run out of key items or categories.
We have so much room to improve in inventory management Richard that...
Yeah.
And I’m pretty confident we can run with less inventory which I think we are looking for the end of the third quarter to be down probably 3% or so and inventory… End of the year.
End of the year.
… more 3% or 4% to last year… Right.
… that still get the sales results we’re looking for.
And could you comment just on categories that have performed well say within Juniors or more specifically than you provided on men’s as well? Active is one that I would highlight.
Active has been great everywhere but it has been great in Juniors as well.
Their results have been pretty broad.
There are categories like dresses that have been spectacular as well on a brand basis.
Our Candie’s business I think Wes has been dramatically outperforming as we’ve made some changes to the strategies behind that brand.
Young men’s has also been very good and starting in the back sorry in back-to-school so that is encouraging as well.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks.
That will conclude this conference’s Q&amp;A session.
I will turn it back to the presenters for any closing comments.
Well I’ll thanks everybody for joining us on the call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 11 a.m.
Eastern Daylight Time today through September 14th at midnight Eastern Daylight Time.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 333513.
International participants please dial (320) 365-3844.
Those numbers again are 1 (800) 475-6701 and (320) 365-3844 access code 333513.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Kohl’s Quarter Four 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Certain statements made on this call including projected financial results are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Kohl’s intends forward-looking terminology such as believes expects may will should anticipates plans or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause Kohl’s actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Such certainties include but are not limited to those that are described in Item 1A in Kohl’s most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and maybe supplemented from time-to-time in Kohl’s other filings from the SEC all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
Also please note that replays of this recording will not be updated.
So if you are listening after February 26 2015 it is possible that the information discussed is no longer current.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today’s conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Wes McDonald Chief Financial Officer of Kohl’s Department Stores.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you.
Good morning.
With me today is Kevin Mansell our Chairman CEO and President.
I will start today’s call by walking through our operational results.
Kevin then will provide more details on our sales and greatness agenda initiatives.
I will conclude our remarks by providing our initial guidance for fiscal 2015 and then open up the call to your questions.
We are pleased with our fourth quarter results.
Comp sales increased 3.7% for the quarter our highest quarterly comp since the fourth quarter of 2010.
All lines of business were positive and all regions were positive.
Net income grew 10% and our earnings per share were $1.83 a 17% increase over last year.
The comp reflects increases in both average transaction value and more importantly number of transactions.
Average transaction value reflects a 2.8% increase in average unit retail which was partially offset by a 1.1% decrease in units per transaction.
This resulted in an average transaction value increase of 1.7%.
Number of transactions increased 2% reflecting increases in both online orders and in-store customers.
Diving a little deeper by line of business for the quarter children’s footwear and men’s all reported mid to high single-digit increases.
Active and fitness categories were strong in all lines of business women’s men’s footwear and children’s.
Women’s home and accessories also generated positive comps for the quarter but underperformed the company average.
As our omni-channel strategy continues to mature it becomes increasingly difficult to distinguish between the store sale and an e-commerce sale.
Because we no longer have a clear distinction between store sales and e-commerce sales we are no longer separately reporting e-commerce sales.
For the quarter comps were relatively consistent across all regions with results that range from positive 3% to 5%.
Total sales increased 3.9% for the quarter and for the year were essentially flat at $19 billion.
Comp sales decreased 30 basis points for the year.
Our gross margin rate decreased 13 basis points for the quarter and 8 basis points for the year.
Merchandise margin increased over both prior year periods but was more than offset by an increase in the impact of shipping cost.
Our SG&amp;A expenses were 2% higher than last year’s fourth quarter and leveraged 29 basis points.
Store expenses including payroll fixed costs as rent and controllable costs such as utilities leveraged by 30 basis points.
Lower corporate expenses were offset by higher marketing spend to support the loyalty launch and drive holiday sales IT investments and slightly lower profitability in our credit card business.
For the year SG&amp;A expenses increased 1% and deleveraged 21 basis points.
Leverage in our credit card business and store distribution operations were more than offset by deleverage in our other operations.
Depreciation expense decreased $3 million from both the prior year quarter and year.
The decrease reflects lower depreciations on our stores as they mature which is largely offset by higher IT amortization.
Net interest expense was $84 million this quarter and $340 million for the year.
Interest on capital lease – capitalized leases decreased in both periods as the leases matured.
For this year this favorability was more than offset by interest on the $300 million of debt that was issued in September 2013.
Our income tax rate was 35.3% for the quarter and 35.7% for the year.
Both periods reflect the benefits of favorable state tax audit settlements.
Net income was $369 million for the quarter and $867 million for the year.
As I mentioned earlier diluted earnings per share increased 17% to $1.83 for the quarter for the year diluted earnings per share were $4.24 consistent with the midpoint of the guidance that we provided at the beginning of the year.
From a store and square footage perspective we currently have 1 162 stores one fewer than the end of the third quarter.
We ended the quarter with selling square footage of 83 758 000 square feet and gross square footage of 100 394 000 square feet.
We generated $1.2 billion of free cash flow for the year and ended the year with $1.4 billion of cash and cash equivalents.
Capital expenditures were $682 million for 2014 $39 million higher than last year.
The increase reflects higher corporate spending on IT and credit facilities higher IT spending and lower remodel spending 2014 spend was slightly lower than our original estimates due the timing of projects.
Ending inventory and inventory per store decreased 2% from January 2014.
Units per store were down slightly more 3%.
Our accounts payable as a percentage of inventory was 440 basis points higher than last year at 35.2 it was 39.6 this year.
The increase is due to higher receipt volume and timing of payments to some of our vendors.
Weighted average diluted shares were 201 million for the quarter and 204 million for the year.
We repurchased 12.3 million shares of our stock during the year including 2.1 million shares during the fourth quarter.
We ended the year with 201 million shares of outstanding stock.
On February 25 2015 our Board declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.45 per share an increase of 15% over last year.
Since paying our first dividend in 2011 we have increased the dividend at a compound annual growth rate of 16%.
The dividend is payable March 25 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 11.
I will now turn it over to Kevin who will provide us an update on key greatness agenda initiatives.
Thanks Wes.
As you know in early 2014 we introduced our new multiyear vision that we refer to as the greatness agenda.
Over the last year our associates have fully embraced this new vision and it has become part of the Kohl’s culture.
In October we provided additional details regarding the greatness agenda and introduced our senior leadership team in our first investor conference in 7 years.
We talked about measuring our progress in terms of sales associate engagement and customer engagement.
You have just heard our progress on sales.
In order to continue to increase our associate engagement we just assembled nearly 3 000 of our leaders from across the country for a multi-day conference where we worked together to strengthen our leadership skills and explored ways to bring the greatness agenda to life and to deliver on our 3-year plan.
That conference was a significant investment in the development of our leaders but one that we believe will pay off as we deliver on that 3-year plan.
As a reminder the five pillars of our greatness agenda are amazing product easy experience personalized connections incredible savings and winning teams.
In amazing product one of our strategies was to refocus on our national brands.
That focus continues to pay dividends.
The emphasis on national brands resulted in higher comps in our national brand portfolio than in our private and exclusive brands.
For the year penetration was evenly split between national brands and only at Kohl’s brands as national brands grew in penetration by 180 basis points.
Among the strongest performers by brand during the quarter were Nike Levi’s Carter’s Fila Sport and Jumping Beans.
Nike our largest national brand reported a 24% increase in fourth quarter sales.
The collaboration with Disney helped drive a 27% increase in Jumping Bean sales in the fourth quarter.
Frozen was a big part of that growth and we look forward to more collaboration with Disney in 2015.
Levi’s Carter’s and our own Fila Sport all increased approximately 10%.
During 2014 we added over 15 new brands such as IZOD Juicy Fitbit Nespresso and Gaiam to name just a few.
And just yesterday we announced the launch of Bliss a prestige skincare collection.
This launch further establishes Kohl’s as a go-to beauty destination.
The Bliss partnership will offer signature skincare and body products beginning in March on Kohls.com and at over 500 stores and expanding to all stores by the end of 2015.
Under our easy experience pillar beauty is the key part of driving sales.
The Bliss announcement is just another step in creating industry leading beauty departments in all of our stores.
Approximately 500 of our stores currently have the new beauty format but by next fall that number will increase to about 900.
In addition to adding new brands we are creating a new environment that is both aspirational and approachable.
We are also testing some different things in our 12 full store remodels this year as well as some ideas to drive sales in our in-aisle program while presenting more cohesive seasonal themes and ideas.
In personalized connections we have continued our investment in improving our platform both in mobile and tablet and continue to develop our Kohl’s wallet allowing for easy storage of all of our promotions and our Yes2You Rewards as well as Kohl’s Cash.
Our investment in improving our mobile platforms has resulted in increased conversion rates across all channels.
Our efforts in personalization from a marketing standpoint produced approximately what we expected in 2014.
And most importantly we have data and learnings in order to improve our effectiveness in 2015.
We have built 10 key behavioral segments and are focusing on our four largest customer opportunities in 2015.
Our localization efforts are in the rollout phase and we expect them to have a lot more impact in 2015.
As part of the localization efforts we are optimizing mass-media to better serve our markets from the tab perspective allowing us to invest savings in other forms of media.
In incredible savings for several quarters now you have heard us share our excitement and optimism about our Yes2You loyalty program.
The program launched nationwide in early October and has far exceeded our expectations.
To-date we have approximately 25 million customers enrolled in the program 20% more than our original 2014 goal.
More than half of these customers do not have a Kohl’s charge card.
And enrollment in the program provides us with customer specific data that will further our personalization initiatives.
Additionally enrollment in the program drives traffic and incremental sales.
In closing we have only just begun our journey in the greatness agenda.
In this first year alone we have already delivered in several areas including creating an industry disrupting loyalty program under our incredible savings pillar and increasing our penetration in active and wellness as well as building a new beauty business under our amazing product pillar.
We are also on target to reach our milestone goals in personalization and being world class in mobile under the personalized connections pillar.
The fourth quarter results indicate the momentum created through these initiatives.
As we look ahead the greatness agenda its pillars and our values will be our consistent roadmap for the work we do everyday.
We have made good early progress.
We feel we can now move with greater speed as we continue to seek out more ways to innovate and to bring the greatness agenda to life.
Now I want to turn it back to Wes to provide our initial guidance for fiscal 2015.
Thanks Kevin.
We expect earnings per diluted share of $4.40 to $4.60 for fiscal 2015.
This guidance is based on total sales increases of 1.8% to 2.8% and comparable sales increases of 1.5% to 2.5%.
We expect gross margin as a percent of sales to be flat to up 20 basis points for the year.
Continued rollout of our beauty initiatives will create some margin pressure in the first quarter as we liquidate the old product to make way for the new product.
SG&amp;A expenses are expected to increase 1.5% to 2.5% over 2014.
We expect SG&amp;A to increase more in the first quarter than in the balance of the year roughly 4% to 5% in the first quarter versus roughly 0.75% to 1.75% for the balance of the year.
There are a number of differences contributing to the higher first quarter expenses.
First based on the success of beauty we will be rolling the beauty initiatives to roughly 450 stores compared to less than 100 stores in early 2014.
As a reminder 2014 installations were mostly in the fall season.
We will also have higher store expenses associated with the acceleration of rolling out buy online pickup in store to all stores and expanding ship from store to all stores due to the success we saw with these initiatives last year.
We will continue to invest in technology and capacity to further accelerate our improving omni-channel experience.
Finally we had several non-recurring items that helped last year and hurt this year in the first quarter.
Our changes in how we market to our customer more efficiently start to take effect in the second quarter providing significant savings while increasing our reach for the balance of the year.
We expect depreciation expense to be $940 million and interest expense to be $335 million for the year.
Our guidance also assumes an effective tax rate of 37% and $1 billion in share repurchases at an average price of $70 per share.
We expect capital expenditures of $800 million in 2015 approximately $120 million more than 2014.
2015 CapEx is expected to include $350 million for IT spending $250 million for store strategies including new stores remodel beauty and other easy-experience initiatives and $200 million for base capital projects.
With that we will be happy to take your questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from the line of Bob Drbul with Nomura Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Wes I just have a question for you on the guide when you think about sort of the omni-channel guide and shipping as ‘14 heads into ‘15 how do you have that factored into your gross margin guidance? Sure.
Well what we have tried to do I think we talked a little bit about back in October but over the next three years we are trying to get back to where we were in the store gross margin which is roughly a couple of hundred basis points around 38 and change.
The margin hit from e-commerce mix in terms of higher percentage of home and a little higher percentage of national brands is worth about 10 to 15 basis points and then shipping cost on total gross margins probably worth about 20 to 25 basis points each year over the next three years.
So that’s really how we built the guide.
That’s included in our flat to up 20 guidance for total company.
Okay.
And then Kevin just had a couple questions for you.
The first one is can you share with us Kohl’s perspective on retailers voluntarily raising minimum wage throughout the U.S.? Sure Bob.
First of all we obviously don’t operate in a vacuum but we never have.
We have a pretty robust and very successful system in place to assess the competitive market across the whole country.
And fundamentally we pay what’s necessary in each market to attract and retain the talent we need.
Frankly cost of living are not the same everywhere and either our wages.
As an aside and I realize wages are getting some focus.
While wages are really important there are a lot of other factors driving peoples’ decisions about where to work.
The work environment the way associates are treated future opportunities for growth and advancement are just a few of many.
And as we shared with you back in October at the investor conference our store associates engagement is in the top percent of retailers.
So we definitely intend to keep it there.
Got it alright.
And then Kevin I just have – I have one more question for you I think your first pillar is amazing product and I was in the stores recently checking out some of your footwear offerings and you seem to have a good offering on the wedge sandals and platform high heels and I just wondered if you think that the footwear business that you had success in the fourth quarter will continue into 2015? I had some anxiety when you were asking – getting ready to ask that question because I was thinking for sure I am going to get a question from Bob that I won’t be able to answer.
I will do my best.
I mean footwear has been strong.
Our casual footwear business has been strong but frankly our active footwear business athletic footwear has been much stronger and I would suspect that looking out into 2015 given the big focus we have as you know around active and wellness that athletic footwear is going to continue to outperform.
And we are just putting so much energy and so much behind that initiative.
Thanks Bob.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question today comes from the line of Matthew Boss with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys and a nice quarter.
From a share perspective how do you guys view your pricing perception today where do you think your core customers indexing with some of your department store peers in the off-price.
And then really from a market share perspective just how you view the opportunities and particularly the pickup in traffic that you have seen any drivers that you think are really behind that? Sure Matt it’s Kevin.
I mean from a pricing perspective we sort of lump that under our incredible savings pillar.
And historically and consistently and still today that’s a space in which we get really strong marks for consumers on that Kohl’s ability to deliver great value is at the very top of retailers.
Our opportunity I think is to broaden the reach.
So much of our value equation has been driven through our proprietary credit card offering and as you know Yes2You loyalty is really all about expanding that reach.
And then really trying to deliver savings and therefore pricing perception strength at a very personalized level.
So it’s unique to each customer so that each customer is kind of dealt with based on what’s important to them.
On a market share basis in the fourth quarter to be honest with you there were – there always are better businesses and businesses that are slower.
In general all of the businesses performed pretty well they were all positive first of all as Wes indicated.
Some outperformed like men’s or children’s.
Some underperformed the store average.
I would say the business that we are probably most highly focused on really gaining more traction in is our women’s apparel business.
It has trailed over some period of time the company performance.
We are starting to make headway.
The gap between women’s and the rest of the store is narrowing but we are clearly not going to be happy to women’s runs with or ahead of the store.
So I would – if I picked one area I would say it’s women’s apparel that we are focused on really try to gain more share.
Yes.
I think one of the things I forgot to mention in the scripted remarks is to Kevin’s point about broadening our reach.
The comp this quarter was driven by both credit and non-credit card customers.
So our credit card customers were up sort of mid single-digit but our non-credit card customers were up low single-digit.
That’s the first time that’s probably happened coincidentally – not coincidentally since the fourth quarter of 2010 back when we had the last really strong comp that we had.
So we have to keep that going.
It’s got to be – we got to get flat to positive comps in the non-credit card business to be as successful as we would like to be.
And the credit card guys should continue to outperform but that was a good first step.
Great.
And from a quarterly cadence have you seen the top line and traffic momentum continue into February.
And more so I mean do you think we are seeing any impact from lower gas ad what’s the best way to think about an earlier Easter this year? Well I mean speaking about the quarter obviously we don’t comment on individual months’ performance.
But I think we have continued to get strength particularly in the areas of the country that haven’t been so affected by weather.
I mean there have been some areas as you know that have been really impacted by weather.
I don’t think Easter the timing of Easter has really got a major effect on our quarterly results.
You kind of know I think Matt that our quarterly results have a tendency to be driven really by the other more important factors for us which are how quickly weather works in our favor on seasonal apparel how effective our individual marketing events.
Particularly in this case at this time of year our efforts around personalization how are they working how quickly these omni-channel efforts get traction.
And then of course just product choices for sure but beyond that there is probably not a lot to add.
Wes? No.
I think you covered it.
Great.
Best of luck guys.
Thanks.
Our next question today comes from the line of Charles Grom representing Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
This is actually Renato Basanta on the line for Chuck.
Congrats on the nice quarter.
Thank you.
Thanks.
So I guess first I was just hoping you could have drilled down a little bit more on the Yes2You program in terms of what you are seeing from a traffic and frequency perspective particularly how the typically slower January period was presumably affected by the program.
And I guess related to that maybe if you could just talk a little bit more about the progress in I guess improving engagement and fostering relationships with the 25 million members? Sure.
I mean Wes and I can probably both add some color on that.
I mean generally Yes2You was – continued to be a positive in January.
It was positive in December.
It was a positive in January as well.
As you know that program is really all about in the future being able to deliver more unique and personalized offers to customers and really kind of connecting with them on an engagement perspective.
So it’s being driven early on I would say and Wes can add color on the savings aspect of the program.
It’s a way for consumers to quickly who are not Kohl’s charge customers gain more ways to save and they are using that.
So it was a plus in January for sure.
And we see it as a big plus in the first quarter as well.
Yes.
I mean in January was – I mean we were up above three for the first 2 months combined.
And January obviously was much better than that.
We were up high single-digits.
So a lot of that was finally lapsing clearance the clearance that we had last January and then obviously the rewards program was a big part of that as well.
I think one of the things that we are going to learn from both the combination of Yes2You rewards and personalization is to do a better job of onboarding new customers probably not brand brand new to Kohl’s but people that we don’t know an awful lot about.
We hadn’t done a very good job of that in the past.
We sort of pounded on the people who already liked us.
But I think with personalization our marketing folks have a really good strategy to get people who either sign up for rewards or sign up for a credit card or hopefully both onboard in the next 30 days to 60 days to get them back in for that second or hopefully third trip.
Okay thanks.
And then you guys have a done a nice job of bringing some new brands onboard you have the Bliss launching soon can you just talk a little bit about expectations for additional brands perhaps later this year? And maybe talk about the types of brands that kind of fit in Kohl’s wheelhouse? I am working – I mean we are obviously focused on continuing to expand the portfolio.
There are certain parts of our business that are more important to do that than others probably beauty is clearly one of them as we expand the new beauty initiative.
I don’t know that I would pick out any particular area.
We have done a great job in adding some newness into active.
Active has been a really strength in the business.
I doubt that we are unique in that but it has particularly outperformed.
But we have added some new brands including Puma and including Gaiam which in apparel launches in April I think of this year.
So I wouldn’t call any particular area out.
I think it’s just a focus on in particular our existing national brands.
And that’s really where a lot of the lift is coming as we recommit to those in both our inventory and our stores and our marketing.
Yes.
I mean we have had Nike for an awful long time and they were up 24% in the fourth quarter.
So it’s really maximizing the value of the powerful brands we already have and then bringing in newer brands to fill in the holes we have.
Alright guys.
Thanks for the color.
Our next question today comes from the line of Paul Lejuez with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thanks guys.
Hey buddy.
What can I do? Couple of quick ones.
Credit card expectations what do you expect in 2015 and how does that help or hurt you on the SG&amp;A line? Loyalty customer what percent are new to Kohl’s as far as you know? And just last what’s your view on Target going free shipping at $25? Thanks.
Okay.
Credit card profitability I think will be over last year.
I am not sure we will leverage as a percent of sales.
That really is going to depend on our top line sales but we will have higher credit card income this year than we did last year.
In terms of loyalty I think it’s 52% of the loyalty members are non-credit card holders.
But are they new to Kohl’s Wes or were they shopping Kohl’s and just not a credit card customer? The actual percent that are “new” would be a guess on our part first of all Paul Lejuez.
First of all it would be a guess to be honest.
Well we can – I don’t have the number in my fingertips.
I think Wes is actually looking through some papers right now to try to find it but we will try to give you an assessment of what it is.
There is a certain percentage that we feel are definitely new to Kohl’s.
Yes.
So we will definitely get back to you on that.
Yes I can’t find – the font is too small.
I will get back to you on that.
And then free shipping at $25 that’s something that just I don’t think will work for us long-term from a profitability perspective.
I can’t comment on Target’s ability to make it work but we are comfortable where we are at.
We are trying to improve speed of delivery to customer.
We are very excited about buy online pickup in store and hope that can be a bigger share of our omni-channel business.
I mean in all truth on that one Paul I think that we have learned that we are much better off putting all of our focus around really delivering great customer service and that’s why we are making some investments as you heard Wes talk about earlier in the year that were probably not originally contemplated a year ago to accelerate let’s say for instance ship from store.
We never really planned to have it in every store but it’s been so successful.
It’s going to be in every store.
Buy online pickup in store the original plan was we pilot it in the fourth quarter and then we think about a pace of acceleration over the course of the year but we are kind of so excited about it and the meaning of it on our inventory effectiveness in our stores and delivering great service that we are accelerating that.
So I think there are just so many other areas that we are focused on in that seamless experience.
And the reason is we have learned that’s what drives behavior.
That’s what will drive traffic.
So launching a new tablet experience now launching a new mobile experience giving a great customer experience on the site and in delivery providing Yes2You value to customers who haven’t maybe considered Kohl’s those are things to me that are much more important than what trigger level you provide free shipping at.
Yes.
Yes great.
Thank you guys.
Good luck.
Thanks.
Our next question is from the line of Dan Binder with Jefferies.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning.
Good morning.
My question was on the loyalty program.
You have got some areas that are now in their second year.
I am just kind of curious after the first year of sign-ups what that growth in sign-ups looks like in the second year? Does it sort of flatten out or do you continue to get fairly robust growth there? Well growth in – I mean obviously growth in sign-ups once you have annualized slows down from a rate perspective because you are up against a very significant launch and then annualizing a regular program.
But we continue to sign up new customers in every store and market across the country.
And as you said some of those were in a pilot that are now more than two years old I think Wes? Yes I mean I would expect us to get another 10 or 12 million people signed up this year.
So it would be at 35 to 37 at the end of the year.
I know the marketing guys have a more stretched goal than that but that seems like a reasonable assumption for us.
And we have – to be honest we are testing a lot of different things to get lift in the second year which we haven’t rolled out very widely on.
I mean the other thing Dan is the thing that I think is unique to us is that we have a very particular experience with is we have been driving essentially our old loyalty program which is our credit card program for over 20 years.
And the problem with that program as you know is there gets to be a point where customers while they love Kohl’s don’t want to use private label credit card.
And so Yes2You loyalty provides access to those customers but importantly sort of the behavior that we see including in the sign-up process and then the comping the launch of it is very similar to the experience we have had over many many years with our credit card which is we are definitely going to lose some customers over time but we are gaining way more than we are losing in these markets in which we had pilots that are now as I said over 2 years old.
So I feel like we have some experience here that is sort of unique and that we can draw – and we are drawing on it.
I mean Wes is drawing on it and our marketing team in particular Michelle’s team is really drawing on it.
And then just two other things one can you just breakdown in your comp assumptions the transaction and ticket growth? And then with regard to the tax rate a lot of retailers have lower tax rates this fourth quarter because of the extension of the Work Opportunity Act.
I am just curious as we think about the tax rate next year it’s higher I think rough math year-over-year it’s a hit of about $0.10.
Is there a possibility that tax rate comes back down again in the latter part of the year if that is extended? On the tax rate yes there is certainly a possibility.
We never build that in if it’s not something that’s absolutely known.
I think our tax rates gone down for the last five years.
So I would say it’s probably a conservative assumption but it’s the best that we know at this time.
State settlements you can’t really predict and you can’t really predict when legislation will take effect on that.
I am sorry Dan what was the other question? The breakdown of your comp assumption? Comp assumption.
Yes.
I mean we are going to have at least flat traffic.
I would suspect transaction value will be up a couple of percent.
So the ability for us to do better than a 2% comp will be probably predicated on what transactions per store are.
Is that ticket affected by lower cotton prices impacting AUR this spring? No.
I think AUR is going to continue to be up just because of mix of business national brands will continue to increase penetration in there a little higher AUR than our private and exclusives.
So cotton benefits will come in the back half.
They are somewhat mitigated by pretty high wage rate increases overseas and some other more technical stuff that our product development guys are telling me is going to cost more money in terms of dye and things like that.
But – so I think there will be a modest benefit in the back half from a cost perspective but mix will outweigh that.
And hopefully we will continue to do better on inventory management.
Kevin alluded to buy online pick-up-in-store and ship-from-store.
We are just trying to do a better job of inventory management overall.
So if we can reduce the amount of clearance that should also help drive AUR too.
Great.
Thanks.
Our next question today comes from the line of Oliver Chen from Cowen.
Please go ahead sir.
Thanks a lot.
Congrats on a great finish to a solid year.
Regarding your inventories they look under really great control.
Just an industry topic about the slowdown is that impacting your receipts or how you are thinking about planning.
And also Kevin I just wanted to ask you and Wes a general question in terms of how you felt holiday went relative to your expectations and if there – how would you prioritize any tweaks that you make to the greatness agenda as a result of the overall holiday performance? Sure.
It’s Kevin Oliver.
On the inventory and in particular I guess you are alluding to the ports slowdown and stoppage that impacted flow through the port.
We are definitely affected like everybody is affected no question about it.
The way those things work of course is we try to mitigate it through logistics strategies to push product to other access points of course but certain categories or businesses typically get affected more.
If I was looking at the ports slowdown in a list of things that can either be a headwind or tailwind it’s definitely been a headwind for sure.
It was a headwind in the fourth quarter.
And it will be a headwind for a little while still I would say.
But if I put it in a priority of other things that actually create business change some of the things that we have talked about like our ability to deliver amazing product our ability to have more effective marketing through more utilization of personalization or loyalty weather as a factor at any point in time those things all outweigh this.
Unfortunately in certain categories they can be important and one I always allude to with Wes is sleepwear for instance in the fourth quarter is basically all imported and it was all relatively late.
And as a result it impacted sales in sleepwear pretty dramatically.
Yes and will impact sleepwear margin in the first quarter.
Yes.
So you get these individual things I would say.
I do think we are in a little better shape than some people as we have been bringing in about 50% of our imports come in the East Coast as the normal course of business and we have been doing that for the last 8 years and have very well developed relationships.
So adding some additional volume if necessary will be a lot easier than other retailers who might only have one or two DCs and bring everything through the West Coast.
It will be very hard for those folks to switch to East Coast and develop new business relationships.
In terms of putting the holiday in context I think in general what we would say is as we went into the holiday as you heard from us back at that investor conference at the end of October we had expectations that the initiatives we were talking about to you would create growth in the fourth quarter in the range of 2.5% or so.
We delivered more than that.
Why did we deliver more than that essentially I think the initiatives delivered pretty much exactly on target but the underlying business got better.
And I think it got better to acknowledge of better macro environment.
I think that was definitely part of it.
We shared in that with other people.
But it also just got better because some of the everyday work that we are doing and the essential moves that we are making in the greatness agenda are paying off so there is still plenty of opportunity.
I alluded to our biggest area of opportunity which is our women’s business positive comp in the fourth quarter that’s great news.
That’s a real change in trend but it still trailed the store.
And that’s been an ongoing issue that we are really attacking as we move into 2015 and I feel like we have some strategies to kind of create some momentum there.
Okay.
And just a quick follow-up some retailers are calling out the idea of potentially customers trading up is that a dynamic that you are seeing within your portfolio as you look across which products are working and the pricing trends? I mean other than the big piece which Wes talked about which is the national brand focus I mean if you want to call that trading up I guess you could because it does enhance average unit retail what you sell.
It’s a great thing about being in the middle.
When things are good people trade up when things are bad people trade down.
So I think that’s happened over the course of my 12 years here.
But I think the biggest thing to Kevin’s point was the increased emphasis on national brand we are providing great value on those brands and people are reaching up a little bit.
Great.
Thank you.
Congrats best regards.
Thanks.
Our next question today comes from the line of Michael Binetti representing UBS.
Please go ahead sir.
Hey guys.
Good morning congrats on a good fourth quarter.
Good morning.
Just a few questions on the comp sales guidance the comparisons are a bit lumpy here and then there is obviously you have got a lot of new initiatives going on it sounds like they are hitting plan but the underlying business is better.
And then we have – I guess you Kevin you referenced some weather in February so maybe you can just help us think directionally through the model for the year I know you guys don’t want to get back into the quarter-to-quarter but with as much noise as we are seeing maybe just a little bit a help on how to think about the cadence through the year? Yes.
We are definitely not going to get into quarterly guidance.
But I don’t think we think about the year on the top line any differently over the course of the year.
We think there is relatively equal opportunity across the whole year.
If there is a lumpy part to our year it’s as Wes alluded to it’s the level of expense growth in the first quarter compared to the rest of the year.
I look at that as really just a decision on our part to make investments earlier in the year because they are working.
These are all areas as Wes mentioned that we have been piloting and are testing and are succeeding beyond what we thought they would and so we have sort of accelerated it earlier investments that we would have probably paced out a little bit more over the course of the year.
And whether that’s ship-from-store or [indiscernible] or mobile re-platform or beauty rollout or any of the things that he touched on even the broader technology spend which we have accelerated the pace of in the first quarter.
I just look at them as investments.
And we are – as you heard from us in October we are focused on where we want to be in 3 years.
And this year is just a step on the path to get through whether it be 3 years from now.
And I realized that you have to make judgments on how companies are performing over the course of the time.
But we just don’t run our business that way.
We are not going to run our business that way.
But in particular on the top line...
There is not a lot of volatility it may be a little bit higher in the fall than in the spring.
But I think that you guys sort of lapped at my extra day calculation but it came in right on.
So we get another day for that in the fourth quarter that will help a little bit.
But other than that it’s not really a ton of variability that’s going to cause anybody any consternation.
Okay.
Just checking if the West Coast and the weather were impacting anything? No it’s a good question; I understand why you asked.
Okay.
And then regarding your comments that you pulled forward some of these initiatives that you thought were working a big piece of the earnings algorithm coming on your Analyst Day was the progress of the operating margins online I am seeing as you are changing up the pace of some of the investments can you maybe talk us through how we ended the year in relation to where you guided the margins for that business headed over the next 3 years and then maybe are you pulling forward some of the opportunities to start expanding that margin this year? Thanks.
Let me – Wes will answer the question about how we ended the year because he can give you some color.
Yes.
I mean I think I feel like we talked in the prepared remarks about how the lines are getting really blurry.
So we are really thinking about the business in totality just because it’s so difficult to figure out what’s really an online sale versus a store sale anymore.
But I mean in general we performed much much better on the merchandise margin side of the business there.
We did a much better job of handling clearance at the end of the fourth quarter and for the year for that matter.
We are still working on fine tuning the algorithm on shipping.
We invested a ton of money and speed in the spring in last year to offset some of the issues that we had in the fall of 2013.
We had a great plan and a great team for fourth quarter and they performed excellently in terms of getting things to the customer and we really didn’t have very many hiccups at all.
What we have to figure out is ways to get more items in the box and to keep more orders together.
So one of the things that I talked about with the technology initiatives we are making some changes in the first quarter to allow us to do a better job of that in ship from store environment so we can try to send it to a store that’s going to create the fewest packages possible to fulfill.
I mean it’s an area that we definitely have invested a lot in talent in focusing on improving operating performance but we have also put a lot of resources behind.
So as Wes said I think we understand what the issues are but the things we have talked about we believe actually are going to help us in that regard so… Yes I feel – I mean like we are going to do much better over the course of the three years on UPH and the EFCs.
We got a really good plan.
We got a path.
We know what to do there.
You can’t force the customers to order what you would like them to order.
So the shipping cost thing is a pretty complex thing but we are going to get better at it each year but as I mentioned earlier when somebody has to breakout it’s going to be about a 20 basis point headwind for us on margin but we should be able to overcome that through better inventory management.
Thanks a lot guys.
Our next question today comes from the line of Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Good morning and congratulations to you guys.
Hey just a real quick question on inventory how should we be thinking about the cadence of inventories we pass through this year? That would be helpful.
You guys have done a really good job of pulling those levels back overall.
And then on the beauty rollout Kevin if you know and/or less can you give us a sense of how big Bliss is going to be maybe in the size of either linear feet or are you guys going to take over a whole gondola dedicated to Bliss? Are you getting the full kind of complement of their products? It’s a great add.
Yes thank you.
On the inventory? Yes.
On the inventory I think our target by the end of the year – and it might be different by quarter – is to be sort of down in the 3% to 5% on a unit basis just like we ended this quarter.
On a dollar basis it could be a little less down if national brands continue to increase in penetration.
I hate to be repetitive but it’s like a 3-year plan.
So we are going to try to do that again next year and then into 2017.
We have a lot of opportunity to make the store inventory work harder for us through ship from store and buy online pickup in store.
So this will be a learning year for buy online pickup in store because we only had experience for about a quarter in 100 stores.
So I suspect we will make some improvement next year.
I expect to make dramatic improvement in 2016 but I feel like we are going to continue to make progress throughout the year.
On Bliss specifically I mean first of all it’s definitely a significant add.
It’s in an area in which we are on a relative basis weaker than in our overall beauty offering.
We are weaker I would say in skincare and body products.
And this really enhances that a lot.
Space allocation Neely is very different because as you know we piloted different presentation and space allocations and we landed with essentially two levels.
So in a level 1 or larger presentation they have essentially more of the gondola presentation that you alluded to in the smaller presentation is not as big obviously.
And then there are actually some stores where there will be Bliss products in but it won’t be the full offering.
The online offering of course will be more substantial but we are definitely very excited about the partnership because I think they are actually a really innovative resource and they have a lot of great ideas.
We agree.
Congratulations you guys.
Good luck.
Thanks.
Our next question is from the line of Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead sir.
Hey Paul.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
Just a question on CapEx Wes I believe you mentioned $800 million for this year had about $350 million that was related to IT.
Are there kind of any one-time or any items specific to this year or is $800 million kind of the run-rate? No that’s going to be kind of the run-rate I think we talked about in October $750 million to $800 million.
I think IT it’s just the cost of playing poker.
We were a little lighter.
We came in I think we budgeted $300 million last year and only spent about $280 million so some of that is a flip forward from last year into this year.
But IT is going to be somewhere between $300 million and $350 million every year.
The store 250 that I talked about is probably going to be the same for next year as we finish rolling out beauty.
And then as we cycle into 2017 we will start to ramp up the pace of remodels again.
We will go from I think we are doing 12 this year to 50 next year to 75 in 2017.
And then base capital will remain about 200.
That’s really investments in some of our easy experience initiatives as well as some investment in DCs and EFCs for new sorters and new technology and just normal repair and maintenance of replacing HVACs and roofs in the stores as our store base gets a little older.
Got it.
And just going back to Neely’s question on beauty for the 500 stores that already have the new beauty concept is there any notable difference in sales that you can point out and how we should think about the impact of you guys adding in these beauty concepts into additional stores this year and the lift you may see? Yes.
I guess there is good news on that front.
We have built-in and I think we talked about it in October but the stores that had more than $15 million in sales that had what we would call a level 2 experience.
So that’s sort of the most fancy for layman’s terms beauty environment they got about a 2% lift.
We didn’t build this in but we came up with sort of a hybrid option that was between really a retrofit option that we tried initially last year and the high-end shop that’s about half the cost of the high-end shop.
Those stores there were about 80 of them also got around a 2% lift for holiday.
Holiday is a little strange because you got a big fragrance business that’s in there that drives a lot of business.
So we want to see how it performs post holiday.
But if that happens that would be something that would be incremental to sort of the guidance that we provided for the 3-year plan in October.
So we are encouraged by it but fourth quarter is not something you can make a decision on whether that’s really going to work or not.
Got it.
Appreciate the color.
Good quarter guys.
Thanks Paul.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Swinand with Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Paul Swinand from Morningstar.
I wanted to drill down on the national brands a little bit more.
I noticed on your prepared remarks you said that this was the first time in a while that you got a lift both from existing customers and I think non-credit card customers.
Any analysis that says the national brands is part of that? And then obviously you are marketing the national brands are you promoting them at the same level as your private brands? Well I mean in terms of the analysis essentially I think your question is about what the market – what the basket look like in the various categories of customers.
I think our experience has been that new customers definitely lean into national brands because they already have the experience and the credibility with those to begin with.
So as we have enhanced our efforts around national brands I think that’s been a positive for new customers.
I don’t have the specific basket info Paul but Wes can definitely get back to you for sure with that.
What was the second part of your question? Well so it sounds like the customers that aren’t existing Kohl’s customers are coming in and discovering that you may have better brands than they thought.
So maybe as you market them more and reach new customers with the market you will get additional traffic as kind a lagging indicator? Right.
I mean I think what you were asking I guess was investment.
And we definitely are investing more in national brands both in marketing I would say Wes for sure but also in-store presentation.
So you can probably see that when you go into the store.
There is several brands that have enhanced presentations.
Yes.
We spent a lot of money with Carter’s and Nike and...
Levi.
Levi and there’s a whole litany of brands where we improved the in-store presentation.
Some of these guys have gone to sort of minimum advertised pricing.
So the one advantage that we have over some of the other guys is the exclusions don’t – any exclusions that are involved don’t include Kohl’s Cash or loyalty redemption so that provides a little extra value for some of those national brands that are really priced the same across the stores that carry them.
Interesting.
Thanks a lot.
Best of luck.
Alright thank you.
Thanks everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 11:00 AM Eastern Daylight Time and running through March 26 at midnight Eastern Daylight Time.
You may access the AT&amp;T Teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 346893.
International participants may dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers again are 1-800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844.
Please enter the access code of 346893.
That does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Kohl's Q1 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Certain statements made on this call including projected financial results are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Kohl's intends forward-looking terminology such as beliefs expects may will should anticipates plans or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause Kohl's actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those that are described in item 1A in Kohl's most recent annual report on Form 10-K and as may be supplemented from time to time in Kohl's other filings with the SEC all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
Also please note that replays of this recording will not be updated so if you are listening after May 14 2015 it is possible that the information discussed is no longer current.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
These instructions will be repeated when we're ready to begin the question-and-answer session.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Wes McDonald Chief Financial Officer of Kohl's Department Stores.
Please go ahead.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
With me today is Kevin Mansell our Chairman and CEO and President.
I'll start today's call by walking through our operational results.
Kevin will then provide more details on our Greatness Agenda initiatives and then we'll open up the call to your questions at the end.
Comp sales increased 1.4% in the quarter our second consecutive quarter of positive comps.
We know that two quarters of positive comps is not overly impressive but we think that this second quarter of growth is a clear indicator that the Greatness Agenda initiatives are gaining traction and we're well on our way to achieving our long-range goals.
Gross margin increased 17 basis points slightly more than our expectation.
Net income grew 2% and our earnings per share was $0.63 a 5% increase over last year.
The 1.4% comp increase reflects higher transaction value including a 2.7% increase in AUR which was partially offset by a 1.3% decrease in units per transaction.
Number of transactions were flat to last year but that is a significant improvement over our longer-term trend as our Greatness Agenda initiative gained traction.
Diving in a little deeper by line of business for the quarter home footwear and men's all reported increases greater than 3%.
Children's was consistent with the company average.
Accessories was essentially flat to last year and women's was slightly negative.
Geographically which now includes online originated orders the Midwest was the strongest region.
The west northeast and southeast were consistent with the company average.
The mid-Atlantic region reported higher sales but was slightly below the company average and the south-central region was slightly negative.
Our gross margin rate for the quarter was 36.9%.
As I mentioned earlier 17 basis points better than the first quarter of last year.
Substantially all of the increase was due to higher merchandise margin rates driven by more strategic direct mail marketing and promotion.
SG&amp;A increased 2% and deleveraged 7 basis points compared to the first quarter last year which was less than expected.
We were able to leverage our marketing credit and store-distribution expenses.
We achieved significant improvement in our fulfillment centers dedicated to online-generated orders.
However planned increases in IT investments as well as higher store fixed expenses more than offset the leverage.
Higher IT amortization was the primary reason for the $11 million increase in depreciation and amortization expense.
Interest expense was $84 million for the quarter essentially flat to last year.
Our income tax rate was 35.3% for the quarter this is almost 60 basis points better than last year as we had a favorable state tax audit settlement during the quarter.
Diluted earnings per share increased 5% to $0.63 for the quarter and net income was $127 million for the quarter.
We ended the quarter with 1 164 stores; gross square footage of 100.507 million square feet selling square footage of 83.85 million square feet.
We opened two new stores during the quarter.
Capital expenditures were $176 million for the quarter consistent with last year IT spending was relatively flat year-over-year.
Store refresh spending shifted from new stores and remodels to cosmetic shops but dollars were consistent.
Corporate CapEx was also consistent year-over-year but shifted from opening our Dallas call center supporting our credit operations last year to our Menomonee Falls corporate campus this year.
We ended the quarter with $1.2 billion of cash and cash equivalent.
Inventory per store increased 4% and units per store increased 1% over last year.
On a unit basis national brands are up 10% per store while private and exclusive brands are down 5% and 7% respectively.
The difference between units per store and cost per store reflects the higher cost of national brands.
AP as a percent of inventory increased from 34.7% in 2014 to 39.5% this year.
The increase is primarily due to increased receipt volume partially offset by slower inventory turnover.
Our weighted average diluted shares were 202 million for the quarter.
During the quarter we repurchased 2 million shares of our stock.
We ended the quarter with 202 to million shares of stock outstanding.
Yesterday our board declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.45 per share which is payable June 24 to shareholders of record at the close of business on June 10.
I'll now turn it over to Kevin who will provide additional insights on our result.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Wes.
It's been more than a year since we introduced the Greatness Agenda our multi-year plan to be the most engaging retailer in America.
The Greatness Agenda was built on five pillars.
Amazing product incredible savings easy experience personalized connections and winning teams.
These concepts are fundamental to the way we do business and we're continuing to approach them in new ways ways that are inspirational customer-centric disruptive and often surprising.
Let me start with amazing product.
Amazing product is about offering products in categories that excite our customers.
This year we're focused on key entertainment brands and properties including Cinderella Marvel and the highly-successful the Jumping Beans and Disney collaboration.
We will also be the family destination for all things Star Wars.
The second area of focus will be around our sports offering featuring NFL NCAA and Major League Baseball team shops presented in an entirely new way.
Our goal is also to lead in the active category and become a destination for the wellness lifestyle.
Key active and wellness initiatives include expanding Nike offerings new and expanded brand launches including Bliss Gaiam Yoga apparel and Champion and Puma.
We also continue to launch new wearables that focus on wellness activities and sleep.
In the outdoor category we're planning a major relaunching of our Columbia brand this fall.
New brands like Breville in small electrics Fruit of the Loom in underwear and expansions with Fitbit and Nespresso have also occurred in the first quarter.
Easy experience is about creating seamless experiences often driven by the launching of new technology.
We continue to have a lot of traction in our efforts to be world-class in mobile.
We now have seven million app downloads and continue to enhance our tablet web and app experience.
In the first quarter on tablet we optimized our pages to be more search engine friendly enabled multi-select filters resulting in better conversion and improved our big data algorithms to provide more relevant product recommendations.
Utilizing our wallet in our app we are now able to deliver personalized messages which can be scanned and redeemed in-store.
We also launched voice-based search on Android and image-based search on both Android and iOS.
The pace of development will actually accelerate in the second and third quarter across the mobile platform.
Last month we rolled out buy online pickup in store to our entire chain.
Functionality is being rolled out in phases starting with desktops and laptops.
Tablets and mobile will be added late summer into early and fall.
Although it's early we're extremely pleased with initial volumes and attachment sales.
And finally 200 additional stores received the new beauty experience in the first quarter and by August we expect to have brought this new experience to 900 of our stores.
Continue to make excellent progress in building and activating an unmatched personalization capability.
We are augmenting our behavior segmentation with shopper type life stage and lifecycle data and we now expect to have 5 billion personalized touches with consumers in 2015.
We've expanded our localization assortment strategy and by the end of the year almost half of our business will be transitioned tiered assortments by store and all businesses will be localized by the end of next year.
As our Yes2You loyalty program matures I become more confident than ever in the impact that it will have on strengthening customer loyalty and increasing sales.
When we launched the program nationwide last October we had 10 million customers enrolled in the program.
After one month we had over 17 million customers.
Today almost 29 million customers are enrolled in the program and it grows every single day.
Yes2You members tend to be younger female and from more affluent households with kids.
They tend to be from our most engaged customer segment.
During the first quarter over half of transactions were loyalty transactions.
We continue to see that loyalty members are shopping more often and spending more with each trip.
This is especially relevant as we saw a sizable decrease in shopping behavior for customers that are not part of the loyalty program.
It's important to note that we're seeing consistent results for customers that were part of the 2012 original pilot the 2013 expansion and the 2014 nationwide launch.
Despite the early success of the loyalty program we continue to design program enhancement.
We're testing exclusive loyalty strategies including mystery point offers and loyalty days and rewarding customers for referrals along with social media interaction.
And we're looking forward to the October anniversary of the nationwide launch and developing a national anniversary launch plan.
In closing we're pleased with positive impact that the Greatness Agenda is having on our results and we remain committed to the bold moves that are part of the Greatness Agenda.
In our national brand portfolio penetration increased 200 basis points and comps have been significantly better than in our proprietary brand portfolio.
We're capturing the active and wellness market.
Momentum in this category is strong and continues to grow even stronger.
Active categories reported a high teen comp for the quarter.
Localization and personalization efforts continue to mature and loyalty exceeds our most optimistic expectations.
We're pleased with the results we're seeing but we also recognize we still have opportunity to improve in businesses which are not as directly impacted by the Greatness Agenda initiatives.
Specifically areas like juniors and jewelry which were weaker.
At this time I'll turn the call back to our operator who will provide instructions on asking questions.
Thank you.
And one moment please for our first question.
And that'll will be from Charles Grom with Sterne Agee CRT.
Please go ahead.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
Kevin Wes could you guys walk us through the cadence of the comps in the quarter in a bit more detail how bad was February you spoke to that in your release and how much improvement have you seen in March and April and any color on May in the first two weeks? Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Well we wouldn't be able to provide any color on May obviously but quarter developed very differently.
February was very weak and the March-April combined period because we can't really look at March or April independently due to the Easter shift but the March-April combined period I think accelerated to around 200 basis points.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah February slightly negative and March-April combined was around 200 basis points.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Around 200 basis points.
Okay.
Great.
And then Wes just any difference in trend between credit versus non-credit? Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> They were both positive.
Non-credit was actually better than credit for the first time in a long time.
We focused a lot of our efforts on loyalty and Kevin talked about and also really strengthened our lowest prices of the season event.
In April we had our best event there in the last four years so a lot of things we're doing from a marketing perspective are to drive more occasional customers in more frequently but that's a good sign.
We have to do that long-term to get the comp – the kind of comp lift we want to get going forward over the next three years so that was very encouraging.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean generally Chuck I think as we looked at the quarter February was under our expectations for sure for some cases I think macro reasons.
But March and April combined were basically right in the middle of what our expectations were.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then on SG&amp;A growth came in below what you guided Wes 1.6% year-over-year in dollars.
How should we think about the cadence of SG&amp;A dollar growth over the balance of the year? Is there any sort of pockets where if you expected it would be a little higher? Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Yeah I mean there's no difference in our year guidance which is – I think it was 1.5% to 2.5%.
We came in a little under.
Some of that was in marketing which we'll continue to look at ways to reinvest that so for the second quarter I would look at SG&amp;A being slightly up from our run rate probably closer to the 3% to 4% range.
Some of that will depend on – we had an extremely strong quarter from a health and hospital perspective that continues.
There could be some favorability there as well.
Credit will continue to provide some leverage but that would be the sort of the elevated would be in the second quarter and then I think you can continue to use what you have in the back half to get you to the 1.5% to 2.5%.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</span></strong> All right great.
Good luck.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Matthew Boss with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
So as we think about the margin profile longer-term what would – I guess what would need to happen for you to see upside to the 9% EBIT margin target? And if you could just rank the gross margin drivers that you have from here to offset e-commerce and some of the mix headwinds? I think that would be really helpful.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Sure.
In terms of operating margin nothing's really changed from October.
We said it was going to be 9%.
We'd have to get better comps.
That would probably be the number one driver of our performance in that.
And then I guess the second biggest driver would be to see how big buy online pickup in store can be to mitigate some of that shipping cost headwind which we've talked about in the past.
As far as margin how we got to be up the 17 basis points it was a combination of better promotional markdowns and lower clearance markdowns offset by obviously a little bit lower IMU given the increase penetration in national brands.
Headwinds from national brands continued to run in that sort of 4 basis points to 7 basis points per 100 basis points that I talked about so for the quarter it was 16 basis points.
National brand penetration increased 227 basis points so you can do the math so it was closer to the seven basis points because private brands were a little bit worse on the comp side and also had a little bit lower margin.
Shipping costs were a little higher in the quarter than they are for the year just because it's sort of a lower volume quarter.
And we continued to work on the mix of online generated orders that get shipped from our stores versus our e-commerce fulfillment centers.
So that continues to be a balance of cost and speed improvement if you ship it from the store but we have to continue to do a better job of making – we try to ship as many units together as we possibly can.
So very happy with the margin performance this quarter internally it's the first time our merchants have hit margin plan since 2011.
So feeling very good about that and hopefully we can continue to do that going forward.
Great.
And then just from a top line perspective what would be the drivers of the embedded multiyear acceleration beyond this year? If you could just kind of walk through what you have this year but then what you have in 2016 and 2017? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think we've kind of laid that out Matt in pretty good detail to be honest with you.
I mean we guided to a 1.5% to 2.5% for the year so let's just say the midpoint is 2% over the course of the year.
And we're expecting to accelerate that modestly in year two and three of the three-year plan we gave you.
And each of the component parts of the both bold and essential moves we're making under each of the pillars contribute some level of increasing volume over the course of the three-year period.
This year of course loyalty is very important.
Longer-term personalization is probably more important because as you know personalization has a big impact around the effectiveness of our marketing and driving more traffic into the stores.
In all transparency I think the performance in the first quarter just increased our confidence that the three-year plan we laid out is very achievable.
Great.
Best of luck.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Dan Binder with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I was curious if you had any sense of impact from port issues if any with inventory and whether or not that would affect markdowns in Q2? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean generally port issues were a factor in first quarter selling in selected categories that are heavily impacted.
But there's no question when we go to through the selling results that certain categories of classifications were negatively influenced by port delays.
I don't expect any of those to have any impact looking forward on our merchandise margin.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> From an inventory perspective it obviously delayed some receipts that came in later in the quarter.
And the reaction when the port issues were occurring in the third and fourth quarter we made some changes to pull up some receipts for back-to-school especially in active and footwear.
So I would expect our inventory levels at the end of the second quarter to be up about where they are today.
And then we continue to work towards ending the year with inventories on a unit basis at least down sort of that low single digit area but we wanted to make sure we protected the back-to-school business which is a big footwear time and obviously active has been a great business for us running up mid-teens this quarter so we wanted make sure we had enough inventory for that key season so we pulled up some receipt.
Have you tried to quantify the comp impact from those delays in Q1? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No because I mean at the end of the day right if there was any shortfall to our internal expectations on sales it was really about traffic.
We're looking to drive increases in traffic and traffic was essentially flat in the first quarter.
So the availability or non-availability of merchandise in a particular category really isn't influencing that.
You did mention that better or noted a more balanced promotional calendar.
I'm not sure if we should – should we interpret as less promotions and do you think that affected traffic? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think that the way you should think about that is it's related to our effort to be more effective particularly around personalization and around loyalty and to get a more consistent pattern of sales results from both our credit customer who continues to be critical to our success but also our noncredit customer.
So I just think fundamentally it's kind of reinforced in our minds as a leadership team that the path we're on around marketing effectiveness personalization impact personalized touches – I mentioned that we're going to have almost 5 billion personalized touches in our customer marketing this year – and loyalty is all on the right path.
It's all the right thing to do and it's getting us the results we're looking for.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Yeah I think from our perspective the bold moves delivered what we expected for the quarter.
What really happened was the base business that doesn't really have any bold moves directly attached to it deteriorated a little bit.
For example juniors was really tough in the quarter and that was a 90 basis points drag on our overall comp.
So we expect to get that turned around in time for back-to-school.
But that was a big part of the comp being a little bit lower than the higher end.
Got you.
Thanks.
Our next question's from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Just following up on the last question can you talk about each of the programs the loyalty cosmetics e-commerce etc.
and how they impacted comp? And then what was the impact of the deterioration of the underlying or base business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I don't think we're going to want to get into the individual quarter results in each of the bold moves under the pillars to be honest Lorraine.
I would just broadly say and reinforce what Wes mentioned which is that the bold moves drove the results that we expected them to.
It just reinforced that we are on the right path and we should continue to aggressively implement them.
Some of the base businesses were less exciting and so they were more of a headwind in terms of our overall business.
Just in listening to the questions I get the sense that there is some disappointment in our results and to be totally honest with you the management team I think we had a great quarter.
We were basically right in line with our expectations on sales.
Merchandise margin overachieved because of the effectiveness of some of the marketing initiatives we put in place around personalization and loyalty and the company did a good job of managing expenses.
So we're actually pretty excited about the quarter we had and I think I would just reinforce again what Wes said which is the bold moves in the Greatness Agenda are working and if anything we're getting more excited about them as we look forward over the course of the next three years.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Yeah oversimplified the bold moves delivered what you would expect like a 2.5% comp let's call it.
I just told you juniors was 90 basis points drag Jewelry was 30 basis points that's 120 basis points.
That gets us pretty close to the 1.4%.
I guess just looking at it differently the 1.4% is below your full-year guidance and the fourth quarter you're obviously up against a very strong results from last year.
So maybe if you could help us – just as it relates to the back half what you expect will accelerate by then to get you back into the range of your full-year comp guidance? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean again I don't think we want to get into quarterly results or monthly results and how each bold move impacts the overall results.
I would only reinforce again our expectations for the year of a 1.5% to 2.5% comp with a pretty consistent result by quarter to get there.
Of course there's always going to be differences.
Weather in a particular quarter might impact it more positively or less positively.
We feel really good about it.
Thanks.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> I mean in November December comp in 2013 was the best performance we had in like three years.
We were able to comp that last year.
Sometimes you guys have the tendency to oversimplify things with the two- and three-year stack comp.
We have a lot of marketing tools in our arsenal to try to drive business even if the comp comparisons are difficult.
That's what we get paid to do.
So I think we'll come up with a good marketing calendar that will allow us to get that comp for the 1.5% 2.5% for the entire year.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Paul Swinand with Morningstar.
Please go ahead.
Good morning and thanks for taking all the questions as usual.
I just wanted to ask a little more color on the – your saying data algorithms and the billion touch points.
Can you just give us a little more color on how it works? And then I guess a second part of that question as you get more and more touch points how do you ensure that you're not just adding more volume and the quality of touch increases it doesn't start to lose engagement with the customer? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
I mean the key metrics to try to understand whether or not the implementation of the personalization initiatives including the loyalty component really is about marketing effectiveness right? I mean are we spending the same amount of marketing as we did before and generating more sales results hopefully due to traffic mainly.
And that's what we're seeing happen.
So I think we laid out in some detail the areas that we're most focused on.
There is a focus around personalization as it pertains to print inserts.
So we gave you some examples of markets in which we're testing that impact with really positive results with the expectation it's going to roll out nationally this fall.
There's obviously a dramatic change in the way we're approaching direct mail both on our big credit events which typically occur once a month and on our interim events which are things like pick a day so very big change there and we're getting really clearly better results on marketing there.
And then the third piece of course which I touched on in the call is the impact of our ability to now with our customers deliver personalized offers to their wallet through the Kohl's app which as we said already has 7 million app downloads and growing.
So the combination of all those things are sort of different examples one on the digital side another on the print side and the third is direct mail of how personalization impacts how we spend money.
The end result is we should expect that we're going to get a better sales results with spending no more money than we did before.
And so far both in the fourth quarter and the first quarter the results have kind of reinforced that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah it doesn't necessarily mean an increase in frequency.
It's just a better offering that's targeted more to you.
If you buy men's clothes it doesn't make sense to send you a mailer that's full of a lot of Lauren Conrad and Jennifer Lopez.
So it's definitely not a frequency thing.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot for that.
Our next question is from Taposh Bari with Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Taposh Bari your line open if you're on mute possibly.
And we will move on to Bob Drbul with Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Hey Bob.
Inc.</span></strong> I guess Kevin a couple of questions on you talked about expanding your Nike offering and the relaunch at Columbia.
Can you just provide a little bit more detail sort of on the timing of that and what exactly is going on with both of those brands? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
I mean the expansion of our Nike offering includes intensification in inventory levels overall.
And broadening the mix of what we offer on a style basis as well.
And it's ongoing throughout the year though I think there'll be an acceleration as we move into the third quarter.
On the Columbia brand I would put that in the context almost of a relaunch and that's been a great brand for us for a number of years that we haven't done as good a job as we should have in presenting to the customer.
So there are levels of the Columbia brand relaunch but it includes entering much more aggressively into the sportswear category in addition to the traditional outerwear and cold weather accessories and to have a much bigger presence online.
And then we've identified in the range of 300 to 350 stores that'll have a much different in-store presentation an enhanced shop essentially in both women's and men's.
So it's a pretty big deal Bob.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Yeah I mean Nike was up better than the active and wellness category it was up about 19% comp and Columbia on a very small base was up 45%.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And just on the capital allocation piece of it can you just provide updated thoughts around that? And particularly are you contemplating would M&amp;A be in the mix at all as you look at your cash flow from here going forward? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think it's always been in the mix.
We covered that at the investor conference.
I think we even reinforced it again at the beginning of the year.
But it's within and through the filters of our Greatness Agenda so as we look at possible acquisition opportunities they would really need to provide leverage within the existing Kohl's business that we have today in addition to perhaps being a way for us to grow our overall sales.
So we're not really looking at any businesses that would just be a bolt-on I mean I think we want to stay true to the filters of the Greatness Agenda and regardless of the area that an acquisition might develop in it would really need to reinforce something we're doing in our pillars or our bold moves and in some way be leveraged inside of Kohl's to get the maximum benefit.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> I mean with that filter I think it would be very unlikely that we would buy a wholesale brand because that would cause distribution that the brand may currently have to possibly go away and then so you're paying for a lot of sales that no longer exists.
So it would have to be a smaller type company that had growth outside of Kohl's but like Kevin said possibility is for us to bring it inside as well.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you very much.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Bob.
Our next question is from Matt McGinley with Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking my questions.
My first question is on the personalization effort as it relates to non-credit versus credit sales.
I believe you said that the non-credit sales were higher than the credit sales in the quarter.
What does a personalized offer look like for a non-credit recipient versus somebody that is actually on the credit program today? Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Well it's really so far through our lens of loyalty.
So to try to use the data we have that's really all the data we have so far in the non-credit card customer that's really actionable.
So we try to take what they do as well and then broadly which is less to do with personalization it's strengthening events like friends and family and like the LPS to be stronger from a price perspective and as Kevin mentioned earlier trying to – basically it's just a reallocation of markdowns so we're moving some markdowns where we weren't getting a ton of incremental sales related to the credit portfolio and reinvesting them in broader vehicles like friends and family and LPS to drive the overall business.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> I mean the third piece is also just personalization as it relates to our app.
Because roughly half of those downloads have been customers who are not credit customers.
So we're continuing to utilize that as a way to reach them with more personalized offerings.
Next question is more of a modeling question on depreciation.
In the beginning of the year you guided depreciation about $940 million and at the run rate you had in the first quarter is going to be pretty significantly under that.
Is there some favorability you had in depreciation where there may have been a surge at the end of the year where that rate would come in for total dollars at a lower rate than what you had originally guided? Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> No I still expected it to be $940 million.
We have a tendency to be conservative on that guidance given the fact that IT projects are not to the day delivered when we think they are so it's more likely than not we'll be under but I don't think it's going to be significant.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Good morning.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Good morning.
Kevin could you speak a little bit more about some of your product categories? So two product categories in one region that's what I'd love to chat about.
So home did really well.
Could you give us a little sense of what's going on there since it performed above the chain average? Is it national brands? Is it around decors and around essentials? Like any sort of color would be helpful.
Then on the flipside on the other end of the spectrum women's it sounds like Columbia is part of an initiative to maybe boost up some national name brand in sportswear.
There are there other maybe unannounced yet initiatives going on in women's to kind of boost that up may be in the second half? Then Wes for you on South-Central being negative you guys dug deep into oil-based economy type situations are you seeing particular weakness in local economies that are really dependent on oil? That would be helpful.
Thanks.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> I'll actually take one merchant question believe it or not.
So on the home side a lot of it's about electrics and the wellness side of things so Fitbit and Jawbone and some of those things we've brought in to support wellness Gaiam and then also bedding and bath were very strong.
And then from some things that were a little bit weaker luggage was slightly negative and then tabletop was pretty tough.
On the South Central region as your question was a leading question and you're right the oil-based regions have some deterioration.
Texas is a little worse than the rest of the South Central region particularly Houston.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> On the Women's thing Neely that's two different tales I would say.
Our core Women's business the Missy the plus size the intimate business actually was very good and outpaced the overall store comp.
I don't exactly know when the last time that happened.
Wes probably does but it's been a long time.
So I would say that was something that we're really excited about.
That was a big difference and a huge change in the trend.
It's an area that we've been really focused on improving on and we have some initiatives going in the fall including certainly the Columbia one but initiatives around our active business that are driving some of those results and things like the re-intensification of our Nike Business the launch of brand like Gaiam are having a really positive impact in the active space.
On the other end of the spectrum is our juniors business.
The juniors business underperformed the store by quite a lot so that was a drag on the overall Women's business and that's something as Wes said that we're working hard on and we expect to get turned in the other direction as we go into the second quarter.
Thank you.
And we'll go to Michael Binetti with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys so a question on loyalty as you look at lapping the loyalty launch program nationally I know you said you're focused on lapping that which is a big boost to trends late in the year last year.
I think you said you're testing some new components in the same markets that were your pilot markets for the loyalty program last year.
Can we hear a little bit more about those tests what you're seeing and how do those tests roll through the year this year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well there is a plan.
Let's break it down into pieces.
On loyalty overall when we developed the multiyear plan we gave you which included the 1.5% to 2.5% comp this year loyalty growth was a component part of that.
It really was only a component part of that through the first three quarters.
We did not include any expectation for our loyalty list in the fourth quarter at all.
What we now think is that given the growth which has been significantly higher than our expectations were and given the results we're getting that that could provide a boost in the fourth quarter from our original expectation.
And the reason we feel that way is we're putting together sort of an anniversary of the launch last year in combination with the testing that we're doing.
So we kind of covered a few of the testing things in the call I think relative...
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Yeah we're not going to give you the results of the tests but we're testing a lot of different things and we'll use those in our playbook as we move through the fourth quarter and then into next year.
And the other obvious thing is we're going to have probably 35 million people on loyalty going into the fourth quarter which is double what we had in the fourth – going into the fourth quarter last year.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So really I mean I think Wes and I both agree that the really important component as we go into the holiday season of our change overall in customer engagement probably is around personalization because personalization really had little to any impact in the fourth quarter of last year and we expect it to have a massive impact on our performance this year.
Okay.
All right.
So if we could talk about e-commerce margins for a minute you've talked about the disadvantage that you guys have structurally from your lower AURs and how that hurts as you participate in the cost of business let's call it free shipping.
Can you talk about any new initiatives you're looking at that can help you fight back from traditional e-tailers like Amazon with their big Prime program to help you boost margins in e-commerce against that kind of an industry backdrop? Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Well we're focusing more on omni-channel as the lines are getting all blurred but your question is relevant in terms of shipping costs.
The biggest I think advantage that we're going to use is buy online pickup in store.
We just launched it.
It's early.
We had a couple of days where we had 6% or 7% of the business was – on an order perspective – was buy online pickup in store which saves you $5 a box on average from shipping cost and we're seeing attachments rates between 15% and 20%.
So that's the biggest thing I think that will help us against not only Amazon and others but just in improving the overall profitability of that online generated order business against last year.
I think that's the biggest one.
And then like I mentioned in my comments we're doing a much better job in e-fulfillment our UPH and the DCs was up I think over 20% this quarter and we still believe there's continued room there.
The most difficult problem we have is trying to figure out the balance between where to host the inventory in the stores versus the EFC and where to fulfill the order.
There's a lot of unlocked opportunity there from a maximizing store inventory productivity but it has to also be balanced off against the extra cost that you have to split shipments because that just adds another $5 to your shipping cost.
So we're learning there.
We've got all of our smartest people on it from e-com perspective fulfillment perspective IT perspective but it's going to be a learning year on that for this.
This would be the first year where we've really significantly done ship from store in all four quarters.
Just as a quick follow-on is the buy online pick up in store savings in the attachment rates are those in the early days here are those trending roughly in line with what you saw when you pointed us to e-commerce margins improving mid single digit? Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Yeah I had no expectation honestly.
I put in like 1% for BOPUS.
So anything above one would be a benefit and the attachment rates are kind of in line with what we expected but that's nothing we really built into that three-year plan.
So as that continues to mature that could provide some upside to it.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean the other upside is buy online pickup in store while we finished the launch nationally at the end of the first quarter and the results Wes is talking about have to do with that it's only available as we mentioned in the call right now on desktop and laptop and so mobile which rolls out in the second quarter essentially could be a huge lift to the impact of BOPUS because as you know mobile traffic is what's driving the business.
Thanks guys.
Our next question is from Oliver Chen with Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
As you do kind of post-game February what are your thoughts on changes you might have been able to make in the marketing or inventory management of product.
It sounds like that was more of a one-time trend in nature.
I was just curious about that.
And then we also wanted to ask about how you're feeling about the inventory freshness now in terms of your inventories relative to your sales? And what kind of near-term strategies you might have as you think about that? Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Well I'll take the inventory.
AP as percent of inventory is up 500 basis points versus last year so I feel very good about the freshness of the inventory.
As I mentioned on the call it's materially invested in national brands which have very little markdown risk and supports the active and wellness initiatives primarily which are up mid-teens.
So I don't – there's not going to be a margin problem in the second quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> On the marketing I mean honestly I don't think there's anything I mean there's always things in any individual event that we would do differently every week of the year.
But in general I don't think we felt that there were any problems at all with the marketing effort in February.
To be honest with you I think it was probably functionally a low traffic month that was heavily hindered and hampered in certain parts of the country by weather.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Yeah we spent $5 million more on snow removal in February.
So that was probably the biggest issue.
Okay.
Just to follow up on personalization which sounds like a big opportunity what are the – are all categories a big opportunity there and is traffic the main upside driver as personalization works? I'm just curious about some of the finer details as we think about that for the back half.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean personalization impacts the customer experience in the whole store.
So I wouldn't call out any particular areas more advantaged of personalization versus another.
I mean there's three really big impacts on personalization.
One it drives incremental sales.
There's just no question about that.
Everything we've looked at through the testing and the now more rollout reinforces that.
Two we know it's a more effective use of our marketing dollars.
We can spend the same amount of money and get better sales result if our offers which as you know are plentiful are more personalized and targeted.
We don't waste markdowns where customers don't care and yet we target the markdown we're taking very much in what they want so marketing effectiveness is really important aspect.
And the third piece is we'd like to think that if our forecast bears fruit as it did in the first quarter that what would result is a more effective merchandise margin as well because we'll spend markdowns really on things that will trigger more traffic.
Okay.
And finally back-to-school it sounds like active is a major component.
What do you think is the most different on year-over-year basis as we look to your inventory planning or marketing planning for the back-to-school and fall season? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean probably the one category which was uniquely particularly weak last year which has definitely seen an improved trend is denim and that's positive everywhere.
So I think if you go back to last year's back-to-school denim generally probably not just for Kohl's but a lot of retailers was a big drag on traffic and sales in the quarter it's an important category.
It's a destination category for us as you know and it's a relatively high average retail and transaction influencer.
And so an improved trend in denim is really a good signal for what could come for back-to-school.
Is that high-rise low-rise and mid-rise and washes and different treatments are you seeing this with your customers? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean it just depends on the individual business and I think while we're been oversimplifying this Oliver.
As we saw the massive growth over the last let's say 18 months in the active business we saw to some extent a corresponding slowdown in the denim business and what's nice to see right now – and denim is a really important part of our overall business particularly as you said back-to-school.
But what we're seeing now is the active trend continues if anything it's accelerating and the denim business is starting to resuscitate.
So I wouldn't call out any particular space in the store or any particular fit or silhouette in the store.
I would just think about it more as okay denim looks like it's returning more to normal.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Bob Drbul might be able to answer that question for you.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> I'll have to give him a call about skinny denim later.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mark Altschwager with Baird.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning and thanks for taking the question.
Kevin you talked about performance in the base business versus the bold moves and obviously the full-year plan is for total comp.
So if you are seeing some unexpected weakness in specific categories like juniors can you just talk about what gives you the increased confidence that the bold moves will be enough to offset that through the year? Then specifically do you expect comp trend to improve through the year or will the ramping initiatives be somewhat offset by some of these other headwinds that you identified? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> On the overall question which has to do with comp trends I think the fact that we had 1.4% comp in the first quarter and we're reinforcing that we believe even more strongly in the 1.5% to 2.5% for the year sort of implies that we expect there will be an acceleration of comp trends.
And there's a whole bunch of reasons behind that most of which we've kind of already covered.
The bold moves versus the base essentially the bold moves met or exceeded in every single case our expectation.
And yes I would say there's a couple of areas that were a surprise.
We didn't expect the slowdown in juniors to be to the degree that it was.
We didn't expect the slowdown in jewelry to be to the degree it was.
But to be honest Mark there are always businesses and categories in the store that sort of cycle through positives and negative periods and quarters and we've been pretty good at being able to address those and deal with it and improve the trend.
So that is not an area I'm worried at all about.
I mean our entire focus is all about the pillars and the bold moves because over the course of a longer period of time things like the weather influence in February or the impact of a port delay on a category or multiple categories of merchandise go away and you come back to looking at your underlying strategies and those strategies if anything I would say we have increased confidence in.
So I think we tried to communicate at a pretty high level of confidence at the end of the fourth quarter and what we saw I would say were there or more today.
We actually feel better today.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
And can you update us specifically on your plans for SONOMA and maybe talk about the opportunity to improve the shop ability in the women's department? Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Sure.
I mean both of those are high priorities for us.
We'll probably as we move into fall talk in more detail about essentially a reinvention of our overall Women's business as we move forward.
Certainly a big component part of that but also a big component part of business in men's and home and footwear and accessories is the SONOMA brand.
And SONOMA brand is one of our biggest single brands in the store.
It does over $1 billion a year and the results have been lackluster.
So without going into great detail on the call I would just say to you that we're really highly focused on improving the clarity around our SONOMA brand and I would expect to hear about essentially a relaunch of the SONOMA brand as we move into the end of this year into next year but we'll take steps along the way Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Yeah in Missy actually in the first quarter was basically flat.
That was a big improvement over its trend.
So I think it's definitely moving in the right direction.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Great.
Thanks again and best of luck.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks.
And next we'll go to Bernard Sosnick with Gilford Securities.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
With regard to your last comment about women's being flat that of course includes the juniors.
And flat I can see from your mix of sales the women's down to 30% of the total in 2014 260 basis points lower than in 2007.
Flat is quite good.
So could you tell us a little bit more about what's happened in women's because in fact you just said earlier that much more is expected in the fall.
Could you flesh that out? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well there's a lot of pieces to that Bernie.
In our overall Women's business of course we include our traditional Missy and plus size business.
We include our intimate business.
We include of course our juniors business.
The performance in the first quarter in Women's was better in total than it has been.
So we had a better trend.
In particular though which is the area we're most focused on because it's our core customer our Missy business was significantly better and actually ran – I think Wes better than the store did.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Yeah Missy was up about 2%.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> So there's been a lot of attention given to I would say two big things.
One we're benefiting from a really strong position in active and wellness in women and that business is running way better than the overall women's business is.
And that's being driven essentially by both national proprietary brands Nike on the national brand side and both Fila Sport and Tech Gear on the proprietary side.
We also launched at the very end of the quarter though it didn't have a meaningful impact on the quarter results it's going to on the year a new yoga brand an initiative with Gaiam and that's going to be a significant lift as well.
So active has influenced it positively.
The effort around clarity of offering I think is influencing it positively and the combination of both of those things are getting our Women's business back to where it needs to be.
And as you said Women's is important because essentially that's our core customer.
Inc.</span></strong> One other thing in that regard juniors actually I think you said at the meeting in the fall had been running favorably an improvement over a weak trend and then suddenly there was a reversal in the first quarter.
Now these things happen in the fashion business but why do you believe there was such an extreme change? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I mean typically when you see – my experience has been over time when you typically see that it's about product.
And as you said faster businesses younger businesses can have more reactions in an interim period as it relates to the product that's being offered.
So I would say the primary driver of the poor performance in juniors has to do with the product offering we gave the customer and that's what we've got to address.
What's nice is that it's a fast-moving business so you can address it really really quickly.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Yeah you can fix really quickly.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
That's helpful.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Bernie.
And we have time for one final question and that will be from Patrick McKeever with MKM Partners.
Please go ahead.
All right.
Thanks.
So just a couple.
First of all just wondering if you are feeling any wage pressure just given what's going on in retail with some of the bigger retailers raising wages? And then just secondly Kevin and Wes wondering if you could give us an overall assessment of the consumer and any thoughts around gas prices being down $1 or so year-over-year and perhaps why more of that is not going to retail or at least that's what appears to be the case? Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean overall in wages Pat our expectation is wages will continue to rise and we've put that into our thinking over the course of the year and my expectation is wages will probably continue to rise and we've always managed that.
I feel pretty effectively because we really taken a sort of trade area by trade area approach to it.
The pay what is necessary to get the kind of quality associate we need and combine it with the kinds of other benefits and working environment that kind of retains them.
So while it is a headwind I guess you would say over the course of the near-term it's built into our thinking already.
On the consumer I know some of the sales results in the first quarter around some of the retail companies have been probably less than expectations were.
First of all we don't endorse expectations on a quarterly basis.
One of the reasons we do annual guidance is because we look at this business over the course of a much longer-term.
And individual quarterly results just like in the past individual monthly results don't really provide a gauge for the underlying consumer sentiment.
So we're pretty happy with the results in the first quarter.
And there isn't anything that we're seeing with the consumer that would change our view for the year.
I think it's still generally positive versus last year.
So we think over the course of time the consumer is in a better place and is going to have a positive impact on our sales.
Good stuff.
Got it.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks Pat.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</strong> Thanks everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 11:00 a.m.
Eastern Daylight Time today through June 14 at Midnight Eastern Daylight Time.
You may access the AT&amp;T TeleConference replay system at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 346894.
International participants dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers again are 1-800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844 access code 346894.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Kohl's Q2 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Certain statements made on this call including projected financial results are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Kohl's intends forward-looking terminology such as beliefs expects may will should anticipates plans or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause Kohl's actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those that are described in item 1A in Kohl's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and as may be supplemented from time to time in Kohl's other filings with the SEC all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
Also please note that the replays of this recording will not be updated so if you are listening after August 13 2015 it is possible that the information discussed is no longer current.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions].
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Wes McDonald Chief Financial Officer of Kohl's Department Stores.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
With me today is Kevin Mansell our Chairman CEO and President.
I'll start today's call by walking through our operational results.
Kevin will then provide more details on our Greatness Agenda initiatives.
We'll then open up the call to your questions.
Comp sales increased slightly in the quarter at 0.1%.
Though we aren’t satisfied with the level of the comp sales we are pleased that we are starting to show come consistency in our sales results.
This is the first time since 2011 that we have achieved three consecutive quarters of positive comps.
The metrics of the comp sales increase are as follows: Average unit retail up 2.3% units per transaction down 1% resulting in an average transaction value increase of 1.3%; transactions per store were down 1.2% partially due to the shift of the tax free events from July into August.
From a line of business perspective for the quarter footwear performed better than the company with strength in Athletic and Men’s Dress and Casual Shoes.
Women’s Home Men’s and Accessories were in line with the company.
In Women’s our Missy’s business continues its improvement with a 2% comp with strength in updated contemporary active and classic sports wear.
On the home side we had strength in premium electronics luggage and outdoor recreation online.
In our Men’s business strength remains an active; and in accessories we had strength continuing in beauty and fine jewelry.
Children’s performed below the company with toys performing well and some softness in apparel also partially due to the tax free shift.
Junior’s although still negative did improve its performance in the second quarter.
Geographically which includes online originated orders the strongest regions were the West and Mid-West.
The Northeast Southeast and Mid-Atlantic performed essentially in line with the company while the South Central trailed the company average.
Gross margin decreased slightly for the quarter down 6 basis points and is up 5 basis points for the spring season as we remain on track to achieve our gross margin guidance for the year of flat to up 20 basis points.
SG&amp;A increased 2% and deleveraged 42 basis points to last year for the quarter.
This was slightly less than our expected range of expenses to be up 3% to 4%.
We were able to leverage in our logistics areas and credit operations.
Marketing expenses were slightly deleveraged as we invested in some of our first quarter savings into the second quarter events.
Store and corporate expenses are relatively fixed and we were unable to leverage those expenses on a modest comp increase.
We remain on track to see our SG&amp;A expenses grow 1.5% to 2.5% for the year.
Higher IT amortization was the primary reason for the $11 million increase in depreciation expense for the quarter.
Interest expense was $84 million for the quarter essentially flat to last year.
We incurred a loss and extinguishment of debt which represents the premium paid to bondholders related to a $767 million cash tender offer completed this quarter.
Our income tax rate was 37.9% for the quarter higher than last year by 130 basis points.
Last year’s results included some favorable state audit tax settlements during the quarter.
Net income for the quarter was $130 million with earnings per diluted share being $0.66.
Excluding the loss in extinguishment of debt earnings per share were $1.07 a 5% decrease to last year.
We ended the quarter with 1 164 stores gross square footage of 100.5 million and selling square footage of 83.9 million square feet.
We did not open any stores during the quarter.
Capital expenditures were $377 million for the spring season consistent with last year.
Store refresh spending was consistent year-over-year but shifted from new stores and remodels to cosmetics.
We continue to make capital investments in IT to support our omni-channel initiatives.
We ended the quarter with $934 million of cash and cash equivalents.
Inventory per store increased 9% and units increased 8%.
The excess inventory is a result of slightly lower than expected sales and pre-positioning fresh fall receipts to drive sales for the back-to-school business.
This includes an aggressive build in Active our best performing business.
In addition as port operations have returned to normal on the West Cost we have seen early receipt of fall goods as our orders were written during the period of disruption.
The net effect of our receipt pull forward was approximately $120 million at cost.
Looking ahead we expect new receipts for the remainder of the fall season will be flat to a year ago.
Our investment in fall inventory is in four major areas that have been performing well: Active Premium Electronics Entertainment and Licensing and Cosmetics.
As a reminder we now have 900 stores in our new beauty environments with our new beauty environments and new brands.
We are planning a modest increase on trend in the remainder of our businesses for the fall season.
As a result we expect a low-single-digit increase in inventory units per store at the end of the year and in 2016 we are planning to see low to mid-single digit decreases in our inventory units per store.
AP as a percent of inventory decreased from 37.9% last year to 36.8% this year.
The decrease is primarily due to the early fall receipts arriving in June which were already paid for by the end of the second quarter.
Weighted average diluted shares were $197 million for the quarter.
During the quarter we repurchased 6 million shares of our stock.
We ended the quarter with 196 million of shares of stock outstanding.
On Tuesday our board declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.45 per share which is payable September 23 to shareholders of record at the close of business on September 9.
During the quarter we completed several transactions which further strengthened our balance sheet.
In July we completed a cash tender offer for $767 million of our highest coupon debt.
We also exercised our right to redeem 318 million of 2017 notes which were not initially tendered.
We used the proceeds from our $1.1 billion debt issuance to pay the principal of the tender debt.
Tender debt premiums and accrued interest are being paid in cash.
These transactions reduced our effective interest rate by 65 basis points and will reduce our annual interest expense by approximately $17 million.
They also extended our average debt maturity by more than 3.5 years to a little over 13 years.
We have no debt maturing until 2021 and our weighted average cost to debt is 4.88%.
In conjunction with the refinancing we incurred a loss of approximately $170 million.
A $131 million was recognized in the second quarter.
We expect another $39 million to be recognized in the third quarter when the reaming 2017 notes are settled.
We also successfully amended and extended our revolver for an additional two years from 2018 to 2020.
The amendment also reduced fees on undrawn balances.
There were no changes to the financial covenants included in the agreement.
Absent the effect of the loss in our extinguishment of debt we now expect our earnings per diluted share to be at the low end of our previous guidance of $4.40 to $4.60.
I’ll now turn it over to Kevin who will provide addition insights in our results.
Thanks Wes.
As Wes indicated sales in the quarter fell short of our original expectations.
That was driven by a modestly lower level of seasonal demand over the quarter a larger than expected tax-free shift and a later than expected back-to-school selling start.
While our bold moves around the Greatness Agenda continued to produce expected results the underlying business trend was softer as a result.
Looking at results under each of our pillars in the quarter and new initiatives coming this fall I’m excited to share the following: Under Amazing product national brands continue to experience significant growth up approximately 6% for the quarter and the season as penetration for both periods increased above 250 basis points.
This was driven significantly by strong growth in our active and wellness bold move with brands line Nike New Balance and PUMA.
We are also happy to announce that we will be launching the Stride Rite footwear brand in early 2016 to continue that momentum.
Under easy experience we continue to build a world class digital experience.
Response to our new app has been very favorable with over 2 million downloads this year alone and we now have over 8 million total users.
Our wallet feature within our app has also been a big success with about 30% of our mobile traffic related to wallet use.
During the quarter we completed the rollout of Buy Online Pick Up in Store to all stores across the country and we’ll begin to market this feature across all of our platforms this fall.
Attachment rates are very encouraging in the premarketing phase and land at about 25%.
Based on these early results we now expect Buy Online Pick Up in Store to be a significant percentage of our digital sales and a driver of incremental store traffic this holiday season.
We are planning accordingly.
We also now have our new beauty environment brands in 900 of our stores and we continue to see total store lifts on these implementations at the same plus 2% rate versus our control stores.
Personalization efforts continue to driver our marketing changes and already this year we have delivered over 130 million personalized mailers over 120 million personalized emails along with millions of personalized digital and wallet impressions.
This fall will also mark the first broad implementation of our localization strategy.
By the end of this fall 40% of our business will be unique localized assortments with the expectation that all departments will have unique localized assortments by the end of next year.
And finally our Yes2You loyalty program continues to grow with 2 million more members added in the quarter allowing us to reach 32 million total members.
Over half of our transactions are now with loyalty members and almost three quarters of Kohl's charged transactions are also loyalty member transactions.
We intend to launch a number of new enhancements and will celebrate the anniversary of last year’s launch in October with a major event.
In closing we remain committed to the Greatness Agenda and believe these initiatives will deliver our sales goal.
Although sales for the second quarter didn’t meet our expectations we are definitely pleased to see more consistent positive comp store sales results especially in a quarter that was negatively impacted by our later start to the back-to-school shopping season.
At this time I’ll turn the call back to our operator who will provide instructions on asking questions.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning.
Just on the guidance I figure out the $17 million benefit on interest expense it sounds like you are backing the gross margin and SG&amp;A guidance that you gave last quarter.
So how should we think about comps in the back half of the year and then if you could just fill in the blanks on D&amp;A and the tax rate and your buyback plans.
<br>Well the $17 million in an annual number.
So you can think of more like between $3 million and $4 million a quarter and we are not backing away from – I mentioned in the script.
I mean we still believe our guidance for gross margin will end up somewhere between flat and 20 basis points for the year and SG&amp;A will be up somewhere probably closer to the higher end for the year between 1.5% to 2.5%.
So it will require a little bit of an increase in comp into the fall season.
To hit the 440 we probably have to run close to a 2 comp from the back half.
We talked about the tax free shift obviously it hurt the second quarter obviously it will help the third and so it doesn’t require a large amount of improvement to get to where we need to be for the back half.
Okay and then just Kevin you talked about the later back-to-school start and then also the shift.
Have you been able to kind of quantify that for us what would have the comp been or maybe where was the comp trending through the first 12 weeks of the quarter? The comp would have been better for the quarter by probably about 50 basis points.
That was really just isolating the two days of the tax free shift and with Labor Day shifting back a week that’s hard to really ascertain but we have started see some strength in our back-to-school business as we have been through in August.
I mean I think the other part of that is Chuck is that’s actually the math on the benefit that we get in August that we lost in July.
So Wes’ 100% right on that.
The related piece which I think is more difficult to quantify but we think is relatively meaningful is that it also drove a later back-to-school selling season.
Those two factors both the shift to back tax free and the later Labor Day and so I think he and I both feel that we probably would have been trending more like around a 1 comp for the quarter absent those things all together.
Chuck you also asked a couple of other questions.
For D&amp;A I think the year will probably end up around 930 and the tax rate is going to probably be around 37.5% let’s say.
And you still expect to do $1 billion in buyback.
Yes as you can probably tell we were more aggressive on our buyback this quarter and we tend to target $250 million a quarter.
We ended up doing more than that so I think we’re pretty close to $550 million for the spring season and our target’s still $1 billion but we think the stock is cheap.
We certainly could do a little more than that but we’re targeting $250 million a quarter.
Okay and then just the last question just you called out the south central being weak.
Can you just add into that a little bit more? Is that the Texas market Oklahoma? Yes Texas and primarily the Houston market.
I’m sure that’s not any different for most people with significant businesses down there.
I spoke with our regional manager down there and I saw obviously some of the weather issues they have had with all the rain they had this summer.
It hurt a little bit but that’s a market that’s been tougher for us this year that’s for sure.
Okay great.
Thanks for all the color.
It’s Matt Boss not Nancy.
Yes I was just going to say.
On the top line composition what are you guys embedding for traffic in that second half plan and then more so to drive 2% comps are better in the next two years how should we think about the timing for localization and personalization opportunities? Well localization for sure is in its infancy.
We really haven’t got much benefit from that at all.
We really have just been testing.
We’ll start to see more benefit from the fall.
Of the bold moves that we talked about on the Analyst Day last fall the biggest benefit we’ve gotten thus far has obviously been from Active.
We’ve been talking about it for a number of years now.
It continues to be very strong led by Nike.
Our digital business is very strong as well and we’re seeing a lot of lift out out of loyalty obviously.
The two things that probably haven’t kicked in as much in the three-year plan yet and we’re not behind or anything it just takes a little longer to build our personalization and localization.
So localization is not only going to provide sales benefit but should provide our ability to reduce our inventories pretty significantly because we won’t be buying mark downs just to fill fixture fill on the initial set.
So that’s something you know as a CFO I’m very excited about is trying to get more sales with a lot less inventory.
I mean the expectation on localization honestly Matt is that while localization will impact roughly 40% of the business by the end of this year the real lift from it is more modest in the third and fourth quarter and much more significant next spring.
Wes is 100% right on personalization.
The third piece which based on our early results we think is a big driver particularly in the fourth quarter will be the Buy Online Pick Up In Store strategies and so we essentially haven’t done any marketing on Buy Online Pick Up In Store because we are just in the process of launching it across all of the platforms and the sense we have is that once we launched the marketing based on the limited results we’ve seen so far the combination of the traffic it drives to the stores and the attachment sales it’s been providing are pretty significant.
And in terms that you asked about the traffic demand I think for us around the 2 comp we pretty much have to get back to flat traffic.
We have seen – I’m sure you guys graph all this we certainly do but the last three quarters although not where we wanted to be; it’s certainly improved over where we were running from a traffic perspective pre-Greatness Agenda.
Right and then just one quick follow-up.
What are you guys seeing out there in terms of the competitive environments into the back-to-school season? I mean I don’t think there is anything really new.
I think many retailers have in place some versions of the strategies we have around particularly marketing and digital but we have – I mean there hasn’t been any significant shift in terms of let’s say discounting if that’s what your after or anything in particular that would give us any pause for concern as we look at third and fourth quarter results.
Great.
Good luck guys.
Thank you good morning.
Good morning.
If we think about the third quarter as a one comp run rate can you just help us get comfortable with the back half acceleration to drive the low end of your guidance range? What are the specific drivers that you expect to have an outsized impact on the second half comp? Well I think we just covered a few of them.
I mean we’re not precise enough to tell you that the third quarter is going to be 1 or 1.3 and the fourth quarter is going to be 1.5 or 1.8.
I think as we look at the year-to-date performance which we’re kind of looking at as about a 1 comp it does need to accelerate to about a 2 comp.
I mean if you lose 50 basis points in the second quarter you get it in the third so you’re at a 1.5 there.
So we got to pick up another 50.
So I mean I think the big things Lorraine remain to be the strategies we’ve discussed and we just touched on three big ones we think for the fall and holiday and those revolve around the personalization impact of our marketing strategies in particular as they relate to our loyalty platform our launch and development of Buy Online Pick Up In Store as well as the effectiveness that ships from the store across the entire store platform or give us any impact of things like localization.
That layered on top of the existing bold moves we think will accelerate the business.
We definitely recognize softer demand in the first half of the year; I don’t think there is any question about that.
As we looked at the first six months results I think traffic was softer than expected and I don’t necessarily see that as a Kohl’s unique issue.
It seems to be relatively broader than that.
Some of the things we are learning now that we are three quarters sort of post the launch of the Greatness Agenda are informing some changes in I would call it sort of an evolution of the Greatness Agenda moves and those are underway already internally.
We’ll probably share those with you sometime later in October but I think they are going to have a positive impact on both the third quarter but in particular the fourth quarter.
Thanks.
And then if you look at the Juniors business getting less negative in the second quarter as you’ve set the fall line and start to see some back-to-school have you seen a continued improvement in that business? It’s more positive than it was for sure.
I mean probably the most improved business in the store even though the total business as you all know was softer in the first half of the year.
The most improved business in the store is Women’s Apparel and Juniors is not as good as the rest of women’s apparel but it improved significantly in the second quarter.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Wes just a question going back to gross margins.
I mean like you said you reiterated the goal to be up a little bit here in the second half and for the full year.
Can you just kind of give us some of the puts and takes on gross margins in particular what is providing that uptick especially given that even adjusting for the early receipt of inventory your still up a bit kind of coming into 3Q coming off of a quarter where you had softer sales.
Any color would be helpful.
Paul if you do the math on the $120 million our units are up about 5%.
We are not going to not buy stuff that’s selling.
So investment and the things I indicated Active Licensing Beauty are all going to – we are not looking for an acceleration on what they are selling today.
We have pockets of stuff we are going to have to get through.
We are starting this – we’ve seen some great benefit.
Nike is not only providing great benefit on the sales line but with their stance on promotional environment we’ve made a significant amount of more gross margin on that so that’s providing some tail winds from that perspective.
But through the spring season we’re up like I said about 5 basis points.
I think we’ll end up between flat and 20.
We’ll be up closer to 20 if we can hit the two comps that we mentioned.
If we can’t we’ll be closer to the flat that’s normally how it works in retail.
Got it that’s helpful.
And then just in terms of the loyalty program I would think that one of the concerns going forward is lapping that in the fourth quarter.
Can you just remind us how many loyalty members you had in 4Q heading into that holiday period? Can you maybe discuss it all a little bit of your plans on how to get more spend out of those members I know you mentioned and a big event planned for October and also just any color you can provide about the loyalty spin from those that have been in the program for over a year perhaps are some of those early stages.
Well I think I can talk about the fact that we’re going to have double the loyalty members when we go into the fourth quarter.
I think we ended last year around $16 million or $17 million at the end of the third quarter and we should have $35 million going into the fourth.
We’re not going to talk about the plans for the loyalty event given that’s more of a competitive thing and we continue to see strength in the loyalty members.
They shop more frequently which is really the driver of the lift that we’re getting.
We’re getting consistent lifts across both bank card it obviously have the biggest lifts because their frequency is lower than somebody like an MBC but we’re getting lifts across all three categories.
I mean the bold moves are delivering pretty much what we thought.
They were going to be – the reason our comps have been a little bit down are in businesses that haven’t hit their plans and haven’t had as much of an effect from the bold moves.
Everybody obviously gets the effect from loyalty across the store but we have a couple of businesses like juniors like we have talked about for the last couple of quarters that are just weaker than we anticipated.
I appreciate the color.
Good luck.
Thanks.
With regard to inventory can you just maybe give us a little color around how clearance inventory looks year-over-year? Well it’s up year-over-year with the softer sales in the second quarter.
We were more aggressive in taking markdowns in the second quarter so we accelerated some of that into the quarter.
Sell-through I think our expectation for sell-through in the third quarter is it will be about equal to last year.
We are not expecting a big acceleration and I’m thinking by the time we get into late August early September year-over-year inventories and clearance are going to be relatively flat to last year.
Yes I mean if you use the same $120 million math on AP as a percent of inventory its flat to last year.
So we have a lot more receipts that we received in the last 30 days than we did last year.
And then with regard to the web business a couple of questions here.
First I forget did you stop breaking out the gross amount and then the second part of the question is regarding focus.
As you had more business shift to either Buy Online Pick Up In Store or Ship From Store what is the sort of the deleveraging effects of business not being shipped from the fulfillment centers and just curious with the Ship From Store initiative what are you seeing on a typical store in terms of orders per day or per week.
Well I could tell you BOPUS is the best thing that ever happened in e-commerce.
So we don’t break out e-commerce sales anymore but implicit in our three year plan back in October was a online generated order growth of about 20% a year.
We’re doing better than that this year.
But Buy Online Pick Up In Store from a profitability is the best thing you can get because you’re not shipping it so you save the $5 to $6 per package that it costs to ship it to the house and we’re seeing attachment sales of about 20% to 25% depending on the time of the week.
Like Kevin said we haven’t really publicized it a lot.
It’s about between 2% and 3% of our total online generated orders.
We think that can accelerate quite a bit when we start publicizing that as we get more into the fall season.
From a Ship From Store perspective the key is to try to keep the number of packages per shipment down as much as we can.
We have made some software changes to try to do that but both those things honestly would be a benefit to the profitability of online generated orders and gives us an opportunity to make the store inventory work a little harder and reduce the amount of inventory in the fulfillment centers.
Are you using existing labor in the stores to do the Ship From Store or have you had to add labor hours.
No I mean we add dedicated labor hours for these functions and as part of our overall payroll plan.
I mean I think one thing that we’ve tried to lay out clearly but I think is still not well understood Ship From Store just finished rolling out to the entire company this spring season.
So from a benefit perspective the big benefit we see in the fall and holiday is that it takes a tremendous amount of pressure off of our e-fulfillment centers that’s number one.
Number two it definitely makes our inventory in our stores more effective than it was before and improves the efficiency that we get on store payroll as a result.
Buy Online Pick Up In Store while it finished the completion of the launch to all stores this second quarter we have not marketed it at all and in fact it has not been available in any format other than desktop.
So both mobile and tablet will be new in the third quarter and with the launch of mobile and tablet comes a really aggressive marketing campaign.
So we’ve looked at the results in the small launch period with no marketing and looked at its attachment rates as well as traffic rates and I think our sense is its going to be a big driver of traffic to stores but most importantly as Wes said a driver of more efficient use of our inventory.
All right thanks.
Great good morning.
I have one quick follow-up on that Kevin and then I’ve got a bigger question on pricing and promotions.
In terms of the mobile I think originally we were thinking you were going to launch the mobile platform for Buy Online Pick Up In Store in August.
Is that still slated for August or will it be on the other side of Labor Day that’s the first question.
And then secondly in terms of looking at the pricing and promotional analysis that you guys have been very strategically making I think within the company.
I’m thinking of like the lowest prices of the season sale that you did and when you removed that 20% off coupon.
Has anything in the traffic pattern here thus far in back-to-school caused you to want to go back to the old ways of kind of learning promotion on promotion or are you guys committed to kind of providing more of a scalpel to your promotions.
Thanks.
Yes taking them one at a time.
I mean the timing on our mobile and tablet implementations is the same as it has always been so we’re right on target we’re all set and as I said we’ve been sort of focused more on really accelerating that as we get into October November because that’s when we see the big opportunity being created so that’s number one.
Number two on the pricing thing there’s absolutely nothing that we’re seeing happening that would change our longer term perspective on how we go about marketing.
We definitely know that we have a big opportunity to really tailor our marketing efforts and therefore our pricing to a unique individual customer to get more effective response rates.
Without kind of queuing you in too much to some of the things we’re going to be talking about just part of the evolution of the Greatness Agenda one of the areas that we do feel strongly about is that we have an opportunity through analytics to elevate our leadership on value new strategies around pricing.
And so we’ll talk more about that as we get into the later part of the fall season and you’ll hear more about it as we go forward into 2016 but I do think we see that space as a big opportunity for us.
As far as LPS goes it runs later this month.
It’s going to be same as April and it’s going to work well.
Excellent! Thank you guys.
Yes thank you.
Pick up on the store has its benefit of course as you’ve outlined already but shouldn’t it also reduce shipping cost and have a benefit to gross margins? Yes I mean that was my favorite part Bernie.
That’s the money we save on the $5 or $6 a box.
Okay good.
I just wanted to clarify that.
Thank you very much.
Okay bye.
Hey guys good morning.
I apologize if I missed it but would you mind giving us for our models the percent of sales made on a Kohl’s card in the quarter.
It was down a little bit.
I don’t have the exact number unfortunately in front of me but I think it was down about – I want to say it was down about 150 basis points but I’ll give you a call after.
I’m sorry about that.
Okay all right.
Would you mind telling us just about the overall – I mean obviously you’ve got a number of initiatives going on with e-commerce but the overall trend that you saw in the quarter at a high level.
You saw some big retailers and some native e-tailers also through pretty big promotions in the quarter and some of the other brands and retailers have seen some volatility around those events.
I’m wondering if you guys saw similar volatility.
No I mean Mike if you’re alluding to things like Prime Day by Amazon or that no.
I mean I think what happens on those kinds of things is all retailers are sensitive and aware about promotion in the space and you inevitably therefore strategize and target your own elements to offset to ensure that you don’t get hurt and so I think actually the facts Wes will probably be able to give you the specifics but I think actually the facts are we saw a much larger list during that short period of both Prime Day implementation by Amazon and related.
Oh yes we beat our plan that’s for sure.
So I think it’s just the way it works.
It’s just there’s a lot of activity.
You get more people to the web than you might find on Amazon and you might find on Wal-Mart.
It looks like more of them than we thought bought it on ours.
I do have the credit numbers.
Sorry about that.
I think I have a little too much paper here today.
Charge sales for Q2 were 37.6% down 171 basis points and then year-to-date its 57.8% down about 130 basis points.
So it kind of makes sense given the fact that we’re doing better from a non-Kohl’s charge because we put more emphasis from a marketing perspective.
So the Kohl’s charge was sort of negative for the quarter down low single digits while the non-Kohl’s charge was up mid single digits.
So we’re continuing to figure out a way to better balance those.
The goal obviously would get them to be both positive but we need new customers and that’s what’s coming with the non-Kohl’s charge comp.
They spend a little less obviously because they are newer and the Kohl’s charge folks spend a little bit more but we’ll continue to work on better balancing them and hopefully by the time we get to the end of the year they’ll both be running positive.
Okay if I could ask just one last one.
Kevin you mentioned that your planning accordingly for Buy Online Pick Up In Store to be a bigger part of online this holiday.
I know you’ve comment on a few times to Q&amp;A but would you mind giving us just a little bit more color on what you meant with that specific comment please.
Thank you.
Well through the test period – I mean the test period essentially was really an operational test period.
It was to ensure that on the technology side everything worked the way we wanted it to work.
The customer service was delivered in the right way and that we were able to achieve the speed we needed to.
On the storage side of course it was the start to better understand what stores have to do in order to quickly present the product to the customer and do it in an efficient way.
So that’s kind of the process we went through in the second quarter.
I think we did 2.5% to 3% of demand as we sort of experimented with that on the operational side and so it’s sort of a meaningless number.
We’re planning a much larger percent of digital sales to come as Buy Online Pick Up In Store; that’s what’s baked into our planning.
We are not planning that it necessary lifts the total digital sales but we do believe based on the attachment rates we’re seeing right now it’s got the potential to add sales in store and add some visits which as you know our two biggest challenges are win new customer.
Wes kind of just touched on that one and secondly get more visits into our store and that’s why we’re kind of super optimistic about Buy Online Pick Up In Store.
All right thanks guys.
Hey good morning.
Thanks for taking the question.
A quick follow-up on SG&amp;A.
Wes I believe you said SG&amp;A growth is expected to be at the high end of the 1.5% to 2.5% range.
Just what are the primary components to that and then if sales aren't able to hit that 2% expectation for the back half how much flexibility do you have on the SG&amp;A front? Well I didn’t mean to alarm people on that.
It’s probably going to be somewhere between 2% to 2.5% for the fall.
So it will be lower in the third quarter and higher in the fourth quarter.
Kevin mentioned Buy Online Pick Up In Store that’s going to drive a little bit more store expense.
We’re going to put a lot of the investments and we saved a lot of money in marketing this year and we’re going to put a lot of investments in the fourth quarter.
On that we have a tendency to get out shorted especially on broadcast by some of the larger retailers that are bigger than we are.
So that will give us a good opportunity to be more competitive from that perspective.
Reflected down obviously the – 80% of our cost roughly are fixed.
I mean you can argue that advertising is variable but if you are not making your sales you probably are not going to cut your advertising.
So the easiest one if we don’t make it would be related to incentive comp would come down.
Anything that’s unit related we could save money in the stores from a processing perspective as well as the EFCs corporate expenses.
You can manage your hiring a little differently leave positions opened but that’s only about 20% of the expenses really what I would call truly variable.
That’s helpful.
Thank you.
And then Kevin could you briefly address the Off Aisle concept to the strategic rational there.
Any early takeaways from tests and just how are you are thinking about the potential longer term opportunity.
Sure.
I mean Off Aisle was originally conceived as a way for us to improve the valuation on our returns and as you know like any retailer we get a significant percentage of returns in our stores and a much more significant percentage of returns to our stores that originated with an online order.
So returns as a percent of sales for us have been rising consistently over time and it’s just a math as more people bought online there is a higher return rate those returns go to the stores so our total return rate keeps going up modestly.
And when we looked at that the potential profit pool for managing what we get for those returns was pretty significant.
That coincided obviously with us trying to be more aggressive and experimenting more with new innovative concepts.
And so we created this Off Aisle concept first and foremost to target an improved return on our returns from customers but secondly also to learn more about the off price business in general.
So I would expect there are going to be more Off Aisle stores coming again not to queue too much into what we’ll be talking about later in the third quarter as evolutions to the moves and the Greatness Agenda but definitely new formats including more Off Aisle stores will be coming.
Results have been really good.
They’ve been better than we expected.
Thank you and best of luck in the third quarter.
Thanks.
Hey good morning thanks for taking the question.
Just on the fields of Macy's announcement on examining ways to monetize real-estate value what’s your latest philosophy on your own real-estate and then maybe more broadly as a follow-up has our traffic trends just dramatically different by stores just because you might at some point reconsider the number of stores you are operating across the chain.
Thanks so much.
Wes can probable – I mean the real-estate answer is honestly pretty simple.
I mean real-estate is one of the assets that we have like all of the other assets we have.
We are always reviewing what the options are that would maximize shareholder value and that’s under constant revenue it’s not necessarily focused on today’s events or the last three months events it’s just a regular course of good governance and we’ll continue to do that.
On the traffic side I think we are actually pretty optimistic I would say about traffic Wes.
Yes I mean there is a little bit of variability by region but not a ton and in terms of the number of stores we have a list of stores that we always look at negative incremental cash flow stores we run it once a year.
There is a list of probably 10% or 15% stores on that list.
We’ve tried to look at market by market versus individual stores because obviously if you make a decision to close the store in one market you might pick up some sales and a couple of other stores that might make a negative one term positive.
Most of the stores that are negative cash flow we are talking in a couple of $100 000 range per store.
So we think that it’s prudent to be a little patient.
We believe in the Greatness Agenda we believe we are going to continue to make progress and hopefully those slightly negative cash flow stores will turn positive.
But we closed a couple of stores this year.
We are going to close a couple of stores next year.
But we are really looking at handfuls versus major closures.
And just so we are totally transparent about this traffic variability on sharp turn windows a month a quarter are highly volatile they can change a lot.
So in a particular market in a particular region in an individual territory the traffic trends year-over-year can be really pretty volatile and that’s because weather is a big factor in our demand.
The economic conditions in a particular market can be very different depending upon the job environment and it can uniquely be affected as well by completion as new competition opens up in a trade area or in a market in a big way.
We kind of look at traffic when we are evaluating real-estate more or less let’s say on a 3 to 5 year trend and we are looking at is there a consent pattern of decelerating traffic and that would cause us to do the evaluating Wes is talking about which is a what’s the future of this store.
That’s all very helpful.
Thanks so much.
I’ll just back in the queue.
Best of luck.
Thanks.
Thanks very much.
Wes if you could elaborate a little bit on the shift in ad spend from 1Q to 2Q and what bodes for the second half? It seems that there was some marketing powder kept dry last year and some indications that you'd be spending more this year and in differentiated ways.
Can you perhaps talk about second-half ad spend and also year-over-year promotional cadence how you see that changing? Well there will be no powder left dry this year.
We are going to spend a $1 billion that’s going to be lower than last year but we’ve been talking not what I would call non-product saving.
It’s not by cutting the number of events or anything like that just repositioning.
So for the fall season for the first time we are going to be spending more money in digital than we are in print.
That’s were our customers are doing their research whether or not they purchase online from whatever device they are using they are definitely using the research to make their purchasing decision.
So that’s important.
In the spring season from a marketing perspective we reduced the amount of credit marketing we have which we actually charge to their credit profitability and actually increased the amount of non-credit which is what’s driven the non-credit card comps being positive.
So we continue to do that and shift it into more productive marketing.
But the fourth quarter will be up significantly to last year in terms of marketing spend.
I mean at the end of the day Richard we spend less money in marketing in the first half than we originally had planned than last year and we intend to spend more money in the second half that’s high level.
We are going to spend $1 billion.
We are certainly not going to spend $999 million.
And hopefully there's a tight correlation between ad spend and traffic? That’s the hope.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Good morning.
My first question is on the loyalty use and the credit card spend in the second quarter.
I know it was a tough market for everyone in the second quarter and the tax holiday certainly didn't help you.
But did the loyalty users and the credit card users still have positive traffic where I would interpret that as this is just an issue where you need to convert more non-loyalty people and get them on the bus or did the loyalty users and credit users slowdown as well which may indicate a broader issue with the market or perhaps that the program needs to be readjusted? I think the way you got to look at the loyalty users which is the way we having to look at it.
We have to look at them as unique loyalties users because you can’t look at them as pool right because we have twice as many loyalties members as we did last year.
So it’s kind of a meaningless – I think Wes its sort of meaningless statistic because naturally they transacted a lot more because there is two times as many of them.
So we try to look more at unique loyalty members how our members who are in the program behaving.
And we are really focused on a different metric anyway which is you know – the metric we are focused on essentially is to say that we’ve had a long period right 5 years and more where the penetration of our credit business to our total credit business has risen consistently.
The problem is our total business hasn’t risen.
So it’s on a customer basis.
Its more customers transacting on credit but not more customers in total.
Loyalties objective is to create and win new customers so that even if credit as a percent of total transactions is flat we win because total sales and total traffic is up and so we look at it a little bit different and the answer to your question directly wouldn’t get you to where you want to be because we’d tell you all loyalty transactions are way up compared to last year.
We do need to do a better job of using loyalty to feed the credit program.
We have been focused more getting people on-boarded into loyalty.
I think the next lever to pull after we have done that for a year is to show them that they’ve all experienced the value of loyalty the value of being a credit card customer is much greater.
We also have to do a better job of soliciting applications in the stores for credit we have a taken a step back as we’ve focused a little bit too much on soliciting loyalty applications.
So we need to do a better balance of that and I’d been working along with the marketing guys and the store team to do that.
We’ve seen some dramatic improvement in July on that.
We’ve made some changes from an incentive perspective for both the applicant and the associate who is soliciting credit.
So I suspected that we’ll do much better on soliciting credit in the fall season.
Thank you.
And then on the second question I just want to make sure – you said this a few times.
I just want to make sure I got it right on the SG&amp;A growth it was around 2% in the first half.
Do you still think it will be 1.5 to 2.5 points in the back half at probably the higher end of that range? I think you said between 2% and 2.5%? And the primary driver of that which you had previously I think was around 0.75% to 1.75% is Buy Online Pick Up In Store and ad dollars or was there something else that you were adding else to that that was driving that? No I mean for two quarters in a row we’ve beat our guidance on SG&amp;A so the year hasn’t changed.
So it’s just got pushed further.
If we save money in marketing we are not going to spend less than $1 billion.
We are $20 million let’s say below our plan for the spring.
We are just going to reinvest that in the fall.
Okay so you're conservative when you rolled it? I would say the SG&amp;A spend I think you guys assume its somewhere between 2 and 2.5 for the fall season.
Okay perfect.
Thank you.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Bob.
Hi Wes.
I guess the first question I have is I mean Wes can you share with us the Nike comp? Usually you gave it to us I think recently.
I just wondered is it remaining a big number for you on that.
It’s up – we are not at high double digits it’s got to be like 99% but it’s up mid to high teens.
Okay and I just had two merchandising questions for you Kevin.
The first one on the Missy category what's changed there? Is it the crinkle Ts is it the hoodies that are having a big impact can you just talk a little bit about that? And a question on the denim category you haven't really talked about the denim category but are the destructed jeans really driving the business at all there? Glad to see your back on your horse on the marketing questions Bob.
I don’t even know how to answer you to one of those.
I’ll try to answer them seriously for you though Bob.
Missy is probably I would say our most improved business trend and that’s after a long period of not being able to say that.
And again as part of sort of our evolution of the greatness agenda which we expect to share with you later Missy apparel women’s apparel in total is going to be a real focal point of some changes we are making.
I think many of them are taking place internally now and we are getting a little bit of the benefit for that.
I think Denim is definitely improved.
Yes Levis had a really good quarter in the second quarter.
So that’s a really positive thing because as we talked about Back-to-School definitely started later and that’s typically not good for denim sales but denim sales have declined significantly over the course of the last by 12 to 24 months.
And there’s been a big change in trend in there for sure.
So I think that actually is a really positive one as we look at August September.
Thanks Bob.
Thank you very much.
Hi thanks a lot.
On the inventory side you did mention that you were just a little bit over inventoried with respect to where you wanted to be.
Which categories was that an issue in and that would be great thanks.
I think the pockets where we are still working through some of the junior stuff probably have a little too much inventory in kids and in Jeweler.
Those are the areas that have been soft versus their plan.
Obviously you miss a sales plan you got to work through the inventory and that’s what we’ll do.
I mean the other factor and Wes talked about it I think in our earlier scripted comments is we did make a decision a long time ago six months or more that were going to accelerate our overseas imports flow because we were concerned about ensuring that we had them and plenty of time for back-to-school.
As you know as it turned out port strike was settled flow dramatically improved and so overseas import items I would say generally private brand kind of merchandise.
Yes came in early.
Came in early and it wasn’t really category related.
It was across categories because it’s sort of all the same.
The biggest investment we have in inventory remains our national brands.
They are up units are up double digits.
So that’s where the investment alluded to act.
Obviously that’s a lot of natural brand merchandise as well.
All right that’s helpful.
And Wes and Kevin regarding the outlook for the category planning in light of the weather I was just curious if there is distinctions you're making on a year-over-year basis.
How are you thinking about outerwear? The picture for weather could be mixed.
Yes outerwear we were really conservative.
We all get the same forecast that you guys seem to get.
So it doesn’t seem like it’s going to be an extremely strong outwear season from a weather perspective.
So we’ve planned that down accordingly.
Okay great.
And how are you guys feeling about skinny denim and crinkle Ts? I'm not sure if I got that? I’ll get back to you on that Oliver.
Okay thanks.
Best regards.
Thanks.
No thank you very much.
Thanks very much.
All right take care.
Bye.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the Kohl's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Certain statements made on this call including projected financial results are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Kohl's intends forward-looking terminology such as believes expects may will should anticipates plans or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause Kohl's actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those that are described in Item 1A in Kohl's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and as may be supplemented from time-to-time in Kohl's other filings with the SEC all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
Also please note that replays of this recording will not be updated.
So if you are listening after November 13 2014 it is possible that the information discussed is no longer current.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Wes McDonald Chief Financial Officer of Kohl's Department Stores.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
With me today is Kevin Mansell our Chairman CEO and President.
I'll walk us through some of our results for the quarter then Kevin will give you guys some more color on merchandising and marketing initiatives.
From a sales perspective comp sales decreased 1.8% for the quarter.
Transactions per store were down 2.6% while average transaction value was up 0.8%.
Within the average transaction value average unit retail was up 2.6% while units per transaction were down 1.8%.
Total sales for the quarter were $4.4 billion a decrease of 1.6% from the third quarter last year.
And year-to-date comp sales decreased 2.2% and total sales decreased 1.9% to $12.7 billion.
Kevin will share some more details on our sales in a couple of minutes.
Our gross margin rate for the quarter was 37.2% 28 basis points lower than the third quarter of last year.
National brand sales penetration increased 230 basis points during the quarter.
As expected this reduced gross margin by approximately 12 basis points.
The remaining decrease was due to lower margin rates across our brands.
Year-to-date margin was consistent with last year.
SG&amp;A dollars increased 2% or $24 million over last year and deleveraged 90 basis points as a percent of sales compared to the third quarter of last year.
Most of the increase in SG&amp;A dollars versus last year was related to a change in our incentive compensation accrual.
Last year we lowered our expected payout during the third quarter resulting in favorability and bonus expense.
Our credit card business reported a $7 million increase in revenues this quarter.
In our stores both store payroll and store controllable costs decreased versus last year.
Our retail distribution centers reported lower costs but our E-Commerce fulfillment centers reported higher costs with the revenue growth.
Advertising costs were also higher as we launched our loyalty program nationwide in the third quarter.
And we continue to invest in technology.
Year-to-date SG&amp;A was relatively flat to last year and deleveraged 50 basis points as a percent of sales.
Depreciation and interest expenses were consistent with last year.
Our income tax rate was 35.3% for the quarter.
This is almost 200 basis points better than last year as we had favorable state tax audit settlements during the quarter.
Diluted earnings per share decreased 14% to $0.70 for the quarter.
Year-to-date earnings per share decreased 3% to $2.43.
Net income was $142 million for the quarter and $498 million year-to-date.
We ended the quarter with 1 163 stores gross foot -- square footage of 100 494 000 square feet and selling square footage of 83 000 833.
During the third quarter we opened stores in 3 new locations and reopened 1 store which had closed in the first quarter for a complete rebuild.
We completed our final 2 remodels for the year early in this quarter.
This is in addition to the 16 remodels completed during the second quarter and the 15 remodels that were completed in the first quarter.
The total remodels for the year were 33 versus 30 last year.
Year-to-date capital expenditures were $561 million which is 900 -- $96 million higher than the first 9 months of 2013.
The increase reflects our continued investment in the company and is attributable to higher spending in substantially all categories: remodels IT call center operations and our corporate campus.
We ended the quarter with $631 million of cash and cash equivalents and generated almost $300 million of free cash flow year-to-date.
Free cash flow was negatively impacted by the higher capital expenditures as well as higher tax payments during the quarter.
Despite the lower-than-expected sales inventory per store is flat to last year.
Units per store are 3% lower than 2013 levels.
AP as a percent of inventory increased from 45.6% at quarter end 2013 to 47.9% this year.
Weighted average diluted shares for the quarter and shares outstanding at the end of the quarter were both 203 million.
During the quarter we repurchased 2.7 million shares of our stock.
Yesterday our board declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.39 per share which is payable December 24 to shareholders of record at the close of business on December 10.
I'll now turn it over to Kevin who will provide additional insights on our results.
Thanks Wes.
As Wes mentioned our third quarter comps decreased 1.8%.
This is about 40 basis points lower than the guidance that we provided before last month's investor conference.
Our guidance at that time assumed we would hit our internal plans for the final week of the month.
Unfortunately week 4 store sales remained challenging and we did not achieve those plans.
Geographically results were generally consistent across all regions for the quarter.
The Midwest was the strongest region.
The strong back-to-school season offset a very weak October.
The South Central was the most difficult region for the second consecutive quarter.
By line of business children's continues to outperform other businesses and reported a low single-digit comp increase for the quarter.
Online sales were especially strong.
Accessories footwear and men's were slightly negative but outperformed the company average.
Accessories was again led by our beauty business and handbags were also positive.
In footwear athletic shoes and men's dress and casual shoes were the strongest categories.
And in men's young men's and active sales increased.
Home and women's underperformed the company.
National brand comps were higher than private and exclusive comps for the fifth consecutive quarter and were actually positive for the second consecutive quarter.
As most of you know on October 29 we held our first investor conference in 7 years.
And during that conference we introduced our leadership team and provided considerable detail about our 3-year plan what we call the Greatness Agenda.
I'm not going to reiterate the comments made in that conference so I encourage you to review the presentations the transcripts and the webcast which are available in the Investor Relations section of our corporate website if you haven't done so already.
This 3-year plan however is focused on improving our top line performance.
And the initial impact of many of these initiatives resulting from this plan will be in our stores this holiday season.
First buy online pick-up-in-store is being tested in 100 of our stores with the full rollout expected during next spring.
It's available in the Chicago Milwaukee and San Diego markets.
We haven't put our full marketing force behind it yet but we're very pleased with the attachment sales which are running in the mid-teens.
Second going into holiday we'll be shipping from 800 of our stores.
This allows us to ship from locations that are closer to our customers than our traditional fulfillment centers.
More importantly it provides much-needed distribution capacity as we enter the peak holiday season.
Third our new beauty department was introduced into another 178 stores in August and September.
This is in addition to the 47 stores that were completed in July.
Stores with the new beauty department continue to outperform other stores both in the beauty department itself and across the whole store.
We continue to see total store lifts versus our control groups of approximately 2% in the higher-volume stores.
Fourth we are now scaling our personalization platform and over 90 million customer connections will be personalized this holiday season.
We've seen significant lifts in our testing earlier this year and believe it will provide great benefits this holiday.
And last and definitely the most impactful is loyalty.
Loyalty was launched in all stores on October 6.
Prior to the Nationwide launch the program was tested in various formats in Texas California along with the Pittsburgh Milwaukee and Seattle markets.
During the year and a half that we tested the program we enrolled approximately 10 million customers in the loyalty rewards program.
Since the launch in October alone we enrolled over 6 million additional customers.
And as of today we now have 17.3 million customers enrolled in loyalty.
We continue to be extremely excited about the program.
Our tests have shown that the program is working.
Loyalty customers make 2 extra trips and spent an incremental $80 per year.
Even more exciting is the fact that almost 60% of enrollees are non-Kohl's charge customers.
And enrollment in the program provides us with customer-specific data that we will further enhance through personalization.
Looking forward we believe we will run a positive comp between 2% and 3% in the fourth quarter.
We arrived at that by taking our year-to-date underlying performance in our stores adding our expected omni-channel performance in the fourth quarter and the impact of the extra shopping day between Thanksgiving and Christmas along with and importantly the impact of the initiatives I've discovered.
And with that we'll be happy to take your questions at this time.
[Operator Instructions] And first we'll go to Oliver Chen with Cowen and Company.
LLC Research Division</strong> The details regarding loyalty -- I had a question regarding that.
Are you most encouraged for the opportunity for traffic or check as a loyalty program plays out throughout the year? And then I also had a product question in terms of outerwear.
How was it relative to your plan in terms of how you planned that category and the inventory composition now? I can -- Oliver it's Kevin.
I can answer the first part.
Maybe Wes knows the answer to the second one specifically.
I think loyalty is all about traffic.
And in particular it's all about really embracing and engaging new customers.
So the thing that makes us very excited about loyalty is that in the test customers are taking 2 extra trips to Kohl's and 60% approximately of the loyalty enrollees are non-Kohl's charge customers.
So that's the really big positive for loyalty.
On outerwear Wes you know the...
Yes women's outerwear is off to a pretty good start this quarter.
It's a small percentage of the business as well as men's is off to a little bit of a slow start.
For the season we planned outerwear down pretty significantly given last year's extremely cold winter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a follow-up on the details on the challenging week 4 do you expect the volatility to kind of continue as you look forward into the holiday season? Or how might that extrapolate given that you do have a fair degree of confidence on the -- looking for the 2% to 3%? Well I mean we've -- what we try to do is give you a lot of insight into how we arrive at our expected performance.
And it -- fundamentally we didn't want to make any assumptions on an improved underlying trend.
So the underlying trend that we've utilized is basically the trend that we've had in our stores on a year-to-date basis.
We're not assuming that's going to improve.
It would be great if it did if loyalty has the kind of impact that we think it will.
It may but we didn't want to make that assumption.
There is definitely volatility in the business.
I think fourth week of October was by far the worst week of the month.
It was definitely worse than we even expected.
And just as noticeably once the weather cooled going into this month the first 2 weeks of this month have spiked dramatically.
So I think volatility is just something that we come to expect.
And we'll go to Dan Binder with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
One was related to the earnings guidance that you had provided previously.
Is that -- is there upside to that guidance if you hit the 2% to 3% comp guidance that you provided today? I know you provided the guidance to different points in times so I just wanted to be clear on that.
Well I think we updated the guidance before Analyst Day.
No the 2% to 3% would get us to the low end of the range.
I would expect continued margin to be pressured somewhat.
I would hope that we would get better than last year but we've heard from some of our competitors already it seems like it's going to be a very promotional holiday season.
So within those plans I think margin is planned slightly down.
SG&amp;A is going to grow faster than it has throughout the first 9 months partly because of some of the initiatives we talked about.
The incremental beauty stores and loyalty are incremental to the fourth quarter.
They provide great sales opportunities but they also have expenses associated with them.
I mean said another way I think Dan what we're saying is we feel pretty confident about the sales side but we also expect and have assumed that our margin -- our merchandise margin is going to be pressured.
I think on the expense side Wes recapped it well which is we have we think pretty good visibility and we've exhibited a pretty strong ability to manage expenses.
So I think on that line we feel good.
Research Division</strong> And then -- do you expect inventory per store by the end of Q4 to be down low single or less? Yes I think we'll be down 3% to 4% assuming we hit the sales plan.
So we brought in a lot more -- a lot fewer receipts excuse me for the fall season.
So that was planned and we'll continue to plan that throughout next year as well.
Our next question is from Lorraine Hutchinson with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> So you rolled out the loyalty program in early October and October obviously wasn't a great month.
How do you expect the sales cadence to begin to come into the majority of your stores now that loyalty is rolled out? Well I mean what we're -- I would say that particularly given the softness in traffic in October the fact that we were able to get so many people engaged in the loyalty program anyway is a really positive sign for their -- our ability to continue to enroll this month as traffic has improved a lot.
The way the loyalty program works as you know Lorraine it's all about earning rewards and then redeeming rewards.
And so the impact of enrolling and engaging a whole bunch of new customers is always felt afterwards.
So those 6 million customers we enrolled are activating and engaging now.
And the customers that we enrolled this month are going to be activating and engaging next month.
So it's definitely a forward look.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then what do you think caused the traffic to spike in early November? Weather.
I mean the weather was poor.
In October you heard a lot of our competitors along with ourselves talk about that.
The weather has gotten much better in the first 2 weeks of November and that helps when you sell apparel.
Next we'll go to Paul Trussell with Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> So the -- as you continue to roll out the national brands PUMA et cetera coming next year.
Wes what's your expectation for the penetration? I know you mentioned 230 basis points this quarter.
How do you imagine that over the next 12 months? And also could you just help us with an average of the spread between the AURs of your national brands and private label? Well I mean I think the penetration will continue to increase.
I hope the private brand performance improves as well so the -- I don't expect it to increase 200 basis points each quarter.
I think the private brands were somewhat hurt by the bad weather a lot of the private brands that we have are more key item driven.
So things that are more in need-based versus collections the collections usually fall in our exclusive brands but I suspect next year national brands will continue to improve maybe a couple of hundred basis points but I would think a little bit less.
One of the things I pointed out in the script hopefully you guys caught it was the effect on our margin rate has been pretty consistent to what we told you guys the 4 to 7 basis points for every 100 basis points of deterioration.
But I obviously hope the private brands gets a little bit better.
PUMA is starting out in the spring in a small number of categories.
I think it's more the accumulation of the national brands that we introduced over the next couple of years that will drive the incremental growth.
Any one brand in itself is not going to drive that much.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as we think about the apparel business I mean obviously you guys weren't the only ones to have a difficult time in 3Q particularly given the weather.
As you put together the forecast for the fourth quarter and the long-term plan that you provided us at the Analyst Day what are you baking in from a market standpoint in terms of industry growth within women's apparel within ready-to-wear within children's? Just curious to the extent you expect your 2% to 3% comps to be more market share gains versus an overall expectation for pickup in these categories.
I mean we're pretty much assuming that we have to drive market share and drive traffic.
We're not assuming that there's any either inflation or increase in apparel overall sales that would drive our total sales up.
So it's got to be about our own initiatives take share not about a rising tide lifting everybody.
It's been a flat business and I think we're assuming it's going to continue that way.
And to you earlier point national brands are going to carry a little bit higher AUR so I'm fairly confident that our average transaction value will continue to rise.
What we have to do and what we've talked about not only a few weeks ago but consistently we have to stabilize traffic and that's the key for us.
To drive that 2% to 3% comp we have to have traffic be flat to slightly negative.
The basket should provide the lift to get to the 2% to 3% comp.
Our next question is from Neely Tamminga with Piper Jaffray.
Research Division</strong> Wes on that point you've seen a -- what a 2.6% decline in the number of transactions in Q3.
Could you break out for us kind of what traffic versus conversion means? And then I guess where we're going with this is for Q3 the big trend are you actually comping positive traffic thus far in Q -- quarter-to-date with the weather? Well on the transactions per store we don't really -- I mean we have traffic counters in about 150 of our stores but not enough to give a true sample.
So the transactions per store is really what we call traffic.
So when you're coming to our store we're not usually in a mall so it's usually a destination so our conversion rates are probably higher than most mall-based retailers but we're really looking at transactions per store.
Other than just saying that the business has improved quite a bit in the first 2 weeks I don't really want to get into the color of transactions per store.
Cold weather obviously drives people to the store.
And when they come they buy apparel.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just 1 other question then if I may.
In terms of ship-from-store versus ship-from-DC could you remind us again the cost savings or just the overall cost differential of that and how much do you factor that into your Q4 implied guidance in terms of maybe basis points of impact to the P&amp;L? It's not really cost savings to be honest: the labor is a little cheaper the cost to ship is a little higher.
It's really about speed and capacity.
So it cuts off on average a day to get it from the store to the customer and then we just need the extra capacity.
Because we have a tremendous spike that starts in a couple of weeks the week of the Black Friday and then really lasts for 2 to 3 weeks before it starts to come down a little bit.
So we need those 800 stores for the excess capacity first and foremost.
And then speed is certainly an added benefit to that.
So the effect on the P&amp;L is more about with all of the plans that we've made for adding capacity and above that some productivity improvements we feel like we won't have to expedite as near as many shipments as we had to last year that's where the savings is going to be in gross margin.
Next we'll go to the line of Paul Swinand with Morningstar.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to drill down on the traffic drivers again a little bit.
You talked about beauty and some of the other initiatives.
Are you finding that that's connecting with new customers that weren't Kohl's shoppers? Or is it merely the attachment rate and the higher spend per visit? On beauty it's really both.
The basket for sure is getting bigger with the addition of beauty but where we're getting the lift in the higher-volume stores is on the repeat business.
It's really about driving a replenishment purchase.
We don't sell a lot of groceries or things that people run out of.
Beauty is probably the closest thing to a commodity that we have.
So the key where we've been getting the total store lift it's bringing them back in more often.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then I know you've talked a little bit about you're trying to drive share and that's an important part and that you've been having more competition from the off-price channel.
Have you done any analysis of where off-price is still opening stores and can you see the impact? And do you see that sort of finishing at some point since the network of off-price is maybe already built out? Yes.
The off-price stores when they open hit our stores if they're close to them by maybe a couple hundred thousand dollars a store on average.
So it's not a significant hit in the first year and then we kind of go back to where we were comping prior to that.
But it definitely is a hit and certainly given their outsized growth over the last year -- last few years has hurt our comps especially as some of the competitors like Ross expand more into the Midwest areas where they haven't really concentrated before.
Research Division</strong> Okay but do you think that will abate as the store growth slows or...
Well if they don't open as many stores yes we won't get hit as much but I'm not privy to their store opening plan.
So they tend to grow faster than the rest of us do in the industry.
So -- and I still expect it to be somewhat of a headwind but if you're saying that they're going to open fewer stores that certainly would help us.
Our next question is from Stephen Grambling with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I just had a couple on E-Commerce.
Can you just talk about the acceleration that you had seen in the beginning of the year? And just how much of that is coming from new versus existing customers? And are there any differences in the trends online by category or region that you can call out relative to the store? In terms of traffic I think over the last 4 months we've talked about it in the past.
The increase in traffic was really a result of the decrease in traffic last year during our re-platform so we've kind of gone through that.
In terms of categories we still see home over-penetrating online.
We continue to have opportunities in apparel.
I think kids has been a category that -- we mentioned that in the call.
It's been a way for us to sell other categories associated with children's like baby year and strollers and things like that that we don't carry in the store.
But since the customer knows us for kids apparel and believe we provide good value that's been a big growth area for us.
Where we have to do better online is really in apparel and specifically in women's apparel.
I think that's a big opportunity for us.
In terms of by region you don't really see any big differences.
Where we're more productive in terms of sales per store: Midwest Northeast Mid-Atlantic.
They tend to have higher E-Com sales as well -- share of store.
There is a little bit of increase on the West Coast but it's really driven by where we do well in the stores.
Research Division</strong> Next one just a quick follow-up you did mention there was -- the re-platforming last year.
Can you just remind us what the impact was and maybe even help quantify some of that in the fourth quarter? On the fourth -- I mean our -- the first -- the fourth quarter I think our E-Com business will be up 20% to 25% is kind of what we're planning.
Research Division</strong> But I guess in terms of the margin or SG&amp;A hits from some of the re-platforming and the disruption that was seen even from a distribution standpoint I was just hoping to get a better sense of what that impact was.
Yes.
I mean Stephen I think Wes sort of covered looking back why the third quarter was particularly strong which was a comparative to last year and our re-platform.
As we look at the fourth quarter you may remember that we had to navigate through a number of customer service issues online and many of the initiatives that we just spoke about relative to ship-from-store buy online pick-up-in-store and preparedness for holiday on E-Com are focused on dealing with that.
So I think our sense is that the third quarter sales increase of roughly 30% will probably not be replicated in the fourth quarter but the fourth quarter continues to be a pretty big opportunity for us online because we were not able to service the way we would have liked to last year.
And next we'll go to the line of Paul Lejuez with Wells Fargo.
And we will move on to Bob Drbul with Nomura Securities.
Research Division</strong> Kevin just following up on the last answer that you gave.
Within the sort of the logistical challenges that you had on the E-Commerce business last year in the fourth quarter how does that really play into the gross margin guidance for this year and what you're seeing in the fourth quarter? I mean basically Bob it does -- overcoming and preparing for this holiday overcoming last year's issues doesn't have much to do with how we're looking at merchandise margin for the fourth quarter.
The impact of online in the fourth quarter really has to do with mix right? Online we think is going to run up well over 20%.
And as you know our merchandise margins online are lower primarily due to mix.
So that's all implied in our expectations for our earnings.
Also our strongest business is kids and that's a business that has a little bit lower margin.
Our toy business is off to an extremely good start this year.
Again that's also a lower-margin business.
So we're trying to be cognizant of the fact that the mix might not go our way in the fourth quarter.
So all things being equal if we had the same mix as last year and you added in the fact that we had all those expedited costs we certainly would have margin improvement but it's not looking -- so far after a couple of weeks that's the way it's playing out.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Kevin just a couple of product questions for you.
Can you talk a little bit about the Juicy business in terms of the velvet crush collection in terms of the jackets or the bottoms like what have you learned so far on that launch? Bob you ask some really detailed questions that I often struggle with answering.
I can tell you this about Juicy: Juicy had a great launch.
Juicy performed exceptionally well in certain parts of the country and as expected not quite as well in other parts.
From a classification perspective it outperformed in some categories for instance footwear or handbag in particular.
And the rest of the businesses we're learning.
And we -- the path forward on that I think will play out but we still feel really strong about the overall Juicy business.
I can't comment on the crushed velvet though.
I'll dabble on the merchant side of it in terms of anything that's easily identifiable as Juicy has been selling very well.
The stuff that's more -- less logo-ed or less identifiable that's where it struggles a little bit.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And Kev can you talk a little bit about the J.
Lo business like the gilded glamour collection.
There's a lot of like glitter going on there as well as floral.
I just wondered sort of how has that been trending for you.
Bob are you interested in a job in merchandising? Because it sounds like you might have the affinity for it.
So product development and merchandising next time I see you I'm going to talk to you about future career opportunities.
Jennifer Lopez also is doing very well.
Again your level of detail.
You got me Bob.
Research Division</strong> And speaking of merchandising is -- do you have any update for us? No no no update on our search.
We're still focused on it.
Obviously it's a key focus of mine but no update since a couple of weeks ago at the investor conference.
Our next question is from Michael Binetti with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Ken -- Wes one thing on the Click &amp; Collect you guys have -- gave us good update on the attachment rate or the cross-shopping rate you're seeing on those test markets.
But can you help us think about the actual magnitude of how big that program is as a percent of sales in the areas where you're testing it so we can get some kind of an idea of the overall dollars of this program? No not really yet to be honest with you.
We just started in October.
It's in 3 markets and we really haven't had a chance to market it.
We're really focusing more on operational right now and trying to determine what the effect of promise window is.
Right now we're at 4 hours we'd like to bring that down to 2 and that's really what we're focused on.
So we'll definitely update you with more details on that once we roll it out next spring.
The goal is to roll it out in the second quarter sometime.
We're shooting for May 1.
That's sort of the internal goal.
We'll hopefully be able to hit that.
But once we put the marketing behind it like some of our competitors have in terms of tab an even in broadcast in some cases I think we'll be able to better understand the demand.
Right now the demand is pretty low given that we're really not marketing it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a couple of questions to help with model here for the -- going forward.
You said things have spiked with weather here but you also commented that you're planning outerwear down after a long cold weather season last year.
Can you talk about any flexibility you may have to chase or even just to pull-forward deliveries to national brands? Well yes outerwear is one of the easiest categories to chase because a lot of the product that we buy is from folks that have warehouses here in the U.S.
So that's something that we can easily chase so I'm not too concerned about that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I just look at your guidance for the comps in the fourth quarter it seems like you'd need the transaction count to go positive.
It would be first time we'd see that in a while to get to that number.
You are lapping a pretty easy comparison on the transaction count you gave us in the fourth quarter.
But maybe just a little bit of thinking along the 3 components that you give us every quarter for comps on how you get to your fourth quarter number? Yes I mean I think the traffic is going to have to be pretty much flat and the rest is going to come from ticket.
The AUR we've talked about has been consistently up a couple percent.
We hope to improve on clearance which should help drive that AUR and hopefully people are feeling a little bit better economically and they'll put another unit in the basket.
So -- but yes the traffic is definitely going to have to improve.
No question about that.
And our next question is from Paul Lejuez with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just curious what's driving AUR higher? Is -- just if you look at national brands versus national brands last year and private versus private are you seeing increases there? I'm just wondering how much of it is the mix one versus the other versus like-for-like? I mean it's -- like-for-like is not up.
That's pretty easy to answer.
So it's all coming from mix and I'd say a majority of it is coming from national brands.
There is some benefit from clearance but most of it is coming from national brands.
LLC Research Division</strong> Got you.
And then just on IZOD and Juicy obviously October seemed to have fallen short of your expectations but just wondering if those 2 met your expectations in terms of the percentage of the box that they represented post-launch? And an even bigger picture when you guys have a brand launch such as those how do you plan it in terms of what percent it should represent of the total box? I mean I think from what -- what I would say they both got off to a good start.
I think IZOD did probably did a little bit better in October than Juicy.
And how we really plan it is it should be incremental to what it replaced.
Our rule of thumb is the cleanest thing that we've used is what happened when we brought in Jennifer Lopez and Marc Anthony.
We got a little less than 100 basis points lift from that so that's kind of how we planned the business.
I'd say that's how we've done going forward and we don't really have enough data yet to make the call on whether we'll hit it.
That's what we put into the plans to hit.
So IZOD is a little bit different because we want to make sure that it doesn't cannibalize other brands in the store and we've built that into some of our thinking.
So that might not provide as big an incremental lift as Juicy which in some cases is replacing either -- some underperforming brands.
Next we'll go to Mark Altschwager with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on guidance.
The company does have the various comp drivers of loyalty beauty marketing and the new products.
At the Analyst Day you laid out the potential contribution on a 3-year basis.
I was hoping you could just talk a little bit more about the order of magnitude each of these should present in Q4 and early '15.
Just the plan calling for 400 basis points plus of sequential improvement: trying to get a better sense of the buildup to that number.
Well I mean it's pretty simple.
We're planning the basis down 4% which is what we're running.
And then we're planning digital up between 20% an 25% which is kind of what I mentioned.
The additional day is worth about $90 million to $100 million.
Personalization is worth about $50 million.
Beauty's not worth a lot because it's only in small number of incremental stores so maybe $10 million.
Loyalty is worth about $60 million.
So if you do the math on that you get to a 2.5 comp.
'15 we'll talk about more lately but if you're looking out now we'd use 150-basis-point lift for 71% -- or roughly 70% of our stores.
And beauty we'll have to give you more granular guidance in February because I don't have the exact rollout plan for the 400 stores we expect to add next year.
Research Division</strong> That's really helpful.
And then if I'm looking at Q4 if the comp is trending below that 2% to 3% expectation do you have any levers on the cost side that you can pull in order to still get close to the low end of the guidance range? I mean we try to manage it as best as we can.
That's kind of what we get paid to do so -- and we're not going to cut advertising.
That's pretty much done.
We'll have to flex store payroll if we can and there's other levers.
If there's not unit demand out there and the miss is coming from E-Com which I highly doubt but we could pull levers on that.
So we always try to do the best we can.
We focus on trying to deliver the earnings number and we have a lot of different levers to pull.
In the fourth quarter your advertising is big.
There's nothing you can do there.
That's about the only thing I would say is fixed.
Store payroll we can flex a little bit.
And next we'll go to Kimberly Greenberger with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering Wes in the fourth quarter with your guidance of 2% comp at the low end would you be expecting SG&amp;A to deleverage at that level? I know you said that you expect it to grow faster in Q4 but would -- are you planning SG&amp;A dollars to deleverage at the low end of your comp range? Yes.
I mean as I mentioned in the earlier questions we have incremental things like more beauty stores and the loyalty program which add incremental cost to last year.
I still would expect to be at the low end of the 1.5% to 2.5% guidance that we gave for SG&amp;A dollar growth at the beginning of the year for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Kevin loyalty benefits can you just help us understand the difference in the benefits in the loyalty program to consumers who are not Kohl's credit card shoppers? And I think you said at the Analyst Day that if you are a Kohl's credit card holder you can also sign up for the loyalty program.
I would assume those benefits will be a little bit different but just help us understand those 2 different types of benefits if you could.
And Wes where do the costs associated with the loyalty program show up in your P&amp;L? Well the loyalty program is pretty easy to explain it's tender agnostic.
So whether you're a credit card customer or a non-credit card customer you get the same benefits.
There's more aspects of the program in terms of sharing and surprise but the basic premise of the program is for every 100 points you get you get a $5 reward that we give to you each month and you have 30 days to spend it.
So the benefits are the same.
If you're a credit card customer obviously there are credit events each month and other benefits you get for being a credit card customer but they're not associated with the loyalty program.
The benefits are exactly the same no matter who you are for loyalty.
In terms of cost the actual reward shows up as a markdown so that would affect gross margin and the various costs associated with marketing the program graphics in the stores things like that which show up in SG&amp;A.
Our next question is from Stacie Rabinowitz with Consumer Edge Research.
LLC</strong> I was just wondering what kind of synergies you're seeing among the different initiatives that you're counting on for growth right now? So are you seeing loyalty members buying more national brand versus private band? Are you seeing loyalty members buying more beauty? Are you seeing any beauty-national brand overlap? Well up until recently we've kept loyalty and beauty relatively separate.
So I don't have a good answer for you on that.
I'd tell you the non-credit card customers in general and newer credit card customers -- or new -- or newer customers tend to have more of an affinity towards national brands because that's what they know and like.
Once they start shopping Kohl's more frequently they understand the value of our private and exclusive brands.
But to get them in the door it's really with the national brands.
And we'll go to Patrick McKeever with MKM Partners.
Research Division</strong> You didn't mention the West Coast ports port slowdown whatever issues that are going on out there.
Did that have any impact? Or has that had any impact on the business.
Just from a product flow standpoint is that something to think about? Well I think looking backwards yes there are categories and classifications within the business that were negatively impacted by slowdowns in deliveries.
Obviously to a great degree we anticipated what happened and so we did pull up a lot of receipts into the third quarter to accommodate it but there were still further delays that impacted it.
I would say overall I don't think it made a difference in traffic for the third quarter.
And that's really what drove the slowdown in sales in October is fewer customers coming into the stores.
As we look at the fourth quarter it's really more about an item issue.
So there are going to be probably items that we will have planned to have had on hand and they will not be delivered on the time we thought.
But on a broad basis I don't believe it's going to have any big impact.
Yes.
And also I mean just the way that our distribution centers are located across the country we basically have a 50-50 split between East and West Coast predicated by where our distribution centers are and that hasn't changed.
That's something that we just do as a matter of course of business.
So some of the stuff we bring in isn't really affected.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the -- just on the comp variants in the third quarter versus the guidance that you gave right before the investor event the 40 basis point slip so to speak.
You said much of that was in the final week which you didn't -- which didn't go as you were planning it.
How about just the EPS number of $0.70 how did that compare to your internal plan if you care to talk about that? Well we don't give quarterly guidance anymore.
So I'm not really interested in talking about that because that was -- we're sticking with our annual guidance.
And the miss was really just as you mentioned in the fourth week.
We obviously had a number that we went with when we had the Analyst Day and we missed our plan in the rest of the week.
Research Division</strong> Did -- I guess does it have an impact on the guidance -- the EPS guidance that you gave at that time for the low end of that 405 to 440 -- 445 range? No.
I mean we -- no.
Our next question is from Dana Telsey with the Telsey Advisory Group.
As we get towards post-holiday and the importance of post-holiday with gift cards how are you planning post-holiday? Is there anything different we should be watching for this year as compared to last year? We haven't really planned this but I think there's an opportunity for us that will be created in post-holiday around loyalty in particular because those customers who have enrolled will have earned significant amounts of benefits that they're going to be able to use post the holiday.
So we haven't really made any assumptions of the impact on traffic or sales for January as a result of that Dana.
But I think I'm pretty optimistic that that could be a positive for us.
I think that's right Wes? Yes I agree.
And next we'll go to David Glick with Buckingham Research.
Kevin I'm just wondering how your experience with your most recent brand launches Juicy and IZOD how those impact your point of view going forward in terms of the types of brands that you're going to pursue next and how they fit into the sort of lifestyle continuum of contemporary versus more traditional brands? I think it's going to be a mix for sure.
I would say for certain we're happy with both.
Not surprisingly we spend more time looking at brands that are closer to what we already have to assess the impact on existing businesses.
So I would say IZOD is a good example of that type of brand where it's a new space for us it's a new brand for us.
We had high expectations and we pretty much exceeded those but we're very focused on the incremental piece because we do know it's going to probably impact the existing business more.
I think Wes rightfully called out Juicy as a brand that since it's in a new space we didn't expect it to have the type of impact elsewhere and I don't think it did.
Not surprisingly during September when business was better those 2 brands both performed better.
And then in October when traffic slowed relatively those 2 brands didn't perform as well as they did during September.
So generally David I would say we think about the brands and their impact as we think about the open space.
So if the space is wide open probably a bigger positive-overall impact and if the space is going to affect some other things around it probably a little bit less positive impact.
Do you think there's some white space in the men's contemporary area? I mean you had Chaps you added IZOD it seems like you have traditional pretty well covered.
Is that an area of opportunity that you're focused on? Yes for sure.
And to the presenters we have no further questions in queue.
All right.
Thanks everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference is available for replay.
It starts today at 11 a.m.
Eastern Time and will last until December 13 at midnight.
You may access the replay at any time by dialing (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 338567.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Kohl's Q4 Year End 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
Certain statements made on this call including projected financial results are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
Kohl's intends forward-looking terminology such as believes expects may will should anticipates plans or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements.
Such statements are subject to certain risks and uncertainties which could cause Kohl's actual results to differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking statements.
Such risks and uncertainties include but are not limited to those that are described in Item 1A in Kohl's most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and as may be supplemented from time to time in Kohl's other filings with the SEC all of which are expressly incorporated herein by reference.
Also please note that the replays of this recording will not be updated so if you are listening after February 25 2016 it is possible that the information discussed is no longer current.
At this time all the participant phone lines are in a listen-only mode.
Later we'll conduct a question-and-answer session.
As a reminder today's conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Wes McDonald Chief Financial Officer of Kohl's Department Stores.
Please go ahead.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</strong> Thank you.
Good morning.
With me today is Kevin Mansell our Chairman CEO and President.
I'll start today's call by walking through our operational results.
Kevin then will provide some more details on our Greatness Agenda initiatives and then we'll open up the call to your questions.
As we announced earlier this month comp sales increased 40 basis points for the quarter.
Though we were pleased to report our fifth consecutive quarter of positive comps sales were volatile during the quarter and were below our expectations.
Holiday sales which include the weeks between Thanksgiving and Christmas increased 4% and store traffic was 400 basis points better than industry average.
This strength however was substantially offset by softness in early November and in January when demand for cold weather goods was especially low.
For the year comp sales increased 70 basis points.
Looking at the metrics of the comp the components of the comp for the 40 basis point increase in the fourth quarter were as follows.
Transactions per store increased 20 basis points for the quarter.
Average transaction value also increased 20 basis points comprised of an average unit retail increase of 30 basis points with a drop in units per transaction of 10 basis points.
The components of the 70 basis comp increase for fiscal 2015 were as follows.
Transactions per store decreased 20 basis points for the year.
Average transaction value increased 90 basis points comprised of an average unit retail increase of 130 basis points with a drop in units per transaction of 40 basis points.
From a line of business perspective Footwear and Home were the strongest categories for both the quarter and the year.
Accessories was the weakest category in both periods.
On a regional basis the West region was the strongest for both the quarter and the year while the Mid-Atlantic and South Central were the most difficult regions.
Gross margin was challenging for the quarter down approximately 80 basis points.
The decrease was driven by higher promotional markdowns during the holiday season as well as an increase in shipping cost versus last year driven by a 30% increase in digital orders.
The effect of the increased penetration of the national brand was as expected as penetration grew to 58% for the quarter and 52% in the year.
The growth in penetration was similar for both the quarter and the year.
Gross margin was flat for the first three quarters of the year.
However gross margin for the year decreased 27 basis points to 36.1% of sales due to the fourth quarter performance which was lower than our guidance for the year of flat to up 20 basis points.
SG&amp;A dollars increased $60 million to $1.3 billion for the quarter.
As a percentage of sales SG&amp;A deleveraged 80 basis points.
As expected marketing expenses deleveraged as we invested heavily to drive sales.
Many of those expenditures will not be repeated in 2016.
Store payroll also deleveraged due to ongoing wage pressure and omnichannel support and ship-from-store and buy online pick up in store.
During the fourth quarter almost 30% of our digital sales units were either shipped from or picked up in our stores more than two times last year's penetration rate.
EFCs and IT also deleveraged.
Store expenses distribution centers for our brick-and-mortar stores corporate and credit all leveraged.
For the year SG&amp;A expenses were $4.5 billion an increase of 2.3% over 2014 which was consistent with our guidance of a 1.5% to 2.5% increase.
As a percentage of sales SG&amp;A deleveraged 30 basis points.
Store payroll corporate e-commerce fulfillment centers and IT deleveraged for the year while marketing credit and distribution centers for our brick-and-mortar stores all leveraged.
Depreciation expense was $239 million for the quarter.
For the year depreciation was $934 million generally in line with our guidance of $940 million.
Depreciation increased in both periods primarily due to higher IT amortization.
Interest expense decreased $5 million to $79 million for the quarter and decreased $13 million to $327 million for the year.
As a reminder our original guidance was $335 million.
The decreases are due to favorable interest rates achieved during our $1.1 billion debt refinancing earlier in the year.
Our income tax rate was 35.9% for the quarter and 36.3% for the year.
The tax rate increased 60 basis points during both periods as the prior-year periods included some favorable tax audit settlements.
This was versus our guidance of 37% for the fiscal year.
For the quarter net income was $296 million and diluted earnings per share were $1.58.
Excluding $169 million of debt extinguishment losses that were recorded earlier in the year net income was $781 million for the year and diluted EPS was $4.01.
We recently closed two stores one in Texas and the other in California.
We currently operate 1 164 stores.
Gross square footage is 100.4 million square feet and selling square footage is 83.8 million square feet.
Moving on to the balance sheet we ended the quarter with $707 million of cash and cash equivalents approximately half of last year's balance.
Higher inventory lower payables and payment of the debt premium in cash contributed to the decrease.
Inventory dollars per store were 5.7% higher than year-end 2014.
Units per store were up 5% higher than the end of last year.
The increases are primarily within national brands which are up more than 10% over last year.
We expect inventory to be down low single digits at the end of the first quarter and down mid single digits for the remainder of the year.
AP as a percent of inventory decreased 865 basis points to 31%.
Almost half of the decrease is due to the anniversary of last year's port strike.
Lower year-over-year January receipts and higher inventory levels also contributed to the decrease.
Our capital expenditures were $690 million for the year approximately $100 million lower than our original expectations.
IT spending was approximately $300 million which was $50 million lower than expectations as we are buying our registers closer to installing our new point-of-sale system.
Store experience and refresh spending which includes beauty remodels new stores and general store upkeep was $250 million about $50 million lower than our original plans as we reduced the number of stores we are remodeling and revised our in-store merchandising plans.
Base capital spending of approximately $150 million was generally consistent with our original plans.
We expect capital expenditures of $825 million in 2016 approximately $135 million higher than 2015.
About $60 million of the increase was related to a timing shift in IT mainly due to our register purchase for that new point-of-sale system this year.
In addition we are accelerating the construction of a fifth e-commerce fulfillment center with construction beginning in 2016 with the goal to open in time for fall 2017.
CapEx is expected to include $375 million for IT spending $250 million for store strategies including new stores remodels beauty and easy experience initiatives and new brand rollouts and $200 million in base capital including investment in the e-fulfillment center.
Weighted average diluted shares were 187 million for the quarter and 195 million for the year.
During the quarter we repurchased 4.5 million shares of our stock bringing our total for the year to 17.4 million shares repurchased.
We ended the year with 187 million shares of stock outstanding.
On Wednesday our board approved an 11% increase in our quarterly dividend.
The $0.50 dividend is payable on March 23 to shareholders of record at the close of business on March 9.
I'll now turn it over to Kevin who will provide additional insights on our results.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Wes.
I want to take a minute and make a few comments regarding 2015 (10:57).
This past 2015 (11:02) results came on top of very strong holiday (11:04) and were our fifth consecutive quarter of positive sales increases since the launch of the Greatness Agenda.
During the most competitive period between Thanksgiving and Christmas we achieved a 4% sales increase with customers definitely choosing Kohl's.
It's clear to us that the strategic framework of the Greatness Agenda is working and we're making progress towards our goal of being the most engaging retailer in America.
We've seen great success in many of the major initiatives engineered under our plan and are focused on product initiatives.
We've successfully grown the depth and breadth of our national brand portfolio and have seen double-digit increases in sales of most national brands.
We've put our stake in the ground to be the destination for Active and Wellness and have dramatically increased our share of this growing category positioning us for success in the future.
We made five big investments for holiday: Active and Wellness Premium Electronics Beauty Licensed Entertainment and Team Apparel.
And in total we achieved our plan for the fourth quarter for these investments and achieved a double-digit sales increase combined.
And finally our localization efforts are proving out and 2016 will be the year that all of our planning efforts for unique assortments by store will come to life in 90% of our store portfolio.
This means we'll be both improving the in-store experience for the customer and very importantly better managing our inventory across the company.
In our focus around omnichannel initiatives we're seeing the results on our multi-year multi-billion-dollar investment in digital technology with online demand driving sales.
Online-generated demand was up 25% for the year and 30% for the fourth quarter.
Just as importantly much of that demand was fulfilled with best-in-class ship-from-store enablement and buy online pick up in store capability.
Both of these capabilities will create more opportunity for future growth provide a greater customer experience and leverage our store portfolio in a meaningful way.
Our Kohl's app was used by more than 11 million customers and growing.
And new mobile in-store capabilities including mobile pay were successful as well.
Our digital and mobile-centric Yes2You Rewards Program has quickly become an industry-leading loyalty program and we now have the opportunity to cultivate that membership base and increase our share of wallet from them by giving them more relevant and more personal experiences to draw them into the brand and back into the store.
Moving on to looking forward.
I want to provide an update on the Greatness Agenda organization and stores.
While I'm happy with the progress we've made on many of our key initiatives we were very clear on the expected outcomes of the Greatness Agenda.
By 2017 we had targeted three outcomes: 90th percentile on associate engagement best-in-class customer engagement and $21 billion in sales.
I'm extremely proud of the progress that we've made on the first two outcomes and we are right where we need to be to achieving those two goals.
But for many reasons including a difficult macroeconomic and retail environment it's unlikely we'll achieve our sales goal on the timeline we had originally set though I do believe we'll achieve that goal within a short time after.
It's clear though that we need to move at greater speed and agility accelerate plan changes in our business model more quickly and focus our resources on the most productive assets and projects while moving away from those that are not delivering results.
We need to embrace the evolving behaviors of our customers and take actions to support the long-term health and success of our business.
We began those efforts recently by realigning our organization and leadership in buying and planning store environment and design and digital and infrastructure technology.
We changed the scope of some of our leaders and teams reorganized some functions and brought key teams under shared leaders.
The purpose of those changes was to enable efficiency and decision-making leverage our biggest asset our inventory more effectively and deploy capital resources more clearly around investments that drive both sales and profitability.
Most importantly they were targeted to increase our ability to respond with more speed to our customer.
As you likely read in our press release this morning we're announcing several updates to our store portfolio and omnichannel strategy.
We will be piloting seven new small format stores approximately 35 000 square foot in size that will open this year which will help both inform future store size and rationalization and identify omnichannel opportunities as well.
We'll also continue our Off-Aisle pilot with two new stores and open 12 Fila stores to gauge the possibilities in the outlet space.
In addition we'll close 18 underperforming stores which represent less than 1% of our total sales.
We expect to announce the specific store locations by the end of March.
The closures are expected to generate annual SG&amp;A savings of approximately $45 million and annual depreciation savings of approximately $10 million.
As a result of both the store closures and the organizational realignment we expect to incur approximately $150 million to $170 million in charges that will be recognized in the first quarter and second quarter of 2016.
I'm very happy to say that every affected Kohl's store associate will be offered the opportunity to work in a nearby Kohl's store location or if they prefer a competitive severance package.
These organizational and store changes are a good example of how we intend to capture more expense savings an effort which will be an important part of how we reach our sales goals and increase profitability at the same time.
While I believe most investors give us high marks for expense management we know we need to do better.
Traditionally our goal has been to leverage our expenses assuming we achieve a 2% sales increase.
And despite the fact that we're experiencing significant wage pressure in our stores and intend to continue to invest in our omnichannel initiatives we're moving to lower our leverage point to a 1.5% comparable sales increase.
The blueprint for that effort will be a plan to reimagine all of our decision-making processes and better utilize our previous investment in technology to do so.
I've challenged all of our teams to explore ways that we'll find more efficiency in our work and focus on speed in reaching our goals.
Although we've made progress in both our marketing spend and speed we believe there are opportunities in that area of our cost structure as part of this effort as well.
Our associates have wholeheartedly embraced the Greatness Agenda and we've seen an evolution in the way we work together.
By empowering our teams against the goal of greater speed and giving them the space they need to work in in a more streamlined way I believe we'll continue to develop ways to do more with less something Kohl's has always been known for.
The other area of opportunity I want to discuss is the work being done around lowering the level of our inventory.
This is especially critical in allowing our stores to be more efficient lower our costs and deliver better customer experience at the same time.
Since 2011 our average inventory per store has grown approximately 15%.
While some of this was funded to add inventory for the digital portion of our business and to aid in our national brand initiatives we're committed to manage it more intelligently.
Key areas of focus will be around effective implementation of our localization initiative leveraging technology to increase the percentage of inventory shipped from stores to fulfill online demand or online demand picked up in store and gaining efficiency in buying and planning through our recent reorganization.
I expect that we can reduce our inventory per store by 10% by 2017.
In the more near term we expect to enter this fall season with inventory per store down mid single digits.
Finally I also want to ensure you that while we're committed to investing in the long-term health of our business we'll also continue to be good stewards of our capital.
As you saw in our press release our board has approved an 11% increase in our dividend and we intend to continue our share buyback plan.
I'll now turn it back to Wes to give you our guidance for fiscal 2016.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</strong> Thanks Kevin.
We would expect earnings per diluted share of $4.05 to $4.25 for fiscal 2016.
The guidance is based upon the following assumptions: Comp sales of flat to up 1%; total sales down 50 basis points to up 50 basis points.
This includes the effect of the lost sales from the closed stores in 2016.
However we would expect to retain some of these sales in nearby stores and through the digital channel.
Gross margin rate performance of flat to up 20 basis points.
We would expect to have significant pressure in the first quarter of approximately 150 basis points drop versus last year as we continue to aggressively clear excess merchandise.
We would expect to see improvement in each of the remaining quarters as our inventory levels drop below last year and become sequentially better throughout the year with the biggest improvement in the fourth quarter of 2016.
SG&amp;A dollar increase of 1% to 2%.
Our expectations for first quarter SG&amp;A dollar growth would be 3% to 4% as we've shifted the timing of our advertising expenses and it's more weighted to the first quarter this year.
Depreciation expense of $940 million.
The SG&amp;A and depreciation guidance includes the partial year savings from the store closures in 2016.
Interest expense of $310 million tax rate of 37%.
This guidance also assumes share repurchases of $600 million at an average price of $50 per share.
We would expect lease costs and PP&amp;E write-offs related to store closures and severance associated with the store closures and corporate reorganization to be approximately $150 million to $170 million with $55 million to $65 million of this charge included in Q1.
The earnings guidance I just gave excludes any of this impact as these are just estimates at this time.
And with that we'll open the call to questions.
Introducing Lorraine Hutchinson of Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
I was hoping to get an update on some of the various facets of your sales growth program.
So cosmetics any type of update on performance in the stores that that's in and also loyalty program metrics and how that impacted the fourth quarter? Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> On the Beauty it's still continuing to see about a 200 basis point lift total store in the stores that we're rolling it out into.
We'll complete that in the spring.
We'll have all the stores done by the end of the second quarter a little earlier than we did this year.
So we feel very good about that.
We're also saving money on a lot of the investment in the stores.
We've cut the investment about in half because we saw the same lift in the modified little bit less expensive version as we did in the earlier version.
From a loyalty perspective we really anniversaried that in October.
We didn't expect to see any lift when we built the goal we shared with you guys on October of 2014.
We didn't really count on any lift from that.
They continue to spend a lot more money than non-loyalty members.
Obviously that's self-selecting but even in like-for-like we're still seeing a lift.
So we feel very good about the loyalty program.
The focus really in 2016 is to move them along the value chain so try to get them to spend more money at Kohl's as loyalty members.
And then we're working behind the scenes as we roll out our new point-of-sale system in the fall to do a better job of being able to prescreen those folks behind the scenes to pre-approve them for a Kohl's credit card and explain the great additional value they get with that.
So that'll be more of the focus as we move into 2016 and 2017 not so much trying to sign up more loyalty members although that's certainly a goal but trying to move them into being more loyal customers either through spending more on loyalty or eventually moving them to a Kohl's credit card customer.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Matthew Boss of JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
So two questions.
The first is I guess as we think about the delta between your holiday comps which you said were up 4% and then the reversal that we saw in January which I think you said was more weather-related I guess what comp are you embedding for the first quarter and have you seen any change post all of this January fray? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think from a sales perspective I would expect that the first quarter sales are pretty similar to the guidance we gave for the year.
I don't really see any big change there.
Probably the more noticeable difference that Wes touched on in the guidance review in the first quarter is we'll continue to have pretty significant merchandise margin pressure as we liquidate our heavier inventories coming out of the holiday season.
That's really the big big difference.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Yeah I wouldn't see a lot of volatility in sales across the quarters as we move throughout the year.
Let me be clear the big issue in the fourth quarter was the first three weeks of November.
January was a very minor issue.
The drop in January was really related all to Winter Storm Jonas.
It was about a $20 million hit and that's basically what we finished down.
So the first three weeks of November as everybody probably mentioned either in their sales updates or in their earnings call was very difficult to sell any cold weather apparel and that's where the big drop versus our plan was.
Great.
And then just a follow-up.
So higher level in the first chunk of store closings announced today how do you view the chain today? Do you see additional closings over time? And then is there anything structurally that you guys think you can execute differently or make changed if you were a private company versus a public company? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> On the store closures as you know Matt this is probably the first experience we've had closing more multiple number of stores and it does involve multiple markets as well.
And the process that we went through to determine that certainly involved looking at the total sales in the store and the momentum in the sales in the store because that's pretty critical.
Is the store treading water or headed down? Second most importantly probably the market view.
So we took a really critical look at every single one of our markets and tried to make a determination of where we had significant store overlap in a trade area that we were not generating incremental sales in and stores that perhaps were being impacted more by our omnichannel initiatives.
And obviously also involved in it is cost review.
And so stores that we really didn't see the future potential to generate profitability in because of let's say very high rent expense came under review as well.
I think that we're going to learn a lot.
I mean I think fundamentally the answer to the question you had about additional store closures is we really don't know.
I think we'll watch what happens with this process through the fall and the holiday season and we'll make another assessment as we come out of this year to make a better determination of what the right portfolio really looks like.
Hopefully that answers everything on the store piece.
We're disclosing everything we can on that and...
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Yeah we're going to – yeah we don't – we've closed like five or six stores in the time I've been here.
So we need to understand what happens to retain sales in the stores that surround those stores and if there's any effect on e-com as well.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> On the question on – I think I guess essentially your question is really public versus private.
I think that companies are successful in both ways for sure.
And we've been very successful as a public company but we also as a public company have an obligation to continually review all of the options we have to ensure we're maximizing shareholder value.
That's not something new Matt.
We've taken that obligation on for many many years.
I've been on the board for more than 15 years and it's a constant review with advisors to look at do we have the right store portfolio are we making the right investments is the capital allocation decision-making that we are employing sound? And are there alternatives to that that we could consider? And so nothing new is happening there.
That's been that way for as long as I've been involved at Kohl's and I suspect will continue to be that way.
So I don't think there's a – it would be better for us to be public it would be better for us to be private it's really just a focus on shareholder value as we would make the same determination about share buyback or dividend yield or capital expenditures.
Great.
Best of luck.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks Matt.
Our next question comes from the line of Bob Drbul of Nomura.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Bob.
Inc.</span></strong> Kevin can you talk a little bit more around the marketing expenditures in terms of you know you said several things won't be repeated.
Like how much did you spend last year? What's the opportunity for savings versus reinvestments and what really did you guys learn as you went through the fourth quarter around the marketing plan (31:53)? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean for the year Bob we spent less in marketing than we did in the prior year.
So that's a good thing.
To be totally honest with you we had set a goal at the beginning of last year to have a larger reduction in ad expenditures than we ended up spending.
And fundamentally what happened there is as we got into the fourth quarter and we saw the weak really strength or lack of strength in our business and weakness across the board we made the determination we need to be really aggressive in terms of ensuring that we were maximizing our traffic levels in the store.
And so on the positive side marketing leveraged and we actually reduced our marketing spend which is something long term we intend to continue to do.
On the negative side I think our expectations at the beginning of the year were more optimistic than we ended up.
Marketing is definitely a component part of the areas that we're looking to reduce expenses in over the course of the future years and frankly the key unlock there we really believe is personalization.
I mean that is going to be the driver whether it's the application of our Yes2You Reward Loyalty Program to improve as Wes covered both total sales with those customers but also a conversion over time to consider a credit card as a reasonable alternative as well or it's just making the spend that we have around personalization more effective regardless of whether that's print or direct mail or the utilization of our app.
So we've set goals for ourselves and we definitely think that it's an important part.
After store payroll marketing is our single biggest expense so we know if we're really going to reduce expenses over time we've got to do a better job of marketing.
Inc.</span></strong> And as we look to 2016 on the e-commerce side where do you see opportunities to become more efficient and improve profitability there? I mean I think you mentioned shipping costs.
But can you just talk a little bit about how you're approaching that as it continues to grow and somewhat pressure the business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
I think two things.
First and foremost one of the big changes that we made this year we alluded to it in the call was the decision to reorganize our buying and planning structure and essentially bring together our e-com buying and planning teams with our brick-and-mortar buying and planning teams.
And while at the time that we built a separate e-com team it made sense for us because it was a small but growing business today it's a very big business.
But most importantly from a customer's perspective she sees this through one lens.
So we know that we need one view of the customer and the way to achieve that is through one organization long term.
What that means we think is that we'll do a better job of inventory management as a result.
So I think one way we're looking at this is inventory management more effectively and that will include using the inventories we have in our stores to fulfill online orders.
That was very successful all year last year and it peaked in a dramatic way in the fourth quarter.
And we suspect that will continue to be a big tool to both improve inventory leverage but also make us more efficient.
The other piece that we know we have to find a better long-term solution to is around fulfillment costs.
And that's critical for us.
And so we are investing Wes called out some of the big things everything from the beginning of a building of a new e-fulfillment center to the implementation of tools inside our stores to make order fulfillment more efficient and less expensive and improve speed.
So those are the two lines that we're focused on.
Michelle is kind of overseeing the buying and planning review and Sona is very much involved in ensuring that we're leveraging on the fulfillment side.
I don't know Wes if you want to add anything? Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean we learned a lot with the increased volume.
I think either Kevin or I mentioned it was 30% of our digital volume in the fourth quarter.
We're getting our logistics team involved in working with the stores and spending additional capital to better configure the backroom to make it more efficient to ship.
So we're looking for a 50% improvement in UPH in the ship-from-store shipping channel next year.
And we're also spending a lot more time and money.
The key for us with our low AURs and our relatively low average order value online is to keep the package together.
And so we're spending a lot of time and technology in making our systems better to do that.
So those will be key for us to be more efficient.
From a rate perspective our rates with UPS and FedEx and the Postal Service are as competitive out there.
We're going to do probably $3 billion of digitally generated business in 2016.
So I don't think we're at a disadvantage from a rate perspective.
We do have to do a better job of keeping the order together.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Thank you very much.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks Bob.
Our next question comes from the line of Paul Trussell from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning Wes and Kevin.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> Wes I believe you said the national brands in 4Q were about 58% of sales up from 52%.
Could you maybe just touch on some of the initiatives you have on both the private label and the national brand side in 2016 and maybe how you might expect that to impact the mix going forward? And then just as a follow-up to that could you touch on maybe some of the category color a little bit more detail on how you're feeling about the juniors category women's apparel athletic and small electrics? Thanks.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Okay.
I can take the category real quick.
You mentioned all of our good categories so thank you for that.
Juniors had a positive comp for both the quarter and for the season.
So that business has really turned it around.
And they've done it the way I'd like to see all of our merchants do it.
They've cut their inventory and grew their comps.
So it is possible to do both.
Active continues to do very very well led by Nike but there's other guys participating in that success as well.
I would say premium electronics did much better than kitchen electrics.
Kitchen electrics was a little tough in the fourth quarter but we're growing that premium electronics area.
And I would include things like active and wellness initiatives.
So things like Fitbit would be included in that category as well.
And then I'll let Kev talk about some of the – we have a lot of new initiatives from a private brand perspective that we're very excited about.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think generally I would expect that both our national and private brand portfolios have the opportunity to perform more relatively equally beginning this year.
Last year was definitely a year in which we dramatically made investments in some of our national brands.
As you know one that you called out was our Active and Wellness category which was extremely successful.
And I continue to see growth there and we are still expecting to grow the business.
But we also know that we need to have a good balance.
And so what we've been working on Paul is to really reimagine and change the way we go about delivering our private and exclusive brands with an eye towards increased speed and shortened delivery times because we know that that's the only way we're going to get really long-term improvement there.
We're also targeting each of our – particularly large private brands for relaunches.
And we're starting naturally with the biggest single private brand we have which is Sonoma.
And Sonoma will be relaunched as a brand this year and we do expect that that's going to rejuvenate that business in a meaningful way.
So I think we're happy with the balance.
We're not backing away at all on our intensity around national brands.
We still believe that that's really critical for us to continue to both support the ones we have whether they're big brands like Levi in denim or Nike in active but also add new brands.
So we're definitely focused on both the omnichannel and stores' considerations of where we could improve our brand portfolio.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Yeah.
I think there's a big opportunity from a digital channel perspective to better emphasize private and exclusive brands.
We may have gotten a little ahead of our skis on emphasizing national brands because it's a good way for us to try out new national brand.
It's low risk for both parties.
And that's a much bigger share of the business online than it is in store.
So I think there's opportunities.
And one of the advantages I think that Kevin mentioned of putting the merchants together is there can be a better balance of looking at the total picture versus just driving one particular channel.
Inc.</span></strong> That's very helpful color.
Thank you.
A very quick follow-up on store closures.
I think I believe you said that you will announce the actual locations by the end of March.
Can you just clarify and apologize if I missed it when the actual store closings are likely to occur? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Probably in June sometime in June.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
All right.
Helpful.
Thank you guys.
The next question comes from the line of Mark Altschwager of Robert W.
Baird.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
And thanks for taking the question.
I was hoping you could talk a bit more about how the various revenue components of your growth agenda have been evolving.
Obviously the revenue is running below your targeted rate and new store concepts have become a bigger part of the conversation.
So just trying to get a better sense of where you see the greatest opportunity for product and marketing initiatives to move the needle in 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think generally honestly Mark our focus is around our existing store portfolio.
That's where the improvement has to come from.
And as we both have alluded to utilizing the growth in online demand the embracing that customers have done around our digital platform more effectively by leveraging our store base and our store inventory is really the critical component that we need to improve on.
And that has a lot of elements to it that we're focused on everything from leveraging the inventory to improving the effectiveness in which we fulfill the orders and as Wes pointed out making technology drive better decisions in terms of where orders are fulfilled across the platform.
So our focus is definitely on our existing store platform.
But having said that we don't want to back down from looking at new ideas that might enhance the future for Kohl's.
So I still believe that the 35 000 square foot pilot stores that we're launching could be long term really important for us because they're a nod to the fact that more and more of our business is being online and while it's fulfilled in store either through ship from store or pick up in store that customer is starting out online.
And if we can find a way to have smaller stores that are effective and still provide that platform it just gives us a great opportunity as we look down the road in a few years.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Yeah I mean if you're just talking about comp metrics our ability to outperform the flat to 1% is going to be predicated on our ability to improve traffic from the roughly flat that it was this year.
So I continue to believe our average unit retail will be up.
It was up for the year.
It was somewhat muted in the fourth quarter just due to the extreme promotional nature of the business especially in our cold-weather merchandise as we had to liquidate merchandise.
But for us to exceed the guidance that we gave we're going to have to get traffic moving into a slightly positive direction.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> That's very helpful.
Thank you.
And the next question comes from the line of Oliver Chen from Cowen &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
Kevin on the reorganization regarding speed what's the lower hanging fruit there? And can you brief us on lead times now versus where you may want to go and how this may impact the merch margins? It sounds like integrated inventory is a nice opportunity.
And Wes on the 30% regarding utilizing your store network and the integration of bricks and clicks do you think that that number will continue to rise? And was there a breakout between the mix of ship from store versus picked up? And I think if you could highlight the frontier in terms of mobile and mobile traffic because we think that will continue to be a huge important piece of interactivity from the customers.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Okay.
I'll take the first but you got a lot of questions...
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Way more than one question.
Good thing you didn't breathe a lot so...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Nice job Oliver.
On the reorganization there's component parts to it right? The first and most important part is we recognize that while the structure we had was right for the time we had it we need a different view looking forward that reflects the way the customer looks at our business.
And the customer looks at our business through one lens.
It's seamless it's omnichannel and therefore that's how we have to make our decisions.
And so the buying and planning decisions that we'll make will be predicated on one view and that's the customers' view.
So that's got opportunity for us I because I think it will make us more sensitive to assortment sizes it'll make us more sensitive to leveraging the inventory that we have in our existing brick-and-mortar organization.
The second though really important component which you hit on is really speed.
And we probably would say that the biggest opportunity we have on speed is naturally inside our private and exclusive brand organization.
It's half of our business.
We work on longer lead times generally and we've had success in some areas.
Juniors is a great example of really driving down that cycle time and getting better top-line results and more effective inventory turnover.
And so employing some of those ideas into our other business is what we're focused on now.
And I wouldn't want to go through with you each and every brand and what the lead time is today and what our goals are.
And to be frank with you in each and every brand we probably don't have a completely clear vision on that.
But we definitely want to bring it way way down.
So I think on the speed initiative it's probably more about the private and exclusive brands.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Yeah and then your questions on digital I think the breakout was more like 25% ship from store 5% buy online pick up in store.
I would expect over the next few years the buy online pick up in store to at least double to 10%.
It's possible it could get to 15%.
That's sort of been a relatively common target for other retailers in our business.
We've learned that you can't market it all the time.
It was critical we got good adoption obviously the last few days before Christmas Eve.
It's a good thing to do around Valentine's Day Mother's Day Father's Day for last-minute kind of things as people pick up gifts for that.
So I think we'll learn more throughout the year now that the capability is well understood and well launched for us.
And then all the traffic really came from mobile the increases this year.
You're right to think that's where it's going to come from.
I think I'm most proud of the fact that our overall conversion rate for the year approached 4% for all devices but our conversion rate on the phone which is a lot lower than desktop and tablet improved 59%.
So our investments in improving the app especially was definitely well received by the customer.
I think Kevin mentioned there is 11 million downloads of our app and growing so that's a big portion of our IT investment going forward as well.
Okay.
Thank you.
That's super helpful.
And Kevin just lastly personalization.
I feel like this has been a topic that's come up in different ways in the past but now seems like the right time for this being material.
Can you articulate why you have conviction that personalization will really be a frontier which can drive results now? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think the reason we're more and more convicted on this is that we've now had enough time under our belt in testing the impact of personalization across a wide variety of media platforms everything from the utilization and conversion opening and conversion of our emails to the delivery of our direct mail vehicles to the utilization that customers have around our app which is of course highly personalized.
So I think what's driving probably the stronger language about the critical nature of personalization to improving sales productivity on our advertising expense is we now have a pretty long track record of the testing and the piloting.
We have to convert that now.
We have to scale it and we have to apply it to every single platform we have because that to us is going to be the long-term success.
It's not that unlike the localization initiatives importance to our inventory management.
While we know we've got to drive down inventory per store and utilize our store inventory to help fulfill this growing online demand we also know the most important thing we have to do is provide more localized assortments that are more attractive to the customers in the trade areas in which the stores sit..
So personalization is the most important thing that we have as a tool to drive advertising expense down over time.
And given it's our second biggest expense center that's a pretty important initiative.
Okay.
That's perfect.
Thanks for that and great job on all that innovation.
Thanks.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
And our next question comes from the line of Paul Lejuez from Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Hey thanks guys.
It's Tracy filling in for Paul.
I had a question about credit.
I was wondering if you've seen any change in the quality of your portfolio or like a rise in delinquencies? And what are you expecting for credit income in 2016? And then just a quick follow up on that small store format I'm just wondering what the key areas are that you expect you'll be reducing in size in that store? Thanks.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> We haven't seen any deterioration.
Our loss rate for the year was exactly the same as last year at 3.7%.
I would expect our credit income to rise modestly predicated on how successful we are at adding people to the credit file.
This past year we focused a lot on loyalty and not as much on credit and our applications were a little bit down to last year.
But I would expect as we've anniversaried loyalty and we saw this in the fourth quarter our approved applications were actually up.
So that gives me confidence that we'll grow our credit file in 2016.
And then the small store question? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think categories that will be downsized or maintained.
I mean I think generally – we haven't disclosed Tracy the specifics around the small stores either in terms of their locations or the category assortments that'll be inside the store.
I would say generally though the way you should think about it is the broad-based categories that are contained inside of a Kohl's store will be represented in the new stores as well but categories that have exhibited a very high level of digital demand will probably have further reductions in their space and assortment than other categories because our sense is that we can fulfill much of that in a digital way inside the store.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Thanks a lot guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
And the next question comes from the line of Neely Tamminga of Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Great.
Good morning.
This is Kayla Wesser on for Neely this morning.
Just two quick questions.
One about loyalty.
I know you mentioned that they spent a lot more in the quarter.
I'm just curious if you could give any more color on the bounce-backs maybe in post-holiday especially if you saw the visits – return visits or the spend that you were expecting maybe outside of the winter impacted areas? And then also just buy online pick up in store where are the attachment rates trending and they're kind of where you guys expected them? Thanks.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Yeah on the buy online pick up in store that's an easy one.
On average it's been about 25% it was actually more during holiday.
On loyalty we obviously had a lot more dollars since we had a lot more customers bounce-back in January we did see a slight deterioration in the response rate.
One thing I probably made a mistake on is when you double the size of your file not everybody loves Kohl's equally and as you add the later adopters to loyalty they're not going to respond as quickly.
So that's some learning we'll do a better job of planning in 2016 because of that.
Thanks.
And the next question comes from the line of Michael Binetti of UBS.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Good morning.
I just wanted to – Wes a couple of questions for the CFO off this year maybe.
I want to make sure I understand the D&amp;A with the step change higher and CapEx and then I know some of the investments have been in IT which I would've thought would've had a faster amortization cycle to them.
I think you guys talked about that.
And I know you mentioned maybe some of the store closures have a D&amp;A component.
But maybe you could just help me think about the push and pull on the D&amp;A going down next year a little bit closer? Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Well most of it's because $7 million comes out because of the store closures.
And the others aren't enough to override that I guess huh? Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Well we spent – last year we spent $934 million what'd I say $940 million for this year.
So it's a little bit of a rise.
And we've been spending a boatload of money on IT for a number of years so we're starting to cycle through that.
The average life of an IT project ranges from three years to five years but I would say more and more we're using three years just because the innovation is so – the cycle is so short.
Okay.
And then I understand the comments thanks for the comments on looking at the leverage point for the future Kevin.
I wanted to make sure I understand the components of the SG&amp;A guidance for 2016.
And I know you just said you're planning credit up as an offset but in the past you said 2% SG&amp;A growth and this year a touch below that.
If I had to think about the buckets you'll have healthcare and wages going up in the stores.
Can you just help us understand the remainder of – where the remainder of the cost control to come in below that 2% target you had before? If it's between corporate overhead ad spend and the credit you mentioned versus the store level costs? Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Well from my perspective again the store closures help them.
We said it was $44 million or $45 million.
So you can take a portion of that for the year depending on when we close the store in June.
And that's embedded in the guidance.
Store payroll is going to grow.
We're seeing the wage pressure.
We're not immune to it.
Other people have reported said it's a pressure.
In this quarter it's going to be a pressure.
This year it's more than a third of our overall SG&amp;A so that's going up.
I think we can be more efficient like I mentioned in ship-from-store and BOPUS.
That will help mitigate that.
We actually experienced healthcare deflation this year.
We had a tremendous year in terms of that knock on wood.
We were lucky we didn't have a ton of large claims which can really swing it one way or the other.
But we've made a lot of plan changes and wellness initiatives.
We have a relatively young population that helps as well.
But we're going to cut advertising.
I think Bob asked we spent $1.11 billion this year.
We wanted to spend $1 billion.
The goal is to spend $1 billion this year.
So maybe we'll spend even a little bit less than that.
We can get more efficient in the e-commerce fulfillment centers and we're going to get more efficient in corporate with the reorganization that we had.
We have to be smarter about when positions open up not filling them and just increasing speed across the organization.
I think that will be a big help.
But those are the buckets we're going to try to do to offset.
IT expense is also going to go up.
I mean we're spending a bunch of money in IT so IT in stores are going up.
Everything else pretty much has to go down somehow.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I mean the 35% to 40% of our expense that is essentially store payroll that's going up.
So we're planning it to go up that's just a fact.
Things like the reorganization things across the company in the other 65% we've been working on.
This is not something we're starting last week.
We've been working on reducing those forward-looking expenses.
And one of the things that's going to be a big component part of that that we sort of alluded to but I think honestly has a big impact is lower inventory level.
Lower inventory level is less material handling it's less distribution expense it's significantly less workload in the store and that has a big impact in a positive way on store payroll.
So our average hourly wage is going up.
But if we're putting a lot less inventory in the store there's a lot less work to do on the store's part to handle it.
Just because it's critical – sorry just because the fourth quarter is so important and I know you guys were rethinking advertising as you went through fourth quarter last year is advertising planned up in the fourth quarter this year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We haven't gotten that far to that quarter.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Yeah we planned the fall season but I mean there's not a Star Wars movie to my knowledge so we won't have to spend money on that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean honestly I wouldn't think of – I think Wes just said we spent $1.11 billion or $1.12 billion in marketing this past year.
I wouldn't think about – I wouldn't take away from this discussion hey they're going to dramatically lower the amount of marketing they spend.
We're talking about on the edges.
We're talking about reducing it by $10 million on a $1 billion base.
The more important thing for us that we just touched on with a caller or two ago is we've got to make that $1 billion work harder through personalization.
That's really the win and then the other things become savings.
Thanks a lot guys.
Our last question comes from the line of Stephen Grambling of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning.
Thanks for sneaking me in.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No problem.
As you think about your ongoing clearance and what seems to be something that's going on across the space can you provide any color on how much of these margin pressures are driven by cyclical or seasonal issues versus something structural such as increasing price transparency particularly with the growth in mobile? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> This is all about liquidating.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> This is all about cold weather merchandise.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
This is all about liquidating and getting out of our holiday cold weather inventories through the early part of the first quarter and repositioning our inventories at a lower level going forward.
Fair enough.
And then as a follow-up to I believe Matt's question earlier on store closings how does the performance of the remaining base of stores look? Specifically is there a wide range or is it fairly tight? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean it's always been relatively fairly tight.
What happens is regionally each quarter I hate to use the word weather but the facts are weather can positively influence a quarter's results in a region and negatively influence another quarter's results.
So the West Coast got better results because they had better weather.
And the Midwest or Mid-Atlantic got lower results.
But the spectrum across from a store comp perspective I mean it's not like there's a dramatic difference in sales.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> Yeah.
The sales – the comp sales really aren't driving the closure decisions.
It's really about the fixed cost and our ability to manage the other lines of expenses to make them more positive.
And then the biggest thing that changed honestly in the first quarter is our digital orders grew 30% on a very large base.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> In the fourth quarter.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> In the fourth quarter sorry.
And that was something that was unexpected.
We far exceeded our plan on digital for the fourth quarter so that was really sort of the ah-ha moment if you want to say that about how to take a look at the store base with a more critical eye.
That's helpful.
And one last one if I may.
It's just on the smaller format stores.
Are some of these I know you're not announcing explicitly where they're going to be but are some of these going to be in the markets where you are closing? And is that part of the thought process that you could potentially downsize some of the existing base? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> They're not in the markets in which we are closing.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> But that's a good thought.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And frankly we did that intentionally because we didn't want to make the results of these stores driven by anything else that was happening in that market.
But having said that I still think the biggest opportunity for the small store pilot will be as we review our overall store portfolio as leases become up over time if we're able to prove successful in this much smaller store and leverage the digital growth in our business I think that could be a major change for us in terms of our expense structure and our fixed costs as Wes just alluded to.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</span></strong> And it doesn't have to be 35 000 square foot stores.
We have plenty of 64 000 square foot stores and 55 000 square foot stores so it's more about having the toolbox to better right size the store base as we move forward.
Thanks again.
Best of luck this year.
Senior Executive VP &amp; Head-Investor Relations</strong> All right.
Thank you.
Thanks everybody.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 11 a.m.
Eastern daylight time today through March 25 at midnight Eastern daylight time.
You may access the AT&amp;T Teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 387600.
Our international participants can dial the same replay at 320-365-3844.
Those phone numbers once again are 1-800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844.
The access code for both phone numbers will be 387600.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.