Good morning and welcome to the MBIA Inc.'s First Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Greg Diamond Managing Director of Investor Relations at MBIA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jackie.
Welcome to MBIA's conference call for our first quarter 2011 financial results.
We're going to follow the same format as last quarter's call.
Jay Brown and Chuck Chaplin will provide some brief comments and then we'll open the call for a question-and-answer session.
Yesterday afternoon we posted several items on our website including our 10-Q and quarterly operating supplement for the first quarter.
The information for accessing the recorded replay of today's call is included in the financial results press release that we issued yesterday.
And it's also available on our website.
Our company's definitive disclosures are incorporated in our SEC filings.
The purpose of today's call is to discuss some of these disclosures in our most recent 10-Q to facilitate a greater understanding for our investors.
The 10-Q also contains information that will not be addressed on today's call.
Please note that anything said on today's call is qualified by the information provided in the company's 10-Q and other SEC filings.
Please read our Form 10-Q as it contains our most current and comprehensive disclosures about the company and its financial and operating results.
Today's Q&amp;A session will be handled by Jay Brown CEO; and Chuck Chaplin co-President CFO and Chief Administrative Officer.
Now for our Safe Harbor disclosure statement.
Our remarks on this conference call may contain forward-looking statements.
Important factors such as the general market conditions and the competitive environment could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.
Risk factors are detailed in our 10-K which is available on our website at www.mbia.com.
The company cautions not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.
The company also undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if it later becomes aware that such statement is not likely to be achieved.
The definitions of the non-GAAP terms that are included in our remarks today may also be found on our website.
With that Jay will begin.
Jay? Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
It's only been a little bit more than 2 months since our last call.
And while we've been quite busy managing our insured portfolios and ongoing litigation matters we didn't have any big announcements in our press release yesterday.
So I will keep my comments equally brief.
One of the bigger events of the last few weeks actually didn't involve us at all.
But we've been getting a number of questions from investors and the media about what the settlement between Assured Guaranty and Bank of America might mean for us.
The short answer is that it has no direct bearing on our case against Bank of America as every case is decided on its own merit.
The more nuanced answer is that as a practical matter we think this settlement both confirms again the validity of the claims we've made and the recoveries we booked in connections with these kinds of exposures.
We've come a long way from the fall of 2008 when we were among the first to pursue mortgage putback litigation.
At that time there was a fair amount of market skepticism surrounding our allegations.
But since then more and more information has come to light concerning the improper practices and fraudulent conduct of some of the sponsors of these securitizations.
Our filing last week in connection with our suit against Crédit Suisse is just the latest example of this behavior.
As the volume of settlements continues to pick up most recently noting with Fannie Freddie and now Assured the market has clearly begun to recognize that it's only a question of when and how much we ultimately recover.
On the CDS front as we previously reported we reached a negotiated settlement of $3.3 billion in exposure during the quarter primarily comprising structured CMBS pools.
On average the settlements we reached have again been at levels consistent with our statutory loss reserves.
We continue to remain open to settlements of our remaining exposures and discussions with the majority of our various counterparties continue.
But we have nothing concrete to report at this time.
The litigation challenging our transformation has also been moving forward although at a very frustrating pace.
More than 18 months after initiating the Article 78 proceeding the banks recently made a massive filing that required the New York State Insurance Department to ask for more time to respond.
And so the process has slowed down yet again.
Ironically after conducting broad discovery and filing thousands of pages as part of their reply in the Article 78 litigation the banks are now arguing in their appeal this month to the state's highest court that they have been denied their right to be heard.
We remain as confident as ever of the ultimate outcome here on all fronts.
But it now appears that the process is likely to stretch into early next year.
If nothing else the delays continue to underscore the baselessness of the banks' claims.
We are now more than 2 years past the effective date of our transformation.
The transaction that the banks' claim made MBIA Insurance Corp.
insolvent.
Yet in all that time no holder of an MBIA or National policy has ever failed to receive their claim payment on time and in full.
And we have no expectation that this will change.
To the contrary we remain confident that we have sufficient resources to meet all of our expected obligations going forward.
Now I'll turn it over to Chuck for a review of our financial highlights.
Thank you Jay.
As was said this was a very short quarter if you will.
We published our full year 2010 earnings on March 1 and then the first quarter closed 30 days later.
Not a lot has changed from the trends we discussed at that time.
We see declining loss payments and declining volatility in our RMBS-related exposures and there's an ever increasing recognition of the liability of sponsors who placed ineligible mortgages and securitizations that we wrapped.
We also saw a significant commutation activity in the quarter.
On the other hand we observed some decline in the performance of some of our commercial mortgage-backed securities deals.
On the whole the first quarter was relatively quiet.
In terms of GAAP financial statement performance we had a net loss of $1.1 billion this quarter reflecting $1.3 billion of pretax mark-to-market on insured credit derivatives.
The driver is that the market moved closer to our own assessment of the fundamental credit strength of MBIA Insurance Corp.
and that improved perception paradoxically triggered the large unrealized loss.
The on balance sheet mark is highly volatile with gains and losses of over $1 billion in each of the past 5 quarters.
The derivative liability on our balance sheet at March 31 2011 at nearly $6 billion is actually not very different than it was at December 31 2008.
But the quarterly swings have been very significant.
The 5-year upfront swap cost on MBIA Insurance Corp.
was 56 points at year end 2010 and had declined to 40 by March 31 2011.
As of a day or so ago the quoted upfront cost was about 33 points which all other things being equal would create a paper loss of about $400 million in the second quarter so far.
The unrealized loss on insured credit derivatives is expected to reverse over time except for credit impairments.
We estimate credit impairments through our loss reserve process and they are recorded as loss reserves in our statutory financial books.
To help investors better understand our financial results we also published 2 non-GAAP measures Adjusted Book Value and adjusted pre-tax income.
They both treat all of our insurance policies on the same basis as insurance policies that are subject to loss reserve accounting.
Adjusted pretax income was $25 million in the first quarter compared to a loss of $90 million in the first quarter of last year.
Adjusted pre-tax still reflects continued incurred insurance losses resulting from the impact of ineligible loans and RMBS deals and the financial crisis and recession.
Our Adjusted Book Value declined in the quarter by $1.24 per share from $36.81 to $35.57 per share.
ABV is a more comprehensive measure than adjusted pre-tax income and includes the impact of changes in our expected future premiums and of course its after-tax.
In the quarter the value of future premium earnings declined by $173 million roughly the amount of premium that was earned this quarter.
Since we also apply our estimate of full year taxes to the first quarter's pre-tax income this also results in a reduction of ABV in this quarter.
As we approach year end 2011 of course estimated and actual taxes will converge.
At the segment level I'll make some comments about adjusted pre-tax income and the capitalization and liquidity of the major businesses and legal entities.
National Public Finance performed in line with our expectations in the quarter contributing $111 million of pretax income compared to $132 million in last year's first quarter.
Refunding activity drove a $25 million reduction in premiums earned.
Heavy refundings over the course of 2010 reduced the scheduled earned premium in the first quarter and then a drop in refunding activity in the first quarter further reduced our premium revenue relative to last year.
In addition fees were $13 million lower than last year's first quarter as last year we'd entered into a reinsurance commutation that had a significant premium which ran through that line fees and reimbursements.
Loss and LAE expenses were $23 million lower than last year providing a partial offset to these lower revenues.
National's capital liquidity remains strong at March 31.
We responded in the quarter to the request for comment from Standard &amp; Poor's on proposed new rating criteria.
However the ultimate impact of S&amp;P's work is uncertain at this point.
Our Structured Finance and International segment had an adjusted pre-tax loss of $20 million a major improvement from first quarter last year when it lost $113 million.
The driver of this performance improvement is lower incurred loss.
Insurance losses in the quarter were $147 million the lowest since second quarter of 2009.
There was a net reserve reduction on our RMBS as an increase in putbacks outpaced a change in net payment expectations.
The putback increase of nearly $153 million was primarily due to a small increase in the observed breach rate in the securitizations based on file reviews recording recovery on one additional transaction and higher expected future payments.
Although the additions to the delinquency pipeline this quarter were basically in line with our projections voluntary prepayments of mortgages in the securitizations were above expectations.
This reduces our expected future excess spread recoveries driving an increase in expected net payments of $80 million.
So the net of the putback increase and the further increase in expected future payments results in a net reduction in reserves for RMBS of $73 million.
The total balance of putbacks recorded to the balance sheet is $2.7 billion at this point relating to total incurred losses of $4.6 billion.
The difference reflects discounts for time value litigation risk and expense and the credit risk associated with the originators.
Over time our assessments for these factors can change which could result in our putback estimate changing significantly.
We also increased the expected loss associated with our ABS CDOs by about $69 million in the quarter.
About $52 million of the increase is associated with deterioration primarily in subprime mortgage collateral and the balance is due to interest accretion.
Finally we increased loss expectations on CMBS by $135 million.
The loss is concentrated in the small handful of deals where we observed increases in late stage delinquency a key driver in our loss estimation models.
The growth in total delinquency continued to slow in the quarter and the pace of loan modifications continued at well over $1 billion per month.
In addition the commercial mortgage financing market is more liquid and debt service coverage ratios on our portfolio are improving.
Having said that this is still an area of great uncertainty.
All other transactions in the Structured Finance and International segment generated about $16 million of economic loss and that is concentrated among primarily older manufactured housing deals.
MBIA Corp.
had statutory capital of $2.7 billion at March 31 2011 and its liquidity position was strong with $926 million of highly liquid assets on hand.
In the quarter we made payments on RMBS of $243 million a level that continues to decline each quarter and we entered into a commutation of $3.3 billion of primarily CMBS-related policies.
The costs of the early settlements were consistent with our previously established statutory loss reserves.
To maintain our liquidity position MBIA Corp.
sold some assets and also received $175 million in prepayments from the ALM segment of the  intercompany's secured loan.
We believe the balance sheet continues to be adequate to fund expected losses.
Moving onto Cutwater Asset Management.
It had a good quarter from a customer standpoint with outstanding investment performance and over $600 million of assets gathered from new customers.
However its earnings continue to reflect the investments in infrastructure we're making to build sort of a more profitable future and Cutwater had a pre-tax loss in the quarter of $1 million.
The Corporate segment had $5 million of pre-tax income which is greater than expected due to the markdown of warrants issued as part of our 2008 capital raise.
The run rate in the Corporate segment is about a $15 million to $20 million quarterly loss driven by interest and operating expenses.
We believe liquidity at the holding company continues to be adequate with $300 million of cash and highly liquid assets.
It also holds approximately $114 million of payments of estimated tax liabilities from National under our tax sharing agreement.
The funds are to be escrowed and if National were to have operating losses that generated tax benefits in its standalone tax position in the next 2 years those benefits would be paid first from this escrow account.
Beyond that the funds can be used for general Corporate purposes including making any other payments under the tax sharing agreement.
We do not include these funds in any measure of current liquidity.
The Wind-Down Operations segment had a $73 million loss in the quarter.
This is driven by $83 million of mark-to-market losses of which $50 million the largest single impact was due to the weakening U.S.
dollar -- the impact of the weakening U.S.
dollar on our euro-denominated liabilities.
This was partially offset by $23 million of gains on debt buybacks.
Wind-Down also has a natural negative run rate of earnings since it has a deficit of interest-earning assets to liability and operating expenses.
The accumulated book value deficit is $387 million at this time.
The book value deficit is backed up by all of the assets of MBIA Inc.
and ultimately by the financial guarantee policy of MBIA Corp.
We believe the business has adequate liquidity for the next few years and adequate liquidity to repay the secured loans from MBIA Corp.
by November 2011 its scheduled maturity.
Jay and I would be happy to respond to any questions that you may have at this time.
[Operator Instructions] At this time we have no questions.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Greg Diamond for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Jackie.
Thanks to all of you who have joined us for today's call.
Please contact me directly if you have questions.
I can be reached at (914) 765-3190.
Sorry we have a couple of calls that entered the queue.
Go ahead Jackie take the first caller please.
You have a question from the line of Arun Kumar with JPMorgan.
Chuck a question for you more from a broader perspective.
Yesterday we had AGO's call where they talked about the recoveries they made from BofA/Countrywide and also potential recoveries from other financial institutions and went on to name 4 of them.
Given the progress that they have made in getting funds from the financial institutions when can we see tangible progress from MBIA in terms of recovery of actual funds from the organizations? Arun obviously it's very difficult to talk about future transactions and when they might occur.
As we have said on earlier conference calls we do have a dialogue with many of our counterparts and we do expect that we will engage in early settlements of CDF exposures over time.
And we also expect that we will settle putback liabilities that the teleservicers have over time.
It's sort of impossible to predict when exactly that might occur.
But I will point out that with respect to our largest single counterpart on the putback side there is a core process that is quite advanced where we expect as the judge has required that the full discovery process be completed in 2011 with an expectation that a trial date would be set for sometime in 2012.
And frankly the attorneys will tell us or you that these type cases typically do not go all the way through trial.
So we can talk about timing sort of broad generalities.
You know that in our financial statements we have to make estimates around timing.
And on average the financials assume that we settle putback liabilities in late 2012.
But that's the best information that I can give.
Okay.
I just had a follow-up on the statutory capital provision as it relates to the insurance company.
I mean a big chunk of that is your surplus notes that you issued I think in 2008.
Maybe a year or so ago you had mentioned  you had -- there's a likelihood that you could take those notes out at some point.
Clearly time has transpired between those comments and now and  things have changed a bit.
What is your position regarding the surplus notes which are a fairly healthy surplus drain in terms of interest payments? Yes the surplus notes are callable at par on January 15 2013.
And it is still our plan to retire them at that point.
Your next question comes from the line of Philip Giordano with Deutsche Bank.
This is Sean on with Phil.
Just wanted to follow up on the CMBS commutation you guys did last quarter.
When you look at the CMBS BBB and below in your 10-Q it looks like it went down to $15.3 billion from $17.6 billion.
Just wanted to confirm when we look at the amount that you probably paid or the gross payments on those commutations it looks like it's around $350 million.
So should we infer that you settled those for around $0.10 to $0.15 on the dollar? Two points.
One is obviously we have not disclosed the dollar amount that was paid although there is information about payments in our disclosures.
The total commutation that we engaged in was about the par amounts about $3.3 billion.
Yes.
Yes.
And it consists of primarily CMBS exposure.
But there are other exposures as well Corporate-type exposures.
So but when we look at the breakdown what you guys provide in your Q that has kind of the ratings threshold that origination it looks like the bulk of that $3.3 billion would be in the BBB and below bucket.
Is that correct? That's correct yes.
Okay.
Does that -- should we read into that at all as far as your conversations which you guys mentioned with other counterparties that are ongoing at this point? No.
[Operator Instructions] And we have no further questions at this time.
Thanks again Jackie.
And thanks to all of you who have joined us for today's call.
We recommend that you visit our website at www.mbia.com for additional information.
Thank you for your interest in MBIA.
Good day and goodbye.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to MBIA Inc.'s Second Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Greg Diamond Managing Director of Investor Relations at MBIA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jackie.
Welcome to MBIA's conference call for our second quarter 2011 financial results.
We're going to follow the same format as previous  quarters' calls.
Jay Brown and Chuck Chaplin will provide some brief comments and then we'll open up the call for question-and-answer session.
Yesterday afternoon we posted several items on our website including our 10-Q and quarterly operating supplement for the quarter.
The information for accessing the recorded replay of today's call is included in the financial results press release that we issued yesterday and it's also available on our website.
Our company's definitive disclosures are incorporated in our SEC filings.
The purpose of our call today is to discuss some of the disclosures in our most recent 10-Q to facilitate a greater understanding for investors.
The 10-Q also contains information that will not be addressed on today's call.
Please note that anything said on today's call is qualified by the information provided in the company's 10-Q and other SEC filings.
Please read our Form 10-Q as it contains our most current and comprehensive disclosures about the company and its financial and operating results.
For today's Q&amp;A session it will be handled by Jay Brown CEO; and Chuck Chaplin Co-President CFO and Chief Administrative Officer; and Bill Fallon Co-President and Chief Operating Officer.
<span>Now for our Safe Harbor disclosure statement.
Our remarks on this conference call may contain forward-looking statements.
Important factors such as the general market conditions and the competitive environment could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.
Risk factors are detailed in our 10-K which is available on our website at <a href="http://www.mbia.com" rel="nofollow">www.mbia.com</a>.
The company cautions not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.
The company also undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if it later becomes aware that such statement is not likely to be achieved.
Also the definitions of the non-GAAP terms that are included in our remarks may also be found on our website.</span> Now Jay will provide some introductory comments.
Jay? Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
Given the fact that I share Chuck's view that he expressed in the press release that this was a generally very positive quarter I'm going to keep my comments pretty short this morning.
Since the news of the week is S&amp;P's downgrade of the U.S.
government and the ripple effect on other issuers and the overall economy I'll begin by sharing a few thoughts on that topic.
In light of the warnings from all 3 rating agencies in the weeks and months leading up to August 2 we spent a considerable amount of time analyzing what the impact of a U.S.
government downgrade might be on our business.
The good news is that unlike what we saw in 2008 where rating actions caused direct economic consequences for our company we haven't identified any direct economic consequences as a result of the U.S.
downgrade.
And the downgrade does not require any material realignment of our various investment portfolios and does not affect our obligation to pay under the insurance policies and CDS contracts that we have issued.
That said there's no doubt there will be a period of adjustment for some issuers and there's a greater possibility of more tepid economic growth going forward.
You can be sure that we will continue to monitor our insured portfolio carefully and bring our considerable remediation skills as circumstances require it.
However painful it might be in the short run for the first time in a long while it seems like we as a nation are beginning to come to grips with ongoing deficits and ever-growing debt.
That can only be a good thing for our economy in the long run.
We have both positive and negative developments on the legal front during the second quarter.
Certainly the one that got the most media coverage was in connection with our transformation-related litigation.
We had hoped to defend only one case the Article 78 proceeding brought by a group of banks which we and the New York State Insurance Department believed was the only appropriate challenge.
However we had a setback in that the New York State Court of Appeals ruled that plenary challenges outside of Article 78 were also permissible.
While this decision will obviously increase our legal expenses and may delay the ultimate resolution of the transformation litigation it is entirely a procedural action and does not address any of the merits of the case.
We don't believe that it will change the ultimate outcome of the transformation litigation.
We continue to expect that our transformation will be upheld and then National will continue as a separate insurance company from MBIA Corporation.
What's indisputable is that 2.5 years after the insurance department's determination MBIA Insurance Corp.
continues to pay all claims and to make interest payments on its Surplus Notes while maintaining substantial positive statutory capital.
So we continue to believe that there's little risk that a court will find that the company was insolvent in February 2009 or that the insurance department was arbitrary and capricious in granting approval of our transformation.
In the meantime we expect that the calendar for the Article 78 proceeding will remain unaffected by the Court of Appeals ruling.
We are expecting it to come to trial early in 2012 while the other cases will likely come to trial if necessary in 2013.
We had far more positive news in our putback litigation.
The New York State Supreme Court denied Morgan Stanley's motion to dismiss our fraud and breach of contract claims in our lawsuit against them.
And the Appellate Division of the court affirmed the lower court's decision to deny Countrywide's attempt to dismiss our fraud claim in that case.
I'm also pleased to report that we resolved our lawsuit against Merrill Lynch over their CDO-origination practices as both parties agreed to discontinue the litigation with prejudice.
We also continue to have substantial success in the early settlement of some of our insured credit default swap exposures.
And since the end of the first quarter we reached agreements to retire another $8.7 billion of exposure.
The aggregate cost of these early settlements is somewhat below the loss reserves we previously assessed against the related credits.
And in the aggregate our cumulative settlement to date are still consistent with all of our reserves.
And importantly we are removing the potential future volatility associated with primarily ABS- CDO- and CMBS-related deals.
We've now executed or agreed to execute early settlements that add to a total par value of $36.4 billion.
MBIA Insurance Corp.'s insured portfolio is now more than $82 billion smaller than it was following transformation.
We continue to be in discussions with most but not all of our major counterparties but unless and until we actually reach an agreement with them there's not much more we can say.
I should also note that all of the individual agreements contain nondisclosure clauses which is one of the reasons we can't give more detail about individual negotiated settlements.
With that I'll now ask Chuck to take you through the numbers for the quarter.
Thanks Jay and good morning everyone.
This quarter continues many of the trends that we have reported to you over the past year or so.
Our U.S.-housing-related losses have become more stable and appear more predictable.
And of course the exposure continues to decrease.
In the CMBS sector we increased reserves as a few deals with very poorly performing collateral drove an increase in expected future loss payments in our models.
And as Jay referenced we continue to reduce potential future volatility via early settlements of insured credit derivatives with 5 counterparties.
These commutations have substantial impacts on our financial reporting this quarter.
So let me briefly explain the accounting.
Most of the commutations were agreed near the end of the second quarter.
Two were agreed upon and settled in the second quarter.
And one was agreed upon in the second quarter but then settled in early July.
All of those are reflected in our second quarter GAAP financial statements.
The GAAP impacts include the elimination of the mark-to-market on insured credit derivatives.
Because the aggregate mark on these policies was more than the cost of the settlement GAAP net income in the quarter is favorably affected.
Then we had 2 settlements that were agreed in the third quarter.
They have no impact on our second quarter GAAP financial results but they are expected to be reflected in the third quarter financials.
Statutory accounting rules however for recognition of such events are different than those for GAAP.
In our statutory accounts all of these commutations including those agreed to after June 30 but before the filing date yesterday are reflected as second quarter events.
Since the amount paid in aggregate to all 5 counterparties is less than the aggregate loss reserves statutory income is also favorably affected.
Our non-GAAP measures adjusted pretax income and adjusted book value adopt the approach reflected in our statutory accounts.
So they too are positively affected by the settlements.
Most of the exposure data that we supplementally disclose only reflect commutations when they are settled in cash.
All of this is explained in detail in the MD&amp;A and there are several relevant footnotes to this extent in the operating supplement.
Now to the financial results themselves.
GAAP net income for the quarter was $137 million.
Normally the mark-to-market on insured credit derivatives would have a very significant impact on net income and it would've had such an impact this quarter as the cost of credit default swaps on MBIA Insurance Corp.
fell about 10 points in the quarter.
This would have resulted in a very substantial loss.
However since as I had mentioned the cost of the commuted transactions was less than their marks the settlement largely offset the mark-to-market.
So the net change in fair value of insured credit derivatives was a loss of approximately $75 million.
The GAAP result was also favorably affected by this quarter's tax provision.
Our forecast of full year taxable income is lower now due largely in part to the second quarter and early third quarter commutation payments requiring a catch-up to make the full year rate consistent with the current projection with pretax income before discrete items.
Adjusted pretax income a non-GAAP measure presents we believe a clearer view of our results of operations.
It was $161 million in this quarter compared to $48 million in the second quarter of 2010.
We now have had 2 consecutive quarters of positive adjusted pretax income.
In the second quarter results were strongly affected by the early settlements.
The cost of these settlements in aggregate again were within statutory loss reserves so the excess loss reserves flow back into income.
Adjusted book value another non-GAAP measure increased from $35.57 per share to $37.22 per share largely reflecting the impact of 3 million shares which we repurchased in the quarter.
Now I'd like to go through the segments discussing the adjusted pretax income and the capital liquidity positions of the key businesses and legal entities.
National Public Finance performed in line with expectations in the quarter with adjusted pretax income of $144 million compared to $128 million in last year's second quarter.
The improvement is due to lower loss in LAE expense.
Last year we had about $10 million of additions to loss reserves and this year we had $8 million in reserve releases as a result of remediations.
We continue to monitor the portfolio closely.
Today we do not see evidence of systemic defaults in our books but more idiosyncratic financial stresses in a handful of sectors.
National's statutory capital grew to $2.6 billion in the second quarter and claims-paying resources stood at $5.7 billion.
National has adequate liquidity we believe against its expected payment obligations.
The Structured Finance and International business primarily conducted in MBIA Insurance Corp.
had adjusted pretax income of $189 million compared to a loss of $86 million in the second quarter of 2010.
The driver of this segment's result is our estimate of economic loss activity which again is favorably affected by the early settlements.
In the quarter we reduced our estimate of loss on ABS CDOs by nearly $400 million primarily because of the commutations.
Partially offsetting this benefit we increased CMBS reserves by $233 million.
A few of our deals have higher proportions of poorly performing CMBS tranches and resecuritized collaterals which drove this increase.
Our view of the commercial mortgage industry continues to be that the market has bottomed and continues a slow improvement.
We will however closely monitor the market to assess whether the current slowing of the recovery impact our overall view.
The cumulative incurred loss on CMBS in our portfolio is now approximately $1.5 billion and the reserve on the balance sheet is approximately $1.1 billion.
We continue to believe that this is the largest potential source of future volatility in our book of business.
On the RMBS side we increased our estimate of future payments by $53 million primarily due to accretion and a few newly classified credits.
We also saw a significant increase -- an insignificant increase in expected putback recoveries primarily due to minor assumption changes and again interest accretion.
The recently announced settlements with other claimants provide further evidence that the seller/servicers have substantial liabilities for breaches of reps and warranties.
We expect that we will collect the $2.7 billion receivable on our balance sheet over the next couple of years.
That amount represents a discount from our contractual claims which today total approximately $4.6 billion.
We also have losses of $33 million on a variety of other Structured Finance transactions primarily older vintage mortgage securitizations.
The total impact of all economic loss activity on adjusted pretax income is a $150 million credit.
Cash payments in the quarter in MBIA Insurance Corp.
were dominated by payments on RMBS which were $246 million in the second quarter following payments of $243 million in the first quarter and $290 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
To relate to the comparable period last year payments in second quarter 2010 were $421 million.
Our payments continue to be somewhat below the modeled payments in our loss reserve calculations.
The balance of cash short-term and highly liquid assets within MBIA Corp.
was $1.1 billion at June 30 which was before the settlements of some of the commutations.
We believe that expected cash flows from premiums and investment income repayment of the intercompany secured loan and the asset portfolio provide adequate liquidity against expected cash payments with an acceptable cushion.
In addition MBIA Insurance Corp's.
statutory capital base of $2.9 billion provides a resource with which to absorb potential future loss reserve volatility.
Our advisory business had a $3 million pretax loss in the quarter.
Revenues had been impacted by municipal customers drawing down on reserve funds and reduction in proprietary assets from MBIA Insurance Corp.
and the wind-down operations.
Meanwhile expenses there continue to be somewhat above our run rate expectations.
The corporate segment had a loss of only $2 million in the second quarter driven by favorable marks-to-market on warrants issued in connection with our capital raise in 2007 and 2008.
The wind-down operations recorded a pretax loss of $168 million in the quarter about $38 million of that is due to negative spread between the assets and liabilities in our asset liability management business.
$27 million of the pretax loss is due to realized losses interest rate swap settlements and asset impairments.
The balance about $100 million was driven by a variety of mark-to-market effects adverse marks impacted interest rate swaps credit linked notes that we'd issued in the past and nondollar-denominated liabilities.
Interest rates FX and the credit default swaps on MBIA Insurance Corp.
all moved against us in the quarter.
But these marks do not affect our estimate of the book value deficit of assets to liabilities in this segment.
And that deficit grew in the second quarter to $500 million due to the negative spread and realized losses that I referred to.
All in all this was a favorable quarter for MBIA Inc.
with a significant reduction in risk and progress on the litigations that have the most significant financial impact from the company.
And with that we'll be happy to take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Arun Kumar with JP Morgan.
Chuck couple of questions for you.
One relates to the reps and warranties.
The number did not obviously increase appreciably in the quarter.
Could you give us your thoughts on where you stand in terms of booking additional reps and warranties from other counterparties? And related question to that is in terms of the discussions you're having with the counterparties like you mentioned they're ongoing is there any time horizon that you have that you'd like to get those settled if it's going to be 6 months or 12 months that you'd like to put those behind you? And then I have a follow-up.
So -- I'm sorry Arun.
The first question is just about putbacks? Yes the putbacks the overall size of your putbacks.
Yes.
The way that we are estimating putbacks today is -- relates to the amount of incurred loss that we have on the transactions because the breach rates that we have observed are more than enough for us to recover all of our incurred loss in settlements.
And so the reason that it doesn't change much quarter-to-quarter is that the incurred loss didn't change by as much.
So they're -- the 2 things are -- I wouldn't say they're in lock step because there could be changes to assumptions that go on over time as a result of things that happen in the litigation the credit quality of the counterparts and things of that nature.
But those things being equal you'd expect those 2 statistics to kind of move together through time.
Arun on the question on timing obviously I think our position is very clear.
In virtually all of our significant counterparties we have a very clear estimate of what we think a fair settlement would be and that is basically on the table at all times.
And we would be prepared to go through with those settlements in a very rapid fashion if they would all agree.
Obviously it takes 2 to tango.
And usually what happens is towards the end of the quarter based on where their book of business stands we seem to get a flurry of activity where a number of counterparties come forward and we finalize an agreement and we agree to settle it out.
And so that has been the pattern where we've typically seen a lot of settlements around the end.
In terms of the bigger picture I think it's pretty clear from our scheduling of important court dates.
We expect to be in court early next year on the 2 most significant things that will affect settlements one being the transformation litigation.
We expect that will occur in the second quarter.
And in the second one if it isn't settled before then is the litigation we have on putbacks against Bank of America/Countrywide which is expected also to be litigated next year.
Both of those cases for various reasons will affect the pace of the remaining settlements that we expect to effect off of significant counterparties.
I know it's not a clear answer in terms of precisely when we expect it to happen but that's our current thinking of the timeframes.
They are likely to occur over the next probably 12 months 12 to 18 months.
Is there a court date for the reavail litigation for 2012? There is not a specific -- there is a specific date but it slides a little bit.
So it's -- our best estimate right now is second third quarter.
It really will have a lot to do on the motions summary judgment motions that will take place early in the year which are on track.
Discovery is near completion.
Motions will be filed in the beginning of the year.
And then depending on how fast those motions get decided and the actions of the appeal court will determine when we actually have the trial if we have the trial.
Okay fair enough.
Just another question in terms of the Surplus Notes.
You mentioned in your comments early on that you're continuing to make payments.
Those are callable in a few years.
They're also costing you there a big part of your statutory capital other than contingency reserves at this point if not all of it.
And in terms of it's costing you $140 million in payments have there been any discussions with the regulators on that front in terms of approval of payments or are they just going to continue to let you make those payments? Yes couple of things Arun.
First the Surplus Notes are a little bit less than $1 billion about $960 million outstanding.
And statutory capital is $2.9 billion.
So if you want to think about it in those terms it's about 1/3 of stat capital.
And we are making [indiscernible] July 15 and the next one is January 15 2012.
So this kind -- I mean the regulator has to affirmatively approve each of those payments.
So in the 30 to 45 days prior to that time we do provide them a complete financial rundown on the company.
And they're able to make a determination as to whether or not they approve the payments based on that.
And obviously the -- all of those payments have been approved to date.
And there isn't any conversation that we've had with the regulators that would suggest anything different.
Now the call date is January 15 2013.
As Jay and you just touched on some of this a lot is going to happen between now and January 2013 but it is our current plan to retire the Surplus Notes at that time if they're not retired ahead of that time.
And I guess the $2.9 billion that you referred to includes the contingency reserve on the balance sheet correct? Yes.
Yes that's what we typically think of as the statutory capital that we have to sort of absorb loss reserve volatility.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Phil Smith with Deutsche Bank.
This is actually Sean Farrell on for Phil.
Couple of questions.
Just wanted to follow up on the summary judgment.
I think there's a hearing coming up we believe in August.
Wanted to see if you guys have any thoughts on that and how that may -- might lead to some more wholesome settlement discussions with BofA? Yes so the hearing that you're referring to is the loss causation.
We filed a motion a couple months back to ask the court to just interpret the language in our contracts in terms of what's the meaning of loss causation.
We filed that motion.
BofA/Countrywide responded.
We filed yesterday the final papers.
And then the court hearing will be on August 18.
It's a pretty important potential -- call it it could change the playing field somewhat in terms of if we're successful in having the court interpret our view that the lost causation has a very significant effect on the ability to rescind or obtain recessionary damages versus having to putback individual loans one by one.
So it can affect the view of both parties as to the likely outcome of the trial.
And so we think it is an important hearing.
We don't know whether the judge will make a quick decision or whether it will take some time.
Obviously this hearing as we found with most things with Countrywide since that's the case it furthest along will also affect the other 4 cases that we have running in tandem that are slightly behind in terms of timing but with a different judge.
But in general all of the New York judges have a habit or tendency to file the same thinking on the putback cases.
And so this one I think is an important one and could change a little bit the negotiations between the 2 parties.
Okay that's helpful.
And then the ABS CDOs as it relates to commutations just wanted to get a sense -- I mean you guys said in your release obviously that the commutations were within the aggregate statutory loss reserves.
And then we see the $400 million reduction and change in expected payments.
That's clearly a significant number.
On the 2 commutations that you guys got done post the end of the second quarter I mean are we -- should we be looking at similar amounts of reductions and reserves on those commutations or is -- it just seems like a very large number relative to the comment that you guys made that it was within the statutory losses about the huge reduction I guess from our perspective? Any thoughts on the other 2 that you guys have gotten done? Again for adjusted pretax income purposes we're using the economic loss concept that's discussed in our press release.
And so all of the commutations that were achieved up through really the filing of the stat blank which was yesterday are reflected in that number.
So you're looking at the impact of the deals with 5 counterparties.
Okay.
So could we assume that the other 2 were larger impacts on -- the last 2 were larger impacts on that statutory reserve? No.
Again the impact on the statutory reserve that you're seeing is the impact of all 5.
Right.
But the 3 that got done before it just seems like a very large number relative to the commentary.
Just wondering if there was less of an impact on the 3 that got done in the quarter versus the 2 that got done after.
No I think it's a mistake to -- one is it is a large number but sometimes it's a large number the other way.
So I wouldn't -- we don't get too excited about individual agreements.
But we get excited about and are very pleased about is in aggregate we've done $32 billion of these.
In aggregate it's been a few hundred million dollars under our total reserves.
Given that our objective is to settle all cases and to see all of these things eventually get done with as long as we're tracking against our carried reserve we're very happy.
But one individual settlement don't try and read too much into it.
Okay that's helpful.
And anything on structured CMBS commutations? Any -- I assume you guys are having further discussions there but any comments on that? Stay tuned.
Your final question comes from the line of John Helmers with Swiftwater Capital.
A couple of things.
One on commutations would you say that the low hanging fruit to a degree has been done in other words the ability to commute at the level that is reserved in statutory? Or is that something that you expect will continue at the same type of pace? And I have a couple more.
I guess my expectation is is what you've seen over the last 2 or 3 quarters is a reasonable expectation of the kind of pace that you should see over the next 2 or 3 quarters.
There's no -- there are some obvious things out there that are going to be a little bit more difficult.
I would also say there's 4 or 5 counterparties that are really easy and we can't quite figure out why they haven't agreed yet in terms of the amount of money involved.
But it's -- there's no real pattern.
There's obviously a couple that are going to be more difficult than the others but we expect that we'll be able to get them all done with it's said and done.
Jay if I can just add to that.
When we set our loss reserves for statutory we take into account everything that we know about those credits including the propensity to -- for them to early settle.
When you look at the volume of early settlements that we've done in the past 6 quarters or so we sort of have to take that into account so the likely or sort of expected value of commutations does itself play a role in setting the loss reserve.
Understood.
And then just thinking about the lawsuit on the -- and I'm far from a legal expert but it would seem to me that at least on the lawsuit where you're being sued on the ability to split into the 2 entities the longer -- and I believe you then also countersued.
It would seem to me that the longer MBIA Corp.
continues to pay and shows its viability the more you would have the potential for significant damages.
And that would in fact increase your leverage in terms of the potential settlement.
Is that the right way to think about that or not? Does that have any bearing? We really -- we have not countersued on that specific issue.
The issue of them asking us to essentially -- or fighting the split of the 2 companies is one way.
Our lawsuits back have to do with individual transactions that we believe were misrepresented to us at the time we contracted to insure them.
In terms of if when we believe we'll be successful on the transformation lawsuit I don't really think that we're seeking damages.
We'd just be happy to have it all behind us at this point in time.
Understood.
I guess I just think that every day you can't write new business there is obviously a damage being done.
The last thing is we're owners and long-term investors and I -- and Jay I really like the letter to owners you write each year.
But I just want to make sure that as a long-term investor that you agree that ABV is the right way to think about or at least the best metric to think about in terms of intrinsic value.
And then just to add to that when you think about ABV where do you see the biggest concerns or potential risks to that number not being the end value that's achievable? The 2 biggest risks associated with that probably one would be the level of our reserves which is still volatile.
And as Chuck pointed out at this point in time we would say 2/3 3/4 of the remaining volatility in our balance sheet centers around CMBS reserves.
That doesn't mean that there can't be other things but that's our current thinking of where the biggest volatility.
The other thing is that ABV is a concept that represents present value of dollars in dollars out.
To the extent we are not able to do new business that could alter somewhat very modestly the way that valuation will come out and be played out to be able to be realized.
And that's part of the trickiness associated with it.
That said we think that is the best way to understand what has become a very complex understanding of our GAAP and statutory balance sheet.
So we've put ABV out there so people can have a relative constant measure to say "Hey as a balance sheet this is about what's happening on a per share basis." It also properly reflects we think accretive transactions such as buying back debt or buying back shares much more rapidly than you would see it through looking at the GAAP or statutory balance sheet.
The second end measure of course is pretax income.
And that's a complementary adjusted pretax income.
That's a complementarity measure to give you the period effect of what's going on in the income statement.
And again Chuck has tried to take away what we think are temporal adjustments in mark-to-market and things of that nature and give you the best understanding of why we think of what happened to us economically over a 3-month 6-month or a 1-year period depending on which income statement you're looking at.
But all in all I think if you see ABV stay the same or go up and you see the stock price such as today's substantially below it I think you can feel safe that we view that as a huge discount and a huge opportunity for shareholders to see value in the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Carmel with Carmel Asset Management.
A couple of quick questions.
First you've listed out your top 10 below-investment-grade exposures for MBIA Corp.
But I believe it does not include any of the commuted transactions.
Should we expect that any of those will disappear when you report third quarter? I'm just going to the page now.
[indiscernible] only exclude those transactions that were officially commuted prior to June 30 2011.
Yes again we remove them from exposure lists when they are settled when they actually close as opposed to when they are committed.
Got it.
But for the 3 that you closed in the third quarter can we have any expectation that any of the 3 will be among that list? Can't comment on that.
You should just watch the list and to the extent obviously that any of them are deals that closed in the third quarter they'll be removed.
Okay.
Next question little more just your opinion when you went through the S&amp;P downgraded the United States obviously the monoline guarantors are waiting for S&amp;P to come out with their new ratings guidelines.
Do you think that the downgrade of the U.S.
will have an impact on the kind of metrics that will be required to obtain extremely high ratings out of S&amp;P? I guess the metrics that are required to obtain high ratings out of S&amp;P are extremely in flux right now with respect to the monoline industry.
And I guess a lot of people would say that the metrics that are used to assess the credit quality of the United States are also greatly in flux.
So it's a little hard to say that one would have an impact on the other.
I would note that S&amp;P had taken actions against some of the very highly rated insurance companies but couldn't draw any direct line between that action and the rating on our companies.
Great.
And one final just technical question.
For your wind-down operations you've got the intercompany loan coming due later this year.
And you also I believe have the repo lines between National and the wind down coming due.
Have you had any discussions with New York State regulator about extending either of those? We have ongoing discussions with the New York State Insurance Department about all of these facilities.
Just to clarify the secured loan does come due in November of 2011.
The facility with National that we referred to as the asset swap does not come due at that time.
At this point the wind down operations has adequate cash flow to retire the secured loan and to continue to meet all of its obligations for the near future.
I would note that and we do reference in our supplement the book value deficit between assets and liabilities which is about $500 million at some point that does start to materialize in cash.
But that point is some years away at this point.
This concludes the formal Q&amp;A session of today's call.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Greg Diamond for any additional or closing remarks.
<span>Thank you Jackie.
I'd like to note that we did handle all the questions that were submitted through the queue today.
I'd also like to thank all of you who joined us for today's call.
Please contact me directly if you have any additional questions.
I can be reached at (914) 765-3190.
We also recommend that you visit our website at <a href="http://www.mbia.com" rel="nofollow">www.mbia.com</a> for additional information.
Thank you for your interest in MBIA.
Good day and goodbye.</span> Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to MBIA Inc.'s Third Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Greg Diamond Managing Director of Investor Relations at MBIA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jackie.
Welcome to MBIA's conference call for our third quarter 2011 financial results.
We're going to follow the same format as last quarter's call with Jay Brown and Chuck Chaplin who will provide some brief comments and then we will open the call for a question-and-answer session.
Yesterday afternoon we posted several items to our website including our 10-Q and our quarterly operating supplement for the quarter.
The information for accessing the recorded replay of today's call is included in the financial results press release that we issued a couple of days ago and there are also information about the replay available on our website.
Our company's definitive disclosures are incorporated in our SEC filings.
The purpose of our call today is to discuss some of the disclosures in our most recent 10-Q to facilitate a greater understanding for investors.
The 10-Q also contains information that may not be addressed on today's call.
Please note that anything said on today's call is qualified by the information provided in the company's 10-Q and other SEC filings.
Please read our Form 10-Q as it contains our most current and comprehensive disclosures about the company and its financial and operating results.
Today's Q&amp;A session will be handled by Jay Brown CEO; and Chuck Chaplin Co-President CFO and Chief Administrative Officer.
Now for our Safe Harbor disclosure statement.
Our remarks on this conference call may contain forward-looking statements.
Important factors such as the general market conditions and the competitive environment could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.
Risk factors are detailed in our 10-K which is available on our website at mbia.com.
The company cautions not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.
The company also undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if it later becomes aware that such statement is not likely to be achieved.
Also the definitions of the non-GAAP terms that are included in our remarks today may also be found on our website.
Now Jay will provide some introductory comments.
Jay? Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
It's been a very busy 3 months.
Since we reported to you last quarter we have continued to reduce the potential volatility in MBIA Insurance Corp.'s insured book of business primarily through the execution of additional insurance commutations.
In addition to the early third quarter commutations we discussed on our last call we commuted another ABS CDO before the quarter ended.
And then after September 30 we settled an additional $10.6 billion of exposure primarily in the commercial real estate sector.
We now have substantial experience with commuting our commercial real estate exposures and we're incorporating that experience to a greater extent in our statutory loss reserves.
This contributed to the significant increase in loss reserves for the third quarter and Chuck will take you through that in greater detail in a few minutes.
In an effort to continue commuting potentially volatile exposures we are having ongoing discussions with other holders of our insured credit default swaps who may also be interested in achieving negotiated settlements before the end of this year.
This would be consistent with our experience in prior years.
So far this year we have resolved $23 billion of exposure early more than in all of 2010.
Five plaintiffs 3 banks and 2 other parties have dropped out of the Transformation litigation since the end of the second quarter and additional plaintiffs could drop out before the end of the year.
Currently only 8 of the original 18 blank plaintiffs remain.
Regardless of the number of plaintiffs the Article 78 process is nearing a conclusion with a trial if one is even necessary expected in late February or early March.
Of course with each passing quarter it becomes ever clearer that the allegations of insolvency made by the plaintiffs in the Transformation-related lawsuits have no merit as MBIA Corp.
continues to meet all of its obligations while maintaining a healthy capital base.
At the same time our affirmative lawsuits continue against a number of mortgage originators who defrauded us and who have not honored their contractual obligations to repurchase ineligible loans from securitizations that we insured.
In early October the New York State Supreme Court heard all our oral argument on key issues in our suit against Bank of America and its subsidiaries.
It has been widely covered by the press.
The court's decision will have an important effect on how we prepare and present our case from the information we have gathered through sampling deposition and discovery both in this case and in others that we have filed against Ally Bank Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley.
The decisions are also likely to have an effect on how our counter-parties assess their mortgage put-back exposure.
Regardless of how the court rules however we remain highly confident based on the overwhelming evidence of broad breach of contract that we will ultimately prevail.
And while we have reported $2.8 billion in recoveries from these originators on our balance sheet we have made well over $5 billion in loss payments on the related transactions.
When the cases are finally resolved we expect to recover the vast majority of our losses not just those for which we have already recorded a recovery.
Meanwhile the municipal finance market continues to operate without competition among bond insurers primarily as a result of the Transformation litigation which is effectively impeding National's ability to write new business.
During the third quarter S&amp;P published its final rating criteria for bond insurers.
In general we don't disagree with the directional approach that S&amp;P is taking but some aspects of the model appear to have more negative impacts than we think are warranted based on other experience.
We do not know whether S&amp;P is inclined to make further adjustments but we will continue to work with them.
Actions we may eventually take to achieve a high rating on a cost of capital effective basis will be delayed until the transformation-related issues are behind us.
National's current rating is impacted more by the overhang of the transformation litigation than by our existing business fundamentals.
We believe that there's an ongoing demand for insurance from financially stable municipal-only bond insurers and we continue to look forward to reentering the market after the transformation litigation is favorably resolved.
Aside from our insurance businesses we continue to build out of our marketing infrastructure and Cutwater Asset Management.
Our investment performance continues to be among the best in the fixed income space and we now have a sales and marketing effort commensurate with our investment track record and expertise.
Lastly we continue to maintain an active and open dialogue with our insurance regulators both here in the States and abroad in order to ensure that they may remain fully aware of developments in our business and in our litigation.
Chuck will provide a summary of 2 recent conversations we had with them in his remarks.
Now I'll turn it over to Chuck for a brief rundown on our financial performance and balance sheet positions.
Thanks Jay and welcome everybody.
Jay made the point that we have made a lot of progress in the third quarter in reducing our exposure to potentially volatile liabilities.
In our third quarter financial reporting you can see the impact of the cash payments we made for commutations that we announced on the second quarter call and you can observe that we've increased reserves for CMBS in part reflecting higher estimated cost to commute and higher probability of commutation.
But you won't see the full impact on par outstanding of agreements reached in the quarter and more importantly you won't ever see the potential future volatility associated with the deals that we've commuted which we believe is the most significant outcome.
This is the reason that we feel pretty good about our results in the third quarter.
I'll now walk through those results on a GAAP basis and then discuss in more detail our adjusted pretax income results and then touch on statutory accounting.
I'll finish up discussing our liquidity and capital positions and then Jay and I will attempt to answer your questions.
GAAP net income for the quarter was $444 million compared to a loss of $213 million in the third quarter of 2010.
As it has for most of the past 4 years the mark-to-market on insured credit derivatives drove the quarterly GAAP results.
Swap spreads on MBIA Corp.
increased considerably and ended the third quarter at levels near those of year end 2010.
The paradoxical result of this was a $776 million positive change in the mark-to-market on our derivative liability.
In the third quarter last year swap spreads narrowed and the mark-to-market was therefore more than $1 billion to the negative.
This volatility is the primary reason why we believe our GAAP net income doesn't properly reflect the economics of this business.
We think that adjusted pretax income a non-GAAP measure presents a clearer picture of our results of operations.
It reflects a loss of $430 million in the third quarter of 2011 compared to a loss of $24 million in the third quarter of 2010.
For the 9 months of 2011 adjusted pretax loss was $244 million versus an adjusted pretax loss of $66 million in the first 9 months of 2010.
The losses in this year's third quarter and the year-to-date period are driven by the results in our Structured Finance and International segment primarily in our MBIA Insurance Corp.
subsidiary.
Now I'll go through the segments in more detail.
The Public Finance Insurance segment had adjusted pretax income of $157 million in the quarter compared to $167 million in the third quarter last year.
Both of these periods had one-time items that boost their pretax income over run rate.
Last year the segment benefited from $45 million of realized capital gains from investment sales compared to only $5 million this year.
And then this year's third quarter the segment had $78 million of refunded premium compared to only $18 million in last year's third quarter.
This is primarily due to a refinement of our process for identifying refunded transactions.
Net of accelerated DAC amortization on the refunded policies this activity added $67 million to the segment's pretax income.
In addition to identifying policies that had been refunded but had not been reported to us as such we also corrected the allocation of refunded premiums between our insurance subsidiaries MBIA Corp.
and National.
Where we identified insured bonds that had been refinanced or deceased prior to the effective date of transformation January 1 2009 we've now transferred the premium income and the cash back to MBIA Insurance Corp.
where it belongs.
Because all of these policies are on municipal bonds there's no transfer between the public and structured reporting segments.
But when you look at our legal entity financials you'll see the reallocation of premium and its effect on earnings.
For example National's pretax income this quarter on a legal entity basis is $132 million versus the $157 million of earnings for the U.S.
Public Finance Insurance segment.
Other than this effect National Public Finance and the Public Finance segment performed in line with expectations for the quarter and continue to generate substantial capital from operations.
The Structured Finance and International segment primarily conducted in MBIA Insurance Corp.
had an adjusted pretax loss of $556 million in the third quarter compared to a loss of $6 million in 2010 third quarter.
The driver is insured loss activity and that is heavily impacted by our substantial commutation experience.
Specifically we increased our loss estimates for CMBS by $497 million in the quarter.
We estimate reserves for our commercial real estate exposures by assigning probabilities across scenarios using 4 approaches: 3 approaches are driven by loan level performance delinquency status or default studies; the fourth approach involves estimating the cost to commute the transactions.
Most of the increase in incurred loss this quarter is due to higher estimated cost embedded in this fourth approach and higher probabilities assigned to the commutation scenarios.
A small part of the increase in reserves is due to actual deterioration in a handful of transactions and increasing the probability of a double-dip recession in our loan level performance driven scenarios.
CMBS continues to be the most potentially volatile part of our portfolio and the cumulative incurred loss to date in this sector is $2 billion.
We've reduced loss estimates for ABS CDOs by $22 million this quarter reflecting the impact of expected prolonged low short-term interest rates.
The cumulative incurred loss in this book for both CDS and policies written as financial guarantees is $2.7 billion.
On second-lien RMBS we had an increase of $44 million a small adjustment on the cumulative incurred loss of $2.5 billion.
In this quarter second-lien delinquencies did not decline as much as we had previously projected.
Now most of the cash payments that we have made had been associated with ineligible loans in the second-lien portfolio.
Such payments net of recoveries in the quarter were $195 million compared to $226 million in the second quarter and compared to $330 million in the third quarter last year.
Payments for second-lien transactions continue to trend lower and continue to be somewhat below the modeled payments in our loss reserve calculation.
We also had an increase in estimated losses of $109 million in our first-lien RMBS book.
The increase is primarily associated with the 2004 to 2007 vintage transactions and is concentrated in a half dozen domestic all day deals that are in these vintages.
We're seeing higher loss severities here compared to our previous estimates and this may be related to servicer advances while the foreclosure pipeline was backlogged.
Our total first-lien portfolio is approximately $7.3 billion in outstanding par and includes $2.7 billion of the 2004 to '07 domestic all-day deals and $3.3 billion of sub-prime back deals and then $1.3 billion which is primarily non-U.S.
first-lien.
The all-day part of the portfolio has had by far the highest volatility.
Our Advisory Services segment had a $1 million pretax loss in the quarter.
While our investment performance continues to be strong as Jay has noted we did incur additional expenses to strengthen our marketing and distribution.
At the same time proprietary assets under management fell due to commutations in claims payments in MBIA and the run off of our Wind-Down portfolios.
The Corporate segment had adjusted pretax loss of $21 million in the quarter which is pretty close to its run rate.
Our Wind-Down operations had a pretax loss of $9 million in the third quarter substantially lower than in the last 2 quarters.
The driver here was a mark-to-market gain on euro-denominated liabilities which basically reversed the losses that we observed in the first and second quarters of 2011.
Moving on to the balance sheet.
National's statutory capital grew to $2.6 billion in the quarter and its liquidity continues to be adequate against all expected claims with a substantial cushion for adverse experience.
MBIA Corp.'s balance sheet at September 30 showed $2.6 billion of statutory capital comprising $1.29 billion of surplus and $1.36 billion of contingency reserves.
We requested and the New York State Department of Financial Services approved a release of contingency reserves equal to $318 million in the quarter.
On the statutory balance sheet.
The put-back receivable at 9/30 was $2.8 billion which reflects the application of a variety of discount factors to our incurred loss.
The volume of ineligible loans in the securitization should allow us to recapture all of our incurred losses as contract claims.
And as Jay said earlier we paid out over $5 billion in claims on these transactions so far.
The balance of cash short-term and highly liquid assets within MBIA Corp.
was $824 million at September 30 compared to $1.1 billion at midyear.
The reduction reflects both regular loss payments and commutations including some of those which we discussed in our second quarter call.
The balance at 9/30 does not include the cost of commutations agreed in the third quarter but closed after September 30.
No payments were made on the secured loan to the ALM business at the holding company in the third quarter and thus the balance remained at $600 million at 9/30.
We continue to believe that expected cash flows from premiums and investment income the repayment of the balance of the secured loan and the asset portfolio provide adequate liquidity to MBIA Corp.
expected cash payments with an acceptable cushion.
While we expect to continue to engage in commutations of potentially volatile liabilities that do not have current claims our first priority remains to meet all current claims in the ordinary course and to maintain a cushion.
When the mortgage originators honor their contractual obligations to repurchase ineligible loans from the second-lien securitization or we're awarded damages in court the company's long-term liquidity position will be significantly enhanced.
The liquidity position of the ALM segment tightened in the quarter.
The ALM business has $3.7 billion of assets at September 30.
And essentially that entire asset pool was pledged as collateral against GICs borrowing arrangements or hedging derivatives.
When spreads widen as they did in the third quarter as a result of the U.S.
downgrade and debt problems in the U.S.
and Europe asset values fall.
When that happens the collateral arrangements consume some of the ALM business' free cash.
In the third quarter that is exactly what happened.
As a result we requested and the New York Department of Financial Services approved an extension of the secured loan between the ALM segment and MBIA Corp.
This facility you'll recall originally had $2 billion outstanding in 2008 and 2009.
It was at $600 million at September 30 and has at this time been paid down to $300 million.
Under the 6-month extension the facility can be drawn up to a maximum of $450 million.
In addition to this this facility the Corporate segment within MBIA Inc.
will make advances to ALM if needed for liquidity management purposes.
So while our GAAP income statement is positive adjusted pretax income was negative in the third quarter of 2011.
Overall though we're satisfied with the strategic progress that has been made.
Since 2008 we have commuted $47 billion of exposure for approximately $2.7 billion.
We are confident that this strategy will put the company in a position to generate solid income and returns in the future.
And we'll now be happy to respond to any questions that you may have.
Jackie? [Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Arun Kumar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you.
One is on the CMBS commutations.
Could you comment on the quality of the tranches that you commuted? Are these the below investing grade tranches or are they just the higher-quality ones? We're commuting across the spectrum.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any probability that if you could tell us what percentage is below investing grade? I know you've listed out the tranches that are below investing grade on the CMBS.
Would it be fair to assume that at least a substantial portion of those have been commuted? Our approach on this is to tell you about commutations as they occur between the end of the quarter and this conference call to give you some update -- up-to-date information.
We think it's once a quarter to report the actual breakdown as the remaining exposures and let you see the differences the appropriate timeliness.
At the end of this quarter you'll see how much went out of each tranche -- each level of tranche.
And we do expect that there could be some additional commutations.
I should say we do expect additional commutations by the year end.
And so you'll see the full picture at that point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The other question is related to holding company cash.
I know that the numbers have changed a little bit on a quarter-over-quarter comparison.
And one of the items I noticed was the trades receivables I believe over $45 million or so is no longer in the mix.
Chuck could you comment a little bit on that on the status of the holding co.
cash? That's a trade receivable up.
Arun in the -- we have an investment strategy at the holding company that's been managed by Cutwater for us that had about $45 million in it at second quarter.
Since then we've done 2 things.
One is we've taken that portfolio down by about half.
The other thing that we've done is to take it out of our definition of liquid assets.
It still exists but we've sort of defined it out of liquid assets.
And at the same time we've been taking it down as a remarket opportunities.
So liquid assets at the holding company level at 9/30 are right around $200 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I just wanted to jump to the ALM business and you had to post additional collateral.
I know you delayed the repayment -- not delayed you renegotiated the payment of the intercompany loan to sometime in the middle of 2012.
Given the state of the markets RMBS CMBS and the other markets that the holdings of the ALM business represent when do you expect the turnaround in that asset pool in terms of the maturities and also in terms of the quality? Well again what we've done is to extend the maturity of the secured loan for 6 months which we've taken out to May 2012.
Now between now and May 2012 a lot of things are likely to happen.
We don't know what the combination will be: the Article 78 may be concluded; MBIA and National may both have positive cash flows that give us capital market access; we could have collected put-back receivables; asset values of course may rise facilitating sales in the ALM portfolio that would both add liquidity and remove spread volatility.
If none of those things happen of course ALM will need continued support.
And we would expect either the holding company or other affiliates will support and or will request an additional extension of the secured loan.
Research Division</strong> Turning to the discount rate.
I note that the discount rate that is used for National and the discount rate that is used for MBIA Insurance Corp.
is somewhat different.
Could you comment on some of the thought processes that go into that? I mean one was 4.9 one was 5-point-something.
Arun in our GAAP reporting we're using the risk-free rates that are applicable to the terms of the insured transactions that are being discounted.
For statutory purposes it's based on the yield on the investment portfolio in the 2 books so that the yield investment portfolios are different.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The last question from my end.
In terms of holding company cash in terms of getting additional resources of proceeds from many of the operating subs or for many other subs is there any possibility that that $200 million as it gets depleted over time and debt service and so on that you will be able to get some dividends up from National or from some other source? Again it's our expectation that in the long run National is a dividend payer.
At some point MBIA Insurance Corp.
will become a dividend payer although it has a substantial negative earned surplus at this time.
We expect the other businesses to be able to generate dividends.
The holding company actually has received dividends from some of the smaller service-oriented subsidiaries over the past couple of years totaling maybe $20 million.
And we would expect that trend to -- I take that back totaling about $70 million or $80 million.
And we would expect that trend to continue in the future.
The biggest single potential source of dividends is from National.
After the Article 78 process is completed we'll start to think about that.
The thing that has to be balanced is the desire to maintain a very strong capital base within National.
And I should point out Arun that the holding company also holds a tax escrow account that holds at this point about $190 million of assets that starts to be freed up to the holding company starting in 2013 assuming that we don't have catastrophic insurance losses within National.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just the last question.
I think Jay commented on this earlier.
You talked about Article 78 may be coming to trial either in February or March if it does go to trial.
I mean reading between the lines you seem to be fairly at least expectation is that you will not go to trial and that you'll reach a full settlement or some kind of resolution prior to that.
I know this is somewhat speculative on my part but if you could care to comment on that.
I think it is somewhat speculative.
I remain optimistic that we're going to resolve all the issues either before trial or at trial.
If you look at our track record we've managed to work with 10 of the 18 original bank plaintiffs and work out a reasonable settlement.
As I noted we're having discussion with most and I'll repeat most but not all but it's a significant number of the remaining parties.
We believe it's within our ability based on prior experience to settle all of the issues before we get to trial.
Whether we actually achieve that as you say it's speculation.
But we've had good progress this quarter and we expect to have some more progress before the fourth quarter is over.
May I add to that Arun and Jay is that even if there aren't settlements with all the plaintiffs a trial is not required in the Article 78 process.
So the judge could actually rule on the papers that will be submitted over the next several weeks.
Research Division</strong> Just last thing again you mentioned in terms of the claims that you paid out -- this is the recoveries that you booked I think that there were $2.8 billion of recoveries and over $5 billion payout that you expect to receive substantial amount of the recoveries over and above -- even over and above the $2.8 billion.
That being said could you be booking additional reserves based on a review of those outstanding issues with the counter-parties? And lastly based on the claims payment that you're making on a quarterly basis at what point do you -- you would feel the need to settle some of the recoveries or to slow down the payments that you're making to the various parties involved? I think you've got a couple of questions there.
In terms the what we booked every quarter we reassess that.
We want to continue to make sure that the amount that's on the balance sheet represents the minimum amount that we expect to recover.
Obviously we could use different scenarios of probabilities and raise those numbers.
We don't think that's appropriate at this time.
We've only had 1 party settle early on before we got into a lawsuit.
We are and have had discussions with some of the other parties.
Obviously litigation has some risks and if somebody were to meet with us at a number that made sense to us that would assist us in our liquidity and allow us to deal with the remaining commutations that's certainly something we would entertain and have entertained in terms of discussions.
At this point in time obviously nothing significant has happened on that front.
And when it does you'll hear about it in our next quarterly call.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Johnson with Dupre' Financial.
I had a question on the CMBS.
What are you seeing as the current situation and what's your view in the CMBS market currently? Sure.
I think at this point -- first of all I'm Anthony McKiernan I'm the Chief Portfolio Officer for MBIA.
At this point given by the reserve increases we've had this quarter which primarily was driven by our increased use of commutations and prices we do feel that we're going to have an opportunity to exit these exposures and eliminate the future volatility.
That case -- that being the case based on market conditions today what we're seeing is a substantial amount of modification activity in the marketplace at this point especially on our cultural fee or our very high loan amount properties.
We're encouraged by that.
That obviously is to some degree offset by the continuing delinquency trends in the marketplace.
The liquidation timelines have certainly been drawn out in commercial real estate.
So at this point we think that the market is positioning itself for a time when liquidity will start returning in a better way to the market.
We think there's a lot of liquidity potential out there.
But we remain concerned about the exposures that are primarily original BBB rated CMBS.
That's our primary concern and that's where we're looking to reduce our exposures where we can.
Okay.
And on the $497 million that you increased the estimated economic losses on the CMBS how much of that was due to the deterioration of the market? I would say that only a small portion is really attributable to the deterioration in the market.
Most of our increase in reserves is related to commutation pricing expectation and increasing the probability of commutation.
One other question.
This is Logan Foster [ph] with Dupree Financial.
I'd just like to get any comments that you've got pertaining to your bonds specifically the bonds of 2022 2025.
Any issues concerns that we should know about as far as interest payments and or principal payments on those? It makes me feel better to ask it.
Those are bonds issued by the holding company.
We believe that the holding company has adequate liquidity against all the upcoming interest payments on those bonds.
As you point out the next principal payments are in 2022 and beyond.
And the holding company has more than enough assets to ensure that it can retire those bonds when the time comes.
Specifically on the day of Birmingham's announcement that would be a good answer.
You all aren't having any problems with those did you? We do have some exposure to the county both at the GL level about $90-something million and less than $1 million of exposure to the Sewer District.
We had taken into consideration the probability of the events that we're now seeing unfold when we set reserves in the third quarter.
So we don't expect that there are any surprises there.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Doichie O'Donnel [ph] with Deutsche Bank.
Most has been answered.
Just had a quick question with regard to the rep and warranty lawsuit.
Obviously October 5 was pretty important and favorable the ruling there.
Just curious as to what kind of the next milestones in that case are and to the extent that there is no settlement ultimately with Bank of America and Countrywide when do you expect that to get wrapped up and go to court? Where we are right now the oral arguments that were heard on October 5 one was decided which had to do with the consolidation of success reliability issues between Bank of America and Countrywide.
That was decided in our favor.
We're still waiting on the loss authorization rule -- ruling in terms of how the judge determines that.
To a certain extent that will dictate how we approach the trial in terms of how we would put the different evidence together and how we'd put our case before the judge.
The judge has indicated that she would like to have certain rulings decided by the Appeal Court before we go to trial so it's a little bit uncertain.
If that process were to go smoothly and on an expedited basis and we've seen the Court of Appeals handle some of these issues on an expedited basis we still could see ourselves in a trial by the end of next year.
Okay.
That's very helpful.
And on the fraudulent conveyance lawsuit obviously you gave an update that there's been a significant amount of banks dropout at this point in time 8 -- I'm sorry 8 remaining.
Where is that? Because there was a bit of a setback I believe over the summer.
There's been several different delays as this thing has worked through its process.
Where we are right now with the Article 78 case it is currently scheduled for late February or early March.
We will be filing our papers in approximately a week if I remember right.
The banks will then file papers.
The judge will then evaluate those papers and decide whether the trial date will hold.
We're still anticipating that that's a reasonable date.
It might slip a little bit but there's no particular outstanding issues at this point.
It would cause it to slip by -- that I'm aware of that would cause it to slip by a major amount.
The other case which is the plenary action filed by the same 8 banks is currently starting through the discovery and deposition phase.
That will go on throughout all of next year.
At the earliest that trial would probably be at the end of the year or perhaps in early 2013.
We don't know if that trial will actually -- if we can settle the Article 78 favorably then we'll have to see how that trial will actually proceed.
Okay great.
That's very helpful.
And I guess just one more question and you've mostly answered it before.
On the commutation that happened after quarter end you commented that it was across the spectrum in terms of credit rating.
Can you comment as to whether those are all domestic at CMBS or is there some foreign there as well? The vast majority is domestic but there were a couple of international transactions in the mix.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Carmel with Carmel Asset Management.
[indiscernible] I believe you answered most of my questions.
One I do have for you are you actually seeing claims on your CMBS portfolio? No.
At this point we've only paid basically commutation payments.
Okay.
So no claims have come through yet.
To be 100% accurate we've had I believe less than $1 million in claims which were subsequently repaid in the following month.
Thank you.
This concludes the formal Q&amp;A session of today's call.
At this time I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Greg Diamond for any additional closing remarks.
Thank you Jackie.
And thanks to all of you who have joined us for today's call.
Please contact me directly if you have any additional questions.
I can be reached at (914) 765-3190.
We also recommend that you visit our website for additional information.
The address for our website is mbia.com.
Thank you for your interest in MBIA.
Good day and goodbye.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the MBIA Inc.'s Fourth Quarter 2011 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Greg Diamond Managing Director of Investor Relations at MBIA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Latricia.
Welcome to all to MBIA's Conference Call for the Fourth Quarter 2011 Financial Results.
We're going to follow a similar format as last quarter's call.
Jay Brown and Chuck Chaplin will provide some brief comments and then we'll open the call for a question-and-answer session.
As usual members of the press and representatives from institutions litigating against us will not be able to ask questions on the call.
For today's call Chuck will be referencing a slide deck during his remarks and that deck can be found on MBIA's website.
More specifically the deck is posted on the Events and Presentations web page of the Investor Relations section of the mbia.com website.
After the market closed yesterday we posted several other items on our website including our 2011 10-K and the operating supplement for the fourth quarter as well as the statutory statements for both National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation and MBIA Insurance Corporation.
In addition the information to access the recorded replay of today's call is available on the website via the financial results press release that we issued yesterday.
The purpose of our call today is to discuss our most recent 10-K to facilitate a greater understanding of the company for investors.
Our company's definitive disclosures are incorporated in our SEC filings.
The 10-K also contains information that may not be addressed on today's call.
Please note that anything said on today's call is qualified by the information provided in the company's 10-K and other SEC filings.
Please read our Form 10-K for 2011 as it contains our most current and comprehensive disclosures about the company and its financial and operating results.
Now I will read our Safe Harbor disclosure statement.
Our remarks on this conference call may contain forward-looking statements.
Important factors such as general market conditions and the competitive environment could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.
Risk factors are detailed in our 10-K which is available on our website at mbia.com.
The company cautions not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.
The company also undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if it later becomes aware that such statement is not likely to be achieved.
Also please refer to our financial results press release available on our website for the definitions and a reconciliation of the non-GAAP terms that are included in our remarks today.
Now Jay will provide some introductory comments.
Jay? Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
Chuck will take you through our financial results in a moment.
But before he does I want to share a few thoughts on where we stand today in our efforts to transform your company for the future.
My comments will be brief as Chuck has fairly extensive comments to make on last year's results.
Looking back 2011 brought us much closer to achieving the transformation goals that I set out for us 4 years ago.
We made significant progress on a number of fronts during the year particularly as we reduced volatility and potential future losses in our insured portfolio through negotiated settlements of ABS CDO and commercial real estate exposures.
At the same time we advanced our putback suits toward trial while receiving several various favorable rulings along the way.
Although we still have a way to go I feel comfortable in saying that we're very much closer to the end of the process than the beginning.
This progress has not been inexpensive.
We commuted or reached agreements to commute $32.4 billion of insured exposure in 2011 at a cost of approximately $2.5 billion.
But we believe that cost is well worth the confidence gained by eliminating potential future losses in our insured book.
Since the end of 2008 we have negotiated termination agreements on approximately $61 billion of exposure.
Our commutation efforts continue and they are focused on a small handful of transactions where future volatility remains a concern.
The litigation challenging our transformation continued its slow journey through the legal system in 2011 but we saw a measurable progress nonetheless.
Seven banks dropped out during the year and one more this past January which leaves only 4 of the original 18 plaintiffs.
We continue our efforts to resolve our differences with each of these plaintiffs out of court.
But in the absence of that a trial if necessary for the Article 78 is scheduled for next quarter.
More than 3 years after Transformation was approved MBIA Insurance Corporation continues to honor all of its obligations while maintaining substantial positive steps toward capital.
So we fully expect the court to conclude that the company was solvent at the date of transformation and the insurance department's decision to approve transformation was appropriate.
As our putback litigation proceeds through the discovery process in preparation for trials we continue to compile evidence of extensive fraud and misrepresentation in the origination of mortgage loans backing a number of securitizations we insured.
Expert testimony on the quality actually the lack thereof of individual mortgage loans is now being filed with the court in our largest case as one of the key steps in preparation for trial.
Over the course of the year there were several rulings on relevant issues impacting our putback litigation that were decided in our favor.
Perhaps the most important one was actually received in January of this year in which the New York Supreme Court ruled that we do not need to show a causal link between the underlying misrepresentation in claims that we have paid to recover our damages.
This ruling should provide us with a straightforward path to recovery of our losses.
While we've established $3.1 billion of expected putback recoveries on our balance sheet we will continue to pursue the full amount that we believe we are owed.
Despite the protestations of the defendants in our litigation the legitimacy of our mortgage fraud and misrepresentation plans can hardly be in doubt in light of the numerous government investigations in the mortgage securitization process in a number of high-profile settlements which have now taken place.
The recent announcement of a new joint federal and state task force led by New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman gives us further reasons to hope there will finally be accountability for the practices that led to billions of dollars in losses for our company.
Although the uncertainty posed by our litigation issues continues to keep our municipal finance insurance company National Public Finance Guarantee on the new business sidelines the company had another very strong year from a financial performance perspective and its insured portfolio is continuing to perform well.
We have not changed our view that there is solid demand for bond insurance particularly from a well-capitalized U.S.
muni-only insurer and we look forward to meeting that demand once the litigation issues have been resolved.
Now I'll turn it over to Chuck for a review of our financial results.
Great.
Thanks Jay and welcome everyone.
I'd like to comment on the quarter and the full year 2011 financial results and then talk a bit about our balance sheet position at year end 2011 but I'd like to open with some historical information.
The financial crisis began for us in the second half of 2007 when we began to observe behavior in our second-lien portfolio that was inconsistent with the nature and quality of the collaterals represented to us by the sponsors.
By year end 2007 it was clear that we would face significant claims payments.
We recorded a large loss reserve and commenced the forensic process that found at the mortgages were largely ineligible and led to the establishment beginning in 2009 of substantial putback receivables on the balance sheet.
The poor economy also contributed to adverse experience in our ABS CDO and CMBS exposures.
We saw very substantial increases in incurred loss and claim payments for the next couple of years and then a very slow reduction and loss severity and portfolio risk bringing us to today's position.
I think that the history may help put today's results into proper context and I've provided a few slides to help you see these points.
So if you would then turn to Slide 3.
At the end of the fourth quarter 2007 our gross par insured was $762 billion with roughly $431 billion in domestic public finance and $331 billion in structured finance and international insurance which is the first bar that you see on the far left on this chart.
Inside that $331 billion domestic second-lien exposure was $23 billion CMBS and CRE CDOs totaled $54 billion and what we have called multi-sector CDOs or ABS CDOs were $36 billion.
Supporting the whole $762 billion exposure on our balance sheet was statutory capital of $6.4 billion and statutory loss reserves of $926 million.
This was the height of risk and leverage in our business and in the global financial system as well.
The slide shows the deleveraging over time of our structured finance and international portfolio in MBIA Corp.
It's gone from $331 billion outstanding at year end '07 to $141 billion today a decline of about 57%.
The reduction in the higher-loss potential exposures the lower portions of these bars is even greater.
Those reductions are primarily due to loss payments in the case of RMBS and commutations of ABS CDOs CRE CDOs and CMBS pools.
If you'd compare this trajectory with the projection that we had made of portfolio amortization at year end 2007 you get the picture that's shown on Slide 4.
At year end 2011 the $141 billion of par outstanding is $74 billion lower than it would have been just from natural amortization.
The greatest proportion of our loss payments has been on second-lien RMBS and the pattern of these payments is shown on Slide 5.
There was a lot of discussion early on about whether there would be a burnout phenomenon in this portfolio given the extensive misrepresentations about the nature and quality of the underlying loans.
However aggregate delinquencies and as you can see here claims payments are declining and our claims payments have been declining now for 2.5 years.
The cumulative total of these payments is about $6 billion and most of that is subject to the claims that we have made against the originators.
Slide 6 shows our loss payments excluding RMBS.
There have been very little in the way of regular claims payments on our multi-sector CDO and commercial real estate exposures.
Payments have been more sporadic as they're driven by commutation opportunities.
These payments are elective and as you can see they've clustered around year ends although I would note activity has been pretty constant since the third quarter of 2010.
As Jay said around that time our objective is to commute all of the volatile commercial real estate and ABS CDO exposure.
And as Jay said just a few minutes ago 2011 was a key year in this risk reduction effort as we spent about $2.5 billion to remove the $32.4 billion of exposure.
Slide 7 shows how par has been reduced since year end 2007 as well as from year end 2010 to '11 by the most active sectors.
On the right you see our exposure to structured CMBS pools.
We had about $18 billion of exposure to lower-rated CMBS pools at year end 2007 those are the bars on the far right and it's down to $6 billion at year end 2011.
We also made substantial progress in reducing the higher-quality CMBS pools and CRE CDO exposures.
So continuing to move to the left multi-sector CDOs which topped out at $25 billion -- over $25 billion at year end 2007 have been reduced by 3/4 to about $6 billion.
And on the far left our CDO-squared exposure which had been in excess of $10 billion is down to only $200 million in one transaction today.
Other than second-lien RMBS these have been the most problematic sectors in our portfolio and we have focused our efforts on commuting them.
There's more to do but we've been fairly successful thus far.
Another way to think about our risk reduction is to view the pattern of expected future losses quantified as statutory loss reserves.
And this is shown on Slide 8.
At third quarter 2007 reserves were under $200 million.
Now this is pre-transformation and most of the reserves at that time were on the public finance portfolio.
But by year end 2008 just before the approval of our transformation reserves had grown to $1.9 billion where virtually all of the growth had been in the structured finance book.
After that as payments were made and salvage was recognized the net reserves fell.
At year end 2011 we expected to collect more in future salvage receipts than we expected to pay in future claims payments so our statutory loss reserve was negative at $2.3 billion.
Within that account we have approximately $3.1 billion of putback receivables and about $800 million of other net reserves.
Thus the probability that future reserve growth erodes the capital position of MBIA Corp.
seems low.
Our capital position is adequate in our view even though liquidity has declined in 2011 as I will discuss in a few more minutes.
But turning now to the financial results introduced on Slide 9 we'll see that 2011 continues to reflect the cost of achieving that risk reduction.
Starting with our results under U.S.
GAAP Accounting for which there is no slide we had a net loss for the fourth quarter of $626 million compared to net income of $451 million in 2010's fourth quarter.
For the full year 2011 the net loss was $1.3 billion versus income of $53 million in 2010.
In the fourth quarter and the full year 2011 the market's perception of MBIA Corp.'s credit quality generally improved as the swap and recovery derivatives on our name affect the fair value of the policies for which mark-to-market accounting is required.
I would like to attribute the movements to our risk reduction efforts but that's hard to say because CDS price changes and therefore our GAAP results have in the past been quite disconnected from fundamentals in our business.
We believe that our non-GAAP measure adjusted pretax income provides a clearer view of financial performance in the period and the non-GAAP measure adjusted book value provides useful information on value broker decline in the period.
I'll now go through our adjusted pretax income results where we treat all of our insurance policies using insurance accounting.
On Slide 10 you can see that adjusted pretax loss for the fourth quarter was $252 million compared to a loss of $311 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
For the full year the loss was $497 million compared to a loss of $377 million in 2010.
Losses in all periods were driven by increased reserves and credit impairments and settlement costs in the structured finance insured portfolio primarily for CMBS.
Now I'll talk about the fourth quarter of 2011 from the segment perspective also shown on Slide 10.
Our public finance segment is conducted largely through National Public Finance Guarantee Corp.
and National had adjusted pretax income of $163 million in the Q4 compared to $103 million in 2010.
The biggest drivers were $73 million of realized capital gains partially offset by a goodwill write-off of $31 million.
The gains are associated with the decision that we made in the third quarter to begin repositioning the investment portfolio from tax exempts to taxable assets.
We also sold assets to fund the secured loan that National made to MBIA Corp.
in the fourth quarter.
National's portfolio has now moved from 48% taxable assets at year end 2010 to approximately 79% taxable at year end 2011.
From a tax planning perspective we may continue to shift this weight as relative value opportunities arise.
Loss and loss adjustment expense for National were a benefit of $1 million in the quarter and a loss of $4 million for the full year.
So 2011 turned out to be benign for National despite the stress that we observed in municipal and state budgets and those problems that bubble up in the press periodically.
National's full year adjusted pretax income was $576 million.
We believe that its capacity to continue to generate capital from operations will make it a strong competitor once we're in a position to again begin to write new business.
The structured finance segment is conducted largely in MBIA Insurance Corp.
where we had an adjusted pretax loss of $300 million for the quarter.
Its full year adjusted pretax loss was $692 million.
Again these losses are driven mostly by incurred loss on CMBS-related policies offset by net reductions in loss reserves for RMBS and ABS CDOs.
This can be seen in some more detail on Slide 11.
For our commercial real estate exposures we incurred losses of approximately $782 million.
We previously disclosed that commutation that we'd undertaken in the fourth quarter were approximately $500 million more costly than our third quarter loss reserves anticipated.
Nevertheless we believe that by commuting these deals we avoided the potential for significant adverse development in the future.
The reserve increase for deals not yet commuted was primarily due to increasing selected commutation prices and probabilities as well as some additional projected collateral deteriorations.
Early settlement has been our primary risk reduction tool in the multi-sector CDO and commercial real estate sectors.
When you consider our cumulative commutation experience up until the fourth quarter of 2011 we've commuted about $37 billion of exposure for gross payments of about $2.2 billion which was about $100 million under the cumulative loss reserve.
At this point we've commuted $61 billion of exposure and the total cost is about $400 million over the cumulative loss reserve.
While significant in dollar terms that difference is less than $0.01 on the par amount.
Every commutation is its own story and the structures and economics of each deal result from a combination of potential future volatility counter-party motivation and timing.
Going forward we may negotiate some settlements above the reserve and we may negotiate some settlements that are below reserves but we're not planning to make any further off-cycle disclosures about commutation prices.
We do expect to make such disclosures as part of our regular quarterly reporting.
Aside from CMBS we saw a net reserve takedown in the second-lien RMBS area.
As the court's recent causation ruling in our lawsuit against Bank of America and Countrywide increased the probability that we will be compensated in full for their wrongdoing.
This led to an increase in our estimated putback recoveries for all counterparties.
Unfortunately we also saw a lower-than-expected decline in delinquencies in the quarter leading to somewhat higher expected claims payment in the future.
On ABS CDOs we also had a meaningful reserve takedown which has to do with interest rates.
We update the discount rates used to set statutory reserves only once a year as required to allow changes in reserves between discount rate sets to reflect the underlying credit conditions we also lock the LIBOR curve for our loss projections when we fix the discount rate.
At this year end the spread between the discount rate and the LIBOR curve was somewhat greater than at year end 2010.
So in a period where there was little change in actual credit performance the loss reserve nonetheless dropped by $137 million due to interest rate changes.
The remaining ABS CDOs on our book are mostly poor performers where our credit analysis already assumes that most of the collateral fails.
As a result it's likely that the only changes that we'll see in reserves will be due to interest rates or early settlements.
All other policies generated $2 million of loss in the quarter and this All Other category includes our first-lien RMBS portfolio which has $3.3 billion of subprime exposure and $2.7 billion of all-day exposure as of year end 2011.
So the total economic losses to MBIA Corp.
were $309 million in the quarter and that's the driver of the $300 million adjusted pretax loss.
So if you would then turn back to Slide 10 the Cutwater corporate and wind-down segments were all affected by a onetime performance fee paid by an affiliate in the wind-down segment.
So wind-down paid a $65 million performance fee to the corporate segment which then paid $7 million to Cutwater.
We do not expect these fees to be recurring.
The wind-down operations had a loss of $161 million in the fourth quarter.
Other than the $65 million performance fee that I just referenced it had a $78 million loss on financial instruments at fair value.
This is largely driven by the impact of improved perception of MBIA Corp.'s credit quality on its liabilities subject to mark-to-market accounting.
The balance of the operating loss in wind-down is primarily due to the ongoing negative spread between asset revenues and liability expenses.
Now moving away from the income statement I'd like to make some comments about liquidity and capital for which I have no slides.
First for MBIA Corp.
It had $534 million of cash and highly liquid assets on its balance sheet at year end 2011 down from $1.2 billion at year end 2010.
We believe that this amount is adequate against its expected needs and provides a reasonable cushion against stress on RMBS claims payments.
However as I mentioned we do want to do additional commutations to fully deliver MBIA Corp.
to more stable operations sooner.
In the fourth quarter a portion of the payments for commutations we achieve were funded by borrowing from National under a secured lending arrangement approved by the New York Department of Financial Services.
In order to engage in future commutations MBIA Corp.
will need to collect on its putback receivables or borrow additionally.
It bears repeating that the need for liquidity from outside of MBIA Corp.
is driven by the failure of a small handful of mortgage originators to honor their contracts that call for repurchase or replacement of ineligible mortgage loans in securitizations that we insured.
As they meet or are required to meet these commitments MBIA Corp.'s liquidity will be significantly enhanced.
National has liquidity capacity.
Its balance sheet contained over $4 billion of invested assets as of December 31 2011 as well as its $1.13 billion secured loan to MBIA Corp.
and very little is expected in terms of near-term claim payments on its policies.
Over time we expect that both of our insurance companies will have adequate liquidity and earnings to provide dividends to the holding company.
However in the near term we have agreed with our regulator that neither will pay dividends to MBIA Inc.
without the Department of Financial Service's prior written approval.
In National's case that agreement expires in July 2013.
Now at MBIA Inc.
our holding company we have 2 main activities.
One the normal holding company activities associated with owning operating subsidiarities and an investment portfolio including tax planning facilitating capital and liquidity movement et cetera; and 2 managing the ALM portfolio which is the bulk of our wind-down operations.
The holding company activities had $226 million of cash and highly liquid assets at year end 2011 compared with $295 million at year end 2010.
This cash plus investment income and assets to be released annually from the tax escrow account more than adequately provide for the debt service and operating expenses of this part of MBIA Inc.
for the foreseeable future.
Now while we've managed the ALM portfolio as a stand-alone business from a legal entity perspective it's part of the holding company.
That portfolio had $160 million of free cash at year end 2011 down from $239 million at year end 2010.
Reduction was driven by 2 main factors.
First ALM made $675 million of principal payments in 2011 on its intercompany secured loan from MBIA Corp.
as well as over $500 million in principal payments on GICs and MTNs.
Second ALM is exposed to liquidity demands when the value of assets pledged under affiliate and third-party collateral facilities fall as a result of spread widening.
In the third quarter of 2011 market spreads widen significantly reducing ALM's free cash balances.
We have begun selling assets into 2012's somewhat more robust market to help mitigate this risk and we're developing other contingency plans against this spread shock event.
So bottom line the firm has used some of its liquidity flexibility to retire potentially volatile liabilities and has a lower risk profile as a result.
The combination of the lower potential volatility and the near-term prospects for clearing significant litigation from our agenda are significant positives that will help us get to more stable operations in the future.
I would be pleased at this time to respond to any questions that you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Our first call comes from the line of Arun Kumar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Chuck a couple of questions for you.
One is the most recent topic you mentioned liquidity.
If you look at MBIA Insurance Corp.
in your supplement you have about $1.3 billion of cash to down from $2.3 billion a year ago.
And in the 10-K this time you made a lot of not all that cryptic comments about liquidity being impaired presuming if you do not collect on your putbacks.
Now at what point do you run out of resources to commute any more transactions be it CMBS or RMBS any other type of transaction? And given all the comments that you made what is the level of discussion that you're having with all these banks that you mentioned earlier in terms of getting to a resolution of this? Okay.
There's a couple of questions embedded in that.
First we do not believe that the liquidity position of MBIA Corp.
is impaired.
We had adequate liquidity against all of the near-term obligations that the company has and we believe that we have an adequate cushion against stress.
I made the point earlier that most of the payments that we're making are better regular claims payments are around RMBS and those payments have become somewhat more predictable over time as we went through the slides a few minutes ago.
So we have -- we think a pretty good view of what the cash payments will be in the near-term.
Now commutation payments are elective and I've made the point before that we do not intend to commute ourselves into a liquidity impairment situation.
That is the driver behind the intercompany loan that was put in place in the fourth quarter.
The reason for the intercompany loan is that we do have this very substantial putback receivable on the balance sheet which will be collected but we're fixing the timing mismatch between the commutation opportunity and the availability of that putback receivable via this loan.
So again to the extent of we engage in additional material commutation activity we will need to either collect on some or all of the putback receivable or engage in additional borrowing.
In terms of the conversations we continue to have conversations with most of our counterparties.
As you know from what's been publicly filed right now we're scheduled if a trial is necessary to go to court in the second quarter.
We obviously would like to see a settlement with each of the counterparties before entering into that final phase but there's no guarantees that that will occur before that time.
Research Division</strong> Just another couple of quick questions on this.
In terms of the intercompany loan between MBIA Insurance Corp.
and the whole cost/ALM business what amount was repaid in the most recent quarter? The balance as of Q4 is $300 million and we made a $300 million approximately principal payment around the beginning of the fourth quarter.
So the balance over the course of 2011 went from $975 million down to $300 million.
So I know that in total we paid $675 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Lastly in terms of the surplus notes and the drain has been causing on your Op co's resources the $140 million or so in terms of annual debt service has any discussion with the regulators in terms of preserving the capital of the Op co at this point given all the payments that you have been making to commutations and otherwise? I guess we would all agree that the surplus note is really really expensive and it has a call date coming up in 2013 and we need to think about how exactly we're going to take it out and/or refinance it at that time so that we get a more normal cost of capital.
However we did make a payment on the surplus note in January of 2012.
Each payment is subject to the approval of the Department of Financial Services so it's not really within our -- it's their decision each semiannual period not ours.
And they continue to approve those payments going off the words in their mouths but they would need to be comfortable with the capital liquidity position of the company at each semiannual period in which they approve those payments.
And given its capital adequacy and its liquidity there was no reason not to approve in this most recent period.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
The last question is related to the loan between National and MBIA Insurance Corp.
the secured loan.
Is that secured by the putbacks? We actually haven't provided disclosure about the security package for the loan but it is secured by assets of MBIA Corp.
that are very substantial relative to the amount drawn on the loan.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Palmer with BTIG.
LLC Research Division</strong> Could you comment on the developments in stock in California relative to the company's exposure there? Which of the bonds that you insure actually do have bond reserves that could be tapped before insurance comes into play and what do you think the impact could be? Sure.
Obviously it's too soon to make definitive statements about this other than we have about $224 million of total exposure.
We have about $89 million of exposure that may be impacted by the proposal to suspend their general fund debt service payments.
Most of our exposure does benefit from reserve accounts or other pledged revenues so we think that the near-term impact on National would be minor of a suspension.
And we expect to continue to be in voice with Stockton as they work with their creditors toward a solution.
Whatever happens National's bondholders will be paid and that is another demonstration we believe of the benefit of bond insurance to this marketplace.
LLC Research Division</strong> Another question.
As you said each commutation has its own story.
Given the fact that you've been able to achieve as many commutations as you have to this point you may well have gone through the low-hanging fruit and then the next layer up in terms of difficulty.
Is it going to be increasingly difficult to achieve commutations with your remaining counterparties? Anthony if you'd have an interest in addressing the...
Sure.
I think that I would say that -- I wouldn't say that we've gone to the low-hanging fruit I'd say that we've gone through some of the highest value targets that we would've liked to have achieved over the last couple of years.
Every counterparty has its own motivation.
We have our own views on volatility payment profiles things of that nature.
So I would say that it is a combination of those factors that ultimately lead the commutation and that we have certainly so far commuted some of the highest value targets that we'd be after.
So again there are some left that we need to do but that amount is far smaller than it was a couple of years ago.
I think if you look at the chart that Chuck provided on the different types of exposure reductions that have occurred since the end of 2008 -- actually since the beginning of 2007 if you look through that at that point in time far and away the most volatile and the toughest discussion revolved around CDO-squared where we've eliminated all but one transaction which was actually a very early 2004 CDO-squared transaction which has minimal issues associated with it.
We then moved to what was the next most volatile area the ABS CDOs and did a number of those transactions in 2009 and in 2010.
During the last 15 18 months we've moved through a significant portion over 2/3 of the worst-performing BBB and below CMBS and CRE CDOs and as you'll note we've eliminated about 2/3 of that.
So I think it would be an absolute mistake to characterize the progress of eliminating $61 billion as low-hanging fruit.
What we have left is very small number of transactions with a very small number of counterparties.
Some of which are in our litigation there's a few that aren't in the litigation that we're also negotiating with.
And we expect that the story on each of those will be somewhat similar to what we've seen in the past that in aggregate it should come in around where our reserves are but individual transactions could be higher or lower depending on the timing and when they occur.
It's a complicated process.
Some of the conversations have been going on for over 3 or 4 years at this point.
Some of the conversations get started and get done in less than a month.
And so it's hard to put a characterization around something that involves 2 companies' views 2 companies' positions and 2 companies' accounting at a particular point in time in terms of of how they're looking at the transactions.
And we've had enough experience obviously having negotiated with the vast amount of our counterparties to have a pretty good idea of possible outcomes.
So we remain very optimistic that if the counterparty is serious about wanting to try and resolve the differences that we can reach an answer.
I would just add that that the first person that responded to that was Anthony McKiernan our Chief Risk Officer and Head of Insured Portfolio Management.
I apologize we didn't introduce him earlier.
LLC Research Division</strong> One more question.
The company sent a letter to the court requesting that BofA come forth with a fraud database an internal fraud database that Countrywide apparently had been keeping.
Have you received any response from the court in terms of BofA producing that through discovery? Not yet.
Our next question comes from the line of Derek Horton with Silver Point Capital.
I was just wondering if you could comment on the performance of the MBIA U.K.
portfolio and just give us a sense of whether the equity value there had gone up over the year and if any substantial claims or reserves have been made? Sure.
The MBIA U.K.
portfolio continues to perform satisfactorily.
There are only loss reserves on a small handful of transactions there and they are not ones that we believe have very high potential volatility.
There are transactions of portfolio that we have under surveillance.
But at this point we haven't seen any systemic type risks of the type that we've seen in the domestic structured finance portfolio.
Got it.
And so I guess I would assume that equity value would've slightly increased then? Yes we do have positive earnings which if you look at it from kind of a statutory perspective there is a pickup in earnings on MBIA Corp.
that comes from the U.K.
and it’s been pretty steady.
Got it all right.
So no claims actually paid just some reserving? I think that MBIA U.K.
-- we've done commutations in the past where some of the policies commuted were in the MBIA U.K.
portfolio so MBIA U.K.
did contribute to those commutations.
But other than that we haven't had a material claims payment.
Next question from the line of Alex Ehrhart with Millennium.
I was just hoping to ask Arun's earlier question in a different way maybe.
I was looking at stat cash invested assets is $1.6 billion.
You have $534 million of liquid assets.
The loan from National is $1.1 billion.
I was kind of looking at that thinking that your collateral maybe kind of maxed out as far as borrowing ability goes against National.
Am I thinking about that incorrectly? We believe there's substantial additional borrowing capacity at National.
We'll have to wait till we get to a situation that would require that.
At that point in time we'll review it with the MBIA Board we'll also review it with the National Board and the Department of Financial Services to see if everybody agrees with that conclusion.
And again not to beat a dead horse but we do have a $3.1 billion receivable on the balance sheet which is -- on which payment has been demanded.
At some point we do expect that it will be collected.
All right.
Of course.
And then maybe just one more follow-up.
So I was reading through the K last night I'm not sure if I was reading this correctly or not.
It looks like you've agreed to a couple of additional commutations in the fourth quarter that may not have been settled yet.
So it looked like we possibly have some more commutation payments cash going out the door from Corp.
coming in the first quarter in addition to the $70 million coupon that you just paid on the surplus notes.
Is that right? That's correct yes.
The next question comes from the line of David Williams with CQS.
Real quick question on the loan from National.
I know the question was asked whether it was secured or not but where is it rank versus the policyholders at MBIA Corp.? Is it parry junior? How are you thinking about that? I would consider it senior with respect to the collateral.
Okay.
So I realize you think this is an unlikely event but in the event of MBIA seizure or inability to pay et cetera you view the National loan being paid before policyholders? Our view is that the loan is going to be repaid in the ordinary course.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Stern with Stern Investment Advisors (sic) [Advisory].
Have there been any conversations between the company and the Ambac bankruptcy trustees concerning possible MBIA participation in that bank -- Ambac reorganization? No comment on that.
Thank you.
This concludes the formal Q&amp;A session of today's call.
At this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Greg Diamond for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Latricia.
And thanks to all of you who have joined us for today's call.
Please contact me directly if you have additional questions.
I can be reached at (914) 765-3190.
We also recommend that you visit our website for additional information.
The address for our website is mbia.com.
Thank you for your interest in MBIA.
Good day and goodbye.
Thank you for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the MBIA Inc.'s Second Quarter 2012 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Greg Diamond Managing Director of Investor Relations at MBIA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jackie.
Welcome to MBIA's conference call for the release of our second quarter financial results.
We're going to follow a similar format as last quarter's call where Jay Brown and Chuck Chaplin will provide some brief comments and then we'll have a question-and-answer session.
After the stock market closed yesterday we posted several items on our website including our 10-Q and our operating supplement for the second quarter of 2012.
In addition the information to access the recorded replay of today's call is available on the website via the financial press release we issued yesterday.
The purpose of our call today is to discuss our most recent 10-Q to facilitate a greater understanding for investors.
Our company's definitive disclosures are incorporated in our SEC filings.
The 10-Q also contains information that may not be addressed on today's call.
Please note that anything said on today's call is qualified by the information provided in the company's 10-Q 10-K and other SEC filings.
Please read our latest 10-Q as it contains our most current and most comprehensive disclosures about the company and our latest financial and operating results.
Also please refer to our financial results press release that's available on our website for the definitions and reconciliations of the non-GAAP terms that are included in our remarks today.
Before I turn the call over to Jay I will read our Safe Harbor disclosure statement.
Our remarks on today's conference call may contain forward-looking statements.
Important factors such as general market conditions and the competitive environment could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.
Risk factors are detailed in our 10-K which is available on our website at mbia.com.
The company cautions not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.
The company also undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if it later becomes aware that such statement is no longer accurate.
And now Jay will make some introductory comments.
Jay? Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
Chuck will provide a detailed review of our second quarter results in a few moments.
But in brief our adjusted pretax loss for the quarter was driven by additional losses on insured exposures from the usual suspects.
We saw deterioration in a handful of volatile 2007 BBB CMBS transactions where the counterparty is a Bank of America subsidiary.
While the recovery of servicers advances on first lien exposures and continued slower than expected decline in delinquencies on second lien exposures led to incremental losses in the RMBS book of business.
Although we have not entered into any new commutation agreements since our last call we've made great progress on this front since 2008 and you can be sure that mitigating the remaining future loss volatility in MBIA Insurance Corp's insured portfolio remains among our highest priorities.
So too is litigating with certain securitization sponsors to force them to honor their contractual obligations to repurchase ineligible loans from transactions we insured or to pay us full recessionary damages.
Our putback litigation against Bank of America and Countrywide has now entered the expert discovery phase leading up to a filing of summary judgment briefs in September.
Absent a settlement we would expect a trial in 2013.
Despite Bank of America's obvious delaying tactics which have lengthened the legal process beyond any reasonable expectation and have even drawn the judge's ire of late we have rightfully won every meaningful decision along the way and we remain confident of the ultimate outcome.
Our direct economic damages from the unpaid Bank of America putbacks are now approaching $5 billion reflecting both incurred losses and accrued statutory interest.
These damages do not reflect the additional damage done to our enterprise through their conscious decision to employ aggressive delay tactics in the litigation and withhold the billions of dollars they owe us in a way to pressure us to accept the heavily discounted and non-economic settlement.
We are prepared to fight this all the way if we cannot reach a reasonable and economic settlement consistent with what we have achieved with all other counterparties.
Shortly after our last call ResCap and its RFC and GMAC Mortgage subsidiaries filed for bankruptcy.
As I noted during that call their financial condition wasn't news to us and in fact was already reflected in the credit valuation of the putback recoverables on our balance sheet.
Following the actual bankruptcy filing we carefully reassessed our expected recoveries from the RFC and GMAC and have adjusted them downward taking into account the already significantly discounted level and the strength of their claims even within the context of a bankruptcy proceeding while also assessing the other potential claims against the estate and the amounts that may be available for distribution to creditors.
The hearing in the Article 78 proceeding challenging our transformation concluded in June after almost 4 weeks.
As we had anticipated the 2 remaining bank plaintiffs were unable in our view to meet their burden of demonstrating that the approval by the New York State Department of Insurance was arbitrary and capricious or violated the law.
To the contrary we believe the evidence presented at the hearing demonstrated that the department's actions reflected a lawful thorough and thoughtful process undertaken in an effort to achieve important public policy goals which were similar to actions taken by the bank's own regulators at that time while protecting policyholders interest.
So with the hearing behind us we now await judge -- Justice Kapnick's decision.
And before anyone asks we have no idea when that decision might be coming.
All we know is that with each passing day we are one day closer to pushing this issue behind us.
A string of municipal bankruptcies in California has raised concerns among investors regarding the ability and willingness of issuers to meet their obligations.
While they are promised to be sure especially as municipalities try to balance their promises to both bondholders and retired employees the muni market has continued to function reasonably well even in the face of these challenges.
That said we are watching each and every case to determine if there is a fundamental shift in either behavior or the interpretation of contracts by the bankruptcy courts.
The defaults that have occurred and the actions we have taken reinforce and serve to underscore the value proposition of bond insurance.
As investors benefit not only from an unconditional guaranty of principal and interest payments but also from our extensive remediation skills and the ability to take aggressive action in support of bondholder rights.
So we continue there will be -- so we continue to believe that there will be a solid demand for our product and that National's future remains bright.
Now I'll hand it over to Chuck for a view of our financial results.
Thanks Jay and good morning all.
I'll provide a summary of our financial results and our balance sheet positions and then we'll throw the call open for your questions.
First our GAAP net income for the quarter was $581 million compared to $137 million in the second quarter of 2011.
As has been the case for many quarters the change in value of insured credit derivatives tells much of the GAAP story.
Last year the impacts of the mark-to-market change and commutations reduced income by $75 million in this year's second quarter they increased income by $775 million.
That $775 million includes the impact of MBIA's nonperformance risk where higher cost of protection on the insurance company leads to income gains for us.
The $775 million also includes gains on commutations in the quarter as the cost to commute exposures were less than the marks to market that we reversed.
We also report on certain non-GAAP measures of performance adjusted pretax income and adjusted book value.
These are measures used by management in making tactical and strategic decisions about the company.
In the second quarter we had an adjusted pretax loss of $152 million versus income of $161 million in last year's second quarter.
The most important drivers of the difference were loss and loss adjustment expense and impairments on insured credit derivatives.
Last year we had a net reduction in total incurred loss a result of commuting policies at prices below the reserve levels.
This year we saw a total of $306 million in incurred loss driven by additions to CMBS reserves and increased incurred losses on first and second-lien mortgage securitizations.
Adjusted book value was also lower in the second quarter falling to $31.23 per share compared to $32 per share at March 31 2012.
The driver here is the same incurred losses reduced ABV by about $1 per share.
I'll go through our business segments now and discuss their results in terms of adjusted pretax income and make some comments about their capital and liquidity positions where relevant.
The Public Finance segment's pretax income was $147 million in the quarter versus $144 million in last year's second quarter.
This was above our expectations.
The driver was refunding activity which accelerated $73 million of premium income into the second quarter.
It affected 1 600 policies with $13 billion of par.
National's loss reserve position was essentially unchanged in the quarter.
We continue to monitor stress in a handful of credits and particularly California municipalities as -- to which Jay alluded we anticipate that state and municipal credits will continue to experience heightened stress over the next couple of years.
National's statutory capital grew to $3 billion in the quarter and its claims-paying resources stood at $5.7 billion.
In the second quarter the secured loan to MBIA Corp.
was increased by approximately $500 million to $1.6 billion as a result of draws that we disclosed in our first quarter reporting and interest accumulation.
However the asset swap between National and MBIA Inc.
was reduced by $379 million to $620 million.
So National's liquidity position was only modestly affected by intercompany lending activity in the quarter.
When MBIA Insurance Corp.
receives payments of the putback recoverables those payments are required to be paid over to National to the extent of outstandings under the secured loan.
The Structured Finance and International segment suggested pretax loss was $301 million compared to income of $188 million in the second quarter of 2011.
Total premium fees and investment income were $138 million in the quarter down from $145 million in last year's second quarter.
Operating expenses interest and DAC amortization were $116 million compared to $105 million last year.
Also in 2007 -- in 2012's second quarter operations were also affected by losses due to foreign exchange rate changes on non-U.S.
premiums receivable and a small invested asset impairment.
The real story on MBIA Insurance Corp.
is in incurred losses.
Incurred losses were $306 million in the quarter.
CMBS reserves increased as we saw additional stress on the pools that we insure.
Our deductibles had been materially eroded in most of the 2006 and '07 deals that have BBB collateral.
This continues to be the most potentially volatile part of our portfolio.
But as of this time no material claims have been paid.
We also continue to see some increases in incurred loss in our first and second-lien RMBS portfolios.
The second lien incurred loss reflects modest underlying deterioration in a handful of securitizations as well as a write down of our recoverable against subsidiaries of ResCap which filed for bankruptcy production during the quarter.
Those recoverables are the second largest putback on our balance sheet after that associated with Bank of America.
Our valuation of the recoverable from the ResCap entities has reflected a risk of bankruptcy from the beginning but we reduced our expected recovery from ResCap in the first and second quarters in light of its deteriorating financial condition.
Overall the putback recoverable of approximately $3.2 billion on our balance sheet grew by $16 million in the quarter as the decrease in the value of the ResCap putback was more than offset by increases in the putback assets associated with other counterparties.
On the first lien side we increased loss expectations across about a dozen credits for a total of $57 million.
These are almost all day transactions.
For comparison our domestic all day portfolio was about $2.5 billion in par outstanding at June 30 while our second-lien portfolio about -- which much has been said was $7.3 billion of par.
The incurred loss on all day is reflected in the other column in the economic loss table in our press release.
As Jay mentioned our goal continues to be to commute most of our insured CMBS and related exposures.
There were commutations in the second quarter of $8.5 billion of insured exposure so the potential future volatility of the insured portfolio continued to decrease.
All of these commutations have been disclosed in prior quarters.
The statutory capital and claims-paying resources positions of MBIA Corp.
stood at $1.7 billion and $5.2 billion respectively as of June 30.
The balance sheet contained $1.3 billion of cash and invested assets of which approximately $534 million was immediately available to meet liquidity demands.
If claims on the Bank of America originated CMBS exposure becomes substantial then we may not have sufficient liquid resources to pay those claims in the absence of a global settlement with Bank of America or a collection of a substantial amount of our putback recoverables.
The trend in payments on second-lien RMBS has resumed its decline with $139 million paid in the second quarter versus $213 million in the year ago quarter and $169 million in the first quarter of 2012.
Finally MBIA's secured loan from National has a -- or had a $1.6 billion balance as of June 30.
Moving on to the corporate segment.
It earned $28 million pretax in the second quarter compared to a loss of $2 million in last year's second quarter.
The positive result this year is due to a $35 million administrative fee paid by the wind-down operations.
Now wind-down had a pretax loss of $81 million in the quarter.
That loss is essentially attributable to: $59 million of realized losses primarily on the sale of assets to the corporate segment; and a $35 million fee paid to the corporate segment.
The realized losses that I mentioned are eliminated in consolidation because the consolidated firm has not sold those assets.
From January till now we have sold $1.2 billion of assets of the wind-down operations including a bit over $800 million sold to the market and nearly $400 million sold to affiliates.
This enabled a reduction in the asset swap with National of $715 million the repayment of the intercompany secured loan from MBIA Corp.
which had $300 million outstanding at the beginning of the year and a sharp reduction in the holding company's liquidity risk from rising spreads.
On the other hand the book value deficit that we measure in the ALM business inside of wind-down grew by $210 million.
Both the wind-down operations and the corporate segment's operations are largely conducted in our holding company MBIA Inc.
That legal entity had $336 million of cash and highly liquid assets as of June 30 not counting the approximately $314 million in its tax escrow account.
In our release you'll see that we cite $290 million of liquidity in the corporate segment and $46 million of liquidity in the wind-down operations that's your total $360 million.
Overall the second quarter was a disappointing one from an adjusted pretax income and ABV perspective but it brings us a quarter closer to stability of operations in MBIA Corp.
and in the consolidated firm.
And now we will throw the line open for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Arun Kumar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions for you.
One is related to your CMBS reserves that you've built up over the past couple of years in terms of loss reserves.
When do you expect to start making payments on those? Is there any timeline? It's very difficult to – thank you Arun.
It's very difficult to forecast the performance of the underlying mortgages that lie behind the CMBS that are referenced in the pools that we have wrapped because the special servicers are making individual decisions about each mortgage each month.
So we have a forecast we have an expectation about what the incurred loss is on those transactions but timing is extremely difficult to estimate.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
The -- in terms of the recoveries you made a couple of comments on the -- related to the write downs related to ResCap and being offset by recoveries being booked on other counterparties.
Could you walk us through the line item that actually went through that recovery balance -- on your balance sheet? The gross balance obviously didn't change much but there must have been a bunch of fairly material amounts that went through it.
Have you publicly disclosed it anywhere? Or do you plan to? We haven't provided any disclosure that breaks that number down.
But we have said it's in our 10-Q that you have both a reduction in the value of the recoverable from the ResCap entities but there's also accretion as well as an increase in recoverable associated with increase in incurred loss.
So if you just go through there is some detailed disclosure in the 10-Q about how exactly we developed the number but we've not provided a quantitative breakdown.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just a follow up on the claim statement on CMBS.
You stated that it's somewhat difficult but do you know when the earliest timeline could be the first material payment? Is it a couple of years out or do you think 3 to 5 years out? Or could it be within 1 year? It is -- it really is impossible to say because of the fact that it's dependent upon decisions that we haven't figured out any sort of actuarial way to forecast.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Turning to the ALM business.
If you look at the table that you have in your supplement ALM -- their asset level mismatches I think about $800 million at this point.
Given that a lot of the cash is tied up in terms of collateral being posted for the gigs and the investment agreements the MTNs could be somewhat exposed so in terms of meeting those maturities down the road do you think you'll have to go back to National to get an intercompany loan? And if that's the case what do you think would be the regulator's willingness to allow for an increase from National given that the loans already gone up a fair amount in this quarter as well? Yes.
Our expectation Arun continues to be that the deficit in the ALM portfolio is made up over time by the resources of the holding company.
Those resources include obviously the cash that's sitting on its balance sheet today its investment income as well as the cash flows that it will receive over time from its operating subsidiaries.
The way I would encourage you to think about that that deficit is -- it's like it's additional holding company debt obligation.
That's got to be met by all the Holdco's resources.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And I think that earlier Chuck I think it was couple of quarters ago you mentioned the thought process along getting dividends from National and now up to now you haven't taken any from there.
Has there been any change in terms of regulatory restrictions on that? Or I know you've agreed not to take dividends but in terms of has there been any change in that from clearly National's capital position is arguably substantially stronger than MBIA Insurance? Yes.
There's been no change in our agreement with the regulator not to declare dividends out of National until after I think it's July 2013.
So there's been no change.
Your next question comes from the line of Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> Couple questions.
First Chuck could you elaborate on what drove the first-lien reserve additions this quarter for those dozen all day deals? Sure.
Actually Anthony McKiernan the Head of our Insured Portfolio Management Group is here.
He can probably provide a more detailed answer than I could.
Sure.
The increase to the first-lien portfolio all day portfolio was there was a handful of transactions that we saw was that loss severities on the underlying collateral increased materially because of servicer advances that were made during the very long foreclosure processes.
So what you wind up happening was the servicers are making these advances the ultimate properties are being sold and those servicers are able to get those advances back first before the loan is repaid.
So we wound up seeing loss severities increased materially on a handful of deals and so we had to make an adjustment to view our current experience and make a forward-looking view on those deals as well.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I mean a lot of these foreclosure processes are obviously extended.
Has this prompted any review of your severity expectations for the other first-lien exposures? We continually review every quarter the severity assumptions for the portfolio.
We're seeing certain servicers more than the others have had longer timelines and more advancing that's occurred so we've made those adjustments accordingly.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then on the CMBS side there's about $18.2 billion remaining of CRE and CMBS exposure.
Can you quantify what portion of that is related to BofA or is the top 10 BIG list a good proxy? The -- we did talk about this in the -- in out -- in the 10-Q.
About $6 billion of our exposure is in the 2006 and '07 original BBB collateral transactions.
And the large majority of that is BofA related.
To be clear -- Geoff to be clear virtually all of it is BofA.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then I think you made a point -- in the front page of your press release is talking about the real remaining loss uncertainty on the CMBS side is in these BofA deals at the same time you're in litigation with Countrywide.
So you've booked the rep and warranties side on the RMBS.
When you talk about the potential loss development on CMBS how confident are you that the current billion impairment on all your CDOs covers that versus adjustments as you move forward in any kind of settlement? I'm not -- it seems like you've combined 2 questions Geoff.
We try and look at the numbers every quarter in terms of both the underlying and what our expectations are for settlements.
What we have reflected in our books right now is -- both reflects what we think has happened to the underlying transactions and it also reflects our experience across the 20-odd commutations we've done with everybody else in the business.
We really have a pretty good feeling for what the market settlement levels have been particularly for similar transactions.
That said each quarter involves us looking again at those assumptions to decide if they have to be adjusted.
And I think one of the reasons we focus so much on this quarter in terms of trying to get investors to look at it is to recognize that the majority of volatility that's left in MBIA Corp.
in terms of what could happen over any particular quarter or 6 month or yearly period now revolves around what happens with BofA.
And so we thought it was important just to highlight that.
That said it's very difficult to give you any kind of expectation as to whether those numbers will change substantially next quarter or the quarter after.
Hopefully at some point we'll either have a decision in the courts or we'll find a way to reach a reasonable settlement with that counterparty.
Jay can I add one thing to that? The change in the reserve that we reflect on CMBS for this quarter is essentially all driven by underlying deterioration in the properties that are behind the CMBS that are in the pools as opposed to any change in our expectation about our commutation value or probability.
Your next question comes from the line of Sajan Shah with Morgan Stanley.
I have a few questions regarding the U.K.
units the U.K.
insurance.
Could you just comment on the general performance that you've seen there? Whether there's been any new claim payments and the performance if any transactions that you're specifically worried about? We have no material claim payments Sajan that took place in the second quarter and no material change in the status of transactions in the portfolio either in the performing or in transactions that are on our various caution list.
And do you have any ambitions to use MBIA U.K.
to raise potential liquidity for -- maybe for example with the sale to National? Any intercompany transactions of that type obviously would be subject to regulatory approval in this case probably multiple regulatory approvals.
But it's not something that you've considered yet? At this point we have not considered -- obviously we haven't taken any actions with respect to that.
And at this point there's no -- not a current plan.
It is something we've looked at and have an understanding of what would be involved to pursue a transaction like that.
Your next question comes from the line of [indiscernible] with Sentinel [ph].
Just wanted to ask about the HoldCo cash position.
Number one just wanted to confirm that the payment from the Conduit business was the main driver of the increase during Q2.
And then two wanted to find out if you could give any visibility about the timing and magnitude of any future payments from the Conduit business or unregulated entities at the HoldCo? In the second quarter there were a number of cash flows into the HoldCo.
I think the -- when you look at the distribution from the Conduit business that's the largest single item but there also were cash inflows from asset sales.
There was a settlement with some -- with our D&amp;O carriers that we reimbursed us for prior expenses.
There was a small tax refund in the quarter.
So it's kind of miscellaneous items after the fee that was paid from the wind-down operations over to the Corporate segment.
In terms of what to expect going forward we don't have -- in our liquidity forecasts I'm not including an expectation of future distributions out of the Conduit's although their performance may warrant.
We don't forecast them.
This concludes the formal Q&amp;A session of today's call.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Greg Diamond for any additional or closing remarks.
I would like to go back to the last question just add one thing to it because the Conduit segment has already paid an additional fee over to the holding company in the third quarter.
So we'll provide additional disclosure about that in the third quarter.
But again it's not something that we forecast on a go-forward or routine basis.
Thank you.
We took the questions of all the parties that were in the queue today.
Thanks to all of you who joined us for today's call.
Please contact me directly if you have any additional questions.
I can be reached at -- we have one more question Jackie.
You do have a question from the line of Andrew Thau GMP Securities.
I was just curious I saw that there have been the amounts paid over the tax the escrow -- or the tax payment agreement by National relating to the 2010 2011 tax years.
And I was wondering if you could provide any color regarding when those amounts might become available after the -- with the tax years having closed.
Sure.
The first payment into the tax escrow was $114 million for the tax year that will now be beyond the 2-year carry-back period in early 2013 in January 2013.
So that $114 million would be released to the holding company at that time the first potential distribution from the tax escrow.
Okay Jackie.
We're all set.
We have no additional questions.
Thank you.
We recommend that you visit our website for additional information at mbia.com.
Thank you for your interest in MBIA today.
Good day and goodbye.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to the MBIA Inc.'s Third Quarter 2012 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Greg Diamond Managing Director of Investor Relations at MBIA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jackie.
Welcome to MBIA's conference call for the release of our financial results for the third quarter of 2012.
For today's call Jay Brown and Chuck Chaplin will provide some brief comments and then we'll hold a question-and-answer session.
Yesterday afternoon after the market closed we posted several items on our website including our third quarter 2012 10-Q and quarterly operating supplement.
Also the information for accessing the recorded replay of today's call is available in the financial results press release that we issued yesterday which is also available on the website.
Our company's definitive disclosures are incorporated in our SEC filings.
Please note that anything said on today's call is qualified by the information provided in the company's 10-Q 10-K and other SEC filings.
The 10-Q we filed yesterday also contains information that will not be addressed on today's call.
Please read our latest 10-Q as it contains our most current and most comprehensive disclosures about the company and our latest financial and operating results.
Also please refer to our financial results press release that is available on our website for the definitions and reconciliations of the non-GAAP terms that are included in our remarks today.
Now I'll read our Safe Harbor disclosure statement.
Our remarks on today's conference call may contain forward-looking statements.
Important factors such as general market conditions and the competitive environment could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.
Risk factors are detailed in our 10-K which is available on our website at mbia.com.
The company cautions not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.
The company also undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statements if it later becomes aware that such statement is no longer accurate.
And now Jay will make some introductory comments.
Jay? Thanks Greg.
Good morning everyone.
Since our last conference call relatively little of significance has changed.
We continue to await a decision in the Article 78 proceeding in which Bank of America has challenged the Department of Financial Services' approval of the creation of National Public Finance Guarantee.
Since the hearing in this matter ended on June 7 I can definitively say that we're 5 months closer to a decision but the court has not provided guidance as to when that decision might actually come.
I can also reaffirm our confidence in a positive outcome.
Beyond that there's nothing further to report on this matter.
Similarly our mortgage putback litigation against Bank of America and its countrywide subsidiary continues to move forward as summary judgment moment -- motions were filed during the quarter.
We expect that the hearing from these issues will take place in the next month and decisions to follow sometimes thereafter.
We continue to be confident that we will prevail in this litigation and recent developments including the lawsuit that the United States has brought against Bank of America and developments in other monoline collection actions against various mortgage originators only bolster that confidence.
Unfortunately while loss payments by MBIA Insurance Corp uninsured securitization backed by ineligible residential mortgages continue to decline the flow of new delinquencies is not abated as quickly as we had expected.
We also have taken additional loss reserves against CMBS pools where the dominant counterparty is Bank of America's Merrill Lynch subsidiary.
Although these transactions were structured with deductibles those deductibles are now likely to be eroded resulting in claims being made to MBIA Insurance Corp.
Depending on the timing of the deductible erosion as well as the timing of collections on our putback claims MBIA Insurance Corp could experience a liquidity shortfall.
Ironically Bank of America having manufactured that shortfall by defaulting on its obligations to us might be the company's largest debtor and also one of its larger potential creditors.
Since the outcome of a liquidity shortfall would likely be adverse for both MBIA Insurance Corp and for Bank of America our base case assumption continues to be that there is a negotiated global settlement between the 2 companies but we will not accept a noneconomic settlement.
So clearly there is a risk that a settlement doesn't take place.
With that in mind we are taking prudent steps now that are intended to mitigate the potential adverse consequences to the stakeholders in the holding company and in National from this potential scenario by launching the consent solicitation that we announced last night.
If a majority of the bondholders agree MBIA Inc.'s debt agreements will be amended so that regulatory actions against MBIA Insurance Corp that may result from an impasse with Bank of America will not create an acceleration in the holding company's senior debt securities.
We believe the proposed amendments are positive for bondholders and have no cost to policyholders.
While there were no significant developments in our litigation in the quarter we are clearly getting closer to resolving many of the key issues facing your company.
And one thing is certain the management team and I remain fully committee -- committed to resolving them in ways that properly serve the interest of all of our stakeholders shareholders bondholders and policy beneficiaries.
Now Chuck will take you through the financial results for the quarter.
Thanks Jay and good morning everyone.
First our GAAP net income for the quarter was $7 million compared to $444 million in the third quarter of 2011.
Once again the change in the value of insured credit derivatives is the largest part of the year-over-year variance.
Last year the impacts of MBIA's nonperformance risk and commutation activity drove a gain on derivatives of $776 million.
In this year's third quarter there was a modest unrealized gain associated with MBIA Corp.'s nonperformance risk and a modest unrealized loss from deteriorating spreads on underlying collateral.
The net $33 million loss was the smallest change in insured derivative values that we've recorded since 2007.
We also report on certain non-GAAP measures of performance: adjusted pretax income and adjusted book value.
These are measures used by management in making tactical and strategic decisions about the company.
In the third quarter we had an adjusted pretax loss of $118 million versus a loss of $430 million in last year's third quarter.
The most important drivers of the difference were lower loss and loss adjustment expense and impairments and lower impairments on insured credit derivatives primarily on commercial real estate related policies.
Last year we had incurred losses on commercial real estate related deals of $497 million in the third quarter while this year saw a more modest increase and incurred $123 million.
Last year's result was driven largely by the cost of commuting transactions while this year's incurred loss in this sector was driven by deterioration in the underlying portfolios.
Adjusted book value was also slightly lower in the third quarter falling to $30.64 per share compared to $31.23 per share at June 30 2012.
Incurred loss of $0.92 a share was partially offset by net positive contributions from operations of $0.33 per share.
I'll go through our business segments now and discuss their results in terms of adjusted pretax income and make some comments about capital and liquidity where relevant.
The public finance segment's pretax income was $164 million in the quarter versus $157 million in last year's third quarter.
This was above our expectation.
The largest driver was realized capital gains on the investment portfolio where we saw $18 million in this year's third quarter versus $5 million last year.
We also had heavy refunding activity which accelerated $82 million of premium income into the third quarter.
This was the highest quarterly refunding income we've recorded in the past 4 years.
We expect that refunding income will continue to be elevated for the next few quarters as a result of approaching call dates on bonds issued in the same periods 10 years ago.
National's case loss reserves were essentially unchanged but we did recognize increased costs associated with legal fees for credits that are in or threatening municipal bankruptcies.
We anticipate that state and municipal credits will continue to experience heightened stress over the next couple of years as local governments work to balance budgets and meet their postretirement benefit obligations.
National's statutory capital grew to $3.1 billion in the quarter and its claims-paying resources stood at $5.6 billion.
As a result of amortization and refunding the book of business the capital base supports is now $356 billion in gross par compared to $574 billion at the time of transformation 4.5 years ago.
Today National's capitalization is consistent with S&amp;P AA and Moody's Aaa ratings requirements positioning National well to be relaunched into the municipal market as we resolve the transformation litigations.
Regarding National's intercompany financing the asset swap with MBIA Inc.
was reduced by $98 million to $522 million and the outstanding amount of the intercompany secured loan to MBIA Corp.
was $1.6 billion at September 30.
The structured finance and international segment largely represented by MBIA Insurance Corp.
had an adjusted pretax loss of $224 million in the third quarter of 2012 compared to a loss of $556 million in the third quarter of 2011.
We have losses in both periods due to high loss and loss adjustment expense but incurred insurance losses were $252 million in the third quarter this year down from $631 million in the third quarter last year.
Commercial real estate related losses increased by $123 million as we saw modest additional stress on the CMBS pools that we insured for Bank of America.
And in addition we added one other commercial real estate CDO to our classified list.
Although this continues to be the most potentially volatile part of our insurance portfolio as of this time no material claims have been paid on commercial real estate exposures.
With respect to our second lien exposures delinquencies continued to decline but the pace was somewhat slower than our expectations.
The result of this is that we now estimate future payments to be somewhat higher than our estimates from last quarter.
In addition voluntary prepayments of performing loans were somewhat higher than we expected so we reduced our estimates of future reimbursements from excess spread.
And that basically offset the accretion in our estimate of reimbursements from the putback recoverable.
Actual claim payments in the quarter of $130 million were basically in line with our expectation and that amount continued its slow decline.
In the second quarter of 2012 and the third quarter of 2011 payments were $139 million and $195 million respectively.
The putback recoverable on our balance sheet was approximately $3.1 billion at September 30 2012 virtually unchanged from June 30.
The recoverable reflects a discount from the incurred loss of approximately $5 billion on all the second lien RMBS securitizations where we expect to collect on putbacks.
We should note that our claims and litigation include these paid and to be paid losses as well as interest legal fees and other claims.
Our legal claim against Bank of America alone summed to over $4.5 billion.
There also was an increase of $47 million in expected losses on first lien RMBS securitizations as losses upon liquidations increased in the quarter.
Those same impacts drove an increase in our incurred loss on ABS CDOs of about $26 million.
The statutory capital and claims-paying resources positions of MBIA Corp.
stood at $1.5 billion and $5.1 billion respectively as of September 30.
The balance sheet contained $1.1 billion of cash and invested assets of which approximately $386 million was immediately available to meet liquidity demands.
The putback recoverable is an illiquid contra liability that we will need to collect in order to improve the longer-term stability of MBIA Corp.
Finally as I mentioned earlier MBIA's secured loan from National had a $1.6 billion balance as of September 30.
There were no draws on the loan in the quarter but interest for the second quarter was added to the loan's balance on the first day of the third quarter in accordance with its loan -- with the loan terms.
Now moving on to noninsurance activities.
Cutwater Asset Management had a small loss in this quarter virtually the same as in the year-ago quarter.
The corporate segment earned $22 million pretax in the third quarter compared to a loss of $20 million in last year's third quarter.
The positive result this year is due in large part to a $35 million administrative fee paid by the wind-down operations.
Now while the corporate segment received fees of $35 million in each of the last 2 quarters from wind-down those fees are subject to significant volatility and they may not be a significant in future quarters.
Wind-down had a pretax loss of $77 million in the quarter.
The loss is more than the expected run rate because of the $35 million fee paid to corporate and marks to market on hybrid debt obligations and euro-denominated MTNs in that segment.
Both the wind-down operations and the corporate segment's operations are largely conducted in our holding company MBIA Inc.
That legal entity had $432 million of cash and highly liquid assets not pledged as collateral at September 30.
In addition to this it had approximately $371 million in its tax escrow account.
We believe that this liquidity position plus expected future cash flows from our operating subsidiaries will be adequate to service the holding company's unsecured obligations as they come due in the ordinary course.
We are pursuing the consent solicitation that Jay mentioned.
It's part of our ongoing effort to make our capital structure more efficient.
The action should enhance our ability to access the capital markets in the future by reducing the risk that holding company obligations could be untimely accelerated.
We have hired Deutsche Bank Securities to assist us in contacting bondholders and it's our objective to obtain consent from the holders of a majority of the bond across our 2 indentures in the next 10 business days.
The transaction won't have any direct impact on our insurance operations.
We'd be happy now to respond to any questions that you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Max Scherr with Panning Capital.
My first question would be the CMBS exposure.
You said you've made no payments.
Just to clarify was that for the quarter or is that life-to-date? We have not made any material payments on commercial real estate exposures since the financial crisis.
So just dating back to 2007 we haven't seen any payments yet.
And any sort of insight as to when that may occur? Is it still very dependent on structure performance tough to say? It's really -- it's dependent upon individual mortgage performance and special servicer behavior so it's hard to forecast.
Great.
The second question would be the intercompany loans from National do you have availability if you will on that given the size of the putback asset? Draws on the intercompany loan that we've done in the past were individually approved by the insurance regulator the Department of Financial Services.
And there isn't any availability if you will.
It's not a line of credit.
They are individual loans that we've taken.
And qualitatively would you say that you feel there's availability there? Or would you ask again? We think that the loan is very well secured by the collateral so there is an excess of collateral.
So potential availability.
And then finally on Page 8 of MBIA Corp.'s -- your 10-Q you disclosed a deficit of $97 million of qualifying assets to support your contingency reserves.
Yes.
Can -- is that number still $97 million as of November 8 and do you have any clarity on timing as to when you might resolve that with the New York State Insurance? At this point we don't have clarity.
We've made a request to modify the -- to put it to reserve requirement and we've not gotten a response to that yet.
And any feel for when that may happen or no? I can't -- I don't have no.
Your next question comes from the line of Arun Kumar with JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> Jay and Chuck a couple of questions for you.
The first question I have is you talked about the consent earlier in the discussion Jay and so did you Chuck.
The question is was there any discussion with the regulator that precipitated that request for a consent? Yes.
We did notify the regulator that we're doing this yes.
Research Division</strong> So it wasn't that they came to you in the context of a new regulatory action on MBIA Insurance Corp.
that precipitated that? No it did not.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second question is given that you just articulated Chuck that you have over $1 billion of -- $1.5 billion of statutory capital that includes the capital and the contingency reserve and the fact that you paid out $130 million in payments in the quarter is there any likelihood that the regulator could step in in the next 3 to 6 months? It looks like you have capital levels that are fairly substantially above the minimum requirement.
The regulator at this point haven't stopped even the payments of the Surplus Notes.
So to me the question is it does not seem that the regulatory action is somewhat imminent in the next several months or several quarters but rather this seems to be somewhat more of a defensive action that you're taking to protect the interest at the holding company level.
Would that be correct? I think that that is correct Arun.
You've identified it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now regarding the Surplus Notes payments last time there's a little bit of a head's up before you've got final approval.
The next payment is coming up probably January I believe and you asked for approvals 30 to 45 days or so ahead.
Has there been any discussion along those lines about the Surplus Notes? Not at this time.
Again as you said we normally would make the request about 30 or 45 days prior to the payment date.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A couple of other questions.
One you noted that 24% of your bondholder is pursuant to the indentures you've identified and got approval from.
Do you have any idea who the other bondholders may or may not be? We have done some research into the holders of the bond so we are contacting all of them.
Research Division</strong> But you do not have to publicly disclose them I would think? No no.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The other question is I think this was Jay Chuck one of you mentioned that to go back to BofA that you are considering or at least contemplating a global settlement between the parties I think those are the terms you used when you're referring to potential payouts on CMBS on one side to the Merrill Lynch draft deals -- Merrill Lynch originated deals versus the putback.
Is that what you were discussing that you're contemplating some kind of settlement? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean based on the comment that you made I just wanted to ask you would it be fair to say that the amounts that you expect to get from the putback issue would be substantially not of the payments that you expect to make as part of drafts to the CMBS securities? Could you rephrase that? I'm not sure exactly what the question is.
Research Division</strong> I mean the settlement that you're talking of hypothetically this is a global settlement between MBIA and BofA.
It would appear that the amount that you expect to pay in terms of settling those CMBS claims against you in terms of drafts would be substantially less than the amount you expect to get from the putbacks? It's very difficult to -- you're talking about a hypothetical settlement that hasn't yet taken place.
So it's really -- I really wouldn't want to try and quantify either side of that settlement at this point in time.
Obviously I think let's be honest the clear issue is that we haven't yet agreed at a number that makes sense for both parties.
And until we agree it's all speculation on anybody's part as to what the relative quanta might be that we would receive versus the credit we might give for the CMBS.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the last question is in terms of any regulatory action that the regulators may take down the road what kind of lead time do you expect that the insurance commissioner of the Office of Financial Services will give you or how long you would give them in terms of any kind of regulatory action? Would it be 1 month or 2 months or 3 months or something that happens just overnight? We obviously have had ongoing weekly and in some cases daily dialogue with the department about all the activities going on given the variety of litigation that we're involved in plus the issues specific to the financials as they've been impacted by the litigation and the putbacks.
I don't -- we don't think of it in the context of giving them warning or them giving us warning.
If they ever decided it would be necessary to take any kind of administrative steps I'm sure they'd give us notice.
And obviously if we run into a situation where we have inadequate liquidity or projected inadequate liquidity that's something we would notify them with plenty of timing in advance.
So it's very hard to say exactly is that a month 2 months 3 months.
It's clearly something that if it comes to pass that we have a situation where our liquidity is going to be impacted we're going to notify the department as soon as possible and then try and work through it with them in terms of what the possible responses should be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Lastly on the rating agencies.
I think you said no rating action based on the consent.
It does not appear that there are working concerns beyond what they already are in terms of the overall financial health of the company.
That's fair to say.
Both of them have issued a statement relative to the consent that's consistent Arun with that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Chuck I promise this is my last question here.
I mean this is again if any regulatory action were to happen on the MBIA Insurance Corp.
what would happen to the status or what would be the status of intercompany loans between MBIA Insurance and National which is secured at this point by the regulators? What would happen to that loan -- the status of that loan? The only response to that is our base case assumption Arun is that there isn't any such action.
Your next question comes from the line of Neil Dorflinger with DLS Capital Partners.
You may have touched on this earlier in the call.
I may have missed this so if that's the case I apologize.
Anyway is a default on those Surplus Notes -- I was under the impression that that would not generate cross-default with the holding company.
Is that correct or not? When you say default on the Surplus Notes let's just be a little more precise.
The Surplus Note payments are -- each and every payment is subject to the approval prior approval of the Department of Financial Services.
So to the extent that the Department of Financial Services were not to approve a Surplus Note payment which would be the circumstance under which we think that it would not be paid no default would take place.
So there's no issue of cross-default.
There wouldn't be a payment default on the Surplus Notes themselves.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Kevin O'Donoghue with Aviva.
A couple quick ones on your second lien exposure.
I think at the end of the last quarter you said it was around 500.
You paid $130 million this quarter but now you think it may be larger than you originally thought.
So I'm wondering where you think it stands today.
Just trying to fix on the context of the 500.
The $130 million is the amount of payments that we actually made in the third quarter and we have been making payments on the RMBS since year-end 2007.
Those payments peaked in the second quarter of 2009 and have been in decline thereafter.
So just looking at this trajectory we paid about $195 million in Q3 last year.
We paid $140 million just about in last quarter $130 million this quarter.
So they're -- the payments are continuing to decline.
We expect that they will not only continue to decline but at some point there will be net receipts to us of reimbursements from excess spread on the performing loans in those securitizations.
Okay.
So but at this point you don't have any estimate of what your future economic or future payments until you start receiving those receipts is over time? Well we -- obviously we do have a forecast.
We do expect that going forward that there is at least as much and more reimbursement in present value than there are payments that go out the door that we've paid most of what we're going to pay.
Okay.
And then another one would be are there any -- or I guess what would be the timing of any notable outflows from -- or cash payments from MBIA Insurance Corp.
to the hold company related to the tax escrow that you described in your comments? The tax escrow is an artifact of our intercompany tax sharing arrangement and what it calls for is for the insurance subsidiaries when they have tax liability they pay into an escrow account if the consolidated firm doesn't have a tax liability.
So it's National that has had pretax earnings and therefore tax liability in the last couple of years and has paid into the tax escrow account.
So the funds that are sitting there $371 million at the end of the third quarter were generated by National tax liability while the holding company the consolidated firm had no liability to the IRS.
Okay great.
And then my last question is you've touched on this a little bit already but maybe I'll just take one more shot at it.
Your current intercompany loan from National to MBIA Insurance Corp.
stand -- now accounts for about 30% as I calculated of National Public Finance's total invested assets.
Can you ballpark that in any way give us a range or sensitivity of some kind as to how large the regulator might let that get ? Again there haven't been any draws on -- there has been no additional intercompany secured loans since the first quarter of 2012.
We have been drawing them to engage in commutations.
There hasn't been such activity since then and anything further would be strictly subject to the regulator's approval.
So there's -- I'm not sure that there's any way for us dimensionalize that.
Hey and I'd like to go back to the prior question about the second lien reserves.
If you go to Page 40 of the operating supplement we actually provide some of the detail that you'd requested at the bottom of the page.
This shows the components of the quarter end statutory loss reserve.
So you can see that the amount that we expect to pay in the future as well as the receipt of excess spread.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Thau with GMP Securities.
I was wondering if you could speak to how much of the BofA CMBS might be involved insured CDS that might get subordinated in the event of a rehabilitation proceeding? Virtually all of our exposure to Bank of America in the CMBS sector is in the form of derivatives.
Your next question comes from the line of Jonathan Carmel with Carmel Asset.
Two questions.
First can you give us any sort of sense whether you can dimensionalize how much subordination in your CMBS was eroded or any kind of estimate as to potential future payment dates? Even a range would be helpful.
We have not provided any detail about that.
And again I would just reiterate that it is difficult to forecast.
They are individual decisions made by special servicers about individual commercial mortgages.
There's an indiscernible pattern that we see in the behavior.
Okay.
And my second question is with regards to the consent solicitation.
Clearly on the 2034 notes you need 50% of those holders and I believe you've only got consent of effectively 3 at this point in time.
Is there any chance that you might change the terms of the consent solicitation to try and draw in more people or extend the timing frame? I mean I think that that's likely to be difficult.
We think that the consent is in the best interest of all the bondholders and that what we've offered to them is going to be attractive.
So that's our expectation is that we get at least 51% of the holders in each indenture to agree to the consent.
This concludes the formal Q&amp;A session of today's call.
At this time I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Greg Diamond for any additional or closing remarks.
Yes thank you Jackie.
I'd like to point out that we took all of the parties on the call today except for those parties that are involved in litigation against the company.
Thanks to all of you who joined us for today's call all the parties that entered the phone.
If you have any additional questions please contact me directly.
I can be reached at (914) 765-3190.
We also recommend that you visit our website at mbia.com for additional information.
Thank you for your interest in MBIA.
Good day and goodbye.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to MBIA Inc.'s Fourth Quarter 2012 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Greg Diamond Managing Director of Investor Relations at MBIA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jackie.
Welcome to MBIA's conference call for the release of our financial results for the fourth quarter and full year of 2012.
For today's call Jay Brown and Chuck Chaplin will provide some brief comments and then we'll hold a question-and-answer session.
Yesterday afternoon after the market closed we posted several items on our website including our 2012 10-K and fourth quarter 2012 operating supplement.
The information for accessing the recorded replay of today's call is available in the financial results press release that we issued yesterday which is also posted on our website.
Our company's definitive disclosures are incorporated in our SEC filings.
Please note that anything said on today's call is qualified by the information provided in the company's 10-K and other SEC filings.
The 10-K we filed yesterday also contains information that will not be addressed on today's call.
Please read our latest 10-K for our most current and most comprehensive disclosures about the company and our latest financial results and operating results.
Also please refer to our financial results press release that is available on the website for the definitions and reconciliations of the non-GAAP terms that are included in our remarks today.
Lastly here's our Safe Harbor disclosure statement.
Our remarks on today's conference call may contain forward-looking statements.
Important factors such as general market conditions and the competitive environment could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.
Risk factors are detailed in our 10-K which is available on our website at mbia.com.
The company cautions not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.
The company also undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if it later becomes aware that such statement is no longer accurate.
And now Jay will make some introductory comments.
Jay? Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
2012 was a year of slow but steady progress in our efforts to resolve the issues of the past and position your company for the future.
Strategically we are still waiting for a decision in the 4-year-old Article 78 proceeding challenging the New York State Department of Financial Services approval of the creation of National Public Finance Guarantee.
I remain confident of the outcome but will continue to steer clear of predicting the timing.
Our effort to position National in the bond insurance marketplace has to get over 3 hurdles: the transformation litigation the reduction or retirement of the intercompany facilities and the achievement of high stable ratings.
I believe that the Article 78 decision when it comes will go a long way towards meeting that first objective.
The transformation litigation originally a challenge by a group of 18 banks against our 2009 restructuring has now largely been reduced to a lever in our ongoing dispute with Bank of America in its countrywide subsidiary over their mortgage putback obligations.
We believe this will come to a head in the near future as well since our litigation against them is well advanced.
Summary judgment motion hearings on primary and successor liability issues took place in December and in January and we expect the decisions within the next few months.
Our already high degree of confidence in the eventual or the ultimate outcome of this litigation was bolstered by the recent ruling by the U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff that Flagstar Bank had materially breached contracts specifying the quality and characteristic of loans to be packaged into securities insured by Assured Guaranty.
Flagstar was ordered to reimburse Assured Guaranty for virtually 100% of their incurred losses plus interest and expenses.
We continue to expect rulings in our recovery litigations will substantially reimburse our damages which in the case of Bank of America run to nearly $5 billion.
On the other hand there will be pressure on us too.
Bank of America is a policyholder on substantial CMBS exposures.
Although these transactions were structured with deductibles those deductibles continue to be eroded resulting in increasing probability of potential claims being presented to MBIA Corp.
in the near future.
We will continue to be motivated to reach a negotiated settlement because of the potential disruption and loss of value that would be triggered by a regulatory proceeding against MBIA Corp.
In addition I believe that Bank of America will also be motivated to achieve a settlement in order to avoid having their CMBS claims substantially diluted and delayed.
Settlements occur when the perceived economic values converge.
And there are substantial drivers that we think should suggest such a convergence.
However if that is wrong both companies will be damaged as a consequence.
Moreover as I've said in the past we will not accept a noneconomic settlement.
Over the course of 2012 we have also taken steps to stabilize and strengthen MBIA Inc.
In the first 3 quarters of the year we sold nearly $1 billion of spread-sensitive assets into favorable markets and unwound their related derivatives.
That produced a more solid holding company and liquidity position.
During the fourth quarter we successfully amended our holding company debt indentures so that any regulatory action against MBIA Corp.
would not create an acceleration of debt at the holding company.
These amendments are positive for bondholders and had no cost to policyholders.
Also in the fourth quarter we agreed on a commutation with one of our CDS counterparties where ultimately we were unable to get regulatory approval for the deal or for a financing mechanism.
We will continue to work with this counterparty and other counterparties to remove potentially volatile CDS-type contracts from our book of business.
And as we stated 5 years ago we will not write such business in the future.
I would also like to address 2 questions we received from several investors last night.
First due to confidentiality agreements we cannot disclose which counterparty we had negotiated a commutation with late last year.
We have significant volatility associated with derivative contracts with 3 or 4 counterparties which we are focused in trying to reach mutual agreement settlement terms.
Bank of America and Soc Gen are 2 of the 4 counterparties.
Second because the discussions between these different counterparties are ongoing we will not comment or speculate on why the New York Department of Financial Services has not approved the commutation I mentioned earlier.
Therefore to conclude in 2012 we substantially reduced risk at the holding company level and made meaningful progress in stabilizing MBIA Corp.
through additional commutation of insured exposures.
But there is no doubt that we are faced with a number of uncertainties in the near term in our various litigation matters as well as with regard to the significant risk of an MBIA Corp.
regulatory proceeding.
I am confident that while justice has been delayed it will not ultimately be denied.
Therefore we have our vision fixed on a future where MBIA Corp.
exhibits significantly less volatility and National can reenter the municipal bond insurance marketplace.
We will finally after many years be able to stop the decline in our Adjusted Book Value and begin to grow the company again for the benefit of our owners.
The path forward is very likely to become much clearer over the next few months.
Now Chuck will take you through our financial results.
Thank you Jay.
I'll now take a minute or so on our full year results and then focus in more specifically on the fourth quarter.
For the full year 2012 our net income was $1.2 billion driven by a $1.5 billion pretax decrease in the fair value of insured credit derivatives.
For a comparison 2011 net loss was $1.3 billion driven by $2.8 billion of pretax increase in derivative values.
The swing is due to the changing perspectives on MBIA Corp.'s credit quality as reflected in the cost of protection on the company and the impact of commutations.
We consider these swings and derivative values that drive this volatility to be largely noneconomic.
We also report on certain non-GAAP measures of performance and value creation: adjusted pretax income and Adjusted Book Value.
These are the measures used by management in making strategic and tactical decisions about the company.
For the full year 2012 we had an adjusted pretax loss of $708 million versus a loss of $497 million in 2011.
By way of attribution in 2012 our consolidated revenues were about $80 million lower than last year's and insurance incurred losses and operating expenses were each about $80 million higher.
Adjusted Book Value was $30.68 per share at year-end 2012 versus $34.50 per year at year-end 2011 reflecting the same impact.
Despite this disappointing financial performance we believe we've made meaningful strides in our risk reduction efforts as Jay has mentioned.
We eliminated $13.4 billion of potentially volatile exposures in MBIA Corp.'s insured portfolio for approximately $470 million in commutation payments.
And we improved the stability at our holding company due to the sale of spread-sensitive assets and the amendment of the holding company debt indentures.
Looking at the fourth quarter at the consolidated level we had GAAP net income of $636 million compared to a net loss of $626 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
Again that swing was driven by changes in the mark-to-market on insured credit derivatives.
Adjusted pretax income in the fourth quarter of 2012 was $110 million compared to an adjusted pretax loss of $252 million last year.
The Q4 result was the first positive earnings quarter since the second quarter of 2011.
Adjusted Book Value also improved $0.04 per share from its September 30 level to $30.68 a share.
Now I'll go through the businesses and discuss their results for the fourth quarter in terms of adjusted pretax income and also make some comments about their balance sheets where it is relevant.
The public finance segment's pretax income was $202 million in the fourth quarter compared to $163 million in 2011.
Premium was $122 million compared to $113 million last year as a result of substantial refunded premium.
This accelerated premium recognition was at a high level all year accounting for more than half of our premium revenue.
The elevated refunding level continued into the first couple of months of 2013 as well.
Incurred losses on insured exposures totaled $6 million in the quarter primarily due to loss adjustment expenses.
We continue to expect that state and municipal credits will experience heightened stress over the next couple of years as local governments work to balance their budgets and deal with postretirement employee benefit obligations.
National's operating expenses were $23 million lower in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to the fourth quarter of 2011 driven by lower compensation expense.
National's statutory capital grew to $3.2 billion and its claims-paying resources stood at $5.7 billion at year-end 2012.
Most of the difference between stat capital and claims-paying resources here is made up of premium resources.
Also the company made a total of $170 million of payments of estimated 2012 income tax under our tax sharing agreement.
Those payments will remain at an escrow account at MBIA Inc.
until the expiration of National's 2-year carryback period.
If as we expect National does not have catastrophic losses during that time the funds are expected to be released to the holding company.
In addition National has capacity under regulatory formulae to pay dividends to the holding company and we expect National to start paying dividends in 2013.
The structured finance and international segment largely comprising MBIA Insurance Corp.
had an adjusted pretax loss of $13 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to a loss of $300 million in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The most significant change is in insured incurred losses.
They were $38 million in the fourth quarter this year versus $309 million in last year's fourth quarter.
The expected recoveries on putback collection actions increased by $335 million to a total balance of $3.6 billion at year-end 2012.
The increase primarily represents our estimate of improved collectibility as a result of the progress of our litigations and other factors.
Our incurred losses on these policies are approximately $5.3 billion.
On the other hand we increased the estimated losses on CMBS pools by $309 million reflecting adjustments in estimated commutation prices.
We reduced reserves for ABS CDOs in the fourth quarter by $64 million driven primarily by a lower forward LIBOR curve.
And our first-lien RMBS portfolio had a $42 million increase in incurred loss resulting from higher severities upon property liquidation.
Most of our exposure to second-lien RMBS and the majority of the most volatile CMBS pools are associated with Bank of America and its subsidiaries.
As Jay has mentioned we believe that a comprehensive settlement of these exposures is the most likely outcome.
So we do take settlement into account in setting reserves for these exposures.
MBIA Corp.'s statutory capital stood at $1.5 billion at year-end 2012 and claims-paying resources were $5.3 billion.
The difference between these 2 measures is split pretty evenly between premium resources and its net salvage reserve which is largely driven by expected collections of putback.
MBIA Corp.'s liquidity position poses a significant risk to the company given the increased likelihood of significant CMBS claims in the near term.
We ended the year with $345 million in liquid assets in MBIA Corp.
Now while we expect that that position plus premiums and investment income expected in 2013 would leave the company with a liquidity cushion at year-end 2013 that expectation depends upon a timely comprehensive settlement of our putback claims and commutation of CMBS policies with Bank of America.
There are no claims on those CMBS policies at this time and there have been no claims but given the pace of erosion of their deductibles we believe that BofA will be able to assert claims in the near future.
In addition the total amount of such claims could in time exhaust the company's liquid assets in the absence of putback collections.
As Jay has said if the regulator intervenes the result is likely to be adverse to both MBIA and Bank of America.
And given the negative consequences for both parties we believe that the most likely outcome is a settlement ahead of regulatory intervention.
Obviously we have not come to agreement at this time and we do not alone control the timing of any settlement.
As a result there is substantial doubt about MBIA Corp.'s ability to continue as a going concern.
While we believe that the risk of a regulatory proceeding is significant we do not believe that it is probable.
It is important to note that we also do not believe that a regulatory proceeding against MBIA Corp.
would impair the going concern status of MBIA Inc.
National or Cutwater.
These views are also reflected in our auditor's opinion.
The potential impact on the consolidated group of any MBIA Corp.
proceeding are summarized and summarized in great detail in Footnote 1 to the MBIA Inc.
financial statement.
Finally with respect to MBIA Corp.
our request to pay interest on the Surplus Notes was denied in January.
Moving on now to our noninsurance activities.
The advisory segment which contains Cutwater Asset Management had $1 million of pretax income in the quarter reducing our full year pretax loss to $5 million.
Cutwater's assets under management from proprietary accounts and money market products has declined faster than long-term third-party accounts have grown but we did have some meaningful wins in 2012 with both new and existing third-party accounts.
The wind-down portfolio had a pretax loss in the quarter of $51 million compared to a loss of $161 million in Q4 2011.
The change in the mark-to-market on hybrid liabilities and lower intercompany fees paid were the drivers of this improvement.
The fourth quarter of 2012 included $25 million of intercompany fees paid which we do not expect to be recurring while last year's included $65 million of such expense.
Excluding these expenses in Q4 wind-down performed basically in line with expectation.
The Corporate segment had a pretax loss of $13 million compared to a gain of $41 million in last year's fourth quarter.
The swing is due largely to the difference in those intercompany fees received from the wind-down portfolio.
Otherwise it too basically performed in line with expectations.
Most of the wind-down operations and the Corporate segment's operations are conducted in our holding company MBIA Inc.
At December 31 2012 the legal entity MBIA Inc.
cut $239 million of liquid assets compared to $432 million at September 30.
The decline was largely due to repurchases of the holding company's senior debt on a reverse inquiry basis of approximately $172 million.
In January of 2013 $125 million was released from the tax escrow account called for in the MBIA group tax sharing agreement which increases the holding company liquidity.
Perhaps the most significant events in the fourth quarter for MBIA Inc.
was the successful consent solicitation to amend the terms of the senior debt indentures in order to among other things help ensure the stability of the holding company and the rest of the company structure in the event of a regulatory proceeding affecting MBIA Corp.
As I'm sure you're all aware in addition to a lawsuit alleging our interference with -- their interference with the consent solicitation Bank of America has issued a notice of an event of default which we view as invalid.
We expect that the lawsuit and the notice of default will be dismissed or found to be without merit or resolve along with all other disputes with BofA.
All in all the fourth quarter of 2012 featured a modest pretax gain and a reduction in risk at the holding company level.
We believe that the next few quarters will provide the answers to the strategic questions that we're all asking.
Now with apologies for any questions you may ask that we cannot answer as a result of litigation we would happy to respond to any questions that you may have.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Arun Kumar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is Brett Gibson in for Arun.
Just a couple of questions for you.
So you mentioned that there was an increased likelihood of CMBS claim payments in the near future.
Can you quantify the timing of this for us in anyway? It's virtually impossible for us to make projections on the timing of CMBS payments.
So no I can't be any more specific than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And as another way to think about it in your 10-Q -- 10-K you talked about the low end of the deductible range for the BBB and below transactions being at 10.5% versus 14.8% last quarter.
Is kind of a 4% to 5% run rate a good way to think about that implying kind of third quarter? Or is there something that we should be thinking about that would cause that to be nonlinear? The range of deductible erosions that we've observed quarter-over-quarter and month-over-month is very very wide.
And thus Brett we're just so reluctant to make any kind of a projection.
We don't think that looking at the third quarter or looking at the fourth quarter or looking at the second quarter really provides any guidepost for what to think about the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
Then there's been a number of comments I think from you on the increased involvement from the regulator.
One of the comments I think that was interesting from your prepared remarks was that you said that a regulatory proceeding in your view was not probable.
Can you comment on whether that view of yours includes only a view of the rehabilitation or liquidation proceeding or if it also include the stop payment order? Our view is that the -- that both MBIA and Bank of America are both advantaged by entering into a comprehensive settlement in advance of any regulatory intervention.
So we're not differentiating.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So just to be clear that does -- that includes a stop payment order in -- your comment refers to a stop payment order as well? Yes correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay very good.
And then if something were to happen whether it's a rehabilitation order or a stop payment order can you comment on the status of the secured loan? How would that be treated if there were something to happen? I guess I would direct you on that to the -- to Footnote 1 in the financial statements where we comment specifically about all the potential impacts.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just maybe one question to round out or -- excuse me sorry one more on the regulatory involvement.
Can you comment on your willingness or the potential likelihood of you potentially downstreaming capital into the operating company the Corp.
entity as a way to facilitate a commutation agreement? For example the $115 -- I was just going to say the $115 million tax escrow payment that you received in the first quarter has there been any discussion or thought around downstreaming that to the operating entity as a way to facilitate these commutation agreements? If you look at all the resources of MBIA Inc.
and its subsidiaries as we're evaluating the strategic decisions we're making and we view commutations as strategic decisions we believe that our shareholders are best served by maintaining flexibility.
For that reason it is better to have excess funds sitting at the holding company so they could be used in the most advantageous way.
That said we discuss a variety of different approaches with each of the 3 or 4 counterparties that remain as we're trying to resolve these issues.
And that's as far as I can go in terms of making any comments at this time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question it seems that there's been a pretty substantial change around the disclosures of the ALM and the wind-down business.
Can you just square a few numbers for us in terms of -- maybe can you let us know what the ALM Adjusted Book Value deficit was at the asset liability business at the end of the year and how much of that related to unrealized losses? Sure a couple of comments.
We have changed the way that we're presenting the activities of the holding company.
Over the past I guess few quarters we've been sort of in an evolution.
The -- you know Brett that the ALM portfolio conducted at the holding company level and that there isn't -- there is no legal distinction between the Corporate activities and the ALM activities.
For a long time we maintained separate metrics on the ALM activities because it was our objective to manage them separately as a stand-alone business.
After the events of the financial crisis and recession where we were required to liquidate a substantial amount of the assets of ALM in order to meet the liabilities that were put to us or had to be collateralized and that portfolio went from being a matched book to a very unmatched book.
It became clear that it's not a stand-alone entity anymore.
It's a part of our holding company activities.
And therefore we need to start to think about and to portray to investors what the holding company overall looks like.
So that's kind of the backdrop behind what we had -- the changes that we've made to the disclosure.
The book value deficit -- the so-called book value deficit that we'd provided for ALM in the past did increase in the fourth quarter.
I don't have the exact number but you can look at the after-tax income -- the after-tax loss of the entity as a component of that.
There's an unrealized loss embedded in that.
It's small.
I want to say $10 million.
It is a loss on the hybrid liabilities that were issued as part of the ALM business.
So we're marking those liabilities based on the credit default swap -- among other things the credit default swap of MBIA Inc.
which tightened in the quarter.
So we did have some unrealized loss associated with that.
With respect to invested assets again we don't break them out holding company versus ALM any longer.
But in general the trend has been toward lower and lower unrealized loss over the course of 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one very quick follow-up on this if you look at Page 12 of the supplement where you discussed Adjusted Book Value on a per-share basis it looks like for the wind-down operations there is a pretty significant reduction there now $3.43 per share versus kind of $2.07 last quarter.
It seems like that's a much larger difference than the adjusted pretax loss.
Can you comment on the disparity between those 2? I'm just looking for it.
It's on Page 12? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Of the supplement -- why don't we go to another question and we'll get back to you in a moment on that? Your next question comes from the line of Max Scherr of Panning Capital.
It's actually Sean Murdock at Panning Capital.
My question relates to the risk factor you detail on Page 36 and the further risk of a MBIA Corp.
rehabilitation or a stop payment generating the acceleration of liabilities at MBIA Inc.
In particular I'm curious as to the quantity of liabilities you referenced there on Page 36 that potentially accelerate similar to the provisions you amended in the holding company bonds.
How many of the investment agreements accelerate should MBIA Crop.
be subject to a rehab proceeding? And similar question on the MTNs issued by GFL and Meridian.
Sure.
I would -- I know that there's a general description of this in the risk factors in the first part of the 10-K.
For a more specific discussion of it I would direct you to Footnote 1 which -- this comes up on Page 127.
But to answer your question the guaranteed investment contracts at the holding company which are about $1 billion at this point would all be -- they could all be put to us in the event of a proceeding.
Now all of those guaranteed investment contracts are currently collateralized with high-quality and highly liquid assets.
So we -- there is some exposure there to be sure but we think that it's relatively small.
The holding company unsecured debt is not accelerate-able as a result of an MBIA Corp.
proceeding.
And that was the subject of the amendment that we made to the indentures back in November.
The amount that's outstanding is over $700 million.
Yes but the MTNs? Yes.
The MTNs issued by Global Funding are about $1.5 billion outstanding at this point.
They can be accelerated and this is described on Page 127.
They can be accelerated upon a proceeding.
They accelerate against MBIA Global Funding.
So to the extent that Global Funding does not pay the accelerated amount the MTN holders would have a claim against MBIA Corp.
the entity which would -- in your scenario would be in a proceeding.
So they would be added to the group of claimants against Corp.
And should Corp.
fail to make that accelerated payment I believe that there's an intercompany loan where Inc.
is the obligor that sort of doesn't directly collateralize that obligation but serves as your secondary source of repayment beyond the insurance policy.
If that insurance policy were -- payment were not made would the loan accelerate? No.
It would not? No.
So as a creditor of -- a holder of those bonds how do I access the value from the intercompany loan? Well the intercompany loan pays for -- calls for periodic payments of P&amp;I and they would continue to be made.
Okay.
So I wouldn't have a claim on it for the accelerated principal but I would be looking for them to make interest payments and then should those not be made...? Yes.
I would then maybe have the rally [ph].
And then the next question is around the tax sharing escrow $445 million where would one find that on Inc.'s separate balance sheet -- this is Page 243 of the K? What line item in the assets would include that $445 million? It's going to be in fixed maturity securities held as available for sale as well as cash and cash equivalents.
And there is some in short-term investments held as available for sale as well.
So it's -- there's kind of a portfolio of assets within the tax escrow.
So it's spread across those accounts there.
Okay.
And does your tax sharing agreement give rise to payments from the holding company to MBIA Corp.
as Corp.
generates losses that shield the taxable income National is generating? Over time as Corp.
has income it will benefit from its current net operating loss carryforward.
But the extent losses at Corp.
shield taxable income at National and it's sort of -- for illustrative purposes a wash at Inc.
Does Corp.
make payments to Inc.? And has it -- under the tax sharing agreement is it a 2-way payment stream? I'll give you an example.
In 2010 we had the ability to carry back losses to prior periods where taxes had been paid.
This was in connection with the stimulus bill.
And we did.
And the company got a consolidated benefit from that of between $400 million and $500 million.
About half of that was paid back to Corp.
to reimburse it for taxes that it had paid in kind of the 2007 and '08 -- or '06 and '07 period.
So whatever the first 2 years were of the carryback period.
Corp.
had paid taxes in that period and got a reimbursement of them.
So yes it is 2-way.
But specifically if they generate losses that shield income for other income-generating members of your Corporate family and parties to the tax sharing agreement are they paid for those as they generate them? No no.
They're not.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Thau with GMP Securities.
I had another  question about the intercompany loan between Global Funding and holdco.
You mentioned principal and interest being due periodically.
Are the -- what's the schedule for the principal payments? Is it due -- is it tied to the original expected maturity of the medium-term notes? They are yes.
Okay.
And then also I was wondering if you could speak to some of the exposure on the modeling -- on the municipal bond side to places like Detroit which may be headed for a Chapter 9? Sure.
Is there any specific...
Well how do you think about how some of those issues are going to be resolved if you -- I mean if you think it's headed for a Chapter 9 or what sort of time frame? I mean we don't have a specific comment about where Detroit is.
Obviously we're in communication with them.
And I think beyond that I can't -- I couldn't comment.
Your next question comes from the line of John McGreevy with Prosiris Capital.
Most of my questions have been answered but let me ask a few quick follow-ups.
I think when you talk about the liquidity for the year and that being adequate subject to a settlement you're implying that absent a settlement you do not expect liquidity to be adequate this year largely due to CMBS claims.
Is that correct? If there were no settlement and CMBS claims were presented on the BofA-related CMBS policies that we have in the volume that we would sort of expect it would in time exhaust Corp.'s liquidity.
But is -- does "in time" mean 2013 since that's what you're talking about when you're talking about the going concern? I think the difficulty here is it goes back to the question of timing of CMBS claims and whether in fact all of those claims we view as valid under the contracts.
So first we have to look through that process.
The second part of it is -- I think the important statement is the claims -- we recognize that their potential claims it would exceed all of the available liquidity of MBIA Corp.
I can't determine if that would happen in 2013 but it certainly would happen in 2014.
So it's -- what we've tried to do is identify that risk make it clear to investors that absent a settlement and assuming there are claims of the volume that we foresee and those claims are valid that it would exhaust the resources of MBIA Corp.
Ergo that is why we believe if that were to continue down that particular train that the regulator would interfere on behalf of other policyholders to determine what's the best way to handle any and all claims that MBIA Corp.
might have including pursuing any of the assets that MBIA Corp.
has and which obviously the biggest asset that MBIA Corp.
has at this time is its various putback claims.
And so it's not that we're trying to say it's an event that will necessarily happen in 2013 but it's an event that we think is certain will happen absent a settlement.
Okay.
And one other question about the consent-solicitation-related litigation what's your view on the timing to resolve or dispose of those matters? I think Jay said it best at the very beginning of his prepared remarks.
The litigation timetables are frankly less predictable than CMBS deductible erosions.
Right.
But to the extent that those litigations bear on the effectiveness of the consent solicitation doesn't that leave significant risk for MBIA Inc.
should some sort of regulatory action be taken? Say it again because I'm not sure what the regulatory action...
Well regulatory intervention at rehab or a stop payment order right to the extent that that under the old...
Yes I understand.
We believe the consent -- strongly believe the consent was successfully accomplished and the change was made.
We believe that the 2 different actions that have been filed one by BofA and one by ourselves are relatively simple questions for the court to answer.
And so we believe it would be a quick amount of litigation.
It's not a complicated issue.
The issue bears -- is very simple in terms of what we did what they did and then what we did.
And I think the court will be able to resolve that very quickly.
And so it's just not going to be drawn out for a long time.
So I think we would expect that that the answers to those questions would happen very quickly here in the next few months.
Your next question -- I apologize.
The question has been removed.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Diamond for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Jackie.
And thanks to all of you who joined us for today's call.
All of the parties that entered the phone question in queue today were -- and stayed in the queue were able to ask questions.
If you have any additional questions please contact me directly.
I can be reached at (914) 765-3190.
We also recommend that you visit our website at mbia.com for additional information.
Thank you for your interest in MBIA.
Good day and goodbye.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Good morning and welcome to MBIA Inc.
First Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Greg Diamond Managing Director of Investor Relations at MBIA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Maria.
Welcome to MBIA's conference call for our first quarter 2013 financial results.
For the first segment of our call today Jay Brown and Chuck Chaplin will provide some brief comments then Bill Fallon and Anthony McKiernan will join Jay and Chuck for the question-and-answer session.
After the market closed yesterday we posted several items on our website including our latest 10-Q operating supplement and financial results press release.
The press release includes the information for accessing the recorded replay of today's call which will become available approximately 2 hours after the end of the call.
Please note that anything said on today's call is qualified by the information provided in the company's 10-Q 10-K and other SEC filings as our company's definitive disclosures are incorporated in our SEC filings.
Please read our first quarter 10-Q as it contains our most current disclosures about the company and its financial and operating results.
The 10-Q also contains information that may not be addressed on today's call.
The definitions and reconciliations of the non-GAAP terms that will be included in our remarks today may be found in our financial results press release.
And now for our Safe Harbor disclosure statement.
Our remarks on this conference call may contain forward-looking statements.
Important factors such as general market conditions and the competitive environment could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.
Risk factors are detailed in our 10-K which is available on our website at mbia.com.
The company cautions not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.
The company also undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if it later becomes aware that such statement is no longer accurate.
And now Jay will provide some introductory comments.
Jay? Thanks Greg.
And let me say with a newly refreshed level of enthusiasm good morning everyone.
It truly is a good morning and a pleasure to speak with you today.
Although this call is technically about our first quarter results I think most of you would agree that they are completely overshadowed by events that took place after the quarter ended.
Over the past few weeks we collected our putback recoverable from Flagstar Bank we settled the putback recoverable and the CMBS exposure and all the litigation between MBIA and Bank of America Merrill Lynch and Countrywide.
We commuted the insured exposure we had to SocGen bringing an end to the bank litigation over our 2009 transformation as they were the last remaining bank plaintiff.
And we negotiated commutations of $1.8 billion of other structured finance exposures bringing total committed exposures since the end of the first quarter to $13.4 billion.
Chuck will take you through the details on these actions but I want to focus on their strategic importance.
Before I do that though I want to clear up one point of potential confusion about the impact of the settlements on our financial statements.
The financial statements that we published last night include the economic impact of the settlement with Bank of America as well as these other discrete post-March 31 events.
That's because the amounts we received from the putbacks and the amounts we paid out on commutations were totally consistent with the estimated amounts that had already been recorded on our balance sheet.
So although the transaction settled in the second quarter their values were consistent with the net balance sheet positions at March 31 2013 and will have no impact on our income statement or our statutory capital in the second quarter.
The differences between these values and our balance sheet positions as of December 31 2012 are also de minimis.
Importantly so far all the putback recoverables we have collected have been consistent with the amounts we had recorded.
The strategic importance of these settlements for your company however is far from de minimis.
First we had previously disclosed that if MBIA Corp.
did not reach a settlement with Bank of America the resulting liquidity stress could have caused the regulator to place it into a rehabilitation proceeding.
The rehabilitation process would have eliminated any chance of our shareholders realizing any value from MBIA Corp.
and most likely would have had a similar impact on our surplus note holders.
In addition while the rehabilitation would not have created a cross default at MBIA Inc.
it would have imposed additional risks and costs on the holding companies and would have potentially further delayed the resumption of new business activities at National.
That risk has now been reduced substantially as the vast majority of the most potentially volatile payment risks have been eliminated and we now have access to the $500 million Bank of America loan facility.
You should think of the loan facility as a bridge to the collection of the remaining of our putback recoverables which now have a balance sheet value of over $1 billion.
We are not there yet as there are still a few parties we need to collect but that day is fast approaching and when we get there the risk of rehabilitation will be reduced to insignificant levels.
Second the intercompany secured loan from National has been fully repaid and the bank litigation concerning our 2009 transformation has ended.
S&amp;P's recent upgrade is another important step in restoring National to its leadership position in the U.S.
public finance insurance market but it won't be an overnight process as there's still a lot of work to be done before National is writing any material volume of new business.
But after more than 4 years of sitting on the sidelines while it built its capital position National is finally in a position where it can begin moving forward and I can already feel a very marked increase in the level of energy and enthusiasm among its staff as they prepare to implement their business plans.
Third the end of hostilities in the courtroom with various parties will increasingly enable us to turn our full attention towards planning and executing the strategic future of your company for the benefit of all of our stakeholders.
Investors in both MBI and Bank of America have already recognized the value of our agreement as Monday's closing price suggested about $8 billion increased equity value for the 2 companies.
Before turning the microphone over to Chuck I'd also like to recognize our remarkable employees.
If character is revealed in adversity our employees have shown that they have grit loyalty and courage in spades.
Our recent successes would not have been possible without all of their efforts.
While the management team created a plan it was our employees who made it happen.
It is because of them that I am optimistic about our future.
I am grateful to them and to all of you for the support and concern many of you expressed to me over these 4 very long years of litigation.
Now I'll let Chuck provide some more details on the various settlements and our first quarter results.
Thanks Jay and good morning everyone.
First I'll walk you through the results through March 31 and then talk in more detail about the commutations and settlements.
Our GAAP consolidated net income was $164 million in the first quarter compared to net income of $10 million in the first quarter of 2012.
The driver here is the increase in the value of putback recoverables in the first quarter this year.
Our non-GAAP measure adjusted pretax income provides an alternative way to analyze our fundamental business performance.
We had adjusted pretax loss of $20 million in the first quarter compared to a loss of $548 million in the first quarter of 2012.
The improvement is driven by significantly higher realized investment gains lower insured losses and much lower -- and lower litigation and legal costs.
Our adjusted book value declined modestly from $30.68 at year end 2012 to $30.56 per share at March 31 primarily due to insured losses.
Now a couple of comments about performance at the segment level.
The public finance segment conducted in National had pretax income of $142 million compared to $55 million in last year's first quarter.
Realized gains on investments were significantly higher than last year and insured losses and litigation costs were significantly lower.
The structured finance and international segment operated in MBIA Corp.
and its subsidiaries had an adjusted pretax loss of $97 million compared to a loss of $446 million in the first quarter of 2012.
The driver of the difference is much lower insured losses which were $98 million in the first quarter of 2013 versus $402 million in last year's first quarter.
Economic losses increased for CMBS exposures by $282 million primarily reflecting higher expected commutation costs.
On the other hand economic losses for second-lien RMBS decreased.
The decrease is driven by a higher value of the putback recoverable which increased by $384 million.
The increase primarily reflects the recognition of contractual interest in our estimation of collections making our calculations more consistent with our actual legal claims and with the outcome in the Assured Guaranty v.
Flagstar case.
An increase in our estimate of future net claim payments on second-lien RMBS partially offsets that higher putback value and the net of the 2 results in a reduction of economic loss for our second-lien RMBS policies of $146 million.
All other economic losses in other areas of portfolio were reduced by $38 million primarily as a result of the commutation of a secondary market program.
The sum of the CMBS increase in economic loss and decreases for second-liens and for the other sectors taken together result in the $98 million of insured loss in the quarter.
The combined pretax loss for our advisory segment the wind-down operations and the corporate segment was $66 million compared to a loss of $161 million last year.
The biggest driver of the difference is that in last year's first quarter we incurred $128 million of realized losses and impairments in the wind-down operations as a result of an asset sale program.
So now to provide more details on the risk-reduction transactions that took place recently.
First and after March 31 we agreed to commute a secondary program with about $1.7 billion of exposure including CMBS pools commercial real estate CDOs ABS CDOs and first-lien RMBS.
Second we settled our putback collection action against Flagstar Bank for $110 million and other considerations including the elimination of $100 million of insured par exposure.
Third we settled with Bank of America.
As Jay referenced the payment that we received represents a settlement of our putback claims net of the cost of commuting the CDS on $7.4 billion of exposure of which $6.1 billion related to commercial real estate.
The amount that we received on Tuesday was approximately $1.6 billion of cash and $136 million par amount of MBIA Inc.
bonds.
In addition Bank of America is extending a $500 million loan facility and received warrants to purchase 9.94 million shares of MBI for $9.59 per share.
We have agreed to dismiss all litigations between Bank of America and its subsidiaries and MBIA and its subsidiaries.
Fourth we commuted $4.2 billion of ABS CDO CMBS pool and CRE CDO exposures with Societe Generale.
The bank also agreed to dismiss all transformation-related litigation which ends those lawsuits.
So what are the impacts of these transactions? First I'll talk about the impact on MBIA Corp.'s statutory balance sheet.
As Jay referenced because the transactions were agreed upon in the period subsequent to March 31 2013 but before MBIA Corp.
published its statutory results the March 31 2013 amounts were adjusted to reflect the agreements.
The net effect of the adjustments was to lower statutory capital by an immaterial amount about $2 million.
Basically as a result of the adjustments the net of the commutation costs and the putback receipts were the same as the net of the related putback recoverables and case reserves that are recorded to MBIA Corp.'s balance sheet as of March 31.
Furthermore the net effect of these items on statutory capital as of March 31 was also consistent with the amounts recorded to the balance sheet at December 31 2012.
So with respect to the stat capital effects of these transactions there was little change in our estimates from year end 2012 to March 31 2013 and then the March 31 numbers have been adjusted to reflect the economics of the agreements.
The adjustments affect the first quarter income statement but the impact is de minimis.
Beyond that what will we see in the second quarter? The commutations of the CMBS ABS CDOs and the secondary program will reduce the statutory case loss reserves on MBIA Corp.'s and its subsidiaries books by $1.5 billion down to approximately $985 million.
In addition the settlements of the putback litigation with Bank of America and Flagstar Bank will reduce statutory putback recoverables by $2.9 billion bringing them down to $1 billion.
There will be no impact on MBIA Corp.'s statutory capital or statutory earnings from these transactions in the second quarter other than lower legal expenses lower interest on the secured loan and a small increase in the putback recovery reflecting the difference between the value of the MBIA Inc.
bonds when received this past Tuesday versus when we closed the books at the end of the prior week.
The facts -- the financial facts are generally similar for our consolidated GAAP reporting with a couple of exceptions.
Because it's consolidated and it looks at the holding company we've adjusted the litigation expense at the holding company level as of March 31 respecting our agreement to issue warrants to Bank of America.
Also the CMBS is mark-to-market as of March 31 for GAAP reporting purposes and under the accounting rules that value can't be adjusted for later developments.
So because the cost of commuting the CMBS is slightly less than the mark-to-market as of March 31 we will have a small gain in the second quarter from releasing that mark-to-market.
In addition we'll have additional putback recovery relating to the bonds just as I described on the statutory side.
So that's the financial statement impact of these transactions.
The settlements will have a big impact at MBIA Corp.'s exposure and potential future volatility.
Our first quarter financial supplement shows gross par insured exposure as of March 31 of $107 billion.
These commutations will reduce that amount by $13.4 billion or 13%.
It will eliminate 5 of the current top 10 below-investment grade credits in the portfolio and you will see that in detail in our second quarter financial supplement.
We believe that the future potential volatility of statutory capital has been dramatically reduced as a result of the commutations.
Also liquidity will be significantly affected.
At March 31 2013 MBIA Corp.
had $258 million of liquidity.
Rolling that forward to April 30 liquidity had fallen to $196 million.
The pro forma impact of the Flagstar and BofA settlements as well as the sale of invested assets to the holding company and after paying off the National loan would bring that balance to $385 million.
When we then layer in the cost of the additional commutations the liquidity balance at MBIA Corp.
would be approximately $185 million.
In addition to that resource of course we also have access to the loan from Bank of America for $500 million so total liquidity resources would stand at $685 million on a pro forma basis more than double the resources at March 31.
We believe that this liquidity position is adequate.
On our base assumptions about loss payments that are in accordance with our March 31 loss reserve estimates we will have adequate liquidity to make all payments as they come due with minimal reliance on the Bank of America line of credit.
However if there is extreme stress in the payment stream and the collections of the Crédit Suisse and ResCap putback recoverables are delayed beyond our expected timing we would need to draw more heavily on the Bank of America line of credit.
We have reported and Jay commented a few minutes ago that we previously expected payments in the short term on the Merrill Lynch CMBS pools and that those payments would very likely be far in excess of MBIA Corp.'s liquidity.
The commutation removes that existential threat.
So our future expected payments will be much lower than they would have been had we not settled and liquidity resources are significantly higher.
Now there are remaining risks in MBIA Corp.'s portfolio.
We remain exposed to future loss development on the second-lien RMBS including for the Countrywide originated securitizations.
We also have to collect the remaining putback recoverables of approximately $1 billion.
We are sensitive to both the amount of those collections and the timing.
We continue to have exposure to CMBS with about $914 million of exposure to what were originally BBB pools about $3 billion of exposure to originally A pools and about $3.5 billion of exposure to originally AAA pools.
And of course we have exposure to the macro economy.
Another downturn in the future might create problems for our portfolio even though it is well seasoned at this point.
We have also in this transactions commuted away some future installment premiums.
The gross undiscounted value of all premiums due to MBIA Corp.
was $1.421 billion as of March 31 2013.
The commuted transactions contributed $112 million to that undiscounted figure.
So while we won't have that income in the future we also won't have the legal fees associated with our formerly extensive lawsuit portfolio which could easily exceed or even dwarf this item.
We believe that these settlements make the risk of regulatory intervention around MBIA Corp.
minimal for the foreseeable future.
The settlements also have a huge impact on National which had nearly 1/3 of its investment portfolio in the secured loans.
While we had no doubt about the quality of that asset the rating agencies took a darker view of it including a 100% capital charge from S&amp;P.
The repayment of the loan greatly improves National's capital adequacy on the rating agency models.
And the elimination of the various transformation-related litigations removes the other meaningful impediment to higher ratings and a return to the municipal bond insurance market.
We have managed to maintain our marketing underwriting and servicing platform and we believe that National has unique advantages in its market.
We expect to be in a position to write business and add to shareholder value in the near future.
These events affect the holding company as well.
To help fund the commutations MBIA Corp.
sold assets from its investment portfolio to MBIA Inc.
Those assets are now held in our tax escrow account.
To the extent that spreads on those assets widen significantly this could impair releases from the escrow account and for reference the next release is expected in January 2014.
On the other hand the settlement of the transformation litigation should free National to pay dividends to the holding company which we expect later this year.
At March 31 the holding company had $373 million in liquidity.
And together with ongoing expected flows we believe it is adequate to cover its operating needs including covering the negative cash flow in our wind-down operations for the foreseeable future.
All of these effects have been discussed with the rating agencies and we're beginning to see the impacts.
S&amp;P has now upgraded all of our significant ratings.
While we expect that we'll have further discussion with the agencies about our business and capital plans and revised liquidity and capitalization profile the transactions just consummated or agreed put us on glide path to achieving the ratings targets that we have for National MBIA Inc.
and MBIA Corp.
While the events of the last couple of weeks are very consistent with our expectations in economic value and in timing we are thrilled to have delivered on those expectations and to have that work now behind us.
We look forward to business planning execution and financial reporting that's more normal in the future and maybe it will even become boring.
Until then we look forward to your questions about today's report.
Okay Maria.
We're ready for questions and answers.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Mark Palmer of BTIG.
LLC Research Division</strong> A few questions.
First of all with regard to the SocGen settlement there have been some media reports about how that settlement is going to be funded.
Just wanted to see if you could shed some light on where the cash to pay for the settlement is coming from? We can't comment further on the funding.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
With regard to the process associated with relaunching National if you could walk through what the sequence of events is going to be and what your thoughts are currently about the timing for a relaunch.
.
Yes it's Bill speaking.
As you can imagine there are several things we need to do.
I think the 3 primary ones are first talking about the financial strength of National which I know Chuck has talked about consistently over time.
And that includes the ratings which also you heard earlier some of the things that have already happened.
S&amp;P did upgrade National to BBB and indicated that it would go to A even when the SocGen settlement was reached which eliminated the litigation that the banks had started 4 years ago.
So that's one area and we're working on that right now.
Second is just to re-establish all the connections in the marketplace with broadly defined clients.
That would include issuers investors and intermediaries intermediaries being the banks and broker dealers.
And we have maintained relationships all along.
And then third there may be some need for a handful of additions to the staff but we are ready to go organizationally and it would just be over time as we start to do business.
So hard to predict exactly the timing in particular with regard to the ratings but this is something that we've already started working on.
We've been working on it even ahead of these settlements.
And we look forward to re-entering the market soon.
I think the biggest obstacle Mark which you're probably aware of is actually the current low interest rate environment creates a limited amount of opportunities in the near term.
And so even when we're prepared and have the appropriate ratings that our balance sheet deserves there is going to be a slow uptick just simply because there's just not going to be that much business that we can create enough value to justify what we have to charge against the capital that we have to put up.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just one more.
With regard to the expected dividends to the hold co from National later this year can you give us a sense of what the magnitude of those dividends may be? Yes we have an as-of-right dividend that at first quarter is measured at about $200 million and we would expect in the second half of the year to process a dividend.
We haven't decided exactly what the amount will be but the as-of-right amount is about $200 million.
And Mark let me just go back to your first question with respect to the financing of the SocGen commutations.
The one thing that I can confirm is that we did not draw on the Bank of America line of credit to enter into that commutation.
So that the loan balance there is still 0.
Our next question comes from the line of Arun Kumar of JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First of all congratulations on all of these commutations and settlements.
Great job on that front.
I have a couple of questions for you.
The first one relates to the CMBS below-investment grade and even the ones you referenced to in the A and AAA tranches.
Could you give us some context on how that below-investment grade portfolio is behaving in terms of [indiscernible] in terms of loss development but also in terms of what kind of attachment points do you have on that remaining below-investment grade CMBS portfolio? Sure.
This is Anthony speaking.
We have as Chuck referenced a little over $0.5 billion remaining original BBB-rated exposure left.
We actually have paid a claim this quarter -- right after the quarter on that exposure.
The transaction is actually lumpy from a vintage standpoint and the payment timing so we would expect that to have sporadic payments over the next couple of years.
The A exposure to this point has not reached deductible levels in any material way.
The deductibles are very close to what they were when the deals were originally done.
General ranges [ph] are around 14% to 15% as far as the deal deductible themselves.
And then the AAA exposures are very highly enhanced.
We've had very little deterioration or interest shortfalls for that matter in those deals to this point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just turning back a little bit in terms of MBIA Insurance Corp.
Now that you've got the settlement from BofA statutory capital is -- I mean the quality of the capital at least has significantly improved.
You paid back the National loan.
In terms of future commitment from the Enterprise Holding Company to warrant Insurance Corp.
if the need arises I'm not saying that it will but if the need arises would Corp.
or through National would the Enterprise still be willing to support or lend funds to MBIA Insurance Corp.? In terms of talking about possibilities for the future we always look at all the alternatives and try and make sense of what makes the most sense for our shareholders and other constituencies.
As Chuck went through the details on our current expectations on the base case we don't even expect to have to need to draw on the BofA facility.
And under stress we would actually have to use it over the intervening 3 years that it's termed out.
So I think in that time frame it's hard to identify a situation where we would even have to contemplate that question.
But I can assure you we look at things very carefully each time to try and say what makes the most sense.
And we'll make investments or reallocate capital for the best interest of our shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A couple of other questions -- one related to your surplus notes.
I think there is a covenant in the BofA bank line that limits your ability to pay the coupon on the surplus notes do you know at what point would you contemplate in terms of servicing that surplus note down the road? We have an obligation under the surplus notes Arun to request interest payments from the regulator each time they are scheduled.
We have been doing that; at this point two of them had been denied.
The regulator is also aware that there's a covenant in the Bank of America line that says that we won't pay interest or principal on subordinate obligations such as this until the line is paid off.
And so the regulator will we would expect take that into consideration as they're making their determination about whether to approve surplus note interest payments in the future.
So as a practical matter we're still in the same position.
The company's -- the company's financial performance will have to improve and stability will have to improve before the regulator will be comfortable we think approving surplus note interest payment.
Now we do think that the surplus note holders are far better off with us having arranged this facility and entered into this settlement than they would have been had we not done so.
So we do think that they are better off.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
Last question on the putbacks.
I think Jay and you Chuck both mentioned you have about $1 billion of putback recoverables in your balance sheet with other counterparties.
Do you have any time line in which you would like to settle or resolve those issues with those parties? Well our time line is very easy.
We'd like to do it tomorrow morning but that's not going to happen.
As everybody is well aware a significant portion of our putback recoverable is as a result of reps and warranty violations by the 2 subsidiaries of ResCap.
ResCap is in an extended bankruptcy.
A lot of mediation talks are going on.
We don't have a specific forecast in terms of when those talks will resolve or whether they will resolve or whether it's going to be a different outcome.
It is possible that if there was a successful mediation and that then courts then were able to move through the process to allow ResCap to finish up its bankruptcy you could see something very late this year or early next year.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Robert Halder [ph] of Hartfield and Advisors [ph].
First congratulations to everyone on a magnificent job.
We really appreciate it.
Two questions.
One did I understand S&amp;P's information this week where it seemed to me that they were saying that they would upgrade National to A after a settlement with SocGen and it seemed timing wise that the settlement information came out about 10 minutes later.
So I just want to make sure I understood that it seemed like they were implying that they would raise the rating to A after that settlement which obviously would be a great thing for us.
And the second question is all of a sudden it looks like MBIA Corp.
has capital et cetera going forward.
So even though it was unthinkable a week ago have you begun to think about a strategy going forward -- a business strategy for that company? In terms of the rating agencies S&amp;P was aware of the SocGen settlement at the time the release went out.
They are under a business objective from the time they make a decision to the time they publish.
That's one of the things that as a result of some of the issues with rating agencies 5 or 6 years ago they don't want any information contained inside for a long time so they try and meet a very timely schedule.
I think that's why they were specific in their release that they talked about the potential of a settlement and the elimination or the ending of the litigation between the bank plaintiffs and ourselves.
And so we would anticipate they're reviewing that as we speak.
And when they make a decision if there's a change they'll put it into the marketplace relatively quickly.
In terms of a business plan for MBIA Corp.
we have had a business plan for MBIA Corp.
We do have plans for it in the future.
In the short term meaning the next few years we do have other liabilities we would like to resolve and we obviously have a significant amount of collections that we have to make on the 2 or 3 different putback recoverables.
I think the time for discussing what we're going to do with MBIA Corp.
post those activities will be out a year or so and we'll be glad to discuss those alternatives at that time.
There are no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Greg Diamond for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Maria.
And thanks to all of you who have joined us for today's call.
Please contact me directly if you have any additional questions.
I can be reached at (914) 765-3190.
We also recommend that you visit our website for additional information.
The address is mbia.com.
Thank you for your interest in MBIA.
Good day and goodbye.
This concludes today's MBIA First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Good morning and welcome to MBIA Inc.
Second Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Now I would like to turn the call over to Greg Diamond Managing Director of Investor Relations at MBIA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jackie.
I'd like to welcome to everybody to MBIA's conference call for our second quarter 2013 financial results.
After the market closed yesterday we posted several items on our website including the latest 10-Q the operating supplement and the financial results press release.
The financial results press release included information for accessing the recorded replay of today's call which will become available approximately 1 hour after we end.
Please note that anything said on today's call is qualified by the information provided in the company's 10-Q 10-K and other SEC filings as our company's definitive disclosures are incorporated in those filings.
Please read our second quarter 2013 10-Q as it contains our most current disclosures about the company and its financial and operating results.
The 10-Q also contains information that may not be addressed on today's call.
The definitions and reconciliations of the non-GAAP terms that will be referenced in today's call are available in the financial results press release.
And now for our Safe Harbor disclosure statement.
Our remarks on this conference call may contain forward-looking statements.
Important factors such as general market conditions and the competitive environment could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.
Risk factors are detailed in our 10-K which is available on our website at mbia.com.
The company cautions not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.
The company also undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if it later becomes aware that such statement is no longer accurate.
For the next portion of our call today Jay Brown and Chuck Chaplin will provide some brief comments.
Then Bill Fallon along with Jay and Chuck will be available to answer questions and answers.
And now here is Jay.
Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
At the time of our last conference call we have just entered into our global settlement with Bank of America and resolved the bank litigation over our transformation by settling with SocGen the last remaining plaintiff in those cases.
Since that time we've also entered into an agreement with ResCap its affiliates and most of the other ResCap creditors.
This agreement solidifies the amount of our putback claim and the timing of its receipt.
As all of these settlements were consistent with the values we had previously recorded to our financial statements they didn't have much net impact on our second quarter financial results.
However as Chuck will review we did have substantial legal and other expenses associated with the litigation and settlement negotiations that are reflected in the second quarter results.
It's also worth noting again that back in November we amended our holding company debt indentures to eliminate the cost default between MBIA Corp.
and MBIA Inc.
As a result of this action and the substantial risk reductions in MBIA Corp.
which totaled nearly $18 billion in retired and matured exposure during the second quarter alone we think that the financial profile of the holding company is very significantly improved.
While the settlements with Bank of America and SocGen removes significant risks from MBIA Corp.
challenges remain.
We still need to actually collect the ResCap recoverable as well as potentially commute some remaining policies with underlying CMBS exposure that could have substantial volatility in the future.
We will continue to focus on mitigating losses and collecting recoveries in MBIA Corp.
But the improvements in the last 9 months do allow us to refocus on the future state of the company.
In that regard we've begun our process of preparing National to begin writing new business.
Managing the holding company's capital structure to a more stable position that is supportive of our goal of relaunching National and rightsizing our expenses to better align them with our revenue opportunities going forward.
Some may find this a bit surprising but the first step in resuming new business activities at National was to pause for a moment and ask ourselves if we even should.
With the litigation behind us the Board felt it was an appropriate time to consider whether National's business plan can create adequate returns for shareholders in a marketplace that has changed substantially in the 4.5 years since we recapitalized the company.
Consequently we took some time over the past few months to review National's business plan and present it to the Board.
I'm pleased to say that at its most recent meeting last week the Board accepted our recommendation to move forward with National's business plan.
Although the recent rating upgrades of National were quite significant we are still not where we think we should and need to be.
We believe that National's financial strength demonstrated underwriting success and track record of profitability are at the various highest levels in our industry and that's just not reflected in the current ratings.
For example we believe National's adequacy -- capital adequacy an important component of the rating analysis is consistent with AAA ratings.
However it is obvious that rating decisions in the past few years have been largely driven by the litigation overhang and National secured loan to MBIA Corp.
We are now reengaging with the rating agencies and requesting that they reflect on National's muni-only focus business plan balance sheet and earnings strengths as they would any new entrant into the industry.
In a sense National is a start-up company with a 40-year track record an extremely high-quality insured book of business and a highly experienced management and analytic team.
It would be difficult to understand how a pure startup with significantly less capital and no existing book of business could garner higher ratings.
National has been in the news a lot recently primarily in connection with our $88 million of insured exposure to Detroit's general obligation debt and $2.3 billion of exposure to its revenue bonds primarily for the water and sewer systems.
We did increase reserves related to our Detroit GO exposure in the second quarter including reserves for potential legal and consulting fees.
As Detroit's bankruptcy and the plan proposed by the city's emergency manager could raise significant issues for the market as a whole we plan to pay close attention and dedicate resources to resolution of the situation.
It is far too soon to speculate on the outcome but we have been actively engaged with the city and its advisers.
In addition to the Detroit-specific issues its bankruptcy filing seems to have again stirred those who expect a tsunami of municipal bond defaults and losses to investors.
While Detroit has massive problems many of them are relatively unique and we think that concerns of widespread contagion are overblown.
If there's a silver lining to be found here muni bond defaults have historically resulted in a greater appreciation of the value of bond insurance so we will continue to remind the market that there will be no losses of principal and interest payments to National-insured bondholders.
While National will be the primary driver of our earnings and capital formation from operations in the near-term we are also committed to growing our investment management business in Cutwater.
Our investment track record in key products continues to be strong.
We are adding assets under management in our targeted growth areas even though overall assets under management have fallen due to clients and assets managed for our affiliates and runoff in low margin third-party short-term assets.
I believe that our holding company carries more leverage than it should our legacy of the financial crisis in 5 years of very poor and overly expensive access to the capital markets.
Because we now view the holding company as having adequate liquidity against its near-term obligations we have begun the process of delevering it.
We recently redeemed callable near-term debt in the Meridian conduit using liquid assets held by Meridian.
As we continue to build liquidity at MBIA Inc.
we will continue to take down leverage including through opportunistic debt repurchases upon reverse inquiries.
At some sense -- at some point in time it may make sense to raise a combination of debt and equity to speed up this process and make faster headway but we have not yet made that decision and are continuing to evaluate it.
Finally as we have been reducing risk across the enterprise and building our business plans we know that we need to sharpen our focus on our expense base.
Our run rate operating expenses have been obscured by the 9-digit numbers we recorded for legal and consulting expenses and the even larger loss in LAE expenses over the last 5 years.
For example legal consulting and settlement expenses totaled approximately $87 million in the first half of 2013 alone.
Now that we believe that such expenses will be more stable and significantly lower going forward we are pursuing opportunities to reduce other expenses.
That included making the very difficult decision to reduce the size of our workforce in some areas after carefully evaluating the needs of the organization going forward.
Near the end of July we reduced the headcount in our insurance and shared services operations by approximately 25%.
All of those who were impacted are extremely dedicated and talented individuals.
We're very grateful for their many contributions over the years and wish them well in the future.
Expenses related to that action will primarily affect our third quarter results.
But we expect the ongoing annual savings to be about equal to the upfront severance and related costs.
Finally we are also starting options for reducing our headquarter's related expenses as we currently need only 1/3 of the space we have in our Armonk campus.
This will also help us to establish a lower rate of expense.
Chuck will provide some additional perspective on expenses in a moment.
In short 2013 is shaping up as the pivotal year in MBIA Inc.'s emergence from the financial crisis and recession and we look forward to more normal operations in the near future.
Chuck will now provide more details on the numbers.
Thanks Jay and good morning everyone.
First I'll walk through the results of the second quarter 2013 at the consolidated and at the segment level and then make some comments about our risk profile and our balance sheet health.
I'll also attempt to put some elements of the income statement in the proper context for future periods but without making any specific future projections.
First our consolidated GAAP results.
In the quarter ended June 30 2013 we had a net loss of $178 million as compared to net income of $581 million in the second quarter of 2012.
Our GAAP results and the comparisons are heavily impacted by the fair value accounting used for insured credit derivatives.
In last year's second quarter credit spreads on MBIA Corp.
were widening higher cost for protection against MBIA Corp.
generates gains for us and that's on top of gains from commuting policies at prices below their fair market values.
The combined impact of these 2 income items was $775 million pretax last year.
In this year's second quarter credit spreads went the other way.
Upfront costs on protection against MBIA Corp.
went from 39 points to 8 points in the quarter generating a large mark-to-market loss for us.
This was partially offset by the positive effect of again commuting policies at prices below their mark-to-market levels.
The net impact of the realized and unrealized gains and losses on injured derivatives in this quarter was a loss of $182 million pretax.
Our non-GAAP measure adjusted pretax income provides an alternative way to analyze our fundamental business performance without the counterintuitive impacts of the accounting for insured derivatives.
We had an adjusted pretax loss of $160 million compared to a loss of $152 million in the second quarter of 2012.
Although these numbers are only 5% different the underlying drivers were very different this year.
On the revenue side our premiums earned were $138 million in the second quarter this year compared to $190 million last year.
The decline was a result of maturities terminations refundings and commutations that took place since June 30 last year.
Now we expect premium revenue to continue to decline in the next few quarters albeit at a slower pace even as we see National writing new business.
Net investment income also declined from $41 million to $73 million -- to $41 million from $73 million in the second quarter of 2012.
Higher cash and short-term holdings and lower average investment yields account for the decline.
Within our wind-down operations our conduit had a $2 million loss in the second quarter of this year compared to $32 million of income in last year's second quarter.
In order for you to see that effect in our disclosures you would need to go to the segment footnote for the conduit segment and then back out the intersegment items.
But now returning to the income statement fees and reimbursements were $15 million lower this year than in last year's second quarter.
Finally all these negative variances were partially offset by realized and unrealized gains which were $32 million this year versus a loss of $3 million in last year's second quarter.
The gain this year was associated with the MBIA Inc.
debt that we received as part of the global settlement with Bank of America.
On the expense side operating expenses were $104 million in this year's second quarter versus $75 million last year driven by higher legal expenses and costs related to litigation or settlements of commutations.
On the other hand insured losses were far lower this year at $192 million versus $303 million in Q2 2012.
And interest expense was $12 million lower than last year reflecting lower outstandings.
Now we've estimated the cost associated with the completed settlements commutations and litigations in 2013.
They include legal fees consulting costs and the cost of issuing warrants to Bank of America and totaled $87 million in the first half of 2013 as Jay has referred.
We think that such expenses in the future will be far lower.
Jay mentioned that we've also reduced staffing and expect to reduce our expenses related to home office property.
When fully implemented we expect that these initiatives will collectively generate approximately $30 million in annual savings.
Consolidated operating expenses for 2013 were previously expected to be approximately $330 million excluding amortization of deferred acquisition costs.
Our target for run rate expenses would be about $200 million to $210 million.
And the runoff of legal and consulting expenses as we've just discussed and these initiatives will close most of that gap.
We expect to realize the full benefits of these initiatives by the second quarter of 2014 and the costs of severance and related expenses will primarily affect the third quarter of 2013.
We also measure our performance using Adjusted Book Value.
ABV declined 5% in the first half of 2013 from $30.68 per share at year end 2012 to $29.28 at June 30 2013 primarily as a result of insured losses and again the costs associated with the completed settlements commutations and litigations.
The ABV associated with National alone increased by $0.33 per share from $25.05 to $25.38 in the first half of 2013.
Now I'd like to talk about the adjusted pretax income of the segments.
The public finance segment conducted in National had pretax income of $14 million in the second quarter of 2013 compared to $148 million in the second quarter of 2012.
There were 4 key drivers of this adverse comparison.
First loss in LAE expense was $66 million in this year's second quarter compared to a net benefit of $3 million last year.
The biggest driver of this expense was our additions to reserves for certain general obligation credits including Detroit.
Then premiums declined to $102 million from $130 million last year due to maturities and refundings.
Net investment income declined to $35 million from $56 million last year primarily as a result of the repayment of the secured loan National had made to MBIA Corp.
which had a high yield.
Finally operating expenses were $7 million more than last year primarily due litigation- and settlement-related fees and expenses.
The structured finance and international segment operated in MBIA Corp.
and its subsidiaries had an adjusted pretax loss of $93 million compared to a loss of $300 million in last year's second quarter.
The driver of the difference is much lower insured losses which were $126 million in Q2 2013 compared to a loss of $306 million in last year's second quarter.
This year the losses were driven primarily by a write-off of salvage related to an unfavorable litigation result and increases in CMBS impairments.
Last year's increases to reserves were driven by experience on CMBS but also on second-lien and first-lien mortgage policies.
We should note that the adjusted pretax loss for the structured finance segment includes the impact of interest accruals on the surplus notes.
The combined pretax loss of our Advisory segment the wind-down operations and the Corporate segment was approximately $91 million compared to a loss of $52 million in last year's second quarter.
The primary driver of the higher loss is the mark-to-market on warrants issued to Bank of America in connection with the global settlement.
Although the cost of issuing the warrants to BofA was basically an operating expense in the first quarter which we don't expect to recur the periodic mark-to-market on the warrant liability is ongoing.
And about $24 million was recorded to gains and losses on financial instruments and fair value in this connection in the second quarter.
Wind-down and Corporate's adjusted pretax income can be volatile because primarily of the marks-to-market on warrant issued to the BofA and to Warburg Pincus in connection with our 2007 and '08 capital raise as well as the mark-to-market effects of derivatives and foreign exchange.
Now I'd like to add some comments on our balance sheet position.
Jay mentioned that we believe we should be reducing leverage at the holding company.
We have $720 million of senior unsecured debt at the holdco and $1.6 billion of MTNs issued out of our global funding subsidiary which we ultimately expect to service from MBIA Inc.'s assets and cash flow.
The holding company has about $752 million of invested assets including $426 million in the tax escrow.
The tax escrow is associated with our tax sharing agreement and the assets currently in the account are expected to be released to MBIA Inc.
over the next 3 years.
In addition to this debt we also had about $1.1 billion of operating leverage including related derivatives at MBIA Inc.
related to GICs that we have issued in the past and $300 million of operating leverage in our Meridian conduit all as of June 30.
While these liabilities are matched against high quality assets and cash there is a negative spread between asset yields and liability costs in the GIC-related activities which also must be satisfied from the holding company's other assets.
Now we think the liquidity position at the holding company is solid.
We expect National to continue to make deposits into the tax escrow for the next several years and to pay ongoing regular dividends to the holding company commencing in the fourth quarter of 2013.
But we believe that the burden of the Corporate debt the MTNs and negative spread is higher than it should be so we have begun to reduce leverage.
In second quarter of 2013 we retired $359 million of debt mostly in the Meridian subsidiary and a $121 million Guaranteed Investment Contract matured.
In July we retired another $150 million of Meridian debt.
So almost all of this activity affected operating leverage.
Over time we're expecting to reduce both the cost and the amounts of our financial leverage as well including by reverse inquiry repurchases.
A significant part of the consolidated balance sheet is a deferred tax asset associated with net operating loss carryforwards.
That NOL is approximately $2.8 billion at mid-year 2013.
It's more than double the amount that we reported in the 2012 10-K because certain commutations achieved in the first 6 months of 2013 were of policies whose losses had previously not been recognized -- had not been deducted for tax purposes.
At MBIA Corp.
our liquidity position has greatly improved compared to March 31.
At the end of the second quarter we had $92 million of cash in the insurer and we had arranged the $500 million secured credit facility with a Bank of America affiliate.
This gives us confidence that we have a substantial cushion against volatility in claims payments at MBIA Corp.
The trend in payments on second-lien RMBS continues to be toward lower and lower net payments.
In the second quarter we made $74 million of payments compared to $111 million in the first quarter of 2013 but we know that that trend can vary.
On CMBS we paid $46 million in the quarter primarily on 1 transaction with original BBB collateral but the payment stream here is far more unpredictable than that of the RMBS.
All other exposures excluding the CMBS commuted with Bank of America had payments in the second quarter of about $26 million.
As of June 30 we hadn't needed to draw on the credit facility but the first draw will likely occur in the near future.
We expect that any amounts outstanding on the loan will be repaid when we receive the first distribution from the ResCap estate.
This should occur around year end 2013 with other distributions coming in the next several quarters thereafter.
The loan facility from the BofA affiliate was intended to be a bridge to MBIA Corp.'s receipt of its largest recoverables.
And we now expect that the ResCap settlement provides the takeout.
With all the focus on the BofA and Société Générale exposures in the past few quarters I'd like to give you some data on the insured portfolio in MBIA Corp.
as it stands today.
In summary there's been a massive reduction in gross par outstanding particularly in categories that have caused large losses.
The gross par of the portfolio as of June 30 was $86 billion down from approximately $107 billion at March 31 and $261 billion at the time of transformation back in 2009.
Inside that $86 billion portfolio nearly $10 billion is RMBS.
Of that $10 billion of RMBS almost $6 billion is second-lien RMBS down from roughly $20 billion at the time of transformation.
We have been making payments on these transactions since late 2007 and we're making payments on them today.
But we expect that excess spread in the securitizations will cover our aggregate payments by the second quarter next year and then we should start receiving net recoveries from the securitizations.
Also related to our second lien losses and Jay referenced this we also need to actually collect on the ResCap recoverable and then get to a settlement or adjudication on the Credit Suisse recoverable which obviously is still subject to the litigation process.
The timing and amount of excess spread and putback recoveries are potentially significant risks for MBIA Corp.
In terms of other RMBS our Alt-A and subprime exposures today are about $3 billion.
We have been making some small payments on our Alt-A exposures and they are a small source of remaining potential volatility for MBIA Corp.
Our subprime exposure declined by half in the second quarter to about $1 billion and we don't really expect losses on that book.
Then there's about $200 million of prime first mortgage exposure and $731 million of international first mortgage exposure where we do not have any expectations of material loss.
Now moving on from RMBS we have $11 billion of commercial real estate exposure of which over $7 billion are in CMBS pools.
After the BofA global settlement we had $837 million of remaining exposure to deals with originally BBB-rated collateral and $3 billion to original A pools.
Some of these transactions are potentially significant sources of volatility in the future.
We also have $3.5 billion of original AAA pools on which we don't expect any material losses.
Finally we also have $3.9 billion of exposure to commercial real estate CDOs and loan pools which are performing adequately and with modest loss expectations.
Beyond the commercial real estate exposure we had $23 billion in exposure to other types of CDOs as of June 30.
Of this $1.6 billion are ABS CDOs down from about $31 billion at the time of transformation.
This sector had been highly volatile but we don't expect significant future volatility in credit performance on these transactions.
But because they are long-dated changes in interest rates will affect our reserving.
The balance of the CDO portfolio comprises $16 billion of investment grade corporates and $5 billion of high-yield corporates.
Although we had a write-off of salvage affecting the high-yield portfolio in the second quarter we don't expect significant losses beyond that on these Corporate exposures.
Then there is $10 billion of Corporate asset-backed exposures across insurance aircraft and other asset classes.
There are a few underperforming deals in this area but the potential future volatility is small compared to the more problematic sectors that I've just discussed.
There was $29.5 billion of exposure to international public finance in the portfolio as of June 30 2013.
Some of it is directly on MBIA Corp.'s book but more than half is in the MBIA U.K.
subsidiary.
About 2/3 of the combined portfolio includes utilities and transportation assets and about 1/3 are exposures to assets with sovereign and sub-sovereign supports.
Within that this category included $2.2 billion of exposure to peripheral countries of Spain Portugal Italy and Ireland as of June 30.
The one exposure we had in Italy of $328 million was fully repaid in July and our Portuguese experience was paid down from $600 million to approximately $481 million also in July.
And that debt matures over the next 2 years.
So while we have added to reserves modestly for this portfolio in this quarter the performance of international public finance has been adequate in the past few years.
Finally MBIA Corp.
has $1.8 billion of remaining exposure to the consumer sector which is primarily in manufactured housing and student loans.
So there are some remaining sources of volatility in MBIA Corp.
primarily in RMBS CMBS with smaller potential downsides in the Corporate asset-backed and international public finance areas.
We believe that the company's balance sheet provides for a cushion against adverse experience with $1.2 billion of statutory capital $3.6 billion of claims-paying resources and nearly $600 million of total liquidity resources including now the loan facility.
But risk remains and we're aggressively pursuing remediation strategies to eliminate many of these remaining sources of volatility.
National's balance sheet is solid with $3.4 billion of stat capital $5.7 billion of claims-paying resources and at June 30 nearly $2 billion in on-balance sheet liquidity.
This is a result of the repayment of the intercompany secured loan in May in conjunction with the global settlement with Bank of America.
We will be reinvesting most of those proceeds in an investor portfolio that balances optimizing our investment income while providing some protection against rising interest rates.
Finally we're hoping to make progress with the rating agencies on our insurance company and holding company ratings in the fall.
We will be presenting the full National business plan our holding company capital management expectations and our enterprise risk management strategy for the first time without the confusion of litigation and with National and MBIA Inc.
now being fully insulated from exposure to potential volatility in MBIA Corp.
The objective is to achieve the highest possible ratings for National and holding company ratings that are supportive of that objective.
At this point I will pause and Jay Bill and I will take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> I guess first can you give us an update on your thoughts on the surplus notes and how you hope you can proceed going forward call it next year or 2? Sure.
I think when you look at the surplus notes you really have to think about the situation in MBIA Corp.
first.
In that regard and as Chuck went through the balance sheet he isolated a number of areas that have significant potential volatility still remaining in the portfolio.
We also have a substantial collection of recoverables that totals in excess of $1 billion.
My sense of that is is that payments to the surplus notes in terms of interest probably will not occur until those sources of volatility are removed and collection of those recoverables occurs.
We have indicated to the market that we would be happy to engage in any conversation to exchange surplus notes for other securities.
But at this time Geoff the way the market has priced the surplus notes in our mind makes it impossible for us to make a rational economic decision to trade them for another security.
If there's an adjustment in the prices of securities we'd be happy to engage in those conversations.
But at the levels that they exist today which the surplus notes the last time I looked were trading in the 85 range for those few that actually trade.
At those price levels we can't make the numbers work in exchanging them for any other security at our holding company whether it's debt or equity.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And can you update us on where the Crédit Suisse efforts currently stand with respect to the R&amp;W? We're going through the discovery process.
The particular courtroom we're in in New York has been slower than some of the other cases that we've been able to proceed on.
At this point in time it's highly unlikely that we would get a full trial date until towards the end of 2014 or early 2015.
I think as other participants in the market have indicated Crédit Suisse has not participated heavily in any negotiated settlements with any of their counter parties on the RMBS R&amp;W claims.
And so at this point we expect that's going to be drawn out probably for another couple of years unless there's a change in their view on the case.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then my last question can you talk a little bit about the initial response from the market with National's efforts to relaunch? Is there interest at the single A level or does it really need to be a AA platform? And is there any kind of legacy worry or are people truly viewing National as a complete separate entity? Jeff it's Bill speaking.
The reaction actually has been quite favorable.
Even at the current ratings we are getting interest and there have been people who have asked us to wrap certain bonds.
There aren't any that we had done yet but we continue to get inquiries on that front.
As Jay mentioned in his comments we think the capital level of National is very strong.
And as Chuck mentioned we are starting the process of engaging with the rating agencies.
So we're quite optimistic about where the ratings are headed directionally and with regard to the reception and the reaction of the marketplace both from issuers and investors as well as other intermediaries meaning banks financial advisers so we think we have a very optimistic outlook there.
Your next question comes from the line of Arun Kumar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick questions for you.
Earlier in the commentary you mentioned recapitalization at the holding company potential issuance of equity and other debt.
Could you one talk about what kind of timeline you may be considering? And secondly number two assuming you do that successfully what could be the use of those proceeds other than some of the holding company liquidity issue that you mentioned would you be attempting to recapitalize the off call of potentially at some point down the road revisit what you're going to be doing at the surplus starts considering that they are a big drain on your capital at this point? Let me answer that and then Chuck can come back in a little bit.
In terms of timeframes we're most focused right now on dealing with the rating agencies and getting their thoughts on what's necessary to get National to a higher rating level.
In terms of that process I would expect that's a 3- to 6-month process based on how long it's taken us in the past.
We do not need -- I want to be very clear on this we do not need to retire any debt ahead of schedule at this point in time.
Our forecast suggests that we can just gradually deleverage over the next 3 or 4 years and reach our target objectives without raising any equity or issuing any new debt.
The only reason to do that would be to reduce some of the higher coupon debt out there and change the relationship between debt and equity.
I want to make it also clear that we've had no indications nothing in our internal analysis or anything we've heard from the rating agencies suggests that any money has to be put into National to achieve a rating level consistent with what we need in the marketplace.
The plans that we have for National include paying dividends over the next several years including under an assumption of how much business we might write.
So the whole focus of that exercise is whether it makes sense to speed up that process if the prices are right to do that sooner rather than later.
But right now there is no set deadline and we're just working our way through it very carefully in terms of trying to understand the pros and cons of it.
In terms of the surplus notes surplus notes are a drag on the capital of MBIA Corp.
Period.
And that's where we're looking at MBIA Corp.
as a box.
And we're trying to determine if we were to replace those surplus notes or take them out with something at the holding company it has to make sense for the holding company's shareholders.
We're not going to take them out just to take them out because they have a high interest coupon on them.
You just have to keep in mind that the surplus notes are not in the same category as the holding company's senior debt and the MTNs that we've discussed because of their hybrid nature.
So they are currently acting as equity in the insurance company capital structure.
So we just got to consider it in that light.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
Just a quick question on National.
I think you mentioned that you're going to be paying dividends at the holding company sometime soon.
Correct me if I'm wrong but I thought I heard you say at the end of the fourth quarter of this year? No I think I said that we expect in the fourth quarter so maybe as soon as October is our expectation.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Conor Ryan with Saba Capital.
I just had a question around the loan.
You said that in your remarks that it would be taken out with the proceeds of a ResCap settlement.
Does that mean paid down or essentially would that liquidity source go away once you receive those proceeds? Here's the way the loan works.
We have the ability to draw the loan periodically.
As I've referenced I expect that we will draw it in the second half and soon.
And so there will be amounts outstanding when we expect to receive the first distribution from the ResCap estate right around year end would be our best estimate of that.
The amount that we expect to receive in distribution from the ResCap estate should be more than the amount that's outstanding under the loan.
And when we receive those proceeds from the putback recoverable 2 things happen.
One is outstanding amounts under the loan are paid down.
In this case as I suggested it should be paid down to 0.
And the availability under the loan is also reduced by the amount received.
So that's the sense in which the loan from the BofA affiliate is kind of a bridge loan.
When we collect more than $500 million of the proceeds of our putback recoverables the loan won't exist anymore and we won't need it anymore.
Okay that is helpful.
And then the other question I had was what is your loss estimate for your CMBS exposure before any sort of commutation benefit? We have not provided disclosure of the individual components of the loss reserves.
I think there is a table in our supplement that provides the aggregate loss reserves on all of the CDO exposures which includes CMBS.
Okay great.
And then outside of the Crédit Suisse -- or potential Credit Suisse and the ResCap settlement any other potential settlements that you may now be looking towards? With respect to putback recoverables those are the 2 that remain outstanding.
Just to recap I think at year end '12 we had about $3.9 billion of putback recoverable on the stat balance sheet.
So we've collected about $2.8 billion of that at this point.
ResCap and Crédit Suisse account for that remaining $1.1 billion and that's it.
Okay.
I'm just trying to have a better sense for what the liquidity may look like because if you think you're getting roughly $800 million from ResCap over time but you may be drawing down the loan in the interim I guess the way to think about it is that that liquidity that net liquidity may be $300 million.
And then it sounds like you have somewhere around $300 million that you hope to get from Crédit Suisse as well is that roughly correct? Yes.
Again the sum of the 2 is about $1.1 billion.
It really depends on how much we pay out over the next 2 or 3 years which as Chuck indicated the amounts that we expect to pay out on the RMBS side are declining very rapidly and we expect that to actually turn cash flow positive sometime early next year probably the second quarter.
And then so the remaining negative cash flow is primarily going to be what we ultimately pay out on the few remaining CMBS exposures.
Your next question comes from the line of Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> Jay what do you think is the current limitation on the rating agencies? Let's go with S&amp;P's view on your National rating.
It seems that you need AAA capital to offset the largest obligor issue.
But that would put you probably in the AA slot.
So what are the subjective items you think that are limiting their view right now? Well the subjective items in the past were the litigation overhang and the collectibility of the loan from MBIA Corp.
We believe both of those have been removed.
And so what we're engaging in a conversation with them is to try and understand if there other factors that they have not yet identified.
And you have to understand that the decision they made to increase the rating of National was done instantaneously without a review of a business plan or any of the other things that are necessary to go through the full rating process all of which we're starting that dialog with them right now.
My expectation is you could do the numbers side-by-side based on public information.
National's financial strength gets it there without any problems.
And so it will really come down to if we can overcome any articulated issues that they might identify and be able to find out a solution to them.
But as of right now we're fairly optimistic we should be able to get through that process.
Your next question comes from the line of Matthew Kolling with Providence Equity.
Just a couple of quick clarifications on the Detroit.
Can you break down the revenue bonds between first lien exposure and second lien exposure? Yes.
The revenue bonds the water and sewer we have about $2.2 billion of exposure.
And all of that is secured.
So again I think anything you've been reading indicates that the security is sufficient to cover to debt.
There is a proposal that was highlighted again in an article this morning that the city has made under the proposal that Kevin Orr made last month to see if they can get more money out of the water and sewer.
But in terms of the security there it clearly covers any debt service out until those bonds mature is the best estimate.
But just factually I guess the bonds are organized as first on first lien versus second lien.
Do you guys have those figures? I understand what you're indicating but can you help us? Yes.
Offline we can break it out for you okay? But the way we think about it is it's all secured but we'll get the numbers offline you can follow up with Greg.
Okay.
And then as far as the geo reserve you took can you give us a sense of the split between specific for Detroit versus something more general? No.
That was our final question.
I'd now like to turn the floor over to Mr.
Greg Diamond for any additional or closing remarks.
Thanks Jackie.
And thanks to all of you who have joined us for today's call.
Please contact me directly if you have any additional questions.
I can be reached at (914) 765-3190.
We also recommend that you visit our website for additional information.
The address for our website is mbia.com.
Thank you for your interest in MBIA.
Good day and goodbye.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to MBIA Incorporated's Third Quarter 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I'd now like to turn the call over to Greg Diamond Managing Director of Investor Relations at MBIA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jackie.
Welcome to MBIA's conference call for our third quarter 2013 financial results.
After the market closed yesterday we posted several items on our website including our latest 10-Q the operating supplement and our financial results press release.
The latter includes information for accessing the recorded replay of today's call which will become available approximately 1 hour after the end of this call.
Please note that anything said on today's call is qualified by the information provided in the company's 10-Q 10-K and other SEC filings as our company's definitive disclosures are incorporated in those documents.
Please read our third quarter 2013 10-Q as it contains our most current disclosures about the company and its financial and operating results.
The 10-Q also contains information that may not be addressed on today's call.
The definitions and reconciliations of the non-GAAP terms that are included in our remarks today may be found in the financial results release that we issued yesterday afternoon.
And now for our Safe Harbor disclosure statement.
Our remarks on this conference call may contain forward-looking statements.
Important factors such as general market conditions and the competitive environment could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.
Risk factors are detailed in our 10-K which is available on our website at mbia.com.
The company cautions not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.
The company also undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if it later becomes aware that such statement is no longer accurate.
For the next portion of our call today Jay Brown and Chuck Chaplin will provide some brief comments.
Then Bill Fallon and Anthony McKiernan along with Jay and Chuck will be available for the question-and-answer session.
And now here's Jay.
Thank you Greg.
As noted in our press release there were a number of negative items that are reflected in this quarter's results.
Chuck will take you through those items in a few moments after I make a few comments.
On last quarter's call I was asked about the likely timeframe for getting National back to writing domestic public finance insurance.
My response then was 3 to 6 months and I'm prepared to stand by that estimate.
The key is achieving sufficiently high ratings to support National's business plan.
We are engaged in active discussions with the rating agencies at this point and I remain optimistic about the outcome of their reviews.
National's existing capitalization earnings and cash flow from operations risk management and underwriting discipline should rank at among the very highest rated bond insurers.
We have maintained our core underwriting surveillance workout legal and financing -- financial staffing levels at full strength.
And as we get going we would expect to add to our existing marketing team.
We have meetings scheduled with rating agencies that continue over the next few weeks.
And while the timing is essentially in their control we currently anticipate concluding those processes by year end.
This is our highest near-term priority.
Some credits that we've insured have been the subject to increased media tension since we spoke last.
Detroit is clearly an important story but remains in the very early stages of developing a plan that reconciles its significant obligation with its limited resources.
While our exposure to the general obligation debt here is relatively small the position Detroit's advisors have taken to date with respect to the city's general obligation bonds a position with which we strongly disagree raises significant issues for the entire municipal finance market.
Consequently we are putting a very high level of resources into obtaining a resolution that reflects the special nature of unlimited tax general obligation bonds.
But it's way too soon to say what that resolution will ultimately look like.
We regarded Puerto Rico as a lower quality investment grade credit that had been taking many of the right steps towards improving fiscal stability.
And we still do.
We think that the island has adequate near-term liquidity but then an improving economy will ultimately be needed to support a favorable long-term outlook.
Like other low investment-grade credits the debt of various Puerto Rico issuers is not without risk.
But we believe that the island's government continues to make the right decisions to foster a longer-term recovery.
Given their strong short-term liquidity position and recent success in managing their pension liabilities we do not see a loss at this time.
In MBIA Corp.
we continue to wait the receipt of our first distribution from the ResCap estate which should occur around the end of this year or early in 2014.
ResCap has reached settlements with several other parties since our last call whittling down the number of objectors to its reorganization plan to essentially just 1 group of noteholders.
So we're optimistic that the plan will be confirmed by the bankruptcy court in the near future.
As I mentioned on last quarter's call we think that it would be prudent in the longer term to have less financial leverage at our holding company.
Our game plan is to use free cash generation from the operating businesses to pay down holding company debt over time.
With the receipt of the first dividend from National in October we have started that process.
I also noted on our last call that we may access the capital markets at some point in the future.
Since we received a number of questions afterwards let me be clear on that issue.
We have no term -- no near-term needs or plans to access the capital markets.
It's merely an option that we could consider in the future under the right set of circumstances.
Finally many of you probably noticed that our press release and 10-Q included the news that Kewsong Lee has resigned from our Board of Directors on Monday.
Kew joined the board in early 2008 following Warburg's investment in MBI.
And he served the interest of all of our shareholders through his focus on maximizing long-term value.
His wisdom and counsel were invaluable during the most tumultuous period in the company's history as he personally helped me and the rest of the senior management team sort through a very complicated restructuring and navigate a web of litigation.
We greatly appreciate all that he has done for MBI and wish him much continued success in the future.
Chuck will now provide more detail on our operating activities and take you through the financial results.
Great.
Thanks Jay.
I'll now go through the consolidated results and the segments in some detail and then finish up with a brief balance sheet update.
Net income in the third quarter was $132 million driven by unrealized gains on insured credit derivatives of $285 million.
This compares to net income of $7 million in last year's third quarter when we had a $33 million unrealized loss on insured derivatives.
In the third quarter of 2013 the upfront cost for protection on MBIA Insurance Corp.
increased from 8 to 16 points driving the positive results.
While the size of the mark-to-market on our balance sheet has fallen dramatically over the past few years to about $1.4 billion from a high of nearly $6 billion and primarily due to commutations changes in the market perception of our credit risks still create extreme volatility in our GAAP reported earnings.
Primarily for this reason we also continue to provide information on our non-GAAP measure adjusted pretax income which treats all of our insurance policies using insurance accounting and provides an alternative view of our financial results.
We had an adjusted pretax loss for the third quarter of $188 million versus a loss of $118 million in the third quarter of 2012.
This year's third quarter contains a few charges that -- to which I'd like to direct your attention.
First we had a gaming revenue transaction in National for which we've paid losses in the past and have recorded an offsetting salvage asset.
Because we believe that the operation's future cash flows will fully repay our loss.
As of June 30 2013 the asset was $162 million.
As part of a restructuring we and other creditors agreed to exchange our subrogation rights for unwrapped marketable bonds and we received those bonds in the third quarter.
While we believe that the cash flows on the bonds will fully repay our paid losses the limited trading in the bonds reflected prices in the 60s.
So we are reporting the difference between our June 30 carrying value and the fair value of the bonds as a $44 million increase in our incurred loss in our GAAP income statement.
It's important to note that in our statutory account salvage remains subject to loss reserve accounting regardless of its form.
And since we expect our paid loss to be fully reimbursed the trading value has no impact on our statutory financials.
Secondly we received an appraisal of our home office property in preparation for relocation which is an element of our efforts to reduce operating expenses.
As a result we recorded a reduction of $29 million in our carrying value.
We estimate that this noncash charge will be offset in the future by lower occupancy cost.
National is the owner of our home office property and the effect can be seen in National's standalone financials as well as in the consolidated accounts.
Third we recorded $14 million of expense related to an approximate 20% reduction in our enterprise-wide workforce in the third quarter.
And this effect is scattered across most of the segments.
Now I'd like to make a few comments on the segments and the major business entities focusing on those elements that we believe will be part of the income statements going forward.
Within our public finance segment which is carried out in National we had quarterly pretax income of $6 million compared to $164 million in the third quarter last year.
The home office real estate write-down and the incurred loss on the gaming revenue transaction that I just mentioned contribute $73 million of the difference.
National though also saw sharp reductions in refunding premium and investment income.
Refundings were at their historic peak level of $82 million in the third quarter of 2012 and were only $27 million in the third quarter of 2013.
Now given that municipal issuance overall is down and our ensured portfolio is higher we weren't surprised that refundings declined.
And we do expect refundings to continue to contribute to earnings but at lower levels than the average $55 million per quarter pace of the last 5 quarters.
Investment income was about $30 million lower than last year.
While invested assets are higher last year National benefited from the high-yielding secured loan It had extended to MBIA insurance Corp.
That loan was repaid in May and we've taken a measured approach in National to reinvesting the proceeds.
So we still held about $1.5 billion of cash and short-term assets as of September 30.
And of course the new investments that we're making generally have lower coupon than did the secured loans.
As a result of our reinvestment program we expect to hold only about $600 million of cash and short-term assets by December 31.
In addition National also had realized gains in the portfolio in last year's third quarter as we were repositioning into taxable assets.
Realized gains and losses were $20 million higher in last year's third quarter than in 2013's third quarter.
With respect to loss and loss adjustment expense National had $9 million of reductions in incurred loss during the quarter aside from the incurred loss in the gaming transaction that I referenced.
There were modest improvements in credit outlook for a handful of credits and no other development that required significant increases to reserves.
Moving on the advisory segment had pretax losses of $8 million and $2 million in the third quarters of 2013 and 2012 respectively.
Our Wind-down Operations had pretax losses totaling $54 million in the quarter compared to $77 million in the year ago quarter.
The Corporate segment had pretax income of $36 million in the third quarter of 2013 compared to $22 million in 2012's third quarter.
Combining these 2 segments contributes a pretax loss in this year's third quarter of $18 million versus a pretax loss of $55 million last year.
And the improvement is largely derived from a lower mark-to-market value on the liability for warrants issued to Bank of America and Warburg Pincus.
The structured finance and international segment operated within MBIA Corp.
had an adjusted pretax loss of $167 million in the quarter compared to a loss of $224 million in last year's third quarter.
The improvement is primarily due to lower economic losses on the insured portfolio.
This year's incurred losses were $163 million versus $252 million last year.
The drivers of economic loss in this year's third quarter were in CMBS pools and our second-lien RMBS transactions.
We had $98 million of loss on insured CMBS pools where we projected higher future payments on our single A and BBB content transactions.
And we also modified our commutation assumptions.
On our insured second-lien RMBS transactions we had expected a substantial reduction in voluntary prepayments because of higher interest rates but we then observed a much smaller actual reduction in the third quarter.
So as a result we now expect lower excess spread recoveries associated with those mortgages that's prepaid.
And that is the driver behind the $53 million increase in economic loss in that book.
I've mentioned our expense reduction activities but to recap there are 3 streams.
First as a result of reduction in litigation and commutation activities our legal and consulting expenses are declining.
In the first half of 2013 we spent $60 million in such expenses; and in the third quarter only $9 million.
This amount should drop further in Q4 and beyond.
Second we began to see the impact of the reduction in our workforce in the third quarter but it is more than offset by the severance expenses.
When the reductions are fully implemented we expect to save about $24 million per year across all segments.
Finally I mentioned our relocation and potential sale of the Armonk campus.
We expect a significant reduction in occupancy costs which we will be able to put a finer point on in the next couple of quarters.
Our objective continues to be to get our run rate expenses down below $200 million per year.
Now I'll move on to the balance sheet.
The biggest news that I have to report actually happened after September 30.
In early October the holding company received the first as-of-right dividend from National.
That dividend at $214 million met all of the relevant statutory tests and was fully disclosed to the rating agencies as they commenced work on revisiting National's ratings.
And this is another step toward operating our company more normally.
We provide a measure of holding company assets in our operating settlement.
And those assets were $1.9 billion as of September 30.
Most of the assets are pledged as collateral for investment agreements and swaps or are in the tax escrow.
But inside that $1.9 billion we consider our liquidity position to be $282 million as of September 30.
And obviously it increased in October with the dividend.
In the third quarter we repurchased or retired $43 million of debt issued by MBIA Inc.
or our global funding subsidiary.
Since then we've retired an additional $39 million.
As Jay has said our strategy here is to bring our leverage down over time using cash generated from operations.
And our objective is to bring financial leverage including the impact of the MTNs issued by our global funding sub down to levels consistent with middle investment-grade ratings over about 4 years.
At September 30 we had about $600 million of holding company's senior debt outstanding and about $1.6 billion of global funding MTNs.
We're also seeking to reduce operating leverage.
And we've retired $150 million of debt in our Meridian subsidiary in the third quarter and $20 million more since September 30.
National's balance sheet continues to be extremely strong and we believe it continued to exhibit AAA quality after payment of the dividend.
As Jay mentioned a minute ago we're going through the rating agency process right now.
And of course we look forward to their feedback.
MBIA Corp.
ended the quarter with $1 billion of statutory capital and $3.5 billion of claims-paying resources.
If we exclude the future premium earnings and the loss reserves of MBIA Corp.
subsidiaries the New York regulated entity has $3 billion of claims-paying resources.
While the majority of these resources are illiquid today the loan facility from the Blue Ridge Investment subsidiary of Bank of America gives us the time we need to begin realizing them in cash.
Payments on second-lien RMBS continued their slow decline falling to $29 million in the third quarter.
We expect those net outflows to become net inflows in 2014.
Total loss and loss-adjustment expense payments in MBIA Corp.
overall were at the lowest level in many quarters.
And as Jay referenced we expect to begin receiving proceeds from the ResCap estate in the next month or so.
MBIA Corp.'s liquidity position at September 30 was about $97 million having drawn $50 million on the Blue Ridge lending facility.
We did accomplish one small commutation since we spoke last which removed a 1 potentially volatile all-day securitization from our classified list.
The transaction happened after the quarter's close and the financial impact was not material.
Clearly MBIA Corp.
still bears potential future volatility.
We continue to focus intensely on remediation strategies to free Corp.
from those risks to give us the best possible shot at having residual equity value after resolving the surplus notes.
However this turns out we expect that the consolidated firms cumulative net operating loss will shield substantial future income from tax payments to the IRS even if the residual value of MBIA Corp.
is minimal.
We believe that we're taking the steps necessary now to realize on future profitability and growth as National comes back into the bond insurance market.
And we're looking forward to that in the near term.
And at this point we'll open it for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Brian Charles with RW Pressprich.
A couple of quick questions.
One the comments you made about the write-down and expected salvage or the reduction in expected salvage for second-lien RMBS.
Could you go over that again? Was that a reversal of assumptions you had made in the second quarter or did I get that right? Not exactly.
What is going on there is that we in the second quarter we adjusted our assumption for voluntary prepayments.
We expected that prepayments would fall to the levels that we observed prior to the commencement of quantitative easing.
So it's looking back a couple of years.
And in the third quarter the actual level of voluntary prepayments while it did fall from the Q2 level didn't fall nearly as much as we had forecast.
And so what we're reflecting is simply the excess spread that would have come from those loans that were prepaid in the quarter as a reduction in the excess spread recovery asset.
We haven't changed our assumption that voluntary prepayments will fall to very low levels in the future.
So we still expect that but it does appear that there's been a lag in seeing the behavior in the marketplace.
Okay good enough.
Thanks.
And also on the change in expected payments for CMBS of $90 million.
Is that -- or actually could you talk about that a little bit how -- if that's related to particular exposures of per rating A or BBB? And to what extent you've been negotiating commutations on that exposures during the quarter? We -- take the second part first.
We didn't consummate obviously we didn't consummate any commutations of them in the second quarter or in the third quarter.
It continues to be our objective.
We think that there's a good chance that we'll achieve commutations but we didn't we don’t have any to report at this time.
The change in the loss expectation reflects really 2 effects.
One is there has been some deterioration in the transactions.
And some erosion of the deductibles in our single A transactions that create additional incurred loss.
But then we also modified some of our assumptions about commutation based on the experience that we're having in interacting with our counter-parties.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Robert Adler [ph] with A.J.
Ventures.
I have 2 questions.
First has anyone begun to put together a plan which would be a public document describing what the business of National is going to look like going down the road? I think that it's completely understandable.
But we're spending far too much time these days talking about what happened.
And if my information from this call and other conversations is we're getting very close to being back in the municipal bond insurance business.
So my question really is is what is going on in the company to put together the information about that business about that opportunity about the fact that our guaranteed today trades better than Assured? So that's sort of the general nature of my question.
Because it's based on the fact that the future is right around the corner.
And I am wondering are we preparing to tell the world what a great company we are and why they should be thinking about our insurance potentially versus Assured? So that's my first question.
I could ask the second question at the same time.
The second question really is is there any thought of -- is part of that really telling the world that the guarantee has been proven.
I mean you cannot imagine the set of circumstances where a guarantee of principal and interest has been tested in more dire circumstances and MBIA came through 100 cents on the dollar.
So.
the gist of both of my questions is are we preparing to tell our story? And specifically to emphasize the fact that we've paid everyone every penny in the most dire circumstances.
So that's the nature -- hopefully it's a question.
I think it is.
Robert it's Bill speaking.
I think you just did a good job describing the situation at National.
One we have been telling a story.
As Jay mentioned at the beginning National is in very good shape in terms of the infrastructure really meaning the people as we get to the point where we're writing business again.
But to your point we're going to continue to tell the story and there's more that we can do.
I would also let people know that there is information with regard to the some of the aspects of the go-forward plan on the National website.
And you are correct there are a lot of positive things about National.
And as I said we have begun to tell the story but we're going to do it more and more frequently in the months to come and that's in the form of presentations conferences analyst meetings et cetera.
So I think that is very important.
And as you say we think the financial strength of National the trading value of National even before the ratings get to AA level that others see in the marketplace we think is very favorable.
I'm sorry just that piece of information which Greg thankfully shared with me is really a very illustrative and potent piece of information that I assure you 90% of the investors today and 99% of potential investors don't know that and probably don't understand it.
So I'm all for getting this and I'm happy to hear that there is a plan to get this story out because it's a great story but I just don't think that people are aware of it.
That's my concern.
Yes now we appreciate your input.
And then on the final point just in terms of what's happened since the financial crisis you're absolutely right.
MBIA and its subsidiaries including National MBIA Insurance Corp.
have paid every single claim that has been presented to it throughout its history and we continue to do so.
And so as National begins to become more visible in the marketplace we think that is in some ways the best advertising that we have.
Well thank you for your answer.
I've been involved in the company only since it began and I remember the belt and suspender advertisement from the dark ages when it first came out and the company has proven itself.
And anything we can do to tell people that is going to put us in a great position.
And as I shared with Greg I get very upset seeing Assured Guaranty put themselves out there as the #1 insurer.
But I'll be quiet now and go back to my book.
Our next question comes from the line of Joshua Bederman with Pyrrho Capital.
LP</strong> A couple of things.
First can you give some color around the kind of commutation environment or kind of some of the developments you're seeing or just a little more kind of qualitative what your kind of negotiations ongoing et cetera? Sure.
The environment is a little bit different than it was 6 or 9 months ago mainly because we have far fewer people to negotiate with.
At one point last year we probably had 10 or 11 different discussions going in a simultaneous fashion so it's harder to get appropriate reference points as to what could be achieved.
I think now that we've put the better part I think in excess of 20 transactions behind us we have a pretty good idea of what is an appropriate value for the couple that are remaining.
We are engaged in conversations.
But as we've said repeatedly the hardest thing to understand sometimes is it takes both parties to agree at the same time on a fair clearing price to reflect elimination of volatility going forward.
We don't know.
Obviously we don't make any clear predictions as to when or how many transactions will take place during a particular time period.
I will state pretty clearly that in terms of significant transactions there's only a couple left that would have a material effect on changing the volatility of the organization.
That's basically because there's very little volatility left except for a couple of transactions.
So we feel pretty good about it.
We remain optimistic that it's in the best interest of ourselves and our counter-parties to get that taken care of.
I would also note because we've gotten the question from a few people about commuting some of the remaining ABS CDO exposure.
I would note that that's actually financial guarantee contracts rather than credit derivative contracts.
As such there's multiple counter-parties involved in each transaction.
And so the methodology and the approach we use to trying to resolve those transactions is much more complex than a single negotiation with a single counter-party.
So those types of commutations and settlements take quite a bit longer.
They're a lot smaller also so even there's a lot more parties.
And so you'll see that activity continue into the future.
But you won't see a substantial change in any one transaction because there just isn't enough exposure in any one individual transaction that gets reflected in an individual settlement.
LP</strong> Okay great.
And then last thing can you guys comment a little bit on -- I don't know if you will but on this [indiscernible] Transaction.
There's been a lot of talk about it.
Information in the market is very spotty.
It seems to be a significant exposure for you guys.
I'm wondering if you guys can shed some light on your perspective here and how you guys are thinking about that? And specifically where it actually is in your books? Sure this is Anthony McKiernan.
These deals are in our In Corps [ph] high-yield CLO portfolio.
And the deals by their nature contain higher yield higher risk collateral.
They're in the form of middle market and distressed company loans.
We also have equity positions in the form of collateral as well for many of the companies that provide additional support and coverage.
The book we've managed down from about $16 billion in '07 to about $4 billion as of the end of this quarter.
Again all those deals have similar trades.
And so at this time for these transactions they're performing adequately passing all their coverage tests.
We haven't taken reserves on them as we expect them to continue to perform.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Mason Swain [ph] private investor.
I think last conference call there was a thought that regarding S&amp;P that the rating would be reviewed within a 3 to 6-month time period.
I think it's been more than 3 months now.
So I'd be curious as to whether you still believe it will happen -- resolution in the next 3 months and your sense as to what the resolution will be? I think in my opening comments I tried to be specific that we expected that would be completed in another 3 months.
I'll restate that.
We continue to be optimistic that the rating should be better than it currently is.
But again rating agency decisions are opinions in their part we can't control it.
All we can do is pitch why we think a higher rating is deserved.
But we do believe that there's very very high probability that should get resolved in the next couple of months.
And also someone has commented that the capitalization of National was such deserve a AAA rating.
Do you have any expectation of that? We do know that based on -- for S&amp;P's current capitalization models that National including after the dividend before other adjustments sits at above a AAA capital level but it would be subject to other adjustments primarily on the capital side.
There's a large obligor test which results in at least a 1 notch downgrade.
That would take it down into the AA range before they look at other criteria.
We understood that going into the process and that's one of the reasons when we talk about what our objective is we'd like to see based on that criteria and other criteria compared to other companies why National should get rated in the AA range.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Bailey with Par-Four.
I just had a question on Puerto Rico.
They just obviously revised their projections for GDP down.
I just wondered if that -- if that continues to happen if that's going to be something that would potentially delay the ratings action and the -- and/or something that might put that on hold for a while? Yes with regards Puerto Rico.
There's been a lot of attention as you know.
And they provided more information recently.
They have taken some positive steps as you know with regard to pensions.
They've communicated more they've done some things with tax revenues.
The budget deficit is declining.
Yet some of the economic indicators are below expectations.
So in the near term in particular with the liquidity that they have and that they emphasized on their webcast a month or so ago and the reduction in the amount that they're going to borrow from the capital markets over the near term things seem to be a little less volatile than they were 2 months ago.
Longer term and I don't mean the next 6 months but longer term out 3 5 years and beyond the economic situation is the most important thing.
And so I don't think that in terms of S&amp;P and they've actually come out with something the middle of last month I think it was October 14 they published a report.
In my words not theirs but in terms of the impact that Puerto Rico would have on the bond insurers it would not be material.
And so therefore we don't think that that would have anything to do with any hold-up in the process that we're going through with S&amp;P.
[Operator Instructions] And your next question comes from the line of Michael Norinsberg [ph] with Matrix Best Produce [ph].
I'm really on the outside of the business I'm trying to get a handle on MBI.
And I'm just wondering how does S&amp;P consider Puerto Rico not material if you guys owe -- are owed $5 billion? Yes with regard to what they put out -- keep in mind Puerto Rico has several different issuances of debt.
All of those are rated investment grade by the rating agencies.
And so when you look at S&amp;P and the capital model that was referred to a little bit earlier even if you were to downgrade the Puerto Rico bonds to below investment grade one of the things you would look at would be the capital impact or the additional capital required to be held by the monolines.
And when you put that in context the overall portfolio again we have $291 billion of insured obligations in our portfolio.
The additional capital would not be a material number.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Brian Schinderle with BAM.
I think there was some mention that you may look to go to a third-rating agency as well.
Could you speak to that? And whether or not you're in current conversations or how that would fit in? Yes Brian.
I think we mentioned last time that there were 3 rating agencies in addition to S&amp;P and Moody's that have mentioned some interest in getting into the bond insurance rating business.
Those being AM Best Fitch which was in it a few years ago and Kroll.
And we said we have spoken with all of those.
The only one that has a rating out on any of the monolines is Kroll has rated Assured's new subsidiary Mac AA-Plus.
And as I said we're talking to all of them.
If we believe that the rating would add value to the issuers and the investors then we would go ahead and get the rating from any of those 3 rating agencies.
Got it.
The -- I also wanted to ask you a quick question on the BofA credit line at the Corp level.
You've currently drawn that $50 million.
Is that roughly where it is now? And would your expectation be a maximum draw on that prior to receiving ResCap proceeds when you would pay it off? Yes the balance on the loan as of September 30 is $50 million.
So it remains -- we made the 1 draw in the quarter.
The availability on the loan of course is $450 million additional.
And we would expect to draw it sort of as needed.
We're basically drawing the loan to pay claims.
It's our anticipation that we receive proceeds from the ResCap estate around year end.
It could be in early '14 but some time in the not-too-distant future.
And we also expect that our first distribution from the ResCap estate could be half or more of our claim.
And of our full recovery.
And so that -- when we receive those funds they go first to pay down any outstandings under the Blue Ridge loan agreement.
But also the amount that we receive serves to reduce the available amount under the Blue Ridge loan facility.
So for example if our first distribution were to be $500 million basically the Blue Ridge loan would disappear.
The balance would be paid off and there'd be no further availability under it.
So we have described the Blue Ridge deal as kind of a bridge loan to the recovery from ResCap and that's still the case.
Again the amount that we'll recover from ResCap in the first distribution is variable but we believe that it'll be very substantial and an amount that substantially reduces the availability under the Blue Ridge loan.
[Operator Instructions] And at this time it appears we have no further questions.
Very good.
Thank you Jackie.
And thanks to all of you who have joined us for today's call.
Please contact me directly if you have additional questions.
I can be reached at (914) 765-3190.
We also recommend that you visit our website for additional information.
The address for our website is mbia.com.
Thank you for your interest in MBIA.
Good day and goodbye.
Thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the MBIA Incorporated Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2013 Financial Results Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Greg Diamond Managing Director of Investor Relations at MBIA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Laurie.
Welcome to MBIA's conference call for our fourth quarter and full 2013 financial results.
After the market closed yesterday we posted several items on our website including our financial results press release our 2013 10-K and our latest quarterly operating supplement.
We also posted the annual and audited statutory financial statements for MBIA Insurance Corporation and National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation as well as other items.
The financial results press release includes the information for accessing the recorded replay of today's call which would become available approximately one hour after the event.
Please note that anything said on today's call is qualified by the information provided in the company's 10-K 10-Q and other SEC filings as our company's definitive disclosures are incorporated in those filings.
Please read our 2013 10-K as it contains our most current disclosures about the company and its financial and operating results.
The 10-K also contains information that may not be addressed on today's call.
The definitions and reconciliations of the non-GAAP terms that are included in our remarks today may be found in the financial results press release that we issued yesterday afternoon.
And now I'll read our Safe Harbor disclosure statement.
Remarks on this conference call today may contain forward-looking statements.
Important factors such as general market conditions and the competitive environment could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.
Risk factors are detailed in our 10-K which is available on our website at mbia.com.
The company cautions not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.
The company also undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if it later becomes aware that such statement is no longer accurate.
For the next portion of today's call Jay Brown and Chuck Chaplin will provide some brief comments.
Then Bill Fallon and Anthony McKiernan along with Jay and Chuck will be available for the question-and-answer session.
And now here's Jay.
Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
Before Chuck gets into a review of what's happened since our last call I'll take a broader look at our progress over the course of the past year.
A year ago our shareholders faced much more significant risk than they do today.
MBIA Corp.
had a number of highly volatile exposures which heightened the possibility that its regulators would take action against it.
We were also dealing with litigation over our holding company debt amendments that modified certain cross default provisions.
A substantial portion of MBIA Corp's claims-paying resources at that time were in the form of illiquid putback recoverables.
Our primary source of earnings cash flow and growth National Public Finance Guarantee was mired in litigation challenging the transformation that created it and it had its own illiquid assets in the form of a substantial loan to MBIA Corp.
The holding company had not received a meaningful dividend from its operating subsidiaries in over six years and there was uncertainty over whether it would be able to service its debt obligations as they came due.
Let's fast forward to today where I'm pleased to say that we've substantially mitigated all of these risks.
In MBIA Corp we have commuted virtually all of the potentially volatile CMBS exposures and the total cost was only modestly above our loss reserve estimates.
We've also commuted the majority of the ABS CDOs on which we had reserves at year-end 2012 as well as miscellaneous other groups of exposures.
After collecting $3.7 billion of putback recoverables from Bank of America ResCap and Flagstar Bank during the year only the amount related to Credit Suisse remains to be received.
Based on our track record and the strength of our case we continue to feel confident of our ultimate collection in this case too.
It is only a matter of time.
At this time we have also resolved the vast majority of the significant litigations in which the company was involved.
In May MBIA Corp.
fully repaid the intercompany loan that National had extended to it.
These material improvements in MBIA Corp's risk profile have substantially removed the potential for regulatory action against it for the foreseeable future.
While challenges remain we believe we are in a far better position today to handle them and play right.
These achievements also position National to return to the domestic public finance insurance market once it has been able to achieve the rating level that we believe it deserves.
On that note I know many of you are wondering when the rating agencies might take action with respect to National's ratings.
I know that I had made a three to six-month prediction back in August and I've once again shown that when it comes to timing my forecasting skills are less than precise.
I've learned over the past few years not to predict the pace of litigation.
And again over the past few months I've learned that the same should prove true for rating agency actions.
All I can say is that we continue to have a positive and active dialogue with the agencies and that we're hopeful that they will rate National in the AA range in the near term.
But the decision and the timing remains solely in their hands and I am not in a position to offer any additional insight to offer at this time.
I continue to observe that National will be the principal value driver for us for the foreseeable future.
We believe that the US muni bond insurance product is viable and that it can generate attractive returns over time.
We believe that ultimately the distress we observed in some muni credits will heighten awareness and appreciation of the value of the credit enhancement surveillance and proactive remediation provided by our insurance coverage.
We remain patient and we believe that the fundamental forces supporting the attractiveness of National's business plan will become even more favorable over time.
We also remain convinced that there is a real opportunity in structured finance that we will begin to focus on once National is firmly reestablished later this year.
Our employees delivered for all our stakeholders this year and I would like to take this opportunity to thank them sincerely for their efforts both those who departed the company in the last year or so and those who remain to carry the firm through its next phase.
We also experienced some churn over at the Board level.
Recently Kewsong Lee stepped down from our Board when he left Warburg Pincus.
He had been one of the two directors who joined us in conjunction with Warburg's investment in MBIA Inc.
in 2008.
Warburg continues to be a great owner as an institution and Kew was a great addition to our Board and continues to be a great personal friend and advisor.
We wish him all the best going forward.
Sean Carney has replaced Kew as a Warburg designee on our Board and will stand for election for the first time at the May 2014 Annual Meeting.
Our priorities for 2014 are simple.
First we expect National to obtain the necessary ratings to write new US municipal business.
National is the largest domestic muni-only insurer and we have no doubt that it will be a strong capable and effective competitor in this marketplace.
At the same time we are focusing on improvements in profitability across the entire company.
Re-launching National will give us an engine for longer-term revenue growth but we are equally focused on relentlessly reducing cost to a level that matches our business opportunities going forward.
The reductions in legal expenses headcount and home/office real estate expenses will all contribute to this effort.
You’ll see one small example of this when we mail our annual report later this month.
With fewer and fewer people choosing to receive hard copies each year will fulfill our SEC and New York Stock Exchange requirements to provide an annual report by simply mailing our 10-K and my annual letter to shareholders will be published electronically on our website.
I know I speak for our entire management team when I say that we're very much looking forward to working hard to realize these goals for you in the coming year.
Finally I'd like to mention that the Board and I have agreed that it's in the best interest of the company that I stay in place for another three or four years.
We are still working out a few technical details but we hope to have those finalized before we file our proxy statement in late March.
Now I'll turn it over to Chuck who will provide more detail on our financial results [inaudible].
Thanks Jay.
I'll now go through our consolidated financial results and discuss the segments in some detail.
And then I'll finish up with some comments on the consolidated and major legal entity balance sheets and liquidity positions.
Net income in the fourth quarter of 2013 was $132 million compared to $636 million in the fourth quarter of the prior year.
The largest driver of the reduction was higher insured losses on financial guarantee policies in MBIA Corp.
In addition while we had gains on insured credit derivatives in both periods those gains were much lower in this year's fourth quarter.
This year's gain on insured credit derivatives was primarily driven by tighter spreads on the underlying collateral in insured transactions.
We also reported non-GAAP measure adjusted pre-tax income that treats all of our insurance policies using insurance type accounting.
It avoids the mark-to-market treatment that GAAP requires on insurance credit derivatives and unwinds the consolidation of certain securitizations which we consolidate as variable interest entities for GAAP.
It provides the useful alternative view of our financial results.
We had an adjusted pre-tax loss in the fourth quarter of 2013 of $84 million compared to adjusted pre-tax income of $110 million in the fourth quarter of the prior year.
The principle drivers of the change were higher insured losses in MBIA Corp.
and lower realized investment gains in National.
I'll go through the segments now using our non-GAAP adjusted pre-tax income measures.
The public finance segment reported pre-tax income of $89 million in the quarter compared to $202 million in the Q4 of the prior year.
Net premiums earned declined to $86 million versus $122 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
There are two components to our earned premium scheduled and refunded and both declined in this period.
Scheduled premium was $40 million in the Q4 of 2013 compared to $53 million in 2012.
Refunded premium declined to $46 million from $69 million when comparing fourth quarter of 2013 to '12.
A smaller insured portfolio affects both premium types.
National's net investment income declined to $32 million in the fourth quarter of '13 from $51 million in Q4 of 2012.
The primary driver here is the lower average yield which declined by 140 basis points to 2.7% principally as a result of the pay-off of the $1.7 billion intercompany loans to MBIA Corp.
which had earned 7% in National's portfolio last year.
This was partially offset as National began to reinvest the cash received when the loan was repaid in May.
The biggest change in National's earnings in 2013's fourth quarter compared to Q4 2012 was in realized investment gains.
In 2012 we were repositioning the investment portfolio to take advantage of our enterprise level tax additions and selling assets with substantial interest rate-driven gain.
In Q4 2012 we had $74 million in such gains and in Q4 2013 we had nearly $2 million of net losses on investment sales.
At this point the portfolio is almost entirely comprised of taxable securities and market and book values are nearly equal.
Insured losses in National were very small in both periods with a small takedown of approximately $100 000 in the fourth quarter of 2013 and loss in LAE expense of $6 million in 2012's fourth quarter.
Our views of some of the high-profile credits in National's portfolio showed little movement in the quarter.
After the end of the calendar year the emergency manager for the City of Detroit prepared a plan of adjustment intended to move the city toward resolving its Chapter 9 bankruptcy case.
The potential for such a plan was considered in making our fourth quarter loss reserve estimates.
We expect to continue to work with the city and other creditors toward a solution that respects the relative positions of creditors and put the city on a more stable footing.
As for Puerto Rico while there's been much negative press coverage of the island's fiscal and macroeconomic challenges and its recent rating downgrade not much has changed in our thinking.
The government is taking a lot of the right steps in our opinion which should reduce medium-term liquidity pressure and enhance market confidence.
Ultimately the economy needs to grow in order for Puerto Rico to adequately service its debt over time.
With respect to these two credit we believe that National is well protected from the capital and liquidity perspective.
What remains to be seen is the impact that these cases might have on the rest of the municipal capital markets where we observed that the majority of credits appear to be on positive trends.
Now returning to National's income statement operating expenses declined from $17 million to $14 million primarily as a result of lower legal fees.
National is approaching the run rate of expense that we expect.
The amortization of DAC in National's income statement is formulaic and follows the trends in the recognition of premium revenue.
At year-end 2013 National had $326 million of DAC on its balance sheet after expensing $19 million in the fourth quarter.
Moving on then to the structured finance in international segment its adjusted pre-tax loss in the fourth quarter 2013 was $159 million compared to a loss of $13 million in the fourth quarter of 2012.
The most significant event affecting MBIA Corp.
recently was the commutation of originally A content CMBS pools in February 2014.
The commutation covering $3 billion in exposures is a part of our fourth quarter 2013 results for statutory reporting purposes and for our non-GAAP measure adjusted pre-tax income.
So economic losses on insured exposures were $162 million in the quarter compared to $38 million in the Q4 of 2012.
The primary drivers of the $162 million were the cost of commutations in excess of third quarter statutory loss reserves and changes in the interest rate assumptions that we use for estimating our economic losses which are update annually.
Please note that from GAAP reporting these commuted policies were mark-to-market at year-end 2013 and the commutation would be a first quarter of 2014 event.
All other things being equal we'll see a pre-tax GAAP gain on insured derivatives of over $400 million in the first quarter of 2014 as a result of the commutation.
This commutation represents a major step forward in managing down the volatility of the MBIA Corp.
portfolio.
So let's review now the major sectors of the remaining $77 billion of insurance in force after the CMBS commutation.
At this point we have $760 million of originally BBB CMBS exposure but not all of it poses material risk.
We're currently making payments on one policy that has approximately $390 million of par outstanding.
Then there is one other significant deal but it has a deductible and much earlier vintage collateral and we expect no losses on it.
Combined these two represent over 90% of our remaining original BBB exposure.
There are two other small transactions on which we do not expect much loss volatility.
Aside from these BBB content deals we have approximately $3.3 billion of CMBS exposure which consists of originally AAA underlying bonds on which again we do not expect losses.
These pieces make up the $7.1 billion in CMBS pool exposure that's described in our disclosures.
The $3 billion that was commuted in February will come out of the exposure statistics in our next report.
We also have a commercial real estate exposure in the form of $1.2 billion of CRE CDOs and $800 million in European securitizations neither of which are expected to have material losses.
Moving to other sectors we have about $1.5 billion remaining in ABS CDO exposure which will account for the largest part of our economic loss reserves after the commutation achieved in February.
We've about $8.8 billion of direct RMBS exposure in the portfolio including both first and second lien securitization.
We expect a substantial net recovery on the second lien sector including the Credit Suisse putback recoverable and the excess spread recoveries associated with that portfolio.
These net recoveries were of the reserves that we have on first lien transaction.
Then there is our $4.3 billion high-yield CDO portfolio.
While we are continuing to closely monitor some of the exposures in this sector we continue to believe that there will not be ultimate losses in this portfolio.
Rounding out our structured finance exposures at year-end 2013 MBIA Corp.
had insured $16 billion of investment-grade corporate CDO transactions $10 billion of corporate asset-backed transactions and $2 billion of consumer asset-backed securitizations all of which were performing adequately.
In February of this year nearly $3 billion of investment-grade corporate CDOs were terminated which brings the total portfolio down from $77 billion to about $74 billion.
Finally we have nearly $30 billion of exposure to public finance transactions outside United States most of which are performing adequately and we do not expect material losses on this book either.
As we continue to reduce the future loss potential in the portfolio we should close in on breakeven operations in MBIA Insurance Corp.
on an adjusted pre-tax basis and profitability on a statutory basis.
The difference between the two is primarily due to the treatment of interest on the surplus notes.
Interest continues to accrue for adjusted pre-tax income while in statutory reporting there is no accrual until and unless the Department of Financial Services approves such payment.
MBIA Insurance Corp.
also has a subsidiary MBIA UK which is in a run-off status.
In the fourth quarter of 2013 we determined that profits from that business over time will no longer be permanently invested overseas and we've provided for the resulting US tax consequences in the fourth quarter.
Our advisory services segment operated near breakeven in the fourth quarter.
The corporate segment had a pre-tax loss of $31 million including about $10 million of negative mark-to-market on warrants issued to Warburg Pincus and Bank of America.
When our stock price rises these derivative liabilities grow.
The expirations of these warrants are up in 2015 to 2018.
The wind-down operation segment had $13 million of adjusted pre-tax income in the fourth quarter compared to a $51 million loss on last year's Q4.
This is primarily the result of positive mark-to-market on interest rate swaps where we were a net payer of fixed rates and gains on the extinguishment of debt.
In addition in last year's Q4 our conduit which is part of the wind-down group paid a substantial fee to the corporate segment.
Now I'd like to make a few comments about balance sheet and liquidity.
At this point we regard the holding company's liquidity as more than adequate.
It received its first release from the tax escrow account under the company's tax sharing agreement in January of 2013 and then National paid its first dividend in October.
As a result MBIA Inc.
had $359 million in liquid assets as of year-end 2013 after having bought back approximately $192 million of debt in the year.
It had enough liquidity to cover its ongoing operating needs for more than three years.
We intend to continue to reduce leverage with holding company resources and those resources grew again in January 2014 when another $167 million of cash was released from the tax escrow.
Future risks for the holding company are primarily around spread widening and we're sizing our liquidity to meet those downside scenarios.
The holding company no longer has any direct exposure to the liquidity position of MBIA Corp.
And this improved position at MBIA Inc.
has led to Moody's placing its Ba3 rating on watch for upgrade.
The company's net operating loss carryforward at year-end 2013 was $2.7 billion.
The commutation agreed to in February will increase the NOL in the first quarter all other things being equal.
In MBIA Corp.
our liquidity position has much improved.
We held $827 million of liquid assets at year-end 2013.
Although we used a substantial portion of it to achieve the commutation in February 2014 we expect that the remainder together with cash inflows from premiums and investment income net of cash operating expenses to be adequate to service expected liabilities.
The removal of the threat associated with the $3 billion of recently commuted CMBS exposures significantly improves the stability of MBIA Corp.'s liquidity position.
Principal remaining risks are around our expectations that the second lien transactions become net providers of liquidity in 2014 through collections of excess spread and then the payment on the one CMBS pool that I mentioned.
Our projections call for the second lien net payments to become a cash inflow in the fourth quarter this year.
Higher defaults compared to our expectations though would increase liquidity pressure on Corp.
in the near term.
Likewise if the CMBS pool underperforms our loss models we could also see pressure from that source.
Finally we expect to collect our putback recoverable from Credit Suisse via a settlement or adjudication in the next two years.
Delays in that process would also increase medium-term liquidity pressure on Corp.
In addition as of year-end 2013 we had approximately $170 million of unpaid interest payments on MBIA Corp.
surplus notes of 2033 on top of the $953 million of principal amount.
These payments are subordinate to policyholders and they do not come due unless and until the Superintendent of the Department of Financial Services approves them.
We will continue to provide the regulator information regarding our liquidity position our forecast of liquidity position and our stress analyses so that they may make fully informed decision.
Finally MBIA Corp.'s balance sheet is affected by the cumulative mark-to-market on insured credit derivatives.
Largely due to commutations and terminations the balance sheet fair value at year-end 2013 was $1.1 billion.
And this compares to $7.2 billion at its peak in 2008.
The commutations and terminations in the first quarter will bring that value down to approximately $350 million all other things being equal.
This is another sign that the imprint that the financial crisis is fading from our financial statement.
National's balance sheet continues to be very healthy and produce ratios that would be consistent with the capital levels for the very highest ratings from S&amp;P and Moody's.
There isn't any event that we can foresee on the horizon that might change the status and we will continue to work with the agencies and to expect that National will have ratings at least consistent with the now highest rated companies in our industry.
At this point we'll be happy to take any questions that you may have.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from the line of Geoffrey Dunn of Dowling &amp; Partners.
Jay can you talk a little bit about post getting the ratings upgraded of National what do you think the prospects are for improving that company's ROE? I think Chuck mentioned that the expenses are coming down to a level you think are sustainable.
Obviously business might pick up a bit.
But what do you need to do there? What are your options there to improve the ROE once you become an active writer again? With regard to the prospects at National there're really two parts to it.
There is the existing portfolio which you're well aware of but I think more importantly is the business opportunity when we get the rating.
And as we look at the market we're starting to see a little bit of a pickup.
As we've said before if interest rates go up which many people think they will over the course of the next year or two we think that improves the opportunity.
But we're seeing good opportunities to write business in double-digit return in the public finance sector and we will only focus on opportunities that provide attractive returns.
So we're quite optimistic about the prospects in that business.
And in terms of capital management obviously you got a dividend out of National.
I think the sense is you need to maintain AAA cap to will offset the largest of [obligatory] [ph] test.
Is there an ongoing capital management opportunity here as you kind of right size the book as run-off occurs? Yeah.
I think if we look at the opportunities at the marketplace that are out there we think even using what we would call a semi-optimistic view of the world over the next three or four years that the size of National's current portfolio will continue to shrink over that time period.
So its capital needs going forward will probably drop for another three or four years.
And that's assuming running at a pretty good rate of new businesses et cetera that should allow us to continue to both dividend cash out of National and that's currently in our plan we would expect substantial dividends over the next three years and also continue because of our positioning of the portfolio which is essentially 90%-plus and taxable at this point will continue to generate tax payment that will go up to the holding company held in escrow and eventually be freed up for uses.
So I think if you take a look at those two topics the capital management solely that comes from National as Chuck described I think two quarters ago over a three year or maybe four-year runway we will essentially without raising any capital get down to the leverage that we would like at the holding company for the long term.
And that's pretty much how I would see at this time.
If there is anything else we could add to that let me know.
I think Chuck you mentioned that you think there's opportunities also in structured finance what are the top areas that you think are opportunities within the next one to three years? And I assume correct me if I'm wrong that'll be something you'd only address through Corp.? You're correct it would not be addressed through National.
Whether it's through Corp.
or a new vehicle would have to do with what kind of ratings Corp.
eventually rises to.
As you noted recently in the past few weeks Moody's has put out an indication that they're looking at Corp.
for a possible upgrade.
In terms of looking at the structured finance area this is the big if.
If you eliminate real estate meaning the mortgages and the related CDOs real estate related assets the other 100-plus assets classes that we've done in structured over the last 25 years that performed incredibly well and made extremely good returns.
We would say that it’s worth looking for the area we're looking at most closely now over probably the next 12 or 18 months and again this is not something we will turn our eyes to until National is up and running is obviously the 1 trillion plus mortgage market.
We think if that market restructures with the combination of what's going on with the banks and what they're going to be able to keep on balance sheet with what we perceive the government will eventually have to do with Fannie and Freddie we think there is going to be a [roll] [ph] out there for three or four monoline guarantors.
We believe we have a fair amount of expertise in that area some of which we've learned through the losses we've had some which we've earned from things we've done right.
And so we feel very good that that's going to be a huge area of possible potential future earnings.
And it's certainly something that I am anxious for the rating agencies to make up their minds on National and for building the team to get going on that side because we have several different avenues that we believe we can start to reenter that market that could be profitable in a very short timeframe.
I'd just like to add one comment to that with respect to MBIA Insurance Corp.
as a vehicle.
One of the things that we would need to consider in this regard would be the current status that Corp.
has with respect to earned surplus.
It has an earned surplus deficit of about $1.6 billion at this point.
And before Corp.
could be in a position to make distribution to the holding company it would need to in effect earn that out bring that to zero and to positive in order to pay dividends.
And so it's just from a timing perspective to the extent that there were business opportunities that we want to pursue in structured it might make sense to pursue them in a vehicle other than Corp.
I mean it's pretty clear.
I think what Chuck is saying is the expertise the experience base and the data all resides in Corp.
but because of structural issues if we want to reenter that marketplace and it might be a $500 million to $750 million capital kind of issue in terms of getting enough of a size company to get started it probably would make more sense to start that in a new vehicle than put it into an existing vehicle.
Your next question comes from the line of Arun Kumar of JPMorgan.
This is Brett Gibson in for Arun.
You covered the remaining potentially volatile CMBS in your prepared remarks but I was hoping you could go into a little more detail.
And I was specifically interested in hearing about the CMBS pools 26 and 46 that you lay out in below-investment grade exposures.
And one thing I wasn't clear on that I hoped you could square was that in the table you showed that CMBS pool 26 has an internal rating of D which I believe means that you expect to be at losses.
But Chuck in your remarks you said you only expect losses on the $390 million exposure.
One general comment is we typically don't make specific remarks about internal ratings and the like with respect to the portfolio.
However when you look at any of the exposure data that's in our supplement this quarter they'll include the transactions that were commuted in the first quarter because all the exposure data there is as of December 31 2013.
So you'll see those changes take place in the first quarter.
So again the comments that I made about the remaining original BBB CMBS do hold at about $760 million remaining outstanding $390 million of which we're making payments on the balance of which we expect will not pose significant risk to the company either because of the vintage of the collateral or the amount of the subordination or both.
And then beyond that the CMBS portfolio consists of essentially only AAA original collateral transaction.
So we don't expect any losses on them.
I was under the impression that the $3 billion of A exposure that you commuted would have been factored into maybe CMBS pools 22 and 34.
Any comment that you can give that might square that because it seems like you have $4 billion of exposures that are rated D.
Again you'll see the commuted exposures come off in our first quarter reporting.
Any color that you can provide on the Zohar CLO can you talk about what is the current spending of that what is off to and if it was eroded by any recent activity? We don't have any updated information at this time.
We are monitoring our exposures as Chuck said earlier in the high grade sector very closely.
My last one was related to the liquidity position of the Corp.
entity.
Can you talk about what go-forward liquidity is following the commutation of the A CMBS? And looking forward can you talk about if there's any way to monetize the equity stake in the MBIA UK entity? We think that post the commutation the liquidity position of Corp.
is adequate against its expected liabilities.
And again as I said earlier we think we're in a much more stable position as there is no single exposure that we could point to that might cause significant risk to Corp.'s liquidity position.
The two things that we do focus on are the payments that we are making on the one BBB CMBS that is in payment mode and on the excess spread on the second lien RMBS where we're expecting that to become a net provider of liquidity in 2014 to the extent that defaults and losses are higher than our expectations in our loss models.
Obviously that might delay that turnaround.
So those are kind of the liquidity risks.
We think in general the position is adequate.
With respect to monetizing illiquid assets we have done some work in that regard in the past.
The UK entity is one that has significant value.
We don't really see at the moment an opportunity to monetize that doesn't impair that value to us.
And so maybe there is an opportunity but we don't see one at this point.
I think there's a couple of things associated with monetizing the value.
We've looked as others have looked at several of the monoline financial guarantors that are in run-off to try and evaluate what would be an appropriate transaction price.
And virtually cases when we've looked at the buyer we ended up at numbers that are unfortunately small fractions of the current carrying value of the current owners.
And so it's very difficult to come up with a transaction that would be mutually beneficial.
The same is true when we look at the UK company.
If people look at a potential buyer the value they assign to it in terms of its discount and cash flow it's substantially below what we currently carry in terms of value.
So it's difficult for us to see a sale transaction that could create additional value there.
Going back to the first question I want to just clarify what Chuck said about having adequate liquidity.
We clearly believe that MBIA Corp.
has adequate liquidity over the foreseeable future the next three of four years in terms of being able to cover all potential known policyholder claims.
What we're not saying there is no way that you could say there is sufficient liquidity to make any substantial payment on the surplus notes or to pay off to surplus notes.
So when we're talking about liquidity I want to be clear we're always talking about liquidity as respect to policyholder claims and policyholder liabilities.
We're not speaking at this point to when and how we eventually could trigger our way to deal with the surplus notes which we do believe we would like to deal with eventually.
We would like to figure out some kind of an exchange.
But as I have said in past conference calls our view of the discount value of the surplus notes versus where they currently trade in the marketplace there is a substantial difference in our own internal assessment versus how the market seems to be breaking them.
And that's been the reason that you've not seen any transactions occur on that side.
That could change at any point of time.
We could change our internal view if we were to make substantial collections Credit Suisse and some of the other outstanding issues or we get more confident that we're beyond the point where there is going to be any volatility in the excess spread.
But right now when you look at the company which we do say repeatedly that it's in a much much better place than it was a year ago or two years ago or three years ago it still sufficient is volatility it's premature to start to distribute what limited funds we do have available of policyholder surplus.
That said we will continue to put in a request for the contract obligations each quarter to the insurance department and they ultimately will make a decision of how they see the world and whether they believe it's an appropriate decision to make any payments to surplus noteholders at this time.
Your next question comes from the line Jeff Rosenkranz of Cedar Ridge.
A question about taxes you have substantial NOLs which will be a good benefit to National as they reenter the market and ramp that up.
And I understand how those funds flow up to Inc.
than are escrowed and then that escrow rolls off over time.
What was the origin of those tax losses? Was it at Corp.? And if so how has Corp.
been compensated or how might Corp.
be compensated in the future for the use of those substantial NOLs and that value? First of all the beneficiary of the NOL that the company has will be MBIA Inc.
because it's the tax payer.
So all of the accumulated net operating loss carryforwards belong to MBIA Inc.
So it's part of its tax addition.
Under our tax hearing arrangement we do maintain independent standalone tax positions of the relevant entities.
As you know National has been a tax payer since it was created.
MBIA Corp.
has had losses.
And of course as the holding company we have also had losses relating to simply paying interest on outstanding corporate debt but also because we conducted our asset liability management business there.
So those are the two largest contributors to the consolidated net operating loss carryforwards.
Any place in the enterprise where we make profits in the future will benefit from the fact that the company has a large net operating loss carryforward.
In addition we have stated that it's our current intention that to the extent that any of the insurance members has standalone NOLs that aren't used by the consolidated firm not used by the relevant insurance member that they would be compensated for those as they expire or before they expire.
So when you think about the expirations of the NOLs generated by MBIA Insurance Corp.
they would be I think the years are 2030 '31 '32 is when it might expect to receive payments because of our stated current intention to provide that compensation.
It's also just to your comment that National benefits from NOLs is actually an erroneous statement.
MBIA Inc.
benefits from the NOLs because National pays its taxes as if it were a tax payer up to Inc.
We actually choose to sub-optimize the National portfolio by investing in taxables to take advantage of that situation.
But if National were a standalone company without a parent that add NOLs we would actually invest the proceeds or the investment portfolio quite differently.
And National probably would have a higher after-tax income in that situation if it were within that.
So sometimes it's confusing to realize that.
But right now most important thing to remember is we have one and only one tax payer and that tax payer is the beneficiary of the NOLs at this point in time.
And we'll have to see how things develop over the years to see how those NOLs get utilized across corporation.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from the line of Chris (inaudible).
Just quick point of clarification looking at your Note 10 in your 10-K.
Looked like you own $13 million as a surplus notes at year-end but also made the statement that to date you've repurchased a total of $47 million par value at an average price of $77.08.
Is that suggesting that some additional bonds were repurchased in first quarter '14 or is there a different interpretation? We repurchased some bonds probably in 2009 or early 2010.
$13 million was purchased by the holding company and it still holds them.
The balance was repurchased by MBIA Insurance Corp.
with regulatory approval.
So those are many quarters old so disclosures and those repurchases.
Your next question comes from the line Kathleen Brady of Morgan Stanley.
Have you provided information on the maturity of the roll off of your Puerto Rico exposure? Yes all that information has been provided previously and is available on the National website.
Can you comment on current market reports of potential new deal with Puerto Rico and the implication that that could have for you? We continue to watch it very carefully.
As I think people are aware Puerto Rico has all the approvals they need from the government to do up to $3.5 billion.
The reports are that they will raise about $2.8 billion or $2.9 billion and that you could expect to see that as early as this week but perhaps it could be next week.
So we continue to monitor that quite closely.
At this time there are no further questions.
I'll now return the call to Greg Diamond for any additional or closing remark.
Thank you Laurie.
And thanks all of you who have joined us for today's call.
Please contact me directly if you have additional questions.
I can be reached at 914-765-3190.
We also recommend that you visit our website for additional information.
The address is mbia.com.
Thank you for your interest in MBIA today.
Good bye.
Thank you for participating in the MBIA Incorporated fourth quarter and full year 2013 financial results conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the MBIA Incorporated First Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
It’s now my pleasure to turn the call over to Greg Diamond Managing Director of Investor Relations at MBIA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Maria.
Welcome to MBIA's conference call for our first quarter 2014 financial results.
After the market closed yesterday we posted several items on our website including our financial results press release Form 10-Q and the quarterly operating supplement for the first quarter of this year.
We also posted the statutory financial statements for MBIA Insurance Corporation and National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation as well as updates to our frequently asked questions and insured portfolio listings.
Yesterday’s financial results press release includes the information for accessing the recorded replay of today's call which would become available approximately one hour after the end of the call.
Please note that anything said on today's call is qualified by the information provided in the company's 10-Q 10-K and other SEC filings as our company's definitive disclosures are incorporated in these filings.
Please read our 2013 10-K and our first quarter 2000 (sic) 10-Q as they contain our most current disclosures about the company and its financial and operating results.
The 10-K and 10-Q also contain information that may not be addressed on today's call.
The definitions and reconciliations of the non-GAAP terms that will be included in our remarks today may be found in the financial results press release that we issued yesterday afternoon.
And now here is our Safe Harbor disclosure statement.
Our remarks on this conference call may contain forward-looking statements.
Important factors such as general market conditions and the competitive environment could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in our forward-looking statements.
Risk factors are detailed in our 10-K which is available on our website at mbia.com.
The company cautions not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.
The company also undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if it later becomes aware that such statement is no longer accurate.
For our call today Jay Brown Bill Fallon and Chuck Chaplin will provide some brief introductory comments.
Then Anthony McKiernan will join Jay Bill and Chuck for the question-and-answer session that will follow.
Without further ado here's Jay.
Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
Only 70 days have passed since we last spoke in March.
But in that time we’ve made significant progress in our efforts to re-enter the domestic public finance market as the largest U.S.
muni only bond insurer and in further reducing the potential volatility of our structured finance and international insurance business.
The biggest news of the quarter was that National achieved a AA- rating from S&amp;P in March and then just yesterday a AA+ rating from Kroll Ratings.
As a result National is now in a strong position to write new policies.
However it will be a slow ramp up and I don't expect a material amount of new business for at least two or three quarters.
Bill will talk more about what's going on at National in a few minutes.
At MBIA Corp.
we commuted over $3 billion of CMBS exposure in the first quarter dramatically reducing the potential volatility of that book of business and saw terminations of note -- of nearly another $3 billion corporate CDOs.
That's not new news though as we discussed in the conference call in early March.
But we also achieved commutation and terminations later in March that together with contract maturities reduced MBIA Corp.’s insured par outstanding by a total of $10 billion in the first quarter to about $70 billion as of March 31.
Incurred losses as well as paid losses in the quarter reflect the ongoing trend towards greater stability in the MBIA Corp.
The keys to MBIA Corp.’s ongoing balance sheet stability and liquidity adequacy will be the collection of recoveries from excess spread and insured mortgage securitizations and the collection of putback recoverables from Credit Suisse for its representation and warranty violations.
With the addition of installment premiums the total from these three categories is about $2.4 billion in expected cash inflows.
We're still making net payments on the second lien transactions but in the first quarter we made net payments averaging less than $5 million per month excluding loss adjustment expenses compared to $8 million per month in the fourth quarter.
We think that this trend will continue and become a net cash inflow by the end of 2014.
Litigation is becoming a smaller and smaller part of our story.
We're in the midst of the discovery process in our lawsuit against Credit Suisse so that I don't have much to report there.
However the judge’s recent ruling in our case against JP Morgan which granted JP Morgan’s motion for summary judgment nevertheless allows us to propose an amended complaint that should ultimately let us bring our claims to trial.
As a reminder we haven't booked recovery in connection with the JP Morgan litigation.
So this decision has no impact on our financials.
Finally the last remaining lawsuit challenging the reorganization of our insurance operations in 2009 was dismissed with prejudice about a week ago.
In addition to our focus on managing risk we continue to reduce financial and operating leverage across the company.
There was particular progress in our operating expenses which were less than half of what they were in the first quarter of 2013.
Despite these efforts we posted another adjusted pretax losses quarter which was $99 million compared to $20 million in last year's first quarter.
This is largely the result of mark-to-market items but this quarter result also includes another $90 million of incurred loss in LAE which is clearly unacceptable at this point in our transformation.
We believe we are doing the right things in terms of the resources we put in this surveillance and remediation of the factors we can control to reduce this expense.
But we will need continued cooperations from the macroeconomy.
An environment of positive economic growth in the U.S.
and in Europe coupled with higher interest rates will help us pursue National’s new business objectives as well as reduce the volatility of remaining legacy exposures.
Now I’ll hand it over to Bill for an update on National.
Thanks Jay.
As Jay mentioned National was upgraded to AA minus by S&amp;P in mid-March which was an extremely important event for us as it opened the door for our reentry into the municipal finance market in a meaningful way.
An S&amp;P rating in a AA range is what the market is looking for in order to be considered a serious industry participant on the new business side.
As for other agencies Kroll Ratings initiated ratings coverage of National yesterday with a AA plus stable rating which is the highest rating currently achievable from them for financial guarantor.
The rating underscores the strength of National’s balance sheet and business plan.
We’ve been active in marketing National over the past five years meeting with issuers and fixed income investors not only to keep them up-to-date but also to keep on top of investor concerns and developments in the marketplace.
These efforts have increased in recent months as we readied the company to write new business.
We expect to further enhance our marketing and business origination capabilities through select additions to staff in the coming months.
We’ve been actively pricing and bidding on transactions since shortly after the S&amp;P upgrade but as of this date have not issued a new policy.
We’re incredibly focused on maintaining the discipline of our underwriting and pricing processes and we will only wrap business that meets our underwriting criteria and has an acceptable expected return on shareholder capital.
However I am confident that as the market recognizes the value that National’s wrap adds for issuers and investors we will start to add new business to our portfolio that will be accretive to our shareholders.
That’s supported by our view of the overall market where we’re starting to see signs of greater demand for bond insurance.
Although total issuance in the first quarter was down about 25% from last year insured penetration of the insurable market increased from about 6% in last year's first quarter to a little over 11% in the first quarter of 2014.
The insurable market as we define it excludes issues with ratings we won't wrap over.
Essentially anything that’s none investment grade as well as AAA and AA rated issues where demand for our wrap is likely to be limited.
To give you a sense of the size of that market we estimate that insurable par was around 40% of total issuance in the first quarter.
While the improvement in insured penetration is encouraging the current low absolute level of interest rates remains the biggest impediment to a more significant increase in insured penetration of the insurable market.
Turning for a moment to the headline exposures of National’s portfolio.
We together with two other bond insurers reached an agreement with the City of Detroit with respect to our insured unlimited tax deal bonds that will become part of the city’s plan of adjustment.
Importantly the agreement validates the special status of UTGO bonds and ensures that the property tax revenues that were pledged for the repayment of these bonds will be used to fund future debt service.
It also provides for some additional security should tax revenues decline further in the future.
There is still lot to be done to resolve this case particularly on the water and suicide.
But the UTGO agreement represents real progress.
While we’ve incurred a loss on the UTGO exposure we believe that it highlights the value of bond insurance for investors as holders of National wrapped Detroit UTGO debt will not suffer losses on their insured bonds.
It also highlights a less appreciated benefit of bond insurers which is our ability to actively remediate transactions and achieve outcomes that support the integrity of long-held principles in the municipal finance market.
In Puerto Rico the Commonwealth government delivered on its plan to tap capital markets to give it more breathing room on liquidity.
Its successful bond offering is another in a string of positive steps the government has taken to work through a difficult fiscal position.
The commonwealth also recently announced the balanced budget for fiscal 2015 and stated that it would not seek a restructuring of the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority also positive indications.
We believe the island needs to begin to see economic growth to provide a more permanent fix for these problems but we’re encouraged by the proactive steps that the island’s leadership has taken in recent months.
Now Chuck will take you through the company's financial results for the quarter.
Chuck? Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
I will make some comments now about our consolidated results and the segments and then provide some information on balance sheet and liquidity positions in our major legal entities.
Net income in the first quarter of 2014 was $256 million compared to $164 million in the first quarter of 2013.
In last year's first quarter we had a $61 million loss on insured credit derivatives driven by improving spreads on MBIA Corp.
credit default swaps.
This year we saw a $469 million net gain in this line driven by the commutation of the $3 billion of CMBS contract that Jay referred to earlier.
The potential for this kind of volatility should be much lower in the future as the remaining portfolio of insured CDS has shrunk significantly.
The balance sheet mark-to-market with respect to insured credit default swaps as of March 31 2014 was $309 million down from $7.2 billion at its peak in 2008.
Another thing to note in our GAAP results is that the observed tax rate is about 37% compared to 24% in last year's first quarter.
Last year's first quarter included a reduction in the valuation allowance that we've taken on the tax impact of realized losses and reflected a lower tax liability for our foreign earnings.
In this year's first quarter the rate is slightly above 35% because the expense associated with outstanding warrants is not tax-deductible.
We also report a non-GAAP measure adjusted pretax income that treats all of our insurance policies using an insurance accounting model.
It avoids the mark-to-market treatment that GAAP requires on insured credit derivatives and unwind the consolidation of certain securitizations which we consolidate as variable interest entities under GAAP.
It provides a useful alternative view of our financial results.
We had an adjusted pretax loss in the first quarter of 2014 of $99 million compared to $20 million in the first quarter of 2013.
The primary drivers of this change are market sensitive items that we don't make any adjustment for.
At the consolidated level they swung from a $63 million gain last year to a $55 million loss this year.
These effects include foreign exchange gains and losses on sales of investment and marks to market on hedging related swaps liabilities for warrants and certain structured debt instruments.
They are all reported in the line net gains or losses on financial instrument at fair value and foreign-exchange on our income statement.
The other income statement items don't affect the consolidated result this quarter nearly as much as these gains and losses.
Premiums earned fees and investment income at the consolidated level declined by about $40 million reflecting smaller insurance and investment portfolios.
On the expense side incurred insurance losses declined by $12 million and operating expenses were $60 million lower this year.
In last year's first quarter we had operating expenses associated with major settlement that totaled approximately $45 million which were nearly nil in this year's first quarter.
Now I’ll turn to the major segments.
Our public finance insurance segment is conducted in National Public Finance Guarantee Corp.
which reported pretax income of $92 million compared to $142 million in the first quarter of 2013.
National’s total revenues were $105 million in the first quarter of 2014 compared to $186 million in last year's first quarter.
Premiums earned declined from $103 million to 65 million reflecting a drop in refunding activity in this year's Q1 as well as the impact of substantial refundings and natural runoff of the portfolio over the prior three quarters.
Like the overall market we saw about a 50% reduction in refunding activity in this year's first quarter versus last year's.
Investment income was $16 million lower as last year's first quarter benefited from National’s $1.7 billion high-yield intercompany loan to MBIA Corp.
The investment portfolio is more diversified and higher quality at this point but also lower yielding.
Also in last year’s first quarter National had about $30 million in realized gains on sales of investments which did not recur this year.
On the expense side National have lower loss and loss adjustment expense than last year.
In the first quarter of 2014 we had negative incurred loss of $14 million versus a $4 million expense in last year's first quarter.
Finally operating expenses were $13 million compared to $18 million last year reflecting our ongoing expense reduction efforts.
Now in the structured finance and international segment primarily operated through MBIA Corp.
and subsidiaries we had an adjusted pretax loss of $110 million in the first quarter of ‘14 compared to a loss of $97 million in the first quarter of 2013.
Premiums and fees were $55 million compared to $75 million in 2013’s first quarter.
This is the results of the reduction in insurance in force and lower ceding commission income.
Investment income was $5 million compared to $20 million last year as Corp.
sold some higher-yielding assets to the holding company later in 2013 to boost its liquidity.
We had losses on financial instrument at fair value and foreign exchange of $3 million in this segment compared to gains of $22 million last year.
Almost all of the change year-over-year is due to foreign exchange effects.
Moving to the expense side.
The most important driver of the result continues to be insured loss where we saw $104 million in the Q1 2014 compared to $98 million last year.
In last year's first quarter we had substantial losses on RMBS and CMBS policies largely offset by a substantial increase in the recoverable for rep and warranty claims.
In this year's first quarter we had more modest losses and were spread across several sectors of portfolio.
On second lien RMBS we increased our expectations of future claims payments by approximately $16 million as the decline in new delinquencies was modestly below our expectations.
We also reduced expected recoveries primarily from excess spread by approximately $21 million.
The reduction in mortgage loan prepayment volume that we've been expecting is progressing but at a slower pace than we expected.
As Jay said the actual loss payments continue to decline and we expect them -- to see them become net inflows around year-end 2014.
We also saw $28 million in incurred loss for first lien exposures and about $16 million on our ABS CDOs.
In both of these cases there were small adjustments made to many individual exposures.
The CMBS incurred loss of $20 million reflects additional expected payments on the one remaining deal with original triple B collateral.
Operating expenses DAC amortization and interest expense were $62 million compared to $117 million last year.
Half of the difference is due to the repayment of the intercompany loan from National.
Now moving on from the structured finance and international business the corporate segment and wind-down operations both operated within MBIA Inc.
had a loss of $75 million in the quarter and this was largely due to $52 million of mark-to-market losses and there are basically three factors affecting this.
In corporate we mark the liability for warrants issued to Bank of America and Warburg Pincus.
As our stock price rose in the quarter we incurred $17 million of expense.
In wind-down we’re a net payer of fixed rates on interest rate swaps.
So as rates fall that liability grows.
We incurred $15 million of such expense in the quarter.
In addition we have about $200 million of euro denominated debt outstanding that's marked to market as well.
As our credit quality improves that liability also grows including by about $11 million in the quarter.
Finally there is about $8 million of interest expense associated with periodic payments on the interest rate swaps.
Operating expenses in these two segments were $24 million in the quarter compared to $69 million in the first quarter last year.
The 2013 amount includes the initial expense associated with the grant of warrants to Bank of America as well as other settlement and legal expenses.
Interest expense declined modestly as we reduced financial and operating leverage borrowings.
Now moving on from the income statement.
Consolidated GAAP equity at March 31 2014 was $3.6 billion compared to $3.3 billion at year-end 2013.
National’s balance sheet continues to be strong with $3.3 billion of statutory capital and claims paying resources of $5.2 billion as of March 31 2014.
On this measure alone we believe National qualifies for the highest ratings from the three rating agencies.
At MBIA Corp.
our statutory capital was $787 million and claims paying resources were $3 billion on March 31.
Liquidity position was approximately $423 million.
This represents a substantial improvement compared to last year at this time.
At March 31 2013 liquidity was only $258 million and we indicated that there was substantial doubt about MBIA Corp.’s going concern status.
At this point we believe that our liquidity is adequate to cover expected policy claims for the foreseeable future with a cushion against adverse experience.
However it's important to the long-term health of this subsidiary that the excess spread of the second lien RMBS begin to exceed the claims paid and that ultimately we collect the putback recoveries owed to us by Credit Suisse with respect to rep and warranty breaches.
No payments were made on the surplus notes in the first quarter and the regulator did not approve the payment that would've been due on April 15 2014.
As of April 15 the cumulative amount of interest that has not been approved for payment is approximately $204 million.
Unpaid interest is an accrued expense on our GAAP income statement and is part of the long-term debt on the GAAP balance sheet but is not reflected in Corp.’s statutory financials.
In support of the regulator’s decisions on surplus note interest payment request we provide them substantial information about Corp.’s capital adequacy and liquidity in base and stress scenarios.
In addition to their consideration though of our financial conditions the terms of the note themselves also provide a constraint.
Payments can only be made out of so-called free and divisible surplus of which the company have $110 million at March 31.
So if the regulator were to be satisfied with the company's financial condition then the free and divisible surplus would limit the cash that could be distributed.
While we continue to seek approval for the interest payments as required we do not expect that payments will be able to be made for the foreseeable future.
At the holding company level we continue to reduce financial and operating leverage.
We repurchased $28 million of debt of our Global Funding subsidiary and $104 million of debt of our conduit Meridian during the quarter.
Based on current conditions we expect to bring holding company leverage in line with middle investment-grade ratings in approximately 3 years.
And based on our first quarter results the company's consolidated net operating loss carry-forward has increased to $3.1 billion up from $2.8 billion at year-end.
Finally holding company liquidity was adequate as of March 31 as we held $499 million of cash and other liquid assets.
And that is it for my comments.
And at this point we will open the line for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Brian Charles of RW Research.
I just have a couple questions about your expected losses.
I think that you reflect on your supplemental package on page 25.
It looks like you broke it out for the first time there is a table in the middle there that breaks out CDO and other in the two categories for the first time.
And between the two I count 574 million of expected losses I guess at the present value that's down from $924 million.
Is that essentially reflecting the commutation activity and CDO terminations that occurred during the first quarter? Yes.
Yes.
Okay good enough.
And within that do you have any color on your remaining triple B CMBS exposure? I know you talked about increasing loss estimates by $20 million.
But has that $391 million of exposure that you expect to realize some sort of loss on – has that changed from year end? The 390 at this point is down to approximately 375 as of first quarter.
Okay.
Is that a result of loss payments made during the quarter just to get rid of exposure that was expected to lose? Essentially yes.
Yes claims were presented in the quarter that we paid.
And then finally you did talk about cash flows at MBIA Corp.
between installment premiums excess spread and putback recoveries totaling about $2.4 billion.
I just want to make sure that includes installment premiums coming at the subsidiary level is that right? Yes.
Coming in at MBIA Corp.
Okay good.
Okay.
That's all I have for now.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Cindley from BAM [ph].
Appreciate the additional disclosures this quarter.
Question for you though I was a little bit confusing on the commutations because obviously on your year-end call you disclosed that the commutations that had occurred after the end of the quarter I think the math that we’re coming up with because at that time you said you had commuted just below 6 billion of risk and I believe now you're saying during the quarter you commuted roughly 6.7 billion total.
So that would be -- I guess the quick math would be that’d be an additional 700 million of commutations after the announcement at the end of the year or for the end of your call is that accurate? Yes basically we had an additional commutation in the month of March but after the year-end call.
It was in that order of magnitude.
And was that effectively CMBS? It was a commutation of a secondary program that contains a variety of asset types.
So there's a disclosure I guess on page 82 where you say you now are -- really have two pools of CMBS that are being monitored -- one that the gentleman before me asked about where you’re paying out claims on? Yes.
And I believe that that was four pools as of the 12/31 period so the reduction of two pools that relates to those prior commutations or this additional 700 million? Perfect that's correct.
Meaning it relates to the prior 6 billion? Right we’ve commuted 3 billion in the first quarter that we reported on at year-end which brings – sorry – I think what you are asking is how many of the pools we were monitoring disappeared after the conference call and I believe there were two transactions included in that that were part of the 700 million that was commuted.
So it was related to the 700 million? That’s correct.
And then just trying to connect some dots on Corp.
given the existence of the line item that you are carrying for the potential CSFB recovery if that were to go away for some reason is that were go to zero that would be a direct hit to stat capital and further sort of influence some of the dynamics that you describe on page 90 with respect to the surplus notes is that fair? It certainly would be a direct hit to statutory surplus.
It would affect obviously [multiple speakers] -- affect any calculation association with surplus notes.
(Operator Instructions) I am showing there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Greg Diamond for any concluding remarks.
Thanks Maria and thanks to all of you who have joined us for today's call.
Please contact me directly at 914-765-3190 if you have any additional questions.
We also recommend that you visit our website at www.mbia.com for additional information on our company.
Thank you for your interest in MBIA.
Good day and goodbye.
Thank you.
This concludes today's MBIA’s first quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Welcome to the MBIA Incorporated Second Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
At this time all lines are in a listen-only mode to prevent any background noise.
After the prepared remarks from the company there will be a question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Greg Diamond Managing Director of Investor Relations at MBIA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jackie.
Welcome to MBIA's conference call for our second quarter 2014 financial results.
After the market closed yesterday we posted several items on our website including our financial results press release and our second quarter 10-Q and operating supplements.
We also posted the statutory financial statements for MBIA Insurance Corporation and National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation as well as updates to our insured portfolio listings.
Please note that anything said on today's call is qualified by the information provided in the company's 10-Q 10-K and other SEC filings as our company's definitive disclosures are incorporated in those documents.
Please read our 2013 10-K and our second quarter 10-Q as they contain our most current disclosures about the company and its financial and operating results.
Those filings can also contain information that may not be addressed on today's call.
Also we will be referencing non-GAAP terms in our remarks today.
The definitions and reconciliations of those terms may be found in the glossary of our quarterly operating supplements and in the financial results press release that we issued yesterday.
The recorded replay of today's call will become available approximately one hour after the end of the call and the information for accessing it is also included in yesterday's financial results press release.
Now for our Safe Harbor disclosure statement.
Our remarks on today's conference call may contain forward-looking statements.
Important factors such as general market conditions and the competitive environment could cause our actual results to be materially different than the projected results referenced in our forward-looking statements.
Risk factors are detailed in our 10-K which is available on our website at mbia.com.
The company cautions not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.
The company also undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if it later becomes aware that such statement is no longer accurate.
For our call today Jay Brown Bill Fallon and Chuck Chaplin will provide some brief introductory comments.
Then Anthony McKiernan will join Jay and Bill and Chuck for the question-and-answer session that will follow.
Now here is Jay.
Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
From a financial perspective we continue to make progress towards lower loss volatility and more normal operations.
And while our income statement this quarter reflects several items unrelated to our go-forward business I believe that we've set the stage for profitable operations.
Although the major overhang on our stock price has been the speculations surrounding the situation in Puerto Rico which both Bill and Chuck will touch on later there were a number of important positives in the second quarter operations that are worth noting.
First driven by lower insurance losses and litigation related expenses consolidated adjusted pre-tax income our non-GAAP earnings measure was positive for the first time since the fourth quarter of 2012 at $39 million.
Next consolidated operating cash flow for the quarter was $28 million.
That's particularly noteworthy as it's the first time since the onset of the financial crisis that it's been positive without benefiting from major mortgage loan putback settlements or tax refunds.
In addition payments on our second lien RMBS exposures were negative $16 million in the quarter.
That is we received recoveries for past payments in the quarter that exceeded new claims paid out.
Some of the cash receipts were due to mortgage insurance premium refunds and subsequent recoveries on defaulted loans rather than excess spread.
So we could still see more periods of net outflows.
However we continue to expect to see sustained net inflows as we approach year-end.
But even if this was a blip it is nonetheless welcome news.
Finally adjusted book value grew by $0.41 per share since March 31st.
We sold some previously impaired invested assets in the quarter tutoring book gains by tax losses.
As a result we released almost all of the valuation allowance on our deferred tax asset.
While future gains are of course unpredictable for this quarter it's another positive note.
While I'm pleased to have no major litigation news to report this quarter it's still disconcerting that litigation resolution takes so long.
Our lawsuit against Credit Suisse continues working its way through the system and we hope absent a settlement in the interim that a trial will begin sometime next year.
We have also filed for leave to amend our complaint in our lawsuit against JPMorgan.
Both of these cases could take several more quarters to be resolved.
We believe that MBIA Corp.
has both sufficient liquidity and financial resources to see these litigations through to completion if necessary.
Our progress on managing the expenses is becoming increasingly evident as first half operating expenses were $95 million versus $209 million in the first half of last year.
Investment income in the first half covered 81% of our operating expenses in deferred acquisition cost amortization.
We're working both side expenses and investment income to try and get these more in balance.
Meanwhile insured economic losses in our structured finance and international segment at $44 million for the second quarter and $148 million for the first six months of 2014 remain too high.
We continue to work to commute volatile transactions and did accomplish one in the quarter and three after June 30th retiring $289 million of potentially volatile par with positive impact on statutory capital at MBIA Corp.
Finally we had a share buyback authorization dating back to 2007 which had $23 million remaining in the beginning of the second quarter.
In late June and early July we took advantage of a strong holding company liquidity position and steady progress in reducing debt leverage to buy in shares at an average price of $11.05.
These purchases exhausted the remaining authorization.
We believe the value added for shareholders well outweighs the marginal cost in liquidity at the holding company.
We will continue to evaluate our share repurchase strategy in light of our liquidity and leverage objectives and other needs in order to maximize shareholder value.
At this point I'll hand it over to Bill to update you on National.
Thanks Jay.
National just completed its first full quarter with AA ratings from S&amp;P and Kroll.
So far we've seen a good volume of potential business reviewed hundreds of transactions and bid on a significant number of deals.
We're adhering to our standards for underwriting and pricing not written any new business given the pricing levels at which insured deals are being done.
But with interest rates and spreads as low as they are our primary competitor is actually the uninsured market.
We are pricing transactions to provide an acceptable return on the capital we must hold to support them.
We are confident as we see higher interest rates and spreads premium levels will increase to acceptable levels given the value added from BAM insurance.
Where we can see trading and directly comparable bonds National's rap on average provide value similar to that of our competitors.
So I have no doubt that there will be ample opportunity for us.
This quarter the spotlight has been on a couple of high-profile credits-facing stress.
While this may result in short-term volatility over the long run the fact that investors with National Insured Detroit or Puerto Rico bonds won't miss any payments should reinforce the value of insurance and also stimulate future insurance business for us.
In Detroit the agreement that the bond insurers made with the city related to the unlimited tax GO debt validates the special status of the UTGO bonds.
It also ensures that the property tax revenues that were pledged for the repayment of these bonds will be used to fund future debt service while providing for some additional security should tax revenues decline further in the future.
With respect to our secured water and sewer system debt we voted to reject the city's plan as we do not believe that it is confirmable given their current intention to impair the debt.
But we are continuing to maintain a dialogue with the city through the court order mediation process.
We believe that the principles at stake the priority of Board-approved bonds backed by dedicated tax revenues and the priority and non-impairment of fully secured special revenue bonds and bankruptcy are critical to municipal finance market.
As Chuck will cover in greater detail based on the recent developments in Puerto Rico and primarily related to the issues at PREPA our probability weighted cash flow analyses did result in our posting loss reserves for our Puerto Rico exposures this quarter.
The Commonwealth has taken many positive steps and we will closely monitor the situation and work with our advisors other creditors and the government of Puerto Rico to avoid or mitigate losses.
But we continue to believe that the quality of operational and fiscal leadership and the macroeconomic tides will determine the long-term outcome.
Our view is that PREPA needs to make operational improvements.
It will take some time but when it addresses them it should be able to substantially improve its financial situation.
I'll look forward to your questions in a few minutes.
But with Puerto Rico we're still in the early innings.
So it'll be hard to say much that's definitive.
Now Chuck will review the company's financial results for the quarter.
Thank you Bill and good morning.
As usual I'll make some comments about our consolidated results and the segments and then provide some information on the balance sheet and liquidity positions in our major legal entities.
Our measures of performance were all favorable in the quarter.
Net income was $120 million compared to a net loss of $178 million in last year's second quarter.
There are four drivers of this improvement.
Loss and loss adjustment expense was $176 million lower than in last year's Q2.
And the net change in fair value of insured credit derivatives reflects $135 million improvement relative to last year.
Operating expenses were $54 million lower than in last year's second quarter.
These are the largest drivers of the change in our GAAP pre-tax income which was $55 million compared to a loss of $264 million in Q2 2013.
In addition we recognized a significant tax benefit in this year's second quarter in connection with the asset sales that Jay mentioned.
This contributed to the positive net income results and the first increase in our adjusted book value in a sequential basis since the fourth quarter of 2012.
We also reported another non-GAAP measure adjusted pre-tax income that treats all of our insurance policies using an insurance accounting model.
It provides a useful alternative view of our financial results.
We had adjusted pre-tax income of $39 million in the second quarter of 2014 compared to adjusted pre-tax loss of $160 million in last year's second quarter.
Most importantly insured economic losses were $61 million compared to $192 million in last year's second quarter.
The asset sales that triggered the tax benefit also generated book gains contributing to gains on financial instruments at fair value of $61 million compared to a loss of $6 million in last year's second quarter.
Consolidated premiums were about $41 million lower than last year at $97 million.
This was not unexpected as a result of commutations portfolio run-off and lower refunding activity in this quarter.
Investment income was slightly higher than last year's level.
Cash and investments at $7.7 billion are somewhat higher than last year's level and investment yields are higher also as we reinvested cash that we held at mid-year last year.
On the expense side operating expenses were $49 million in the second quarter versus $103 million in the same quarter last year mostly due to lower legal and settlement costs.
Interest expense was $13 million lower than last year as well at $52 million primarily as a result of debt maturities and buybacks.
Our operating cash flow as Jay referenced was also positive this quarter.
Since the onset of the financial crisis in late 2007 our operating cash flow has been positive in only four quarters first due to a large tax refund in 2010 and then when we collected substantial putback recoveries in 2013 and now this quarter.
Here the favorable result is driven by lower net loss payments including recoveries from RMBS excess spread and mortgage insurance.
Now I'll make a few comments about the major segments.
Our Public Finance Insurance segment is conducted in National Public Finance Guarantee Corp.
which reported pre-tax income of $62 million in the second quarter compared to $14 million in the year-ago quarter.
Total revenues were $110 million in the second quarter compared to $136 million in last year's second quarter.
Premiums declined 34% to $67 million.
About 40% of the change is due to a smaller portfolio this year and the balance is due to lower refunding activity in this year's second quarter.
Investment income declined to $27 million as last year's second quarter included some yield from the intercompany loan to MBIA Corp.
On the other hand we had substantial realized capital gains in this year's second quarter of $15 million versus a loss of $2 million in the Q2 last year.
National's loss and loss adjustment expense was $17 million compared to $66 million in last year's second quarter.
We established reserves for our exposure to Puerto Rico but we also reduced reserves for some other municipal credits.
On Puerto Rico our reserves reflect uncertainty of the future of these credits.
The electric power authority is experiencing liquidity challenges currently but our view remains as Bill discussed that with operational improvements PREPA can substantially improve its financial standing over time.
At this early point there is very little that can be said about the future credit performance of PREPA or the other Puerto Rico related credits but it was the cumulative impact of a number of catalysts that drove our decision to establish reserves as of the second quarter including our first PREPA's failure to make its monthly debt service deposit with the bond trustee in June; two the legislature's passage of a law providing a mechanism for public authorities to restructure debt; three PREPA's inability so far to secure longer-term bank lines; and four rating downgrades that may further exacerbate PREPA's access to liquidity.
In this quarter there is a substantial difference between the GAAP and statutory reporting of incurred loss for National.
Its statutory incurred loss was $87 million reflecting the establishment of reserves for the Puerto Rico exposures and a material write-down of a salvage asset.
The big difference between the statutory and GAAP value is attributable to the deduction of unearned premiums from reserves for GAAP that's not done for statutory the different discount rates for stat and GAAP and the fact that the salvage asset is marked-to-market through equity rather than in loss reserves for GAAP purposes.
National's operating expenses were $16 million compared to $35 million in last year's second quarter consistent with the consolidated trend.
The Structured Finance and International segment is primarily operated through MBIA Corp.
and its subsidiaries.
It had an adjusted pre-tax loss of $28 million compared to $93 million in the year-ago quarter.
The largest drivers of the positive variance are lower loss and loss adjustment expense and lower operating expenses.
The Corporate segment and Wind-down Operations are both operated in MBIA Inc.
and its subsidiaries.
The combined results of the two yielded $48 million of pre-tax income in the second quarter compared to a loss of $86 million in the second quarter last year.
Asset sales contributed $57 million of gains and marked-to-market on outstanding warrants contributed $34 million.
On the other hand as a net payer of fixed rates on interest rate swaps with a negative marked-to-market of about $14 million due to lower term interest rates.
Now a few comments on the balance sheet.
Consolidated GAAP equity was $3.8 billion at June 30 2014 up from $3.3 billion at year-end 2013.
In the insurance companies National statutory capital rose to $3.4 billion at June 30th from $3.3 billion at year-end 2013.
And our liquidity position continues to be healthy as the investment portfolio is high quality and liquid.
National is expected to pay a dividend to the holding company later in the year.
MBIA Corp.
had statutory capital at June 30th of $758 million down from $825 million at year-end 2013.
Its liquidity position was $427 million and we continue to believe that Corp.
has adequate resources to cover expected claim payments with an acceptable margin for adverse deviation.
In the long run however it will be important that positive flows from second lien securitizations begin in earnest and that MBIA Corp.
converts some of its illiquid assets and the cash and investments to make its positive liquidity positions more permanent.
MBIA Corp.'s outstanding surplus notes now have a principal balance of $953 million and accrued interest of $232 million as of July 15 2014.
The accrued interest is recorded for GAAP reporting but it is not for statutory.
MBIA Corp.'s free indivisible surplus from which any surplus note interest or principal payments must be made declined to $80 million as of June 30th.
When MBIA Corp.
is profitable the free indivisible surplus will grow but we do not expect it to approach the principal and accrued interest on the surplus notes.
MBIA Corp.
also has outstanding preferred stock with approximately $275 million in liquidation preference on which dividends are not currently being paid.
In order for MBIA Corp.
to pay dividends to the holding company it would have to begin paying preferred dividends.
In addition the company has a negative earned surplus position of $1.7 billion.
Dividends to the holding company can only be paid when this measure is positive.
So while we believe that Corp.
has adequate assets to service its policy obligations we do not expect that Corp.
will be able to pay dividends for the foreseeable future.
At the holding company level we had a liquidity balance of $365 million at June 30th which we believe provides adequate coverage of near-term operating and debt service cash needs.
Our holding company investment portfolio totals just over $1.6 billion at June 30 2014 including the liquidity position approximately $420 million in the taxes grow account and other investment assets pledged as collateral for GICs and derivatives.
In the quarter a holding company subsidiary Meridian repayed all of its outstanding debt and was liquidated.
Its remaining capital of $9 million was distributed to MBIA Inc.
and is part of that period-end liquidity position.
In our operating supplement we've published a presentation of selected assets and liabilities of the Corporate and Wind-down segments which provides an estimate of the net debt that must be serviced over time by distributions from the operating subsidiaries.
That net debt position as of June 30 2014 was $1 billion down from $1.1 billion at year-end 2013.
In summary we believe that we're making substantial progress toward returning the company to a more normal operating environment.
We believe that the positive changes to ABV and adjusted pre-tax income are setting the stage for future shareholder value creation.
And our second quarter's net inflows on second lien RMBS and the positive consolidated operating cash flow give us greater confidence about our future asset positions.
We expect further that holding company liquidity will benefit from the dividend from National in the fourth quarter and a tax escrow release will take place early in 2015.
And now National is up and running and it has substantial opportunity to generate value for issuers and for our shareholders.
At this point we'd be respond to any questions that you may have.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Brett Gibson with JPMorgan.
Two topics to address this morning I guess the first is topical Puerto Rico.
I didn't hear you discuss or mention what the actual gross losses were for Puerto Rico in the quarter.
And then separately I think it would be helpful to us to understand the methodology that you're using to determine those loss reserves.
You talked about a probability weighted scenario a set of scenarios but can you talk about how many scenarios there are what underlies the scenarios and what probabilities might be attached to some of those.
And then separately how do you think about the various exposures? Are you only concerned about PREPA at this point or do you also have concerns for highway? And then any other comments that you'd like to make.
And then I have one other topic to address.
We do not provide detail on the reserves that we take per credit.
However our loss reserving process is similar across the entire portfolio.
So we have assessed multiple hypothetical scenarios of loss some of which entail very little loss others which entail greater loss.
Assign probabilities to them and then some across the probability weighted values to create the loss reserve.
So that's about all I can provide really in terms of the process for determining the loss reserves.
You can observe in our supplement that our total loss reserves are $116 million before consideration of salvage assets.
So that's in our supplement.
So our reserve for Puerto Rico is inside of that number.
And then also it's the largest single driver of the $87 million in incurred loss that you see in the National book this quarter.
I mentioned that the catalyst really for us to assess reserves this quarter a lot of the catalysts are PREPA-driven.
We observed that PREPA is the entity that is perhaps most liquidity constrained today.
But that does not mean that we're unconcerned about the balance of our Puerto Rico exposure.
Okay.
Just one clarification on what you said.
So the $17 million of losses that you booked on a GAAP basis versus the $87 million in statutory I think you mentioned the write-down of the salvage assets but in your comments there you just talked about the largest component being the PREPA.
How do I think about that $17 million versus $87 million and how the Puerto Rico losses fit in? There are two big differences between the stat and GAAP actually there're three.
The largest is the difference in discount rates because for GAAP we're discounting at a risk-free rate which are very low.
Some of them are in the 1% zone.
And for statutory we're discounting at a portfolio yield rate which is closer to 5%.
So that creates a significant difference in and of itself.
Secondly for statutory the salvage asset that we did take a write-down on this quarter is reflected in the loss reserve.
For GAAP reporting purposes we don't do a discounted cash flow analysis of it.
We simply take the fair value into equity through other comprehensive income.
And then third there is the impact of unearned premium.
So for GAAP reporting unearned premium is kind of deducted from our evaluation of potential credit loss and that's a GAAP reporting requirement.
I think the important point to note is the fact that it's in an early stage like this in Puerto Rico as Chuck has rephrased we look at hypothetical scenarios.
And the reason for that is there is no definitive plan that has been suggested yet as to how they're going to work through any individual credit.
This is not dissimilar to what we've seen in the past.
When we're starting into a credit we try and identify the scenarios that may occur.
And then as things evolve we actually then adjust those scenarios to more properly reflect what we believe will happen.
If you look at our Detroit exposure for example we first established reserves over a year ago based on the information we had at the time.
They've been adjusted both up and down in each subsequent quarter as we've gotten more information about the actual plan and the probability associated with it being achieved.
And I think that's one of the things to understand is that at this point in time it's very hard to put any degree of accuracy around a reserve that's been established before.
We have an actual proposal from the issuers as to how they might want to deal with the issues associated with their existing debt.
Bill made the point that we do believe that there're operational changes that can be made inside at least PREPA that would put it on a more solid financial footing.
So that does play into our loss reserve thinking.
And then shifting gears I think the other quick topic I wanted to address was the holding company and the capital structure there.
So I guess this is for Chuck.
How does the company think about the sustainable capital structure at the Holding Company? And what steps does the company need to take to achieve that? Do you see the MTNs in their current structure as a sustainable part of the capital structure over time? And then if you could comment on what the maturity profile looks like on the MTNs in years 2019 and just for the few years after that that hasn't been disclosed in the regulatory filings.
And then finally just how do you think about the offset between reducing MTN liabilities and share repurchases? A couple of things.
First you asked us is the capital structure sustainable.
We believe that the holding company has adequate resources over time to service all of its outstanding obligations.
That wasn't what I meant.
I was just saying is this the capital structure that you want to stay with or do you want to look for changes? We've also made the point that we think that the leverage level at the holding company should be lower and that we are targeting to get to a debt-to-capital ratio that's in the middle investment-grade quality spectrum and that our current game plan calls for us to get there by about year-end 2017.
So that's kind of the way that we're thinking about it is that we should be legging into a lower leverage position over the next few years.
And we expect to do that not by issuing additional debt or any other securities but by using the operating cash flow that comes up from the operating subsidiaries to bring down that debt over time.
And if you look at the past three quarters or four quarters we've reduced outstanding debt about $300 million.
Now the other thing to note is that we did engage in some share repurchase in the second quarter and early third quarter.
That all other things being equal would slow down our ability to reach the leverage target by year-end 2017.
And obviously the amount that we're talking about here $23 million doesn't make any kind of a material change in that year-end 2017.
However share prices have been weak and we're going to continue to study whether or not there are ways for us to engage in share repurchase that doesn't put us too far off of our objectives.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Charles with RW Pressprich.
I might have missed some of the color you gave regarding your commutation activity during the quarter.
I think you discussed about $289 million of par commuted in the second quarter and the third quarter.
I don't know if you have any other color you can share regarding that.
We continue to look at opportunistic commutations that we think make sense in certain asset classes that contain some volatile exposures.
So for the commutations we achieved in the second quarter and over the last month or so it really ranged across a number of asset classes ABS CDOs commercial real estate first lien RMBS.
So to the degree we can target those exposures and engage in commutations that are stat capital accretive we're certainly looking to engage in those deals.
Regarding the commercial real estate was any of that regarding BBB CMBS exposure? It was more focused in commercial real estate CDO exposure some of which contains BBB CMBS in it.
We do have a question from the line of Nagendra Jayanty with Claren Road.
I actually have two of them.
The first one is on the supplement in the MBIA Corp.
section on the liquidity profile just wondering the operating and other expenses that include gross plan payments related to US Public Finance transactions made on behalf of National if you excluded those what would that cash draw be from the operating and other expenses? They should be indicated right in the table.
The losses are separate from the operating expenses.
In the footnote those are the amounts paid to National.
How should we think about operating expenses going forward? Should they stay at this level or could they decline given there's less litigation going forward and a declining book? I just want to make the point just in terms of the geography is just that we have gross loss payments of $79 million in the quarter and then the $34 million is just operating expenses.
In terms of our plan is to see a gradual reduction in operating expenses in MBIA Corp.
and other parts of the company both through the remainder of this year and over the next two years.
We have some long-term objectives that we've got plans in place to keep those expenses coming down.
There obviously in particular quarters will be little blips but basically the trend is going to continue on a downward slope particularly in MBIA Corp.
because the portfolio there is shrinking fairly rapidly.
I can tell you that at a consolidated level we've disclosed that our operating expenses last year were about $320 million for the full year and we're expecting them to be in the range of $200 million this year.
So a pretty substantial reduction most of which comes from reductions in legal consulting and settlement related costs.
I know you've gone through Puerto Rico and PREPA a lot but how that may impact the tax escrow release that would come at the end of the year or early next year if there was to be some issue claims pay moratorium or default or whatever it is.
I may be reading into this more than I should but there is a change in the MBIA liquidity statement from 1Q to 2Q.
In the first quarter you said you believe that MBIA Inc.
has sufficient liquidity resources to meet all obligations for the foreseeable future.
And then in this quarter that was omitted.
But I may be reading into it too much I just wanted to get a sense of what that may be driven by.
Well we continue to be comfortable with the holding company liquidity position.
And you are correct that a big part of that position over time is going to come from both dividends that come up from National as well as releases of cash from the tax escrow.
With respect to the 2015 tax escrow release it is based on the contribution to tax escrow or tax payments made by National in the calendar year 2012.
So to the extent that National is not entitled to a tax refund in 2014 the 2012 deposits would be then released to the holding company as free cash sometime early in 2015.
We do not anticipate this but to the extent that National were to have core operating performance in 2014 through the balance of the year than we expect that will mean that the deposits to the tax escrow that it makes for tax year 2014 will be lower than our expectations.
And therefore the amount that could be released from the tax escrow in calendar 2017 would be lower than we currently expect.
So the 2012 should be released regardless.
That's sort of the mechanics of it.
The only thing that would impair the release of the 2012 deposits would be if there were to be a tax refund that is due back to National meaning that it only loses more money in the second half than we made in the first half but that losses are even greater than that.
I think statutory income for the first half is about $100 million in National.
Our next question comes from the line of Darren Marcus with MKM Partners.
I just had a quick question on your capital structure at the holding company.
And I know you want to get to a more optimal structure by 2017.
So with all the inflows to the holding company from National dividends from tax escrow how much could you possibly repurchase in shares that would make you comfortable that you'd be able to satisfy the other obligations on an annual basis? Have you thought about the level of share repurchase that you guys could possibly do going forward? Expense and the share price Darren.
Well if the share price stays at $9 $10 $11 something around there? It certainly eludes us to look at that very strongly and consider moving out that net debt leverage objective that Chuck mentioned in 2017.
We have no discomfort of moving that out a year or two if the price were to sit at this level and then start to address much greater share repurchases.
That said that's not a decision we've made.
We're continuing to evaluate that.
And so stay tuned.
We have no further questions at this time.
I'd like to thank everyone for participating in today's conference call.
You may now disconnect your lines.
Welcome to the MBIA Incorporated Third Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call over to Greg Diamond Managing Director of Investor Relations at MBIA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Christie.
Welcome to MBIA's conference call for our third quarter 2014 financial results.
After the market closed yesterday we posted several items on our website including our financial results press release and our third quarter 10-Q and operating supplements.
We also posted two 8-Ks one for the financial results and related disclosures and one for the Board’s approval of a new share repurchase authorization.
In addition the statutory financial statements for MBIA Insurance Corporation and National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation as well as updates to our insured portfolio listings were also added to the website.
Please note that anything said on today's call is qualified by the information provided in the company's 10-Q 10-K and other SEC filings as our company's definitive disclosures are incorporated in those documents.
Please read our 2013 10-K and third quarter 10-Q as they contain our most current disclosures about the company and its financial and operating results.
Those filings also contain information that may not be addressed on today's call.
Also we will be referencing the non-GAAP terms in our remarks today.
The definitions and reconciliations of those terms may be found in the glossary of our quarterly operating supplements and in the financial results press release that we issued yesterday.
The recorded replay of today's call will become available approximately one hour after the end of the call and the information for accessing it was included in yesterday's financial results press release.
Now I’ll read our Safe Harbor disclosure statement.
Our remarks on today's conference call may contain forward-looking statements.
Important factors such as general market conditions and the competitive environment could cause our actual results to be materially different than the projected results referenced in our forward-looking statements.
Risk factors are detailed in our 10-K which is available on our website at mbia.com.
The company cautions not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.
The company also undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if it later becomes aware that such statement is no longer accurate.
For our call today Jay Brown Bill Fallon and Chuck Chaplin will provide some brief introductory comments.
Then they will address questions during the question-and-answer session that will follow.
Now here is Jay.
Thanks Greg and good morning everyone.
As with last quarter we made additional progress towards our objectives around increasing profitability further reducing volatility and reestablishing our leadership position in domestic municipal bond insurance.
Regarding our financial results we had adjusted pretax income of $95 million compared to a loss of $188 million in last year’s third quarter.
And again like last quarter we had some non-ordinary course of business items that had affected our results this quarter which Chuck will take you through in a moment.
But we are beginning to see some sustainable positive effects.
The most prominent of these are first we are realizing the benefits of significant expense reduction efforts over the past year.
Operating expenses excluding deferred acquisition cost amortization were $46 million versus $71 million in last year’s third quarter.
Second loss payments on our second-lien RMBS exposures resulted in net cash inflow to MBI Corp of $18 million.
While we’ve had two straight quarters of favorable results here and we ultimately expect a substantial net recovery we could still see more periods of net outflows along the way.
We wrote our first primary insurance policy since National which was created in 2009.
In connection with the refinance of the Detroit Water and Sewer Department’s debt National wrapped $300 million of new debt and out net exposure to the DWSD was reduced by $432 million.
In part due to the net recoveries on RMBS and lower operating expenses our operating cash flow was positive in the quarter – the second quarter in a row.
We have also had two consecutive quarters of increases in adjusted book value substantially aided by the reduction reserves against the portion of our deferred tax asset in the second quarter and for uncertain tax positions in the third quarter.
While we don’t expect those events to recur they are an important component of our return to more normal operations.
After September 30 we agreed to sell our investment management subsidiary Cutwater Asset Management to a subsidiary of The Bank of New York Mellon and subject to regulatory and other customer approvals; we expect to close the sale early in 2015.
We will receive net proceeds that are not material and will enter into an agreement for Cutwater to manage our proprietary investment assets for the next several years.
In early October our journalists advised us that as a result of a vulnerability and a client facing server certain of Cutwater’s clients account information had become subject to unauthorized access through the Internet.
We hired the third-party experts to conduct a thorough investigation of this event which is now complete.
We have not identified any unauthorized transactions or other client account activity as a result of this unauthorized access.
And we do not believe that the vulnerability was sufficient to allow a third-party either to gain control over funds investing with Cutwater or to execute an unauthorized transaction.
We have committed – communicated throughout this process with Cutwater’s clients and are also conducting a broader review of our cyber security posture.
We do not expect that this event will impact the anticipated timing of the closing of the Cutwater sale.
Turning to MBIA Corp we’ve been focused on exposure and risk reduction and in the third quarter we had commutations or terminations of $4.5 billion of exposure which along with normal amortization brought our gross par outstanding down to approximately $61 billion from about $80 billion at year end 2013.
Since September 30 we’ve also committed an additional $329 million of exposure.
The average cost for all these exposure reductions were well within our loss reserve estimates.
Finally we completed our 2007 share repurchase authorization in late June and early July.
Since we made those purchases and an average price of $11.05 per share we’ve seen a share price decline further.
We believe there is more value added in buybacks today than back in the summer and we committed to consider a larger share repurchase volume on last quarter’s call.
Yesterday our Board authorized a new share buyback program of $200 million.
We expect to use it opportunistically depending upon our view of the intrinsic value of the shares our current and forecasted capital and liquidity positions as well as our assessment of alternative uses of available cash per strategic investments.
Now Bill will provide an update on National.
Thanks Jay.
In our second full quarter after achieving competitive ratings we go to our first primary policies in conjunction with the resolution of the Detroit bankruptcy but there is more to the story than that.
We believe that the Detroit bankruptcy remediation makes several important points about the value of bond insurance and the value that National specifically brings to the table.
First bondholders benefiting from National’s rap missed no principle or interest payments during the bankruptcy even though the city was not making payments.
The resolutions of the unlimited tax yield and the secured water and sewage department debt from the fundamental places of those obligations in the city’s capital structure which had been challenged early in the process.
Second the issue was benefited from more efficient execution by using National’s insurance at issuance.
Remediation of our exposures to Puerto Rico is at an early stage.
Our total exposure declined by $290 million since June 30 due to pay down that took place at the very beginning of the third quarter.
Commonwealth has cited an advisor to review prepays operations and is moving towards a restructuring of the assets and liabilities of the Puerto Rico Highways and Transportation Authority that we believe we’ll improve its ability to service its debt.
Nothing that has happened that changes our fundamental view that the situation remains uncertain and that the quality of operational management and fiscal leadership and the Commonwealth’s macroeconomic growth rates will be the primary factors that determine the ultimate outcome.
With respect to our marketing efforts we have reviewed in bit on many more transactions in both the competitive and negotiated markets during the quarter.
With interest rates continuing at low levels our primary competitor continues to be the uninsured market but we have seen insured penetration by our industry increased to about 8% in the third quarter from about 4% in the third quarter of 2013.
On our prior call Jay said that we’ll take National few quarters to start generating meaningful new business and that is proving to be true.
The average par amount of insured deal is down considerably since 2007.
So we need to focus on efforts on the tens of thousands of small issuers across the country.
While National had a marketing team in place we recognized that to achieve our aspirations we need to add a number of professionals to our staff.
Accordingly last month we brought Tom Weyl on board to lead our new business efforts.
One of Tom’s priorities will be to build out the team so that National can cover all market segments.
Tom has outstanding statue on our industry as the former head of municipal credit strategy and research at Barclays and the former chair of the National Federation of Municipal Analysts.
We continue to believe in the essential value of municipal bond insurance and we’re investing in that belief.
We also think that the volatility in credit performance we’re seeing right now will heighten rather than diminish demand for bond insurance.
Now Chuck will review our financial results.
Great thanks Bill.
As usual I’ll make some comments about our consolidated financial results and the segments and provide some information on the balance sheet and liquidity positions of our major legal entities before we open it up for your questions.
Our measures of performance were all favorable in the quarter.
This is the second quarter in a row where our net income and adjusted pretax income had favorable comparisons both year-over-year and sequentially.
And adjusted book value and consolidated operating cash flow improved sequentially.
For first few comments on our consolidated GAAP results.
Net income was $173 million compared to $132 million in last year’s third quarter.
In the year ago quarter the biggest driver was a pretax gain of $257 million on the mark-to-market of insured credit derivatives.
This year we had only $24 million of such gains.
In this year’s third quarter we had pretax revenues excluding the mark-to-market that increased to $267 million from $163 million in the Q3 of 2013 and all pretax expenses declined to $143 million from $249 million last year.
In addition we released a reserve against an uncertain tax position in the third quarter which contributed to a tax benefit of $25 million this year compared to a tax provision of $39 million in last year’s third quarter.
We also reported a non-GAAP measure adjusted pretax income that treats all of our insurance policies using an insurance accounting model.
It provides a useful alternative view of our financial results.
As Jay referenced we had adjusted pretax income of $95 million in the third quarter of 2014 compared to adjusted pretax loss of $188 million in last year’s third quarter.
There were a few effects in this result that are difficult for us to predict to occur infrequently.
One foreign exchange effects primarily reflecting the Euros weakness against the dollar contributed about $51 million in the third quarter.
Two revenues associated with refundings and terminations were $38 million higher in this year’s third quarter than last year.
Three we had recovery of litigation expenses from our E&amp;O carriers for $29 million.
Four we had mark-to-market gains on warrants of about $19 million.
And then all of these positives were partially offset by our first asset impairment in some quarters of approximately $14 million.
Consolidated premiums in fees on insurance reinforce were $125 million in this year’s third quarter compared to $114 million in the comparable period last year.
As I said we had $38 million of revenues from refunded or terminated policies most of which affects this line item.
While this is welcomed we expect premium earnings in general to continue to decline.
In a few years’ time we would expect that National’s new business growth will be sufficient to offset the decline in its scheduled premium associated with portfolio runoff.
But we expect that MBI Insurance Corp’s premium earnings will continue to decline.
Our revenues also reflected the gains from foreign exchange that I referenced and the mark-to-market on the warrants.
Moving to the expense side insured losses were $58 million down from $198 million last year and operating expenses were $44 million in the quarter versus $71 million in last year’s third quarter primarily due to lower compensation costs.
Interest expense was $7 million lower than last year and $52 million primarily as a result of debt maturities and buybacks.
Our consolidated operating cash flow was $46 million in this quarter which was aided by the E&amp;O settlement and the fees associated with policy terminations in addition to the cash inflows on insured second-lien RMBS.
This reflects a sequential increase from $28 million in the second quarter of this year.
Now just a touch on each of the major segments.
Our Public Finance Insurance segment is conducted in National Public Finance Guarantee Corp.
which reported pre-tax income of $94 million in the third quarter compared to $6 million in the year-ago quarter.
Total revenues for National were $113 million in the third quarter compared to $74 million in last year’s third quarter.
Our earned premiums declined slightly from $74 million from $75 million while scheduled premium was $10 million lower than last year’s refunded premium was $9 million higher.
Investment income improved to $30 million from $26 million last year as we repositioned the investment portfolio from last year’s heavy cash positions.
National had an $18 million gain in the third quarter for mid-share of the E&amp;O settlement but this was mostly offset by a $14 million realized loss on the impairment of an invested asset.
In last year’s third quarter on the other hand National had $29 million of net realized losses related primarily to the write down of our former headquarters property.
National’s loss and loss adjustment expense was a benefit of $8 million in the quarter compared to $35 million of incurred loss in last year’s third quarter.
Reserved takedowns this quarter were related to multiple GO credits.
National’s operating expenses were $13 million compared to $17 million in last year’s third quarter.
Moving on to The Structured Finance and International segment it is primarily operated through MBI Insurance Corp.
and its subsidiaries.
It had an adjusted pre-tax loss of $36 million compared to a loss of $167 million in the year-ago quarter.
The largest drivers of the positive variance were lower loss and loss adjustment expense and lower operating expenses.
Insured losses totaled $66 million in the third quarter compared to $163 million in Q3 2013.
The biggest driver of incurred loss in this Q3 was in our second-lien RMBS portfolio.
We have reduced our expectation of future excess spread salvage by increasing our assumptions about voluntary prepayments of second-lien mortgages reflecting prolonged low interest rates.
This assumption change primarily drove $42 million of incurred loss this quarter.
The Corporate segment and the Wind-down Operations are both operated in MBI Inc.
and subsidiaries.
The combined results of these two yielded $36 million of pre-tax income in the third quarter compared to a loss of $18 million in the Q3 2013.
Foreign exchange gains in these segments were $60 million and mark-to-market on outstanding warrants contributed $19 million.
Operating expenses declined from $34 million to $28 million.
Now few comments on the balance sheet shareholders’ equity was $3.9 billion at September 30 compared to $3.3 billion at year end 2013.
The portion of shareholders equity attributable to MBIA Insurance Corp.
was $907 million compared to $660 million at year end 2013.
Most of the economic value of MBIA Corp.
is associated with its contribution to the consolidated differed tax asset associated with net operating loss carry forward.
And that consolidated tax benefit of NOLs was $1.1 billion as of September 30 2014.
MBIA Corp’s balance sheet had $420 million of liquid assets as of September 30 and we continue believe that it has adequate resources to cover expected claim payments with an acceptable margin for adverse deviation in the medium term.
In the long run however it will be important that the positive cash flows from second lien securitizations continue and that MBIA Insurance Corp.
recovered its back claims against Credit Suisse to make its positive liquidity position more resilient.
At the Holding company level we had a liquidity position of $348 million as of September 30 which we believe provides adequate coverage of near term operating and debt service cash needs.
And the National paid a dividend of $220 million MBIA Inc.
in October which further improves our financial flexibility.
In our operating supplement we’ve published a presentation of selected assets and liabilities of the Corporate and asset liability product segment which provides an estimate of the net debt that must be serviced over time from distributions from operating subsidiaries.
That net debt as of September 30 was $967 million down from $1.1 billion at year end 2013.
In summary we continue to make progress toward returning the company to a more normal operating environment and we are confident that we will reestablish our position as a leader in Municipal Bond Insurance through National and continue to reduce the potential volatility associated with MBIA Corp.
and build a stronger holding company.
As Jay has said our companies evolves now into a position where we are considering whether we can begin making investments in shareholder value creation beyond improving these ongoing operations.
So at this point we would be happy to respond any questions that you may have.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Your first question comes from Brett Gibson of JPMorgan.
Yes good morning gentlemen.
Can you hear me okay? Just fine.
Very good and good morning.
So I wanted to start out with the buyback and I guess a direct questions here related to this buyback given everything going on with Puerto Rico the deficit of assets to liabilities at the Holding company and obviously the continued deferrals interest on the surplus notes can you help us understand what gave you in the Board comfort to put up this authorization?  Good the Holding company yeah if you look at our financial results over the past year we’ve seen improvements in financial position capitalization and liquidity pretty much across the board across National and MBIA Insurance Corp.
and the Holding company.
Though Holding company today is in a position where again we think that we have meaningful financial flexibility and then and we believe that’s important that as we had financial flexibility that we’re deploying it to create shareholder value overtime.
And as a result we do think that it’s proven at this point to indicate that we have the flexibility to buy back some shares to the extent that that is the highest best use of that capital.
You mentioned MBIA Insurance Corp.
and its liquidity position again it’s improved we think that the most important thing that need to happen there in terms of making that liquidity position more permanent is to more fully collect on the excess spread assets that as you see we are starting to collect on in a positive way in the past two quarters and ultimately to collect the recovery from Credit Suisse.
And again we’ve discussed National’s position relative to our Puerto Rico exposure and we feel very comfortable with our capital and liquidity position there as well.
Okay very good thank you.
And then just I mean further follow on to that what can you tell us of the timing of the buyback what is in your mind will the company consider executing an accelerated share repurchase or should we expect something to be a little slower and more steady over time.
I would say that there is no timeframe that we’ve committed to and there’s no limit on the program as well in terms of time.
Okay and lastly I just wanted to address what you talked about with the projected inflows from excess spread recoveries and how important that is to MBIA Insurance Corp.
specifically can you talk about the embedded assumptions that go in to the number that you have on the -- booked on the balance sheet I think for the second-lien which is about 595.
Can you talk about the trends that you’ve seen from prepay rates and draw rates? And what they need to be to realize that amount over time? Yeah I think the most important factor that we have been looking at over the past year has been the impact of prepayments on the ultimate collection level.
If you go back to second quarter 2013 as we saw rates begin to rise sort of at the time of the temper tantrum we had the view that that rising level of rates and rising mortgage rates would stop the flow of voluntary prepayments in our second-lien portfolio and that prepay speeds would drop dramatically from the elevated levels that we were seeing and we put in place an assumption basically that prepays went to the levels that we saw pre-quantitative easing.
What has happened is that over the few quarter since then we’ve observed mortgage rates which rose then sell again and are at extremely low levels again today and prepay speeds which initially began to drop reversed core center now at high levels again so what we’re doing is – in this quarter is modifying our assumption in our models from prepay speeds immediately dropping to the pre-QE levels to prepay speeds remaining at their current levels for an extended period of time and returning to more normal levels over a few years’ time.
So that’s what causes the change in the balance sheet value of the excess spread asset in the third quarter in addition to the fact that the balance sheet value came down since we received payments.
Great thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) Your next question comes from Brian Charles of RW Pressprich.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I have a couple of quick questions first of you say in the press release that you commuted an additional $329 million of exposure at MBIA Corp.
after the quarter.
Do you have any color on what kind of exposure that was and specifically I don’t suppose that it was commutation of high yield CDO 15 or high yield CDO 23 or was it?  They were small and medium sized business loan securitizations.
Okay yeah fair enough okay and my other quick question is regarding the balance sheet in MBIA Corp.
the statutory balance sheet certainly looks better at September 30 versus June 30 and it looks like you are free indivisible surplus increased from $80 million to $255 million.
I don’t know if you have any color on kind of what impact that might have on the regulators view of surplus notes coupon payments going forward and maybe I have part B on that question too.
Sure I mean the free indivisible surplus improved substantially basically as a result of net income in MBI Insurance Corp.
and the change in non-admitted assets.
I think we’ve talked about this a couple of quarters ago that when our UK subsidiary particularly got to be a large share of the surplus of MBI Insurance Corp were required to non-admit a portion of it but then as Corp has more surplus of its own if you will we get to readmit a portion of the UK company’s equity that happened in the quarter.
We also had contingency reserve releases as a result of the commutations that Jay referred to that also increased the free indivisible surplus to the point where it’s about $255 million at the end of the third quarter.
Now obviously with respect to the surplus notes all payments are strictly subject to the discretion of the Department of Financial Services as the closest I would come to discussing that would be to say that – and I have said this in my prepared comments that we think that what’s necessary for Corp to really be on a very solid and resilient financial footing is to collect more of the excess spread assets and finally to recover on the Credit Suisse.
So we know that that’s out there on the horizon as well.
Yeah I think in terms of the way we really didn’t change our view about either the likelihood or the timing of when surplus interest note payments might begin we still think there is as pointed out in the first question there is a fair amount of volatility left in MBI Corp both in the second-lien portfolio and in a few other remaining credits and that we would expect until those are resolved and as Chuck pointed until we collect on the Credit Suisse that it would be unlikely that there will be any payments or any substantial payments on surplus notes which is why we continue to believe that it will be a long time but eventually there will be payments made on those notes as the policy holder claims are first dealt with.
Okay fair enough.
And then one final just follow-up to that I know in previous quarters you have discussed addressing the surplus notes in some forms perhaps with the surplus notes holders I don’t know if you have any color on that whether or not you have been in communication with various holders and discussing different strategies on how to address the notes.
We have had some additional analysis and some discussions this quarter.
We continue to have a fundamental difference in terms of our views of the net present value essentially the current market value of those which reflected in the market and our view in terms of how timing of payments might occur under that yields a very very different economic answer and it always we have that wider gap suggesting alternative ways to retire those notes isn’t really viable.
And so we have got a fundamental economic difference in opinion about how they are valued it’s very hard to come up with a creative transaction to deal with that.
Okay fair enough thank you.
Thank you.
At this time there are no further questions.
I’ll turn the floor back over to Greg Diamond for any closing remarks.
Thank you and thanks to all of you who have joined us for today’s call.
Sorry we have a new – someone entered the queue.
Yes we do have a question from Michelle (indiscernible) of ESG.
Hi yes it’s actually Jeff Ziglar from Emerging Sovereign Group.
I wanted to ask two questions.
Number one given the press release on the Puerto Rico Highway and Transportation Authority are oil tax increased and can you comment on your involvement in that process as was indicated in the press release.
And number two can you give us any update on the progress of the prepay negotiations and the forbearance agreement.
Yeah Jeff it’s Bill speaking with regard to the highways what you saw in the press release is consistent with the fact that yes we have been in communication.
There were constructive conversations leading up to the legislation that were submitted and other than that there is not really any additional detail that I can give you.
With regard to prepay as you know there was a preliminary schedule outlined with the forbearance and amendment during the summer they had a Chief Restructuring Officer that is reviewing the prepay operations I think in any meaningful level of detail we won’t see anything until probably March of next year I am sure along the way towards the end of this year there may be some preliminary views but I don’t think we will see anything subsided until next year and that’s the situation with regard to both of the strategies.
Great thank you.
And we have no further questions.
Alright thank you and thanks to all of you who have joined us for today’s call.
Please contact me directly if you have any additional questions.
We also recommend that you visit our website mbi.com for additional information on our company.
Thank you for your interest in MBIA good day and good bye.
Thank you.
This does conclude today’s conference call you may now disconnect.
Welcome to the MBIA Inc.
fourth quarter and full year 2014 financial results conference call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Greg Diamond Managing Director of Investor Relations at MBIA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Christie.
Welcome to MBIA's conference call for our fourth quarter and full year 2014 financial results.
After the market closed yesterday we posted several items on our websites including our financial results press release our 2014 10-K and quarterly operating supplements for both MBIA and National.
We also posted the annual and audited statutory financial statements for MBIA Insurance Corporation and National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation and updated information regarding each of their insurance portfolios.
Regarding today's call please note that anything said on the call is qualified by the information provided in the company's 10-K and other SEC filings as our company's definitive disclosures are incorporated in those documents.
Please read our 10-K as it contains our most current disclosures about the company and its financial and operating results.
The 10-K also contains information that may not be addressed on today's call.
Regarding the non-GAAP terms that it will be included in our remarks today the definitions and reconciliations to those terms may be found in the 2014 10-K yesterday's financial results press release and our quarterly operating supplements.
The recorded replay of today's call will become available approximately one hour after the end of the call and the information for accessing it is included in yesterday's financial results press release.
Now for the Safe Harbor statement.
Remarks on today's call may contain forward-looking statements.
Important factors such as general market conditions and the competitive environment could cause our actual results to be materially different than those projected results referenced in our forward-looking statements.
Risk factors are detailed in our 10-K available on the website at mbia.com.
The company cautions not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.
The company also undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement that later becomes aware that such statement is no longer accurate.
For our call today Jay Brown Bill Fallon and Chuck Chaplin will provide some brief introductory comments.
Then a question-and-answer session will follow.
Now here's Jay.
Thank you Greg.
I come to today's call with so much mixed reactions for our 2014 results.
On a very positive note I'm gratified that MBIA has had its first year of operating profitability since before the financial crisis and recession.
The National Public Finance Guarantee rode its first policies our holding company is more liquid than it's been in years and that we've worked the legacy MBIA Insurance Corp.
portfolio down to $55 billion from its peak in 2007 of over $300 billion while dramatically reducing its risk profile.
In addition our operating cash flow was positive for the past three quarters and adjusted book value increased in 2014.
Our team here at MBIA has accomplished much in the past several years and we clearly turned key corner in 2014.
On the other hand there were a handful of issues that leave me disappointed.
Most significantly National has not written as much new business as we had expected.
We attribute that to several factors; some environmental some industry-wide and some associated with National itself.
In terms of the business environment the current low interest rates narrow the marginal benefit of insurance for issuers and increase demand for higher yielding unwrapped securities.
It seems likely that this will inhibit the sales of new bond insurance policies for some time until rates increase and spreads widen.
Looking at our industry pricing has never been tighter so many more transactions than we had expected are failing to meet our internal hurdle rate of return.
Finally National's reentry to the market is only about 10 months old.
We are still reintroducing ourselves to the thousands of issuers bankers and financial advisors across the country.
The first few policies and new muni bond insurer rights are always the hardest to win.
And while our market acceptance is growing in the new issue market we're not where I want us to be yet.
On the existing portfolio side National is doing extremely well.
Incurred losses in 2014 were within long-term expectations.
We had some solid remediation results most visibly in the case of Detroit but we also had good outcomes in a number of other cases where municipal issuers went through difficult restructurings.
In all cases holders of National-wrapped bonds received every scheduled principal and interest payment.
In long run we know this will help build increasing demand for our product.
The Credit Suisse progress VIE and the market are currently monitoring most closely is of course Puerto Rico.
Although there is new news on the Commonwealth almost daily the outcome remains uncertain.
We have taken reserves against our exposure but at this point there is little we can report as to the ultimate outcome.
Bill will provide an update on the latest events but I am comfortable that no matter how it plays out all of National's insured bondholders will be well protected.
We are very well aware that our share price has not performed well perhaps in some degree due to the uncertainty around Puerto Rico.
Because we have a robust liquidity positioned at our holding company including a $228 million release from the tax escrow account in January we have been able to repurchase some of our stock at prices we find attractive.
Since the Board authorized a new $200 million repurchase program in November we've bought about 8 million of our shares for $67 million reducing the float by around 4%.
The share repurchases were at prices well below both book value and adjusted book value per share.
So we believe they are accretive to shareholder value.
We are also working at reducing debt and retired $50 million of guarantee investment contracts and $10 million of holding company's senior debt over the same time period.
Our objective is to reduce our holding company debt to a capital ratio to the middle investment grade range in 2018.
We continue to aggressively reduce risk at MBI Insurance Corp.
It had an increase in statutory capital in 2014 and maintained adequate liquidity throughout the year while gross par outstanding declined from $80 billion to $55 billion.
We continue to believe that it will have adequate resources to meet all of its expected policy obligations.
However we don't expect that the financial performance of MBI Corp.
will be able to provide meaningful returns to our shareholders.
It has an accumulated earned surplus deficit of $1.8 billion and $1.2 billion of securities outstanding plus another $282 million in unpaid interest that's subordinate to policyholders but superior to common equity.
Given the high rate of interest on the surplus notes we do not believe that MBI Corp.
will have sufficient assets to certify those requirements and still provide significant residual returns to shareholders.
So the economics of MBI Corp.
accrue to the benefit of the holders of its surplus notes.
Our objective here remains to ensure that MBI Corp.
pays all its claims and maximizes amount it can repay to surplus noteholders.
Our company has a substantial deferred tax asset associated with its historical net operating losses.
We do not expect to be paying full cash taxes for several years into the future.
Below the holding company level we have a tax-sharing agreement which governs the relationship between MBIA Inc.
the tax payer and its subsidiaries.
Because of the size of the NOL and our desire to ensure that investors understand its terms we have included our tax-sharing agreement as an exhibit to the Form 10-K.
It is also available via a link in the Frequently Asked Questions section of our website mbi.com.
Finally in 2014 we continue to reduce our expenses and organizational complexity.
One visible outcome of that was the sale of Cutwater Asset Management which closed on January 2 2015.
The economics of the sale are positive but not material to the overall company.
Cutwater will continue to manage our various investment portfolios and we clearly wish them much success under their new ownership.
At this point I'll turn it over to Bill.
Thanks Jay and good morning everyone.
I'll begin by echoing Jay's earlier comment.
None of us at National are satisfied with the level of new business we've written since achieving competitive ratings last spring.
After more than six years on the sideline we were eager to resume adding value to the municipal marketplace.
And while we've made some progress it clearly hasn't been as much as we'd hoped.
Jay covered some of the challenges we've faced as we've reentered the market.
What I'd like to focus on are some factors that make us optimistic that we'll be able to write some growing amount of new business in the future.
First Tom Weyl who we hired from Barclays joined us on January 5.
Tom his team and I have accelerated our marketing efforts and went out on the road meeting with bankers financial advisors issuers and investors in an effort to help them better understand National and its value proposition.
What we've found is that while the people in some of the offices of large banks and big investment sharks are well aware of National and the value it brings that isn't consistently the case in all of their offices who are at the retail broker level where the majority of insured muni bonds are sold.
So we've been targeting regional offices around the country.
It's a time consuming process but one that we see producing results.
That's a good segue to my second point which is that we can see the momentum building.
We've insured $369 million par amount of new business since reentering the marketplace beginning with a refinancing of the Detroit Water and Sewerage Dept.
Bonds with our wrap on them have been trading comparably to those of our competitors indicating that the market accepts the value of National's wrap and acknowledges its financial strength.
The number of deals we've been shown has been steadily rising which not only means that our marketing effort are having an effect but more importantly it means that we have a greater opportunity to bid and win.
Third while interest rates have remained stubbornly low we believe that we are beginning to see an improving environment for our product.
The favorable resolution of some high-profile bankruptcies including Detroit and Stockton where bond insurers have a meaningful impact on the ultimate outcome has once again proven the value of bond insurance.
Because of our guarantee National's insured bondholders never missed a payment.
Insured penetration edged upward last year and with the Fed seemingly poised to raise interest rates later this year and infrastructure across United States in urgent need of repair or replacement we see no reason why insured penetration in our own production won't increase again in 2015.
Turning to National's insured portfolio.
Puerto Rico was obviously at the forefront of everyone's mind.
But as Jay mentioned the outcome remains uncertain and there isn't much we can say at this point.
What I can say is that we are a party to the forbearance agreement among a group of creditors and PREPA and we have continued to participate in productive discussions.
During the fourth quarter the Puerto Rico legislature approved legislation that among other things increased the petroleum tax and may change as this should facilitate the refinancing of a significant portion of the HTA's debt.
More recently a federal judge declared that the Commonwealth's Recovery Act which could have bring sense to the Commonwealth from its public corporations was unconstitutional.
The Commonwealth has appealed this decision.
At the same time there is a proposal before the U.S.
Congress to approve changes to the bankruptcy code that would allow Puerto Rico's government to authorize certain government-owned corporations to file for protection under Chapter 9.
So there are a lot of moving pieces and at this time it's impossible to predict how things will play out but we intend to be an active participant in the process and we will fight to preserve bondholders' rights.
We believe that a solution to PREPA situation can be achieved without either the invalidated Recovery Act or a Chapter 9 Bankruptcy if all the parties continue to participate in meaningful discussions.
In any event and regardless the outcome National's insured bondholders can be certain that they will receive all of the principal and interest that's due to them on time and in full.
Looking elsewhere on our $222 billion insured portfolio we don't see any distress credits of the magnitude of Puerto Rico anywhere on the horizon.
Although we continue to carefully watch as municipalities across the country grapple with fiscal challenges including unfunded pension liabilities.
2014 was a year of considerable success for us in remediating some back book exposures.
Detroit and Stockton were probably the highest profile examples.
But successful refinancing of the Harris County - Houston Sports Authority and the San Joaquin toll-road debt significantly reduced our exposures to these credits and resulted in material upgrades to the remaining exposure.
In combination with the restoration of investment grade ratings on our Detroit water and sewer exposure as well as about 20% amortization of the portfolio over the course of the year a significant amount of National's capital was freed-up under rating agency models.
At yearend 2013 National had $400 million to $450 million of capital in excess of the AAA requirement under the S&amp;P model.
While S&amp;P hasn't concluded its analysis of our financial position as of yearend 2014 we expect significant increase in excess capital potentially increasing the excess to over $1 billion.
So what does that mean for our ratings? Well AA+ stable we already enjoy the highest call rating given to a bond insurer.
So we think we're well situated there.
Despite our very strong and growing capitalization at AA- stable our S&amp;P rating is a notch below those of our competitors.
An upgrade to AA flat is predicated on multiple measures including being able to demonstrate an ability to write a meaningful amount of new business over the longer term.
Our goal remains to achieve the highest ratings available placing us on a level playing field with our competitors.
Now I'll turn it over to Chuck who will review our financial results.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
Today I'll first discuss our GAAP financial results and then focus in on the results and financial position of the Public Finance and Corporate segments whose performance is reflected in our non-GAAP measures of operating income and adjusted book value.
Then I'll talk about MBIA Corp.
and the margin of safety it provides to policyholders and the potential value available to surplus noteholders focusing on our statutory financial reporting.
Then of course we'll open the call for your questions.
So first let me touch on our consolidated GAAP results.
Our net income on a GAAP basis was $569 million in 2014 compared to $250 million in 2013.
The net changes in the fair value of insured derivatives drove both of these results comprising the majorities of pre-tax income in both periods.
In 2014 releases of marks-to-market upon commutations and terminations of policies was significantly higher than in 2013.
In addition consolidated operating expenses declined from $338 million in 2013 to $195 million in 2014.
In addition to our GAAP results we also reported non-GAAP measures that we believe provide additional context for our operating performance.
Beginning this quarter we're going to be reporting an operating income measure that is generally consistent with such measures used by others in the insurance industry in lieu of the adjusted pre-tax income measure that we have used since 2009.
It omits gains and losses and mark-to-market items that we don't believe reflect ongoing business operations.
And as I noted it contains only the result for the Public Finance and Corporate segments which we'll refer to as the combined results.
Operating income is not a completely new concept for us.
We reported it prior to the financial crisis and recession.
So we regard this change as just another sign of a return to more normal operations.
We'll continue to report adjusted book value as before but it now also will omit the impact of MBI Corp.
except to extent that the combined ABV does reflect the contribution that MBI Corp.
has made to the holding company's tax position.
Reconciliations of ABV and operating income to the relevant GAAP measures are included in our press release and in our Form 10-K.
Now turning to the results.
The combined operating income for the company in 2014 was $185 million compared to an operating loss of $15 million in 2013.
The biggest swing was in loss and loss adjustment expense which improved by $115 million; followed by operating expenses which were $99 million lower than last year.
The effective tax rate in 2014 was only 5% primarily because we released reserves for uncertain tax positions during the year.
For the fourth quarter operating income was $22 million compared to a loss of $383 000 in 2013's fourth quarter.
While our operating income on a pre-tax basis was 9% lower than last year the tax provision was substantially lower swinging the result to a positive variance.
Both periods were effected by tax items that we do not expect to recur.
So on a go-forward basis we expect that the tax provision on operating income will be close to the statutory rate with the only difference being the tax-exempt interest on the small muni portfolio that we've maintained in National.
And of course as Jay has said we do not expect to pay full cash taxes for some time.
Adjusted book value per share was $24.87 at yearend 2014 compared to $24.05 at yearend 2013.
Operating income accounts for $0.96 of this change.
Non-operating items contributed another $0.81.
The combination was largely offset by the reduction in unearned premium and reductions in the deferred tax asset.
As National begins to write material new business the decline in UPR should slow.
The DTA decline of course reflects the fact that we did not pay any taxes to the IRS in 2014.
At the segment level National contributed $56 million of operating income in the fourth quarter compared to $60 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
And for the full year it had $221 million in operating income compared to $151 million in 2013.
Earned premiums declined compared to 2013 as has the par insured.
Investment income was lower in 2014 as average assets and investment yields each declined modestly.
But significantly lower loss and loss adjustment expense and lower operating expenses in 2014 more than offset the lower revenues.
National's capital adequacy as Bill has referenced was very strong at yearend 2014.
Statutory capital was $3.27 billion compared to $3.26 billion at yearend 2013 and that is after paying a $220 million dividend to the holding company.
And the investment portfolio on National continued to be high quality and liquid.
Moving then to the Corporate segment which includes the MTNs and GICs issues by our previous asset liability product segment.
It had an operating loss of $34 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 versus an operating loss of $60 million in the fourth quarter of 2013.
In the quarter virtually the entire change is due to lower tax provisions compared to the fourth quarter last year.
For the full year this segment had an operating loss of $35 million compared to a loss of $165 million in 2013.
Lower operating expenses as well as favorable tax items contribute almost all of the positive variance on an annual basis.
At the holding company level our capitalization and liquidity both improved.
Jay referenced our debt retirements from October until now.
Over the course of 2014 we reduced our unsecured debt in MTNs by $122 million in 2014 and we're on track to reach our objective of middle investment-grade debt to capital ratio levels by the end of 2018.
In addition GICs were reduced by $153 million and the debt of our conduits was reduced by $129 million in 2014.
At yearend liquid assets in MBIA Inc.
were nearly $500 million after the receipt of the dividend from National in the fourth quarter.
And as Jay has said approximately $228 million was released from the tax escrow in January further bolstering holding company liquidity.
New York State regulations limit dividends from National to the lesser of net investment income or 10% of surplus.
National's dividend capacity has been governed by the surplus position in the past.
In 2014 investment income fell as higher yielding assets rolled off so it is now the binding constraint.
We're currently expecting a dividend in the fall of 2015 to be between $100 million and $120 million based on the then trailing 12 months of investment income.
This means that excess capital within National will now build even faster than it has in the last couple of years.
[technical difficulty] While the second-lien portfolio provided a net cash recovery of $40 million in the year the continued low interest rate environment stimulated prepayment activity that reduced our expectation of future excess spread leading to the incurred loss.
At yearend we recognized $550 million of excess spread value on the statutory balance sheet.
Liquidity continues to be adequate to cover expected claims payment with an acceptable margin we believe for adverse experience.
MBI Corp.
excluding its regulated subsidiaries ended the year with $443 million of liquid assets and a lower expected future burn rate of both expenses and claim payments.
So in conclusion 2014 represents a critical turning point in our ongoing transformation.
The volatility of MBI Corp.
continues to be reduced.
National has made significant strides for regaining its position on municipal finance landscape.
At the holding company level we continue rightsizing our debt and began to add value through share repurchase.
Our legal entity and segment structure has been streamlined as have expenses.
So we believe that we've established a solid platform to deliver additional value in the future.
At this point we will open the call for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from Fred Gibson of JPMorgan.
Two questions which I'll ask upfront.
First much has been discussed in the market about the Zohar transactions and the potential for that exposure to put the company the Corp entity that is into some sort of regulatory action.
Can you update us on the risk that transaction poses to Corp and the potential value of course it would take away from surplus noteholders? And then further why hasn't the company commented more given more disclosure around this exposure what the drivers are and how investors should think about it? That's first one.
And second question is I wanted to discuss Corp a little bit more.
The company recently changed the reporting structure to prioritize the Corporate segment ahead of Corp changed the presentation of adjusted book value and characterized Corp as non-core and took out operating income.
Do these actions indicate something about the company's long-term commitment to that entity? I'll handle the first question on Zohar.
I think as the market is now aware something that we said would happen for the last several quarters is now beginning to occur which is that the operator of the Zohar entities has now retained a banker and has reached out to bondholders and ourselves to begin the discussions what is the right course of restructuring those transactions.
We haven't provided a lot of detail on the actual underlying performance of the assets in the transactions because we're bound by the normal confidentiality agreements that exist between ourselves and the insured in this case.
We know that the first transaction will mature in November.
We believe hiring an investment banker and beginning those discussions at this point in time is appropriate.
And we're going to remain cautiously optimistic that all of that can be completed before November.
That would consist of all the comments we'll make on Zohar at this time.
And I'll turn over the second part of your question to Chuck.
With respect to MBIA Corp.
your question I think is the fact that we're changing the reporting mean anything with respect to the way that we'll manage the business on a go forward basis.
And our expectation continues to be as I think Jay referenced in his comments that we're responsible to maximize the margin of safety for the policyholders of MBIA Corp.
as well as to maximize the recovery for the holders of the subordinate securities that are subordinate to policyholders but superior to common equity.
Our reporting though does recognize the fact that we believe that as things go well for MBIA Corp.
we believe there will be recovery for the subordinate securities holders but that it's unlikely that there's any recovery beyond that that goes through the shareholders of MBIA Corp.
up at MBIA Inc.
and ultimately to the our public common stockholders.
I think the other thing is the change at yearend reflects how we've been thinking about the company for quite a while and certainly reflects how a number of analysts that follow the company have been analyzing it where they're basically have not for the past two or three years attributed value to the common shareholders for our ownership of MBIA Corp.
And I think that the reporting that Chuck has introduced beginning with yearend 2014 is consistent with that view of the company.
And we thought it was important that our basic reporting track pretty much with how the market was looking at the value of the common equity.
Your next question comes from Geoffrey Dunn of Dowling &amp; Partners.
Jay I just want to clarify the debt leverage comments.
And it sounds like basically you're aiming for like 20% 25% and would that include the straight corporate debt plus the investment agreements and the medium-term notes? The way that we're thinking about debt-to-capital ratio is we're taking our unsecured senior debt at the holding company and adding to it the MTNs issued by the global funding subsidiary.
Those are the holding company obligations that are unsecured and need to be serviced out of ongoing cash flow from the operating subsidiaries.
The guaranteed investment contract that we've issued at this point and it have been since 2009 are all of fully collateralized by cash and high-grade securities treasuries and agencies.
So we don't regard them as net debt if you will at this point.
We're comparing the senior debt and MTN to the capital-based debt plus the equity of that company and again excluding the equity of MBIA Insurance Corp.
on a standalone basis.
And you're correct Geoff the target is 25% or lower.
And then special dividends are a popular topic in this space these days.
You're accumulating capital very quickly in U.S.
public finance.
How do you approach those conversations? And what are those things where you can't really approach the conversation until Puerto Rico is resolved? That's correct.
And certainly our intent when Puerto Rico gets resolve to then discuss our capital position with the regulator and any dividends that we might suggest.
Your next question comes from Brian Charles with RW Pressprich.
Unfortunately I think we got cut off on the conference call maybe some listeners missed a few minutes there so pardon me if I'm asking that question that you might have already addressed.
But I had a couple of questions.
First off at MBIA Corp.
I was trying to find some information some updated information on your BBB CMBS exposure.
I wasn't able to find it in the 10-K.
And I'm not sure if you given that information elsewhere or if you have any comment on how that has amortized down over the last 12 year but particularly in the fourth quarter.
We do have one transaction a BBB CMBS that we've wrapped on which we have been making payments for over a year since some time in 2013.
At this point there is about $300 million of par outstanding on that transaction.
So I mean we say it's amortized down.
We've been making payments on it.
I guess that was a $322 million at the end of September so that's amortized down to $300 million.
Has that amortization been payments or maturities of exposure? Payments by us.
The other pool that you had exposure to has that have been generating losses at all? I think as of September you had -- No we only have one CMBS that's classified.
And secondly I don't know if I've missed some comments on this but you had talked earlier about how you're characterizing the resolution of MBI Corp? And how you were trying to maximize value to surplus notes holders? Did I miss anything in the second part of the call on how you see that unfolding over the next several years? Nothing has really altered in terms of our approach.
We have extremely long-term contingent liabilities at MBIA Corp.
Some of the policies still stretch out 35 40 years in the future.
So the ultimate resolution of MBI Corp.
and its subsidiary MBI U.K.
will take quite a long time.
We continue I think as we reflected in our comments 2014 was a good year.
We ended with slightly statutory capital.
We've maintained liquidity.
And we saw through a combination of normal maturities and then commutations and terminations we reduced from $80 billion to $55 billion.
By the end of this year in 2015 MBI Corp.
will actually have more outstanding policies in the Public Finance segment internationally than it will have in the structured settlement area.
And that will continue that ratio of public finance to structured finance exposures will continue to increase as we go out over the next five 10 years.
And so it's becoming predominantly an international public finance company which we believe those results will be more stable and more predictable when we get to a certain level that's when we believe that the regulator will then start to consider surplus note payments on the accrued interest.
I would note that as we've said in the past we have had discussions.
We continue to be opened to the discussion if the current surplus noteholders have a better idea of how to optimize value for the surplus noteholders.
Always in recognition that the first priority for MBIA Corp.
is to honor its policyholder obligations and then secondarily its surplus note obligations.
Your next question comes from Jane Castle with Avenue Capital.
Your comments did cut out when you were discussing the Corp entity.
But my question was was there any compensation to Corp during the year and the quarter for the DTA use? Corp actually had a positive taxable income in one of the quarters of 2014.
And it did not make any payments to the holding company for taxes.
So while it would provide taxes on its income statement in that quarter it doesn't actually pay anything to the holding company.
But what about the reverse if the DTA is used by National or the holding company? Has there ever been a payment to Corp for the generation of those NOLs or the DTA? Has cash ever flown? No there has been no payment.
Is there any expectation for payment in the future or what? Is that disclosed in the exhibit that you filed? It is.
And we wanted to make sure that this is clear to everyone.
So we provided the tax sharing agreement as an exhibit to the 10-K.
And you could also find it if you go in the Frequently Asked Questions section of website there is a hotlink to it.
Your next question comes from Andrew Gadlin of Odeon Capital Group.
On National in relation to the new policies that were written can you talk about pricing and profitability for these new policies? As we've mentioned the market primarily driven by low interest rates and low spreads is quite competitive.
However we do have capital models and pricing models.
And what we're seeing is on those types of deals that you're seeing low -- excuse me high-single digit returns on those.
We still think that longer-term pricing needs to improve to really increase the attractiveness but we are finding acceptable returns on the pricing.
Are is it by looking at different type of deals in your competitors or is it just getting comfortable with the current pricing level and the risk associated? It really is the latter getting comfortable with the current pricing.
And again relative to when we reenter the market what we thought might be the case it's turned out that pricing is just a little bit lower than that.
But the deals are competitive in the sense that there are multiple insurers bidding on most of the deals.
In Puerto Rico this petroleum tax that's being passed and the proposal of refinancing some of the HTA debt has been controversial.
Some folks like what it does in terms of cleaning up HTA's balance sheet and others don't.
Can you comment on how you view that situation? Well in Puerto Rico I think there's two key things that we're looking for.
One is the capital raise which is what you're referring to here.
Because of the increases in petroleum tax it should allow the Commonwealth through HTA and then actually through PRIFA is what you're seeing in the press that they would raise capital.
Most of that we believe will go to support the general needs of the Commonwealth through the General Development Bank.
The second thing we're looking for is the operational restructuring of PREPA which is going to take some time to become more visible in terms of what suggestions and what recommendations they have.
As you know they've hired Chief Restructuring Officer.
So those are really the two things that we're looking for to increase the stability of the Puerto Rico situation.
But Andrew just to be clear we are very much in favor of the petroleum tax increase and the financing.
The devil is in the details.
We do have some suggestions about how that been structured to make it more viable to the market and have more sustainability over the long-term so we just don't do a refinancing and find ourselves back in the situation in the near-term.
And your next question comes from Seth Glasser of Decade Capital.
I wanted to just ask another question regarding Zohar.
With regard to the negotiation that's about to commence or that may have already commenced what would your goals be? Would your goals basically be to try to support the process of a refinance or a restructuring of the deal by basically rewrapping a restructured deal? Or are there ways within the language in your contract that you think a restructuring might actually be able to take you out of your exposure? There is a lot of different ways this restructuring could proceed.
It is incredibly early days.
And I'll tell you now because you'll be asking the question in the next couple of quarters there won't be a lot of discussion about what's happening until it actually occurs.
So we're not going to offer any comments as to what is the possible outcome.
But the two you mentioned are certainly different courses that we could take depending on what's best for MBIA Corp.
and it's other policyholders and its surplus noteholders.
We believe that there are viable answers here to minimize any losses to Corp and that we're going to pursue those with a great deal of vigor here over the next several months.
And with regard to the timeframe you said that you hope that it can be resolved by the November maturity.
I mean do you think this is a process that will take a few months? Or is this going to become a much more difficult and drawn out process that may include litigation in your opinion? It's premature to know how long it's going to take.
We remain optimistic that it will be resolved by the November timeframe.
Your next question comes from Randy Fabian of Tricadia.
Can you guys discuss any fourth quarter commutations you guys may have done at the MBIA Corp.
subsidiaries within the structured CMBS book? There were only a very small amount of commutations in the fourth quarter and nothing of significance in the CMBS account area.
Thank you.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will hand the floor back over to management for any additional or closing remarks.
End of Q&amp;A Thank you Christie.
And thanks to all of you who have joined us for today's call.
Please contact me directly if you have any additional questions.
We also recommend that you visit our website at mbia.com for additional information on our company.
Thank you for your interest in MBIA.
Good day and good bye.
Thank you.
This does conclude today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the MBIA Inc.'s First Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Greg Diamond Managing Director of Investor Relations at MBIA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Maria.
Welcome to MBIA's conference call for our first quarter 2015 financial results.
After the market closed yesterday we issued and posted several items on our websites including our financial results press release our 10-Q our quarterly operating supplements and the statutory financial statements for MBIA Insurance Corporation and National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation.
We also posted updates to our insured portfolio listings.
Please note that anything said on today's call is qualified by the information provided in the company's 10-Q 10-K and other SEC filings as our company's definitive disclosures are incorporated in those documents.
Please investors read our 10-K from 2014 and our first quarter 2015 10-Q as they contain our most current disclosures about the company and its financial and operating results.
The 10-K and 10-Q also contain information that may not be addressed on today's call.
Regarding the non-GAAP terms included in our remarks today the definitions and reconciliations of those items may be found in our most recent 10-K and 10-Q financial results press release and the quarterly operating supplements.
The recorded replay of today's call will become available approximately one hour after the end of the call and the information for accessing it is included in yesterday's financial results press release.
And now here is our Safe Harbor disclosure statement.
Our remarks on today's conference call may contain forward-looking statements.
Important factors such as general market conditions and the competitive environment could cause our actual results to be materially different than the projected results referenced in our forward-looking statements.
Risk factors are detailed in our 10-K which is available on our website at mbia.com.
The company cautions not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.
The company also undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if it later becomes aware that such statement is no longer accurate.
For our call today Jay Brown Bill Fallon and Chuck Chaplin will provide some brief introductory comments.
Then the team will be open for a question-and-answer session that will follow.
Now here's Jay.
Thank you Greg.
Little has happened that impacts our financial results since our year end 2014 conference call on March 03.
Speaking historically that would be good news for a bond insurer.
That's what we should expect to happen in our business over the short run very little.
So we are continuing to see a return to business as usual.
Following me Ed will cover National and provide an update on Puerto Rico and Chuck will take you through our financial results.
In the meantime I'd like to address a few items.
Looking at our non-GAAP measure of combined operating income our first quarter result was a bit lower than in the first quarter of 2014 coming in at $34 million compared to $40 million last year.
There are a couple of factors that affect that comparison which Chuck will take you through in greater detail but more generally declining scheduled premium earnings due to our shrinking insured portfolio and constrained investment income due to the lack of safe higher-yielding opportunities has continued to create some headwinds for us.
However we are slowly improving our market penetration in National while maintaining our pricing and underwriting discipline and we did have a net release of loss reserves in the quarter.
Our Puerto Rico exposure continues to be a significant focal point and the developments we've seen both in the first quarter and since March 31 haven't changed our view on the ultimate loss potential.
Our operating income combined with share repurchases and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates contributed to an increase of $0.91 per share in our adjusted book value per share measure improving it to $25.78.
In MBI Corp.
where our strategy is to pay all claims maximize the margin of safety for our policy holders and ultimately generate sufficient surplus to enable payments to the surplus noteholders both statutory capital and liquidity were virtually unchanged from year-end 2014 while par insured declined by 6% to $52 billion.
National's insured portfolio also declined by 6% during the quarter to $210 billion in gross par outstanding.
It will take a few years for the pace of National's new business writings to increase sufficiently to replace the existing policies that are either maturing or being refunded.
In the meantime we have been looking at additional ways to generate value for our shareholders more specifically between the beginning of the year and May 5 be bought back over 10 million shares at a cost of $93 million.
We believe this investment significant accretive and reduces shares outstanding by over 5%.
We have used a bit over half of the $200 million board authorization we got last year.
With the low interest rate environment fueling large refunding volumes National's excess capital position has been growing very rapidly and at a rate that far exceeds what is needed to support the existing portfolio and our new business objectives.
Our goal is to deploy some of that excess ideally through an extraordinary dividend to the holding company.
However we do not anticipate seeking approvals for such a dividend from our regulator until there is better clarity around our Puerto Rico exposures.
Given our revenue constraints we continue to focus on further reducing expenses.
On January 1 we closed the sale of Cutwater to Bank of New York's inside subsidiary at a modest gain.
We are also streamlining our non-U.S.
insurance operations eliminating branches and subsidiaries where possible.
We have wound down our French branch and we're in discussions to eliminate our subsidiary in Mexico.
We sold our former headquarters in Armonk last week after moving into a smaller and less expensive location last fall.
The net impact of all this activity will be several million dollars of savings per year.
So while our primary goal is to profitably increase National's new business volume and market share we will continue to pursue other opportunities to grow our earnings and returns.
Now Bill will review the progress we're making in National before Chuck provides a more detailed overview of our financial results.
Thanks Jay.
We have previously discussed the headwinds National faces.
While our more significant competitor in this low interest rate environment continues to be the uninsured market we also need to enhance our marketing efforts.
We hired Tom Weyl in January and the early results from his efforts are encouraging.
After wrapping two deals in 2014 we have insured or have been collected to insure 10 deals through today representing about $614 million of total par.
Tom is hiring additional sales and marketing professionals which should give us more boots on the ground to communicate with investors and issuers across the country.
The quality of the deals we are underwriting has been consistent with our business plan averaging those in play underlying credit quality.
In the insured portfolio the uncertainty over Puerto Rico commands a lot of attention.
We continue to work with Puerto Rico's government its advisers and other creditors to craft a consensual solution to its current credit and liquidity issues.
PREPA which is operating under forbearance agreement with its major credits we are confident that its stability and financial performance can be improved through thoughtful planning and good-faith negotiations.
In the longer-term however economic growth will be needed to help the Commonwealth resolve its financial issues while ensuring an adequate standard of living for its citizens We've also been closely monitoring two large investment-grade exposures Chicago's General Obligation Bonds and the Chicago Board of Education.
The City of Chicago faces potential stresses from payments into the pension system required in the next year and the teachers' contract that expires next month.
Meanwhile Moody's downgraded both credits this winter triggering swap settlements.
It is too soon to know how this will work out but Chicago's large robust and diverse economy gives it a degree of flexibility that makes it very different than Detroit.
Overall our $210 billion insured portfolio is performing well.
Aside from the credits I mentioned our exposures over $1 billion are well into investment-grade status.
Based on National's credit assessments the low investment-grade rated credits amount to only 1.5% of the portfolio today.
The rating agencies will be conducting their annual reviews of us in the near future and one outcome of that will be a reassessment of the excess capital position in National.
I'm expecting that we will have capital that exceeds AAA level by over $1 billion under S&amp;P's model and as Jay mentioned we'll be looking at ways to deploy a portion of that amount after there is more clarity on our Puerto Rico exposures.
We are on track with our positive right dividend for 2015 of approximately $115 million and we remain confident that National has sufficient financial resources to honor its obligations to its insured bond holders.
Now I'll turn it over to Chuck to discuss the financial results.
Great thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
First our net income.
Net income in the first quarter of 2015 on a consolidated GAAP basis was $69 million compared to $256 million in the Q1 of 2014.
The pretax net gain on insured credit derivatives was $28 million in this year's quarter compared to $469 million in Q1 2014.
Now in addition to our GAAP results we also report non-GAAP measures that we believe provide additional context for operating performance.
Our combined operating income which reflects the results of our public finance insurance segment and our corporate segment was $34 million or $0.18 per share.
Operating income was $40 million in last year's first quarter.
Premiums net of DAC amortization were higher but investment income and loss expense both had adverse comparisons.
We also took a final write down to our former headquarters facility in Armonk.
Sequentially the first quarter represented about $12 million improvement over the fourth quarter of 2014.
We believe that operating income measures the periodic performance that inures to the benefit of our shareholders and it is important to note that while operating income includes an accounting provision for income taxes we don't expect to pay cash taxes other than AMT for some time to come.
In addition to combined operating income we also report adjusted book value which was $25.78 per share as of March 31 2015 compared to $24.87 per share at year-end 2014 primarily driven by the share repurchase activity that Jay mentioned already plus gains on foreign exchange.
The FX driver here is the appreciation of the U.S.
dollar versus the euro from one €1.21 to €1.07 and that contributed about $0.23 per share to ABV.
A 10% change in the value of the euro would create about a $0.20 impact on ABV per share and reconciliations of operating income and ABV to the relevant consolidated GAAP numbers are included in our press release our operating supplement and our Form 10-Q.
At the segment level National contributed $56 million of operating income compared to $61 million in 2014's first quarter.
While premiums were about $20 million higher on refunding volume investment income was about $5 million lower and expenses were higher as well.
Loss in LAE was a net negative amount in the quarter while it was a larger negative expense than last year's first quarter when we reduced reserves related to our Detroit exposures and the difference was about $8 million.
DAC amortization rose in line with premium revenue and operating expenses were also modestly higher.
Our refunding the source of the higher premium have been difficult to forecast.
In Q1 2015 we saw $50 million of refunding income on $7 billion a par.
In last year's first quarter we had $22 million of refunded premium on $4 billion of par.
Though we don't expect that $50 million as a run rate but the current very low interest rates continue to be conducive to refunding activity.
The total amount of unearned upfront premium and expected installment premiums in National's back book are about $1.3 billion.
Jay and Bill have both referenced National's capital adequacy which we continue to see is quite strong.
Excess capital grows if the back book amortizes due to maturities and refundings and deployment of this capital to support new business within or outside National is a key strategic focus for us.
Excess capital could be more than a third of National's statutory capital of $3.3 billion as of March 31 2015.
We will be working to get some of this excess capital deployed as we get greater clarity around the Puerto Rico credits.
The corporate segment had an operating loss of $22 million compared to a loss of $21 million in 2014.
The net gains losses on financial instruments at fair value and foreign exchange items was driven by our decision to close out some received fixed swaps in the Q1.
We collected a termination amount providing a one-time boost to liquidity but then incur higher net interest expense on the remaining swaps which does affect our operating income.
Market risk wise this exposes us to unrealized loss if rates fall but it will provide both economic and liquidity benefits if and when rates rise.
Liquidity at the Holding company was $567 million at the end of the quarter compared to $498 million at the end of 2014.
$228 million was released from the tax escrow in January and we spent approximately $76 million on share buybacks in the first quarter and then $93 million through May 5.
These buybacks reduced shares outstanding by 5.5%.
And our debt-to-capital ratio still improved in the quarter driven by operating income the benefit of foreign exchange and debt reduction.
A 10% change in the dollar-euro cross would affect our debt-to-capital ratio by about 1%.
Finally we believe we're still on track to reach a middle investment-grade debt-to-capital ratio by year-end 2018.
Moving on to MBIA Corp.
We ended March 2015 with a statutory capital of $857 million compared to $859 million at year-end 2014.
Net income was positive about $3 million and the results of our U.K.
subsidiary which are treated on the equity method and affects surplus but not net income was also the U.K.
subsidiary was also profitable on a local currency basis but the translation of our sterling balance sheet to U.S.
dollar is largely responsible for keeping stat capital basically flat versus year-end.
Liquidity in MBIA Corp.
at quarter's end was $415 million after beginning the year at $443 million.
This is an adequate position given the risks that we know that we face.
We do have a bullet maturity coming up in November on the first of the Zohar CLOs of about $154 million.
We believe our liquidity position will be able to absorb the absolute worst-case outcome on this in 2015.
The larger of the two CLOs matures in 2017 but that's too distant for an accurate liquidity forecast.
And we continue to expect that a negotiated refinancing of all the companies that back up the loans in the two Zohar CLOs will be optimal for all parties.
Another significant liquidity uncertainty item on the horizon for MBIA Corp.
will be the collection from Credit Suisse related to representation and warranty violations.
Our actual damages which we are seeking in litigation are well beyond the $371 million that we've recorded to the balance sheet.
We are confident about the collection and the amount but there is significant uncertainty about the timing.
Finally as Jay has said it's been a pretty quiet quarter.
We continue to push to find ways to become more capital efficient to reduce debt at the Holding company and provide additional sources of cash flows and returns for our shareholders.
At this point we'll open up the line for your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Brett Gibson of JPMorgan.
Great thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Couple questions for you.
First I wanted to talk about Corp.
liquidity.
This quarter operating expenses were about $19 million that's been about flat over the last few quarters and I'm a little surprised that hasn’t come down.
Can you talk about the long-term expense structure for Corp.
and where we should expect that to trend over time? Sure.
We've had some expense reductions that affect the corporate segment and MBIA Corp.
and I think your question is specific to MBIA Corp.
right? Yes.
Yes over the past couple of years so we had significant reduction in 2013 that sort of played out over the course of 2014 as we got the full benefit of that.
We would expect that expenses will continue to decline but at a somewhat slower pace than we thought over '13 to '14.
Okay.
Second you know I want talk continuing with Corp.
I want to talk about the excess spread reserve of $542 million how sensitive is that to interest-rate movements and so for example if interest rates were to rise by another 50 basis points what would the effect be on the level of access spread there? I don’t know that.
We believe that it is sensitive enough to interest rates to actually create an equation but interest rates do affect the excess spread to the extent that it enhances the prepayment ability of the individual mortgage orders.
So we have seen that as rates fell in first quarter 2015 that we did have some elevated prepayment experience.
Okay.
Lastly I just wanted to talk about Puerto Rico and really just from a high-level how you think about the prospect of wrapping all or part of a potential new issue out of Puerto Rico and then more conceptually how do you think about increasing exposure to a counter party in distress the puts and takes of that? It's Bill speaking.
In terms of Puerto Rico and again I think you mentioned the emphasis is conceptually if in fact there was a benefit to National to wrapping a new deal we would obviously consider that.
So it's really hard in the absence of any details to talk about what we would or wouldn't do.
As you know as an example in Detroit there was a wrap that both assured and National provided with regard to Detroit Water and Sewer as that got restructured and refinanced.
So again in National's case we thought that was beneficial to National to do that.
Again very different in terms of details but if there was a similar set of circumstances in Puerto Rico we would consider doing that.
Great thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Charles of RW Pressprich.
Good morning I just have a couple of questions.
One regarding MBIA Corp.
I'm looking at your supplement on page 27 you have in the middle of the page you have the table that has the case in salvage reserves for your Corp.
exposure and I saw that your CDO exposure or at least your case reserves went down by about $13 million and $373 million at year end or $360 million at the first quarter and I am wondering was that did they have to do with your BBB CMBS exposure and was it influenced at all by any reserves you might have taken for your Zohar exposure? No no it doesn't.
Both CMBS exposure has been pretty stable although we do have the one transaction that we acknowledge that we're paying claims on and there is no change in the Zohar reserve in the quarter.
The change that you see is spread across a handful of transactions so there's no dominant characteristics that I would give you about them.
Okay and also do you what is the size of that 1 CMBS exposure that you are paying out on.
It used to be about $3 million is that right? Yes the remaining par is a little bit under $300 million at this point.
Okay and then secondly just one more question about the excess spread.
The calculation that you have right now are you assuming interest rates stay stable from this point or are you expecting them to rise or go down a little bit in your calculation that comes up with your current excess spread count? I mean we use the forward curve for interest rates but we do have an expectation at the elevated level that we observe today in Q1 does persist for several more quarters.
Okay good enough.
Alright thank you.
That's it.
Remember when you think about interest rates in excess spread there is two factors that play there.
There is the actual difference between what is received on the mortgages versus what's paid out that always will be effective negatively as interest rates rise.
The other side of it is prepayment slowdown when interest rates rise.
So it's not a precise negative movement at one time.
You have both factors working in tandem.
So it's more muted than you might think it would normally be for 1% or 2% change in interest rates.
Okay right.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Nagendra Jayanty of Claren Road.
Thanks for the time today.
I have two questions related to Corp.
The first one is on the operational cash flow liquidity in the operating supplement and noted that there were $6 million of cash premiums that came in and now it is lower then what we've seen in the prior year and years past.
Just wondering if you had a comment on why that was the case and if we should expect that going forward? The book of business is simply running off.
That's all that's going on.
Okay so we should kind of expect that number to be in that area given the future cash premiums that are expected seems like a low this quarter seem like a low number versus what is projected? I would say there's actually a table that shows the expected future premiums here in the supplement.
Right.
And as Jay was pointing out the $6 million is affected by a reinsurance payment that was made in the quarter.
Okay got it perfect.
That are our reinsurance payment.
Reinsurance payment.
Okay.
The second question is I may have written this down wrong but I'm unable to go back and look at your multi-sector CDO is by name but it looked like last at the end of last quarter there's a multi-sector CDO number 51 that was approximately $78.671 million of UPB and I didn't find it in your exposures this quarter and so was wondering if that had been commuted or if I'm just looking at that wrong it doesn’t really exist anymore? I know that there were no commutations in the first quarter.
Okay.
Again that book of business is amortizing and from time-to-time the deal simply mature are unwound.
Perfect.
Thank you very much.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Geoffrey Dunn of Dowling &amp; Partners.
Thank you good morning.
As we think about Puerto Rico and trying to get more clarity on the exposure there is the issue really centered around PREPA or as you think about the ability to go talk to regulators about special dividends is it a broader issue with the other exposures there which I think as you noted in the commentary that it's going to take a while for the economy to turn around and really firm things up for them financially.
So as you think about what needs to be the milestone markers to talk to regulators what are we really trying to watch here? Yes Geoff it's Bill.
With regard to the near-term the focus really is on PREPA as you know that's gotten most of the attention and that is the one that we're very focused on right now.
We think the other credits as they pertain to our book don't have the volatility and don't have the same issues that PREPA does.
So I think it's really a phased approach.
One will be PREPA which I think will when there is some restructuring which we hope happens soon and is beneficial that that should reduce the volatility which would allow us as Jay mentioned to then have conversations and request for excess or extraordinary dividends.
Then there will be a sort of second phase which is the long-term economy in Puerto Rico and the impact on the rest of the credits.
Okay great.
Thank you.
I am showing no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the floor back over Mr.
Greg Diamond for any additional or closing remarks.
We got another question from the queue.
And we do have a question from the line of Jeff Rosenkranz of Cedar Ridge Partners.
Good morning guys.
Another question on Puerto Rico obviously there is a lot of fiscal stress and either going through a process here but taking a step back can you maybe talk about a change from the outside that may be the bigger problem or the bigger challenges a lack of leadership may be on the island and governor's popularity is quite low and the rollout of various iterations of tax reform hasn't been very successful.
So can you maybe address your ability to negotiate and resolve this favorably in light of may be a lack of leadership politically? Yes Jeff with regard to Puerto Rico it is a very dynamic and very complicated situation as you just alluded to.
I think the complication is that it wasn't created by one administration so the problems that we find in Puerto Rico and to be fair we find in other situations typically have built up over many many years.
I think actually the things that this administration has done in just over two years is actually quite positive when you look at some of the changes.
Now you did reference the recent tax reform which did not pass however we do think there is a way forward.
As you know there's talk that there may be some increase in taxes that could pass very very soon which I think then should lead to them putting together a budget for fiscal 2016 which should then allow them to pursue this financing for the Commonwealth which is referred to sometimes as the PREPA financing of about$2.9 billion.
So I think there is a clear way forward and I think it is one of the situations where because the value added tax did not pass recently that people are starting to understand that there really is the need to do something and while there obviously are different political wins in motion here I think something is likely to come fairly soon but again we can't predict exactly when that will be.
It is a complicated situation but I do think they are making progress despite some of the recent headlines.
Yes I guess I would also add that we have to look at this in the perspective of the timeframes they have been trying to accomplish things.
They put the value-added tax on the table in terms of an actual proposal less than six months ago and tried to get it through.
If you think about tax reform anywhere in the United States it's typically a multi-year negotiated process.
So it was not unexpected that this was going to be a difficult thing to achieve and they almost got there with the absence of six votes.
So I think it did the important thing which had highlighted that there's got to be some additional revenues in addition to significant cost cuts in the operation of the government there and so I wouldn’t count the governor or his party out quite yet.
This is only their first real stumble on what has been a two-year process of trying to bring some fiscal stability to what has been a complicated situation.
Yes I appreciate the perspective very much thanks guys.
Our next question comes from the line of Nagendra Jayanty of Claren Road.
Hi sorry one last question I forgot to ask before and that is on I think there we've read some things from various interviews with some of the sell side analysts that there may be cases where the holding company may provide support to MBIA Corp.
and as it relates to potentially some other large exposure and I was wondering how you may be thinking about that and what circumstances that might be the case? Thanks.
Yes we don’t anticipate the need for any kind of assistance.
We think that MBIA Corp.
has adequate resources to beat all of its obligations as they come due.
I think what you have to assume is one of the things you learn you should never say never and there could be circumstances where there would be a benefit to the holding company.
I don’t think at this point in time we've indentified a particular sequence for circumstance that would be the case.
Okay thanks very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Pete Taurasi [ph] of Barclays.
Hi good morning guys.
I think Jay made a comment in the script about potentially eliminating the Mexico subsidiary of MBIA Corp.
and just looking at the financials it looks like the carrying value of that entity was about $12 million at year-end included in Insurance Corp.
surplus.
So you can you just walk us through how the elimination of that subsidiary would work and what's the potential impact to MBIA Corp.
balance sheet would be? Sure this is Chuck Pete.
You are right.
At year end we had about $12 million.
I think currently it is about $13 million of capital in the Mexico sub.
There are two policies there and what we're attempting to do is to get the two policies terminated and replaced with policies at MBIA Corp.
so that they would become direct obligations of Corp.
as opposed to reinsurance obligations of Corp.
and then to liquidate the legal entity.
And so the $13 million of capital would be distributed to the parent.
The real driver of it though is not so much the $13 million of capital but it is the operating expense associated with the care and feeding of the legal entity down there for two policies which is just unnecessary.
Great that makes sense and then just one follow-up going back to Zohar you mentioned Zohar I and potential liquidity used there at the November Metro [ph] bullet approaches.
If you were to make a payment there would there be any read through for II that you would have to account for and potential reserving for Zohar II? Yes we depend on what actually causes a shortfall or a payment and its effect on other loans in there aren’t interpretation of their carrying value and the managers interpretations.
So yes you are correct there could be an impact on Zohar II or Zohar III if there is a shortfall on Zohar I for loans that also reoccur in different denominations in the other two transactions.
Yes if I could just add one thing to that.
One is we do reassess the reserve position every quarter and the liquidity impact is somewhat independent of that.
And the other thing is on Zohar III which has some of the same collateral as in the I and II is not one that we have exposure to.
Okay thank you.
And maybe just to be clear the reserve we carry looks at both Zohar I and Zohar II.
When Chuck was speaking earlier during his comments we were just talking about the liquidity event not the range of possible outcomes that occur across both transactions.
I still saw you on the line Pete.
Is there another question? No that's it thanks very much guys.
Okay great.
At this time I'm showing no further questions.
I'll turn the floor back over to Mr.
Greg Diamond for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Maria and thanks to everyone to who joined us for today’s call.
Please contact me directly if you have any additional questions.
We also recommend that you visit our website at mbia.com for additional information on our company.
Thank you for your interest in MBIA.
Good day and good bye.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This does conclude today’s call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the MBIA Inc.'s Second Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Greg Diamond Managing Director of Investor Relations at MBIA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Maria.
And yes welcome to the MBIA's conference call for our second quarter financial results.
After the market closed yesterday we issued and posted several items on our websites including our financial results press release 10-Q quarterly operating supplements and statutory financial statements for MBIA Insurance Corporation and National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation.
We also posted updates to the listings of our insured portfolios.
Please note that anything said on today's call is qualified by the information provided in the company's 10-Q 10-K and other SEC filings as our company's definitive disclosures are incorporated in these filings.
We urge investors to read our 2014 10-K and our second quarter 2015 10-Q as they contain our most current disclosures about the company and its financial and operating results.
The 10-K and 10-Q also contain information that may not be addressed on today's call.
Regarding the non-GAAP terms included in our remarks today the definitions and reconciliations for those items may be found in our most recent 10-K and 10-Q financial results press release for the quarterly operating supplement.
The recorded replay of today's call will become available approximately one hour after the end of the call and the information for accessing it is included in yesterday's financial results press release.
And now here is our Safe Harbor disclosure statement.
Our remarks on today's call may contain forward-looking statements.
Important factors such as general market conditions and the competitive environment could cause our actual results to be materially different than the projected results referenced in our forward-looking statements.
Risk factors are detailed in our 10-K which is available on our website at mbia.com.
The company cautions not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.
The company also undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if it later becomes aware that such statement is no longer accurate.
For our call today Jay Brown Bill Fallon and Chuck Chaplin will provide some introductory comments.
Then Anthony McKiernan will join Bill and Jay and Chuck for the question-and-answer session that will follow.
Now here's Jay.
Good morning and thank you for joining our call this morning.
I am pleased today to report that MBIA Inc.
had a good quarter with 19 million of operating income and adjusted book value that increased to $27 per share.
Premium earnings and investment income were higher and operating expenses lower than the comparable quarter of 2014.
However our attention and the market's attention was focused on development and news coverage about Puerto Rico.
We have devoted considerable resources towards working with the government of the Commonwealth their advisers and other creditors towards the consensual restructuring of the Electric Power Authority and has a credits that we ensure.
That work is ongoing and we don't yet have concrete results to share with you at this time.
But I do want to spend few minutes on some of the significant issues.
First off our view of the Puerto Rico related credits hasn't changed materially since our last conference call.
With respect to PREPA we continue to believe that improvements to its operations and liquidity are achievable without cost of litigation or court intervention.
Our commitment to negotiated outcome was an evidenced by our purchase last Friday of the previously disclosed market rate bond issued by PREPA.
That corporate bonds provides with some interim liquidity puts it on a better near-term floating and allows it to focus on operational improvements that have already been identified.
Several proposals have been made by PREPA and various creditor groups.
Any successful proposal must include operational and government improvements and an increase in the base rate for electricity which is contractually and legally required.
A base rate increase would result in the electric rates to the consumer that are still lower in the other Caribbean Irelands and lower that the rates that were in the factor in Puerto Rico just the few months ago.
Although none of these proposals have been accepted by all sides.
We continue to believe that PREPA can be an effectively restructured by ultimately paying all of its debts in fall.
PREPA has made all of its debt service payments today.
Net net even after our purchase of PREPA bonds last week our exposure to PREPA has declined by $23 million.
So some positive directions.
Nevertheless we continue to see press reports and analyst assessments that project significant losses for the bond ensures.
While the ultimate outcome is indeed uncertain there are few facts about our position been on point to focus on.
First and foremost we guarantee the timely payment of scheduled principal and interest and timely payment of scheduled principal and interest on insured obligations.
So even in the case of interruption of payments by an issuers the bonds are not accelerated against us.
We would make only scheduled payments on the issuer’s behalf and have rights to be reimburse for our claim payments and with interest.
Where we are financing an essential assets such as PREPA our past experience have typically resulted now repayments that have substantially or totally mitigated our losses.
In fact a number of the statements made by PREPA so far have been consistent with such an outcome.
We first established loss reserves for our insured Puerto Rico credits during the second quarter of 2015.
Our approach to loss reserving on PREPA considers the potential for short term liquidity stress.
We evaluate different probably weighted payment default and we cover a scenarios with the range of potential values for the reimbursements we would expect to receive.
That evaluation is done every quarter and the probabilities that we assigned at the different scenarios consider the status of our discussions with PREPA the long-term essentiality of PREPA the statements made by PREPA and its advisers and importantly our legal rights.
While there has no a lot of press coverage recently about PREPA that suggest a wide range of losses for bond holders there isn't anything concrete that we have learned in the quarter that suggest any material change in our assessment of PREPA.
More generally we have found that many of the comparisons of Puerto Rico's debt for urban or taxation levels with those of US states present very and complete pictures.
We often quoted $72 billion of Commonwealth debt includes all of the debt of the municipalities and agencies at Puerto Rico while the debt of US states to which it is typically compared does not include the debt of those lower level issuers.
In addition and most importantly most tax payers in Puerto Rico pay no federal income tax which for citizens in the US is levied in part to pay the Federal debt.
Many of the comparisons also fail to adjust for this difference.
When we adjust for these differences and for relative income levels Puerto Rico’s debt burn on its tax fare is among the lowest of the U.S.
sales instead of being the highest as suggested by many of these comparisons.
The comparisons of the Commonwealth to state debt loads that we’ve seen in many news stories overstate the problem that the Ireland faces.
When we compare Puerto Rico to sovereign debt levels it also looks more of -.
Its total debt is about 70% of its GDP which would not be considered high first sovereign by comparison.
By comparison the United States debt is a 103% of GDP Greece’s a 180% and Japan is over 200%.
However this characterization is also too simple to drive much useful information.
What is true is that Puerto Rico economy and population have been shrinking which has increased fixed fiscal pressure on its citizen at the same time that some of the key benefits it received under the U.S.
tax code were being phased out.
It took a long time for the government in Puerto Rico to begin to react to this.
But responding to that stress the Commonwealth has implemented many of the appropriate changes.
Reform of public pensions some reduction in public sector employment tax rate increases et cetera.
More recently the governor of Puerto Rico has appointed a task force to develop a five year stability plan for the Ireland by September 1st.
we’re looking forward to that next step in the process.
We believe that most of the other Puerto Rico credits that we ensure also have passed to medium term stability.
As we have previously mentioned all the issuers made the July 1st debt service payments and our overall exposure to Puerto Rico including PREPA was reduced by 205 million net of a 45 million bond that we purchased last week.
This Monday one of the public financing corporations didn’t make a full payment on its appropriation based debt.
While this is unwelcome news none of the debt that we’ve ramped depends on legislative appropriations for the payment of debt service.
Our exposures are backed by dedicated revenue streams and or the full faith in credit of the Commonwealth.
Lately there have been some efforts to make Chapter 9 Bankruptcy protection available to Commonwealth or to some of its constituent public entities.
We review Chapter 9 as the process not a solution onto itself.
Based on our experience Chapter 9 does not avoid litigation or guarantee of streamline process.
The only certainty is that Chapter 9 takes a long time and is very expensive.
Consider that Detroit paid a 178 million in adviser legal fees in just 18 months of bankruptcy.
Each of the Puerto Rico issuers have a different debt profile with different revenue streams and it’s more appropriate to address them separately.
We continue to believe as I said before that our concessional approach to restructuring is best.
If the Commonwealth or its public corporations are retroactively granted access to Chapter 9 creditors would likely be motivated to litigate to pursue share contractual rights and remedies.
The increased cost in disruption would be an undesirable additional cost for the governments its tax fare and bond holders many of whom are retail investors and retirees including many who are citizens of the Ireland.
In a long run however we continue to believe that the biggest cape to fiscal sustainability for Puerto Rico is to get its economy growing again.
In the near term a concessional resolution at PREPA can give the Commonwealth time to achieve stability and restore market confident to pave the way for that growth.
We will be posting a presentation to our website in the next few days that summarizes these points and provides additional context for the Ireland’s current financial status and national’s position.
The press coverage uncertainty around these credits has already taken its toll on our share price.
As a result the primary method by which we can increase shareholder value in the short term is through active capital management including prudent share repurchases.
Back in December of last year our board authorized a $200 million share buyback.
We saw extraordinary opportunities to buy shares in the first half of 2015 and so last week we have used all but about 60 million of that authorization.
In addition we received specific authorization from our Board that permitted National to buy 8 million shares from the secondary offering of MBIA common stock.
Overtime we expect that those shares will be sent up to MBIA Inc.
as part of dividends or other payments that National will make to the holding company.
But our share count for financial reporting purposing has already been reduced by National’s purchase.
Overall we have reduced our share count by 24 million shares or 13% so far in 2015.
Last week we announced that the Board terminated the existing authorization and approval and new $100 million share repurchase authorization.
We will continue to balance stock repurchases against our liquidity and leverage targets but we are well aware of the value creating power of share repurchases and we will continue to look for prudent ways to employ it.
Now Bill will take you through additional details on National’s progress and Chuck will review our financials with an emphasis on our capital and liquidity positions.
Good morning.
We continue building our sales and marketing organization.
As I mentioned last quarter Tom Weyl joined in January the head of this effort since then we have bolstered our team by hiring Andy Nakahata to lead our Western regional marketing and Tom Metzold to lead our capital markets operation.
We are also bringing on some additional - so we can respond to the increasing market opportunities that we are seeing.
I believe we are building the best possible teams so that we are positioned to take advantage of both current opportunities as well as the higher volumes and penetrations that we think will accompany a higher interest environment.
Our new business production ramp up has been slower than we anticipated when we return to the market last year due impart to the low interest rate environment.
However I am pleased to report that we are closing business with more intermediaries while maintaining our underwriting discipline.
In the second quarter we were up $272 million of par our pipeline is robust as we are getting more FX than in earlier quarters.
In the second quarter we reviewed over half of all negotiated transactions that’s sold with insurance.
So we are starting to develop some momentum on the new business side.
It will take many quarter though before our new business production replaces that which rolls off our books.
In the second quarter as I said we were up $272 million of new par but we saw $10 billion of par refunded and another $5.4 billion that matured.
Refundings in the first half of this year were 80% higher than last year this benefits us from an earnings perspective and helps to drive National’s outperformance of last year’s second quarter operating income.
We have recently completed our rating agency annual reviews and the conclusions of Kroll S&amp;L and Moody’s were all made with an acknowledgement of the uncertainty around the Puerto Rico situation.
Each of them have firmed our ratings concluding that National’s capitalization of liquidity can withstand their stress case assumptions about Puerto Rico losses.
We have estimated that National has approximately $1 billion of excess capital to the S&amp;P AAA requirements after the purchase MBIA Inc.
shares in the second quarter.
Consideration of extraordinary dividends from National will come after we achieve greater clarity on our Puerto Rico exposures.
Last time I mentioned that the heightened attention we are given to our Chicago credits as well since our last call the rating agencies downgraded both the board of education and the city’s geo bonds with Moody’s bringing both to below investment grade and meet challenges relating pension funding and public employee contract negotiations.
We don’t foresee either credit causing any impairment to our positions at this but we are continuing to gather information about their ability to address the current challenges.
Overall our portfolio continues to perform well the credit quality distribution has remained consistent.
In the first quarter of 2009 at National’s inception 90% of the portfolio was rated A and above as of June 30 2015 89% is rated A and above.
Now I will turn it over to Chuck to go through some financial information.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
As Jay has mentioned this quarter was a favorable one from an earnings perspective.
With combined operating income of $19 million or $0.11 per share compared to $2 million or $0.01 per share in last year’s Q2.
Some of the drivers here were higher refunded premium and higher rate investment income and lower loss and loss adjustment expense and lower operating expenses.
For the largest impact this quarter was on the tax line where last year we posted a reserve for an uncertain tax position in the second quarter.
We've a normal provision of 35% of pretax operating income in this year second quarter.
ABB increased to $27 per share compared to $24.87 per share at December 2014.
The drivers that I mentioned contributed with the biggest impact is from our share buyback activity was contributed $1.85 to this increase.
Given that I'll spend a few minutes now on share buyback activity and capacity.
As Jay summarized the board authorized a $200 million program at the end of the 2014.
We bought back 1.2 million shares under this authorization for $12 million before December 31 of last year and then from January 1 until last Thursday we bought back 15.5 million shares for $127 million in MBIA Inc.
In addition in May the board gave us specific authorization for National to purchase 8 million shares in the secondary offering for approximately $70 million.
We went to the board because we wanted to be clear from a governance perspective and we could purchase shares from other than the holding company and we wanted to make sure that we wouldn't exhaust the $200 million authorization while operating under 10b5-1 plan.
Last week the board terminated the remainder of the authorization from December and gave us a new authorization of $1 million which clearly covers all MBIA amenities.
The purposes of this sort of give us some additional authorization capacity and also to clarify that any of our amenities can engage and buybacks under this authorization.
We only talk about the capacity that we have at the holding company and in National.
We consider generally three constraints on our ability to buy back shares.
One leverage two liquidity and three alternative investments.
At today’s stock price we don't currently see any material alternative uses of our resources that offer better returns and buybacks.
And now we're just using any excess resources for stock repurchases.
And as Bill has said we estimate that we have excess capital in National over and above the S&amp;P AAA level on the order of $1 billion.
We've obviously deployed a small amount of that in share repurchases about $70 million.
At this point although we are fully reserved against our Puerto Rico exposure given the current uncertainty around the outcome.
We think it's prudent to hold off on significant additional buyback activity in National or seeking regulatory approval for extraordinary dividends until we have greater clarity.
Longer-term National could be an even more potent source of liquidity to our holding company.
At the holding company level we are focused on achieving and maintaining investment grades credit metrics to achieve a lower cost of capital and to support National AA range ratings and that implies achieving and maintaining reasonable leverage levels and liquidity cushions.
We have been working toward achieving debt leverage ratios consistent with middle investment credit ratings by 2018 via a combination of growth and shareholders’ equity and debt reduction from free cash flow at the holding company.
After the buybacks in the first half we're still basically on track to achieve this goal and we expect to continue to balance our buyback activity with that objective.
In addition to leverage we also need to maintain a conservative liquidity position at the whole core level.
We want to hold enough liquidity to bridge a medium term interruption and cash flows from the operating subsidiaries.
In setting our target from minimal liquidity we consider our upcoming debt maturities the run rate of operating expenses stresses that can effect collateralization requirements and capital markets access.
Our liquidity position at the holding company was $497 million at June 30 which was an access of our minimum.
The major cash flows into the holding company come from the releases on the tax escrow account which have been in January each year and dividends from national that have been processed in the fourth quarter.
Both of these are dependents are on National's operating performance.
Ordinary dividends are currently limited by National's net investment income and those dividends do not require regulatory approval.
The tax escrow exists because National has taxable income while MBIA Inc.
the tax payer has a net operating loss carry forward.
As National's pretax income it payments of the tax liability into the escrow account in MBIA Inc.
Those payments must stay in the escrow for two tax years and can be released to the holding company if Nationals not do a tax refund.
We don't consider those deposits to be part of our liquidity until they're actually released from the escrow account.
We've previously disclosed that our next expected dividend from National should be approximately $115 million and our next expected distribution from the tax escrow in January 2016 will be approximately $105 million.
That distribution will be related to taxes paid by National back in the 2013 tax year.
The payments that National is making this year 2015 become the leasable in 2018.
Over the next few years we expect to be sources dividends and releases from the tax escrow will provide enough cash for all of our operating expense and debt service requirements with the reasonable cushion but they are subject to risk and that's why we've hold the liquidity cushion.
So let me give an example of how these mechanics would work in a stress situation.
National's pretax income for the six months of 2015 was over $140 million and it paid taxes into the tax escrow of about $50 million.
Just for the sake of this example let's assume that this performance were to be repeated in the second half.
Then National would have full year pretax income of $280 million and would have made $100 million of payments into the escrow which we would then project to be release to the holding company out in 2018.
Now if National were also to recognize additional incurred insurance losses this year its pretax earnings would be reduced and therefore the payments into the escrow account this year would be lower.
That would impact our liquidity position out in 2018.
As the extreme if National were to have additional incurred losses of $280 million there would be no pretax income in 2015 there will be no payments into escrow and therefore nothing to release in 2018.
Going further if National's 2015 were to become negative for this reason it would be do a tax refund from the holding company.
A refund for National's 2015 tax year would reduce the amounts scheduled to be released from the escrow in early next year.
We know that the amount expected to be release in January 2016 is $105 million.
So continuing our scenario if National had additional incurred losses of greater than $280 million and otherwise would have had taxable income of $280 million it would be doing refund related to that excess.
If the incurred losses were more we're its $560 million the tax refund would be about $105 million.
And therefore there would be nothing to release from the escrow in 2016.
That would reduce the holding companies 2016 expected cash inflows by about half.
In this case the tax escrow would still hold about $93 million expected to be released in 2017.
However if the additional incurred losses that we saw this year were significant enough to say $850 million the holding company would owe national a refund equal to all the assets in the tax escrow again.
And therefore projected inflows in 2016 and '17 would be reduced by about half.
Finally if the additional incurred loss were even more than that national would have a net operating loss carry forward reducing its tax liability on its future profitability.
In these scenarios where cash inflows are reduced MBIA Inc.
might need some of its liquidity cushion to pay operating expenses and debt service.
Note that national in this scenario will still have an as of right dividend capacity and of course we will have a substantial liquidity cushion at the beginning of this stress period.
We believe that these resources should be enough to carry our total holding company obligations for a lengthy period.
In summary and based on my example if a hypothetical discrete additional incurred loss were to incur in 2015 and be below $280 million the impact our holding company liquidity would be felt in 2018 which gives us substantial time to react.
If that loss were to be between $280 million and about $850 million liquidity in 2016 2017 would also be affected.
While these scenarios have very remote probabilities we believe the holding company has resources to manage through them.
However maintaining those resources are a constraint on our ability to buy back shares and to make other investments.
But I hope that this has given you a sense of how we're working to balance maintaining sound positions at the holding company level with realizing on the opportunity of share buybacks.
Now moving on to MBIA Corp.
it had a statutory loss in the quarter of $47 million compared to $29 million in last year's Q2.
The biggest driver is loss and loss adjustment expense where we've reported $69 million in the second quarter of 2015 compared to $54 million last year.
We had increases initiative reserve this year on the CDO portfolio and on our second lean book.
MBIA Corp.
has basically operated at a breakeven level on a statutory net income basis for the trailing four quarters.
MBIA Corp's liquidity position was $412 million as of June 30th.
And it started out the year 2015 at $443 million.
The second lean RMBS portfolio was cash flow positive so far this year generating about $18.5 million as excess spread was greater than charge-offs of delinquent loans.
We made payments on CMBS exposures in the six months of a similar amount.
Now a too high yield CDO exposure Zohar 1 and 2 on which we have previously reported an expected loss.
The first deal with $151 million in principle amount due in November 2015.
And the second due in January 2017 had $808 million of principle amount as of June 2015.
While we believe that a global negotiated solution that would refinance or restructure the Zohar's CDO is in the best interest of all parties a proposal to that end has not materialized at this point and may not occur prior to the November 20th maturity date.
Though we stand ready to make the November payments and then to vigorously exercise our rights to ensure that there is an acceptable resolution prior to the second deals majority in January 2017.
Other than the high yield CDO's the other meaningful liquidity contingency in MBIA Corp is around the receipt of our recoverable from Credit Suisse.
On that we are confident about recovering our carrying value that we're still uncertain about the timing.
In summary our combined financial results have a positive trajectory at this point.
The momentum in National is building and we've been successful at having the future shareholder value to share buyback so far in 2015.
And MBIA Corp continues to have adequate resources again its expected claims.
So at this point we'll be happy to respond to your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Andrew Gadlin of Orient [ph] Capital Group.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Wanted to ask a question on COFINA which you mentioned in the recovery marks and it’s - exposure for the company.
It became very controversial in recent months and as I wonder if you could share the company's views on COFINA? Yeah it’s Bill speaking.
As you know it is getting a lot of attention and there are different views.
Our position I think is in the camp where COFINA is one of the more secured bonds that people talk about with regard to Puerto Rico and within that we have the senior lean COFINAS.
So again hasn't come up with regard to discussion around any mispayments at this point and we feel at this point comfortable with the COFINA exposures.
And there was recently a group with manual forms to group of COFINA bondholders.
Is the company involved with that group? And given the thoughts on when negotiations on COFINA could take center stage? We are aware of the group through the newspaper reports that you referred to with - manual.
We are not part of that group and at this point there has been no specific talk of any negotiations around COFINA as we said all the payments are being paid and so therefore there is really nothing to talk about and as I said within that there may be some different classes of tiers of the COFINA.
But again we feel very comfortable with our exposure on --.
Okay and then GDB there is a sizable payment later this year there is another group there involved any thoughts on that? Yeah with regard to our GDB exposure in some ways ours is a little bit different than most and that our GDB exposure actually has a commonwealth guarantee on it which putted in the minority of the GDB debt that is outstanding.
So as we show in our exposure reports we have 267 million of principle which is up only exposure to GDB that mature at the end of this year and again given everything that's been said with protecting the GO in the commonwealth credit.
We would expect to that payment would be made.
But again we are waiting to see what happens in December.
Got it.
Okay.
And then final question.
I think Chuck mentioned the possibility of dividend in from National the shares the hold co shares up to the hold co.
Any idea on what happened this quarter or interest in maintaining liquidity could that be done in our 10 point later in the future? Yeah there are couple of different ways to do this.
The two major payments if you look at National makes it holding company or dividends and payments into the tax escrow and I talked a little bit about the mechanics of that.
So to the extent that National's making payment to the tax escrow and were to make those payments in part by transferring some of the common then you actually have an impact on holding company liquidity.
But it's a future impact rather than a current impact.
Right now I think that with respect to dividends we're expecting them to be paid in cash because that is current liquidity at the holding company level.
Got it.
And if you were dividend then that obviously you bought the shares little higher with where they are today.
Would that create negative investment income which would somewhat AAA at the dividend let's say next year? No the shares will be valued at market at the time.
So it doesn't affect the amount of the dividend.
Got it.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Nagendra Jayanty of Claren Road.
Actually my question on dividend on shares has been answered.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Charles of RW Pressprich.
Good morning.
Chuck a couple of questions about MBIA corp.
First of all do you have any color on the migration of your BBB CMBS exposure? I know you had a couple of pools you had exposure to your paying out one year-to-date I know if you have any color on the - on what kind of payments and what kind of exposure you have remaining there? Hi this is Anthony.
I think as we said before we got one transaction and we are paying claims on.
We continue to take claims on that.
It's more recent - those 7 BBB CMBS remainder of our exposures actually performing in line with expectations.
We don't really expect any issues with the remainder of the exposure.
Okay.
Can you release how much of the remaining exposure for the - exposure that you are paying out on remains it was about 300 million I think at the end of the year.
Where would that stand now? That's 271 million right now.
271.
Okay thanks.
And away from that just regarding the reserved the loss in LEE expenses you took during the quarter.
I is it safe to assume a lot of those reserves were associated with is a hard exposure? In the second quarter we had reserve increases related to CDOs but also on our second lean in RMBS as we did see a spike in voluntary pre-payment activity early in the quarter that caused us to reduce the carrying value on the access spread assets- are those two components.
Okay.
And do you have any guidance on what the breakdown of the two components is in the loss is LEE charge for the quarter? We don't want to break that amount down any further.
Okay.
That's fair enough.
Just if I can - To be clear we have reserved on the assumption that the payment will be made Zohar in November.
Okay.
That's included in our scenario.
So you won’t see another adjustment next quarter.
So what you are reserving for around sort of the upcoming payment has been reserved for at this point? It's included in our scenarios.
Okay.
And I'm sorry you're actually step ahead of me I was about to ask that question and I'm just wondering when taking a reserve for an upcoming payments say that might be about $150 million in November of this year does you reserve that net reserve in vision recovery on the other side of that or for now you just reserving for that payment and then as you as a proposal comes forward may be in off course 2016 it might come up with a recovery estimate for your recovery there or you're already taking that into account when you make a reserve a loss in LEE adjustment now? Anytime we evaluate reserve.
We look at both the amount going out the door and the range of possible its dollars coming back in and then probably wait back.
So the short answer is we have anticipated that there will be some recoveries if not all the recoveries on that payment that will be made in November.
Okay.
Alright good thank you.
And then just finally where you do the state that there has been no proposal for coming yet.
I imagine you have been in regular contact with future partners regarding some certain regulation? No comment.
Fair enough.
Okay thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Pete Taurasi of Barclays.
Good morning guys.
I just have a follow up question on your Zohar exposure.
During an interview on CNBC in early May representative from Patriarch Partners referenced to potential that loans in Zohar one would be put out to bid in May can you confirm if that occurred? We can't comment on that.
Okay.
And then I mean other than the legal final majority date in November or there are other milestone dates that we should be aware of either in the CLO documents or the actual financial guarantee policy? We got the first Zohar deal maturing in November of this year the second maturing in January 2017.
So those are the two rational dates for the exposures in sales.
And then obviously there is the ongoing SCC issues which have their own dates as well towards progress on that front.
Okay.
Great thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Ed Grocan [ph] of High Analytics.
Are you there? Sorry.
Thank you.
First let me say thank you for taking my questions.
Just want to focus on capital during your prepared remarks you said you have about a $1 billion of access capital at national just to make sure and stand that that was relative to S&amp;P and Moody's ratings is that correct? That is relative to the S&amp;P capital model.
Okay.
AAA requirements.
And how about on statutory basis.
Do you provide any information about how much access capital you have on statutory basis? The S&amp;P capital model really focuses on statutory capital in its calculation.
Okay.
So what would be the key elements that the state regulator would focus on when they are looking at your capital because lately the questions I may get in haven't focused on - you are talking about $150 million of dividends from national to the hold co and there seems to be some interest into - are there specific items that would lower or limit that dividend from National to the hold co? Again the - as of right dividends that National can make to the holding company are limited by its net investment income to the extent that some things happen that cause net investment income to be higher or lower that will have an impact on the dividend able amount.
Okay.
And then my last question is several times during your remarks you mention that for the outlook for Puerto Rico and for PREPA that nothing concrete is no material changes.
Can I view those comments to me in that - and there hasn't been any material changes in the reserves that National has taken relative to its Puerto Rico exposure during the quarter? We do update the reserves every quarter and just one effect we would be aware of is that for our GAAP reporting in our operating income.
We do update the discount rates that are used every quarter.
So as rates rise there has been impact on our loss reserves to extent that rates fall there is also small impact.
So there is that volatility that exist in any reserves were looking at a long tail cash flow analysis.
Right so aside from the rate volatility has there been any other changes? I think just to be clear we took a very long look that's in the second quarter last year and rejected out over the next several years what we thought might occur in Puerto Rico in terms of payment interruptions and potential recoveries.
What we said this quarter was everything we saw was consistent with what we had forecast in the past and we saw no material change in our views.
So year ago to your point we didn't make any major change in scenarios or reserve levels at this point based on what we've seen.
Fantastic I appreciate that.
Thank you very much for taking my questions.
At this time there are no further questions.
I would now like to turn the floor back over to Greg Diamond for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Maria and thanks to everyone to who joined us for today’s call.
Please contact me if you have any additional questions.
We also recommend that you visit our website at mbia.com for additional information on our company.
Thank you for your interest in MBIA.
Good day and goodbye.
Thank you.
This concludes today’s call.
You may now disconnect and have a wonderful day.
Welcome to the MBIA Inc.
Third Quarter 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
I would now like to turn the call over to Greg Diamond Managing Director of Investor and Media Relations at MBIA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Crystal.
Welcome to the MBIA's conference call for our third quarter 2015 financial results.
After the market closed yesterday we issued and posted several items on our websites including our financial results press release our 10-Q our quarterly operating supplements and our statutory financial statements for MBIA Insurance Corporation and National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation.
We also posted updates to the listings of our insured portfolios.
Please note that anything said on today's call is qualified by the information provided in the company's 10-Q 10-K and other SEC filings as our company's definitive disclosures are incorporated in those documents.
We urge investors to read our 2014 10-K and our third quarter 2015 10-Q as they contain our most current disclosures about the company and its financial and operating results.
The 10-K and 10-Q also contain information that may not be addressed on today's call.
Regarding the non-GAAP terms included in our remarks today the definitions and reconciliations of those items may be found in our most recent 10-K 10-Q our financial results press release and our quarterly operating supplement.
The recorded replay of today's call will become available approximately one hour after the end of the call and the information for accessing it is included in yesterday's financial results press release.
And now here is our Safe Harbor disclosure statement.
Our remarks on today's conference call may contain forward-looking statements.
Important factors such as general market conditions and the competitive environment could cause our actual results to be materially different than the projected results referenced in our forward-looking statements.
Risk factors are detailed in our 10-K which is available on our website at mbia.com.
The company cautions not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.
The company also undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if it later becomes aware that such statement is no longer accurate.
For our call today Jay Brown Bill Fallon and Chuck Chaplin will provide some introductory comments.
Then Anthony McKiernan will join jay and Bill and Chuck for the question-and-answer session that will follow.
Now here's Jay.
Thanks Greg and good morning.
We had a very solid quarter with operating income of 24 million and an increase in adjusted book value per share to $29.55.
While the comparison to last year’s third quarter operating income is poor due to unusual items in that quarter we do have a positive sequential trend.
In last year’s third quarter we had a large reserve release related to taxes and a substantial insurance recovery resulting in an above average 2014 operating income.
In addition to adequate earnings we continued to invest in the future growth of our business in the quarter increasing our capacity in National to identify underwrite and win new business.
We still have a significant way to go there but the early results remain encouraging.
Finding transactions that meet our return requirements and that are consistent with our underwriting standards and portfolio guide lines remains challenging.
But we continue to believe that the current municipal stress combined with eventual higher interest rates will generate penetration for the bond insurance industry sufficient to drive increases in our adjusted book value and shareholder value.
We and our advisors have continued to work with our Puerto Rico credits particularly PREPA the Puerto Rico Electric Utility and Bill will give you an update later on our efforts.
The process has been frustrating at times and we may have a long way to go before achieving full resolution across all the Puerto Rican credits.
In the meant time the ebb and flow of news reports and analysts prognostications continues to weigh down on our stock price.
The low stock price has enabled us to continue to add significant long term value for shareholders via share buybacks.
We’ve now repurchased shares in each of the last six quarters.
In the third quarter we repurchased 19 million shares for a 120 million and we completed the buyback program that had been authorized by the Board of Directors at the end of July.
To date in 2015 we have repurchased 39 million shares for $297 million and as of October 28 we have been authorized to undertake an additional 100 million of share repurchases.
Chuck will take you through our thinking about the amount and the limitations on our buyback activity.
But we will stand ready to use available excess liquidity for buybacks to take advantage of extraordinary low prices.
During the quarter Warburg Pincus sold all of its remaining shares to the market so our shares are now somewhat more broadly held than they had been previously.
As a result of the Warburg sale Sean Carney has stepped down from our Board.
The Board also recently elected two new directors Keith Curry joined us in July he was a city council member in New Port Beach California and he also served as the city’s mayor.
He retired as a founder and managing director of Public Financial Management Inc.
known as PFM the nation’s largest public advisory firm.
And earlier this week we announced that our Board elected Lois Scott formerly the Chief Financial Officer of the City of Chicago to be a director.
Both of these new directors have spent their careers in public finance and their election to our Board reaffirms our focus on the US municipal market and our commitment to long term leadership in our industry.
Now I’ll turn it over to Bill.
Thanks Jay.
I will update you on Puerto Rico our insured portfolio run-off and National’s new business activities.
First Puerto Rico.
As most of you know our biggest exposure in Puerto Rico is the PREPA and we continue to strongly believe that the authority has all the tools it needs to address its operational and liquidity needs including debt service.
In the third quarter we closed our bond purchase with PREPA giving them some liquidity breathing room.
We continue to have discussions with PREPA and its advisors however no agreement has been reached at this time.
As we stated last quarter we believe PREPA can be fixed as an example PREPA currently charges approximately $0.19 per kilowatt hour which is less than several states and substantially lower than most island economies.
Since PREPA has not increased its base rate in over 25 years it has an obligation to charge rates that cover debt service.
We filed a petition with the Puerto Rico Energy Commission requesting that they increase electricity rates on a temporary basis to ensure that PREPA can pay its operating expenses and debt service and that they impose fixed dead line on PREPA’s pending rate petition as required by Puerto Rico law and the bond documents.
We do not believe that the regulators rejection of our petition requesting a temporary 4.2 cent rate increase was well founded and we’ve filed an appeal with the Puerto Court of Appeals.
Meanwhile it’s been reported in the press that PREPA’s Board has recently signaled the willingness to consider increasing rates as one element and a reorganization and that the Governor’s authorized such an increase in connection with the restructuring of PREPA’s debt.
PREPA’s also entered into a tentative agreement in principle with some of its uninsured creditors to exchange their bonds.
Puerto Rico recently started discussions with creditors on other credits and we hope to have more information in the next month.
We insure $273 million in Commonwealth guarantee GDP debt service that matures on December 1 which benefits from protection under the Puerto Rico constitution.
We expect the government to pay but if it defaults on its guarantee National stands ready to make the payment under our policy.
To the extent that National pays any claims it will be aggressive in seeking recovery of those payments.
We also have exposure to COFINA where we believe that dedicated tax revenues backing those bonds are legally well protected and we think that legislation passed earlier this year will have a favorable impact on the highway debt we insure.
There have been hearings in the senate finance and energy and natural resources committees on Puerto Rico over the past six weeks in which the Commonwealth government has reiterated its position that debt restructuring will be necessary and has called on the US Congress to approve access to the bankruptcy courts.
The Obama administration also has laid out a game plan calling for bankruptcy access for Puerto Rico and its instrumentalities but it is leaving implementation to the Congress.
There does not appear to be support in Congress to move this forward.
We do not support a retroactive change in the law that would allow a Commonwealth and its instrumentalities to have broader powers to impair obligations owed to long term investors many of whom are individuals retirees and other mainstream investors in Puerto Rico and throughout the United States.
Hedge funds which got a lot of attention at the senate hearings and at media coverage actually own a minority of the Puerto Rico debt outstanding.
The hearings may ultimately add value by focusing attention on Puerto Rico’s problems but so far it is unclear if anything tangible and timely will come from the federal government.
Insured portfolio continues to amortize at a rapid pace with $17 billion that either matured or refinanced in the third quarter bringing the portfolio to $177 billion gross par outstanding.
Year-to-date $45 billion or 20% of the portfolio has runoff.
We expect the insured portfolio continue to amortize and free up excess capital.
We estimate that we have over $1 billion of excess capital to the S&amp;P AAA capital requirement which we will be seeking to deploy more aggressively when we have additional clarity around the [passport] on Puerto Rico.
This would include seeking approval for a special dividend to the holding companies.
On the new business front we continue to review price and close more transactions each quarter.
We insured 16 policies in the third quarter and we are increasingly being used by the financial advisor to bankers who’ll generate a lion share of new business opportunities.
In total we wrapped $129 million of power notably we wrapped eight deals in the secondary market this quarter which was our first secondary market deals we’ve insured since we reentered the market.
Since the end of third quarter we’ve been mandated on eight more deals totaling $98 million at par.
We bought Tom Metzold on Board this quarter who joined us from Eaton Vance and he enhances our secondary market capability as well as giving us new insights in to trading and the value being added by our insurance.
Now Chuck will give you an update on our financial results and balance sheet.
Great.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
Our operating income was $24 million in the quarter compared to $120 million in the year ago quarter.
As Jay has noted the comparison at last year is a tough one because of two major unusual items in the Q3 2014 that we didn’t expect to repeat.
We had a tax reserve release for $77 million last year and received a settlement from our errors and omissions carriers related to expenses incurred in our transformation and other litigations.
Aside from these elements our run rate on operating income was about $31 million.
The decline to $24 million in this year’s third quarter is due to lower premium earnings related to the amortization of National’s insured portfolio.
Operating income per share was $0.15 compared to $0.63 in the third quarter of last year.
Adjusted book value per share grew significantly in the quarter to $29.55.
Robust share repurchase activity in 2015 is the driver of this improvement.
So far this year we’ve reduced outstanding shares by 20%.
Now I’ll take a couple of minutes to talk about performance at the segment level.
National’s operating income was $48 million compared to $70 million in last years’ third quarter.
The variants to last year is primarily driven by the E&amp;L recovery and a decline in premiums earned due to a smaller insured portfolio.
Our loss and loss adjustment expense was a benefit of $7 million in this year’s third quarter compared to a benefit of $8 million in the Q3 last year.
This year’s benefit was driven by a lower risk free rate and its impact on the value of recoveries in our loss models.
There was very little movement in terms of our expectations about fundamental credit performance.
Written premium in the quarter was $1 million on 129 million of par ensured.
The favorable trend in terms market acceptance continues.
We did more transactions in the Q3 than in any quarter since we recommenced writing new business in National last year and we believe the momentum has continued in to the Q4 so far.
National’s statutory capital was $3.4 billion at September 30 compared to $3.3 billion at year end 2014.
It had invested assets of nearly $4.8 billion at September 30.
After the quarter ended National paid a dividend to MBIA Inc.
of $114 million.
That was statutory capital growth and a reduction in gross power insured to about $177 billion we believe that National has over $1 billion of excess capital relative to the S&amp;P AAA standard even after its dividend.
And as Bill has mentioned we expect that this capital will provide substantial opportunities for us in the future.
In the Corporate segment we had an operating loss of $24 million compared to income of $50 million in the third quarter of last year.
The variance to last year is almost entirely driven by the tax reserve release partially offset by lower operating expenses.
In the quarters of 2015 the operating expenses and debt service in the corporate segment have been pretty leveled at about $44 million a quarter.
The segment started the quarter with $497 million of liquidity and finished with $306 million primarily because we used approximately $120 million to buy back shares in the quarter.
Our Board of Directors has now given us an additional share repurchase authorization of $100 million.
We expect that inflows at the holding company level including tax extra releases in dividends will enable us to remain above our liquidity minimum target and to reach our target of achieving middle investment grade debt leverage by the end of 2018 including the impact of the new authorization.
But we do not see any path to buybacks beyond this authorization until we are in a position to receive extraordinary dividends.
Our liquidity and leverage objectives will continue to define the limits of our repurchase activities.
Just to be clear we expect to use this $100 million authorization if prices remain low but we do not expect to have adequate resources to go beyond this until and unless our liquidity outlook changes materially including by receiving extraordinary dividends.
Now turning to MBIA Corp.
we’d a statutory loss in the third quarter of $12 million compared to income of $47 million in last year’s third quarter.
Last year’s third quarter benefited from accelerated premium recognition on terminated policies a large fee related to another terminated policy and MBIA Corp.
share of the recovery from the E&amp;O carriers plus the insured portfolio has declined by merely 30% since last year’s third quarter so run rate premiums are lower as well.
Loss and loss adjustment expense was $50 million in this year’s third quarter.
We saw some deterioration in the value of excess spread recoveries from higher than expect voluntary prepayments and an increase in loss on the one CMBS pool in which we have been making payments and then miscellaneous smaller losses on a large number of policies.
Second lien prepayments are affected by interest rates home value appreciation and by the fact that many of the loans in the securitization are beginning their amortization periods.
MBIA Corp.
statutory capital was $813 million at September 30 2015 and its liquidity position was $399 million.
While the insured portfolio was much more stable than in the past there continues to be areas of risk.
One of the areas of greatest uncertainty is around high yield CDO book where we have exposure to the two deals known as the Zohar funding CDOs.
Zohar 1 matures on November 20 2015 with approximately $149 million of insured par outstanding.
Unless the notes are repaid in accordance with their terms or if we can agree on a consensual restructuring of all the exposures before that date we stand ready to fund the payment at maturity and then to vigorously exercise our rights to ensure recovery of that payment and mitigate the risk of loss on the $808 million of bonds issued by Zohar 2 which mature in January 2017.
We continue to manage MBIA Corp.
with a view towards maximizing the margin of safety for policy holders and creating maximum recovery for our surplus note holders.
We’ve continued to make progress on expense management as well.
Year-to-date our consolidated expenses including National MBIA Corp.
and the holding company are 28% below 2014s level.
Excluding the direct expenses of our investment management subsidiary which was sold early in 2015 the reduction is about 4%.
All-in-all this has been another quarter of progress towards a stable operating future for your company and enhancement of value through share repurchase.
At this time we’d be happy entertain any questions you may have.
[Operator Instructions] our first question comes from the line of Brett Gibson with JP Morgan.
During your prepared remarks you mentioned that you expect Puerto Rico to pay the December maturity but can you give us a little more detail about the liquidity and resources that the GDB has in advance for that December 1 maturity so that’s question number one.
Question number two is related to what were the 50 million losses that were booked at Corp.
during the quarter can you just outline what those were and then any additional color on Zohar that you have and then finally just related to buyback.
So the company has bought back an enormous amount of stock year-to-date and I guess I’m curious how the company can get comfortable with that given the large deficit of assets to liabilities at the holding company and also the state of Corp.
specifically the uncertainties on insured obligations and the non-payment status of the surplus notes.
And so I guess my question is how can you be comfortable with that? And then separately just the fact that many of the officers at the holding company sit on the Board of Corp.
does that play a factor on your thinking anyway? Brett it’s Bill with regards to your first question on Puerto Rico as I stated we do expect the December 1 payment related to the GDB debt which is insured or guaranteed by the Commonwealth to be paid.
In terms of the liquidity as you know it is somewhat difficult because of the information or lack of information that’s being provided.
Best we know that there is liquidity but again it becomes almost a week-to-week or month-to-month situation.
But at this point the best we can assess we believe will be paid we think that is the Commonwealth and GDB get in to the beginning of next year really the first half is perhaps where there will be real questions in the absence of some type of restructuring of other programs to address their debt service.
Beyond that there’s not a whole lot of information that we have.
And then Brett just going on you’d asked secondly about MBIA Corp.
and its incurred losses in the quarter.
So we had 50 million of total incurred loss about half of which is due to the pace of voluntary prepayments that we observed in the second lien RMBS securitizations.
So with respect to that book there are sort of two things that affect our incurred loss which are defaults and charge-offs of the underlying mortgages and then voluntary prepayments.
Defaults and charge-offs are basically in line with our projections so not much movement there.
However in the third quarter compared to our expectation that voluntary prepayments would decline slightly voluntary prepayments increased as a result we think of a combination of continued very low interest rates the fact that many of the loans are getting to the point where they’re stopping interest only and the amortization period begins so that the homeowners monthly payment increases significantly and the fact that there is positive home price appreciation so that each month there are more homes that are not under water in the portfolios and so that’s caused us to take a write down of the excess spread to the point where the asset on our balance sheet today is about $450 million.
So it’s about a 5% reduction in the value that we recognize in the third quarter.
The other piece is that in our CMBS pool portfolio we have basically only one transaction on which we have incurred loss and on which we are making payments currently and the increase in incurred loss in the quarter is really attributable to a single bond that’s referenced in that transaction that we had previously expected to perform and which we now expect to be impaired.
And that accounts for another roughly $15 million of our incurred loss in the quarter.
So we had 50 million of incurred 40 million on those two effects that I referred to and about $10 million that’s spread over many many transactions I would say across 70 or so other transactions on which we have reserves.
It ties in a little bit with your next question which was about the Zohar matters.
There’s not a lot that I can add relative to our position there but suffice it to say given what I just went through there was no material change in our reserve position in the quarter.
And then finally you’d asked about share buyback and how we get comfortable with kind of our balance sheet position in the context of share repurchase.
And there are two measures that we focus on; one is just the liquidity level at the holding company relative to holding company obligations in the future.
So we’re currently sitting with about $300 million as of September 30 in liquidity at the holdco level that’s roughly consistent with three years’ worth of our operating expenses at the holding company level.
It’s setting the minimum level of liquidity is there is some art as well as science in it but we think that with this kind of position we’re sort of well insulated at the holding company level against any impacts that it may have from unexpected expenses.
Frankly we think the cash outflows at the holdco level are pretty well set because there are operating expenses and debt service and we believe that the inflows are pretty well set.
They are primarily coming from National’s operations both in terms of dividends what we’ve talked about the 2015 dividend as well as expectations for the future as well as releases from the tax escrow.
So we think that from a liquidity position we’re pretty well insulated.
The other limitation though is on debt leverage.
We’ve said that we think that our debt leverage is too high and that we ought to be bringing it down over time.
We’ve set a target of getting to middle investment grade credit quality metrics by year-end 2018 with the share buybacks that we’ve done to date and we’re still on track to meet that and to the extent that we use the additional share repurchase authorization that we just talked about that the Board authorized recently we still think that we will get to our leverage target by year-end 2018.
So we think we are in a pretty good position there and frankly it’s driven by the robust cash flow that has been coming in to the holding company.
Your next question comes from the line of Wayne Cooperman with Cobalt Capital.
You kind of covered most of my questions but as the portfolio continues to run off and we’re not seeing a lot of opportunities to write new business as quickly as it runs off doesn’t that bring down your ratios pretty quickly and free up more capital for repurchase.
There’s two parts to that.
As we mentioned Wayne inside National you are absolutely right; all the metrics that you would look at continue to get stronger and stronger.
You will get anything that looks at the leverage it’s come down substantially.
So we’ve got 3.4 billion of statutory capital we have about 177 billion of gross par outstanding at this point in time.
That’s going to continue to run off.
You’re going to see numbers below 50 to 1 in terms of part of that capital very shortly which if you back historically you would never see things like that in [inaudible] only.
So that’s part of it and you’re absolutely right that’s going to continue to get stronger and stronger and as we mentioned that builds up excess capital we tend to compare it to what’s required under the S&amp;P Capital model.
The second part of it is then that money getting up to the holding company and Chuck just mentioned that comes about through the as a write dividend the tax payments which then go in to the tax escrow and as I mentioned when we get clarity on Puerto Rico we will be seeking an approval for special dividends from National to the holding company which will provide additional financial flexibility to holding company either buy back stock repay debt etcetera.
I mean obviously because buying back stock at a quarter a book is probably a much higher return than any business that you could write even if there was business out there.
That is correct.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Gadlin with Odeon Capital Group.
I think Bill it was in your commentary on HTA that there’s some legislation earlier this year that strengthened it can you talk about that a little bit? Yeah that was the tax legislation that they passed on oil which allowed them to increase revenues by about $6 per barrel and that money has been building up during the course of the year and they have that sort of at their disposal.
So while there’s still some work to be done with regard to how they restructure HTA and there were some ideas floated early in the year which never got enacted.
We do think the credit itself was strengthened through that increased revenue.
The talk has been that that revenue would go towards a PREPA offering isn’t it.
Correct.
That was the idea earlier in the year that was floated and there’s some details around that.
As you know they never actually move forward with that.
I think other events took priority in particular in PREPA and now I think the focus is on GDP and Commonwealth debt.
But at some point we would think pretty soon they will turn their attention also to the highway and perhaps the PREPA financing and some variation of what they had proposed earlier this year.
Got it.
And then just switching over to core for a second in the past you’ve been willing to comment on what you think of the pricing level of the surplus notes given if they’ve come down to where they have low 40s.
How do you look at those today and the ability to do something with the holders there.
It’s closer not that yet at a level that makes sense to use.
But it certainly has moved directionally in the last two or three quarters to where it’s getting close to where the transaction might be feasible.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Charles with RW Pressprich.
Just regarding Corp.
when thinking about the negotiations with Patriarch Partners now that it’s reached a stage where there is litigation involved.
It seems less likely a negotiated settlement might materialize before January 2017.
In light of that do you have any thoughts about whether or not a negotiated settlement could be reached before then? And absent that what kind of alternatives might you be exploring to shore up liquidity at Corp.
which I think you’ll need to focus on if you have to pay out the $800 million of maturity in January 2017.
Given that there is now litigation price we don’t really feel comfortable talking about our strategy beyond the fact that we expect to make a - if Patriarch doesn’t make the first payment which comes up this month we expect to take any and all actions to improve the position of the Zohar 2 and Zohar 3 which we do not insure.
There’s a number of steps that we plan on taking which we’ll be discussing Patriarch in the near future.
But just regarding Corp.
though can you discuss any alternatives you are thinking about regarding outside of Patriarch pursuing liquidity options for Corp.
in case you do have to make an $800 million payment in January.
Yes a non-cash asset which we can monetize we’ve got three or four different plans that we are prepared to pursue if that’s an appropriate actions but right now we prefer not to discuss those till it takes place.
Would one those options potentially involve in a support from the holding company? No.
You’re not considering that.
Just wondering because given the transformation the holding company has received over $550 million of tax escrow payments from NOLs that were generated at MBIA Corp.
and I know to date you’ve used around $300 million for stock buyback and you’re planning on using another $100 million.
I just wonder if because of that value that has been secured from Corp.
are you willing to make any statement that you’d be willing to support the stakeholders at Corp.
if it comes to that if you need to do that in January 2017.
I think I just made my statement we do not intend make any payments from the holding company.
Your next question comes from the line of Peter Troisi with Barclays.
Just a question on your PREPA exposure you mentioned the appeal in the prepared remarks.
You disclosed in the 10-Q that the MBIA and Assured Guaranty filed a petition to intervene in to the Energy Commissions proceeding.
Can you expand on what that was? The couple was required to essentially put together a long term operating plan and that’s what was filed.
The regulation then allowed interested parties who think they have something to contribute to intervene which is what we did.
Other parties have intervened as you cited we did it in conjunction with Assured they have another specially trade creditors that have also intervened to be heard.
In fact I guess there were more than just a few and therefore they have deferred the day at which they were going to hear from those parties.
So it is a way for us to put forth ideas in terms of now PREPA could be restructured operationally to improve things going forward for their customers.
So that’s the process there.
And then at this point given what you know do you feel like you have enough information to be fully reserved for your PREPA exposure? We think we have quite a bit of information given the information that we do have; we therefore have gone through the process in terms scenarios and done the appropriate calculations for the reserving.
And if I could just fit in a couple on Insurance Corp.
It looks like Corp.
released some contingency reserves in the quarter.
Was that primarily related to the maturity of the investment grade Corp.
[approvals]? Basically yes.
Okay great.
And last thing from me; is there anything that you could say on the litigation that was filed by Patriarch Partners on Monday of this week? We just received the litigation the only thoughts I would have on it given the impending maturity and the discussions we’d had today we were disappointed that Patriarch file the lawsuit against us concerning the Zohar CDOs.
By turning to litigation rather than continuing to work with us another creditors and a realistic consensual restructuring that would enable the Zohar transactions to meet their obligation we believe that Ms.
Tilton has embarked on yet another ill-advised effort to deflect attention from her own performance and legal issues.
While we will vigorously defend ourselves against this lawsuit which we believe is meritless we will at the same time continue with our efforts to find a solution that we believe will be in all the parties best interest.
Your next question comes from the line of Geoffrey Dunn with Dowling and Partners.
Bill it looks like the Chicago Board of Ed sequentially got bumped on to the BIG list.
Can you just give us your updated thoughts on that credit and the Chicago situation overall.
Sure.
As you know both Board of Ed and the City of Chicago we’ve been watching quite carefully both of them getting fair amount of attention in the press.
We think that the Board of Ed clearly has a lot of challenges.
We do have our belief that when you look through the details of that credit that we have the appropriate sort of security and safeguards that ultimately the credit will be fine.
But it is going to have a lot of uncertainty around it as you know they’ve got issues with under-funded pensions they also are looking to the state for some financial support the state obviously had an impasse with its budget that we are entering month number five and so there’s just a lot of uncertainty exactly how things are going to go forward.
In addition you obviously have the situation with the Teacher’s Union which is unsettled at this point as well.
So part of the reason for the rating is just all the uncertainty that I referred to.
When you get down to actually the way the credit will play out we believe it will be fine but it really is the uncertainty that played in to the decision.
I think last quarter is pretty uncertain as well that just keeps going dragging on that kind of finally hit that trigger to downgrade it.
Exactly it become cumulative [spec] and the time that all these things are out there.
I think it just got us to the tipping point.
[Operator Instructions] and your next question comes from the line of Nagendra Jayanty with Claren Road.
Just wanted to follow-up on something that Peter Troisi Barclays had asked on reserving for PREPA.
So when you say that you have done the appropriate case the scenario analysis does that mean that you have taken reserves above contingency reserves level on PREPA? We acknowledge that we had taken reserves on PREPA in second quarter of 2014.
So there’s nothing that we’ve learned in this quarter that changes our view that we took at that point.
Okay that did.
That was the question I was asking okay.
And then the second thing is on the Credit Suisse putback case I noticed that we are waiting for discovery to conclude on February 2016 but are there intermediate dates before then that allow for some sort of settlement or sort of other discussions to occur or could you give us a little more color on how the case is going? We’re in the process right now of going through expert reports and review those reports and responding to those reports.
Settlement discussions can take place at any time.
It typically will come a bit later when positions and all of the facts are fully documented.
That’s typically the time when both sides sit back and say how does our case look versus their defense of the case.
So I would be surprised if there is any settlement this year.
Though the prospects for one next year remains positive.
We now have a follow-up question from the line of Brian Charles with RW Pressprich.
I just want to address the surplus notes one more time.
Is there any comment you can give on how you’re trying to maximize value for the surplus notes overtime.
When you mention that I would certainly believe that but as it stands I just don’t have a lot of clarity around different options you might be pursuing.
And I am actually in absence of any kind of guidance.
I am wondering to what extent that you might be able to get pass January 2017 not just to maximize value for the surplus notes but just to make sure that the policy holders at MBIA Corp.
are not left to their own devices.
Policy holders come first and surplus notes holders come second and if there is any residual value that would accrue to our shareholders.
What we are trying to do is manage each of the exposures.
We continue to pursue optimizing early termination or commutations.
We are working very hard as Chuck noted to keep our expenses to an absolute bear minimum.
We are working and pursuing both the litigation against Credit Suisse and also litigation against JP Morgan and we’re continuing to look at increasing value at MBI UK.
We are working through our expenses of older operations such as in Mexico and in Spain to minimize those costs and we continue to believe that there are adequate resources within the Zohar credits if they were actively put on the market and put up for sales that the impact on Zohar 1 or Zohar 2 will be minimal and would allow us to get past that January ‘day.
There are a large number of companies involved in the Zohar transactions.
More than a couple of dozen are generating very positive EBITDA and could be sold in order lay matter over the next two or three years and that should allow us to minimize any liquidity impact on MBIA Corp.
and eventually then have some residual value which we can maximize for the surplus note holders.
It’s incorrect to think that there’s no value in those underlying companies.
Even Ms.
Tilton goes to great lengths to explain the value of those companies.
And we feel that there’s possibility that an answer is possible.
We felt that for a long time and we’re going to continue to work for that resolution.
And yeah I could see that and that there is value at Zohar but just to the extent you would have to make payment in January 2017 and then get substantial recoveries after that seems like it’s not a solvency problem or a capital problem but there would be a liquidity issue you need to address unless there’s some way you could bridge that date January 2017 with the understanding that payments would be coming in to MBIA Corp.
from the disposition of the Zohar assets down the road.
Is there a way you can bridge that gap to get past January 2017 without hitting on liquidity shortfall which you might hit if you’re unable to reach an agreement beforehand? January 2017 is a long way there’s going to be a lot of development between now and then.
So I think it’s premature to try and guess what we might do.
Okay that’s fair enough.
And it was hard to keep pinning you down on this.
But I guess if there’s any guidance you can give on alternatives if you can’t reach this agreement before January 2017 is there something you can do to bridge the gap to allow you to avoid receivership which could potentially happen if you have to make that $800 million payment.
Is there some sort of arrangement you can come up with when agreement such that the resolution of the underlying assets after January 2017 can be agreed upon in some sort of manner with basically your policy holders.
I think we’ve already answered that question.
At this time there are no further questions.
I will now turn the call back to management for closing remarks.
Thank you Crystal.
And thanks to everyone who joined us for today’s call.
Please contact me directly if you have any additional questions.
We also recommend that you visit our website mbia.com for additional information on our company.
Thank you for your interest in MBIA.
Good day and good bye.
This concludes todays’ conference call.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the MBIA Inc.
Fourth Quarter and Full-year 2015 Financial Results Conference Call.
I’d now like to turn it over to Greg Diamond Managing Director of Investor and Media Relations at MBIA.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Maria.
Welcome to MBIA's conference call for our fourth quarter and full-year financial results of 2015.
After the market closed yesterday we issued and posted several items on our Web sites including our financial results press release 10-K quarterly operating supplements and statutory financial statements for MBIA Insurance Corporation and National Public Finance Guarantee Corporation.
We also posted updates to listings of our insurance portfolios and an additional 8-K this morning.
Regarding today’s call please note that anything said on the call is qualified by the information provided in the Company's 10-K and other SEC filings as our Company's definitive disclosures are incorporated in those documents.
We urge investors to read our 10-K as it contains our most current disclosures about the Company and its financial and operating results.
The 10-K also contains information that may not be addressed on today's call.
Regarding the non-GAAP terms included in our remarks today the definitions and reconciliations of those terms may be found in our 10-K our financial results press release and our quarterly operating supplements.
The recorded replay of today's call will become available approximately one hour after the end of the call and the information for accessing it is included in yesterday's financial results press release.
And now here is our Safe Harbor disclosure statement.
Our remarks on today's conference call may contain forward-looking statements.
Important factors such as general market conditions and the competitive environment could cause our actual results to be materially different than the projected results referenced in our forward-looking statements.
Risk factors are detailed in our 10-K which is available on our Web site at mbia.com.
The Company cautions not to place undue reliance on any such forward-looking statements.
The Company also undertakes no obligation to publicly correct or update any forward-looking statement if it later becomes aware that such statement is no longer accurate.
For our call today Jay Brown Bill Fallon and Chuck Chaplin will provide some brief introductory comments.
Then Anthony McKiernan will join them for the question-and-answer session that will follow.
Now here's Jay.
Thanks Greg.
First on behalf of the entire management team thank you for your interest in MBIA.
And particularly for the ongoing interest of those shareholders who have been with us through the financial crisis and subsequent recession.
While we’re still in a rebuilding phase I continue to believe that we’ve ample opportunity to create value for you over time.
And you can see evidence of that in our results and activities for 2015.
While our operating income per share declined from $0.97 per share in 2014 to $0.52 per share in 2015.
Book value per share increased by $4.14 and adjusted book value or ABV increased by nearly $5 per share from roughly $25 per share to approximately $30 per share.
Operating income per share declined primarily due to a couple of unusual and favorable results that occurred in 2014.
The release of a $61 million tax reserve and the receipt of an $18 million E&amp;O insurance policy recovery.
The 19% improvement in ABV was primarily driven by our significant share repurchase activity which I will have more to say about later.
There has been a lot of activity in the four months since our last quarterly call so we’ve a lot to cover today.
Bill Fallon is going to provide an update on National’s new business activities but I’d like to point out that National insured $600 million of par amount of new business in 2015 compared to $400 million in 2014 and nothing in 2013.
More importantly from a transaction perspective we issued five policies in the first quarter of 2015 then nine in the second quarter 19 in the third quarter and 26 in the fourth quarter.
The new business momentum in National is clear and has been accelerating.
This despite having a modest rating differential compared to the other two active bond insurers that are writing new business and historically low muni bond interest rates.
Bill will also review the most recent events affecting National’s insurance portfolio and then Chuck Chaplin will take you through our financial results highlights and our liquidity positions.
But before we hear from them there are few more things I’d like to address first.
First the ongoing uncertainty about Puerto Rico continues to create an extremely meaningful headwind for our share price.
Some progress has been made with PREPA recently.
From a fundamental perspective where we struck an agreement that demonstrates that credits of this type can be successfully renegotiated outside of court protection.
While implementation of the agreement is subject to certain conditions.
The expected outcome for National under the agreement demonstrate -- demonstrates that some of the initial perspectives on the magnitude of potential losses for National’s were rather harsh.
Bill will have more to say about PREPA and our Puerto Rico exposures in a couple of minutes.
Suffice it to say we’re confident that National’s balance sheet and liquidity are more that adequate to manage our existing $3.8 billion in Puerto Rico exposures which I should note have declined by more than $675 million of gross par amount in $1 billion of debt service since year-end 2014.
At the same time we believe that we’ve created substantial value for our shareholders by using our available liquidity resources to buyback common stock at advantageous prices while continuing to maintain an adequate liquidity cushion.
In October of last year the Board gave us a new $100 million authorization for share buyback which we’ve now fully used and which reduced share count by around an additional 10% or nearly 16 million shares.
On a pro-forma basis that adds another $2.55 to ABV assuming everything else remains unchanged.
Over the past 15 months we reduced our share count by about 30% and at the same time we’ve continued to make progress towards a stronger holding company balance sheet by also reducing holding company debt by $128 million.
Last week our Board authorized another $100 million for share repurchases which will take a bit longer to execute given MBI’s current liquidity profile and absent a special dividend from National.
At MBI Insurance Corp we continue to work to maximize the margin of safety for its policy holders and the long-term returns for its surplus note holders.
While its insured portfolio has decreased appreciably and the remaining volatility of its insured’s credits have subsided MBI Corp continues to face uncertainty related to the Zohar CLO’s it has insured.
We paid off the Zohar I notes in November of last year and we’re now seeking recoveries from its underlying assets.
We continue to believe that we will be successful and eventually recover 100% on the Zohar I notes.
The Zohar II notes are scheduled to mature in January of 2017.
Presently $776 million of principal remains outstanding on those notes.
We continue to work on a plan that will enable MBI Corp to pay any shortfall that might arise under our insurance coverage of the Zohar II notes.
The plan entails a potential reduction in the outstanding principal amount of the Zohar II notes or a restructuring of the maturity of the notes combined with raising liquidity at MBI Insurance Corp to enable it to make any payment due on the maturity date.
Given the ongoing litigation related to Zohar and the confidentiality agreements associated with the transactions and our insurance coverages.
There is not much more that we can say at this time on the Zohar situation.
Turning to personnel matters we recently disclosed that Chuck will be retiring from our Company at year-end.
He has been with us for 10 years and he has been a constant resource for our investors.
His moving on clearly represents a big change for us.
I want to thank Chuck for his outstanding service to the Company especially as much of it occurred over the most difficult period in our history.
I wish him nothing but the best in any and all of his future endeavors.
Chuck will continue to be available to help through the transition for the rest of the year and I expect that the transition will be smooth.
Anthony McKiernan will become our newest CFO on March 11.
Anthony has a well-known quantity among our associates the rating agencies our regulators and several of our investors.
As he has been responsible for many of the high profile remediations that we’ve achieved in MBI Corp over the last several years.
Anthony will be responsible for the preparation of our financial results for our first quarter.
I’m gratified that our Company has maintained a deep senior management team throughout and after the financial crisis which has allowed for an orderly succession.
Now Bill will provide an update on National’s activities.
Thanks Jay and good morning everyone.
I’m pleased to report that National enters 2016 with positive momentum built up over the course of 2015.
We began to provide new business in the fourth quarter of 2014 and in December 2015 we reached the milestone having written $1 billion of new business.
We insured $158 million of par in the fourth quarter and our production this year through February is already $135 million.
That compares to $38 million of par in the entire first quarter of 2014.
The quarter-to-quarter improvements are encouraging and we continue to focus on long-term positive trends and maintaining underwriting discipline.
The interest rate increased in 2015 they reversed course in 2016 which may have a negative impact on new business opportunities.
We’ve had success in building out our sales and marketing team and the infrastructure that supports them.
As we’ve mentioned in prior calls we added three senior new business executives in 2015 Tom Weyl Andy Nakahata and Tom Metzel.
We also added five experienced credit analysts to support them.
As a result we’ve made headway establishing relationships with many of the underwriters and financial advisors that are important for National’s future.
We’ve had some success in large deals since the beginning of 2015; our largest deal was in excess of $200 million.
But the primary focus of our business today is the smaller issuers in the $10 million to $25 million range.
We continue to improve on these relationships and are insuring a more diverse number of transactions with a broader set of underwriters and financial advisors.
Industry penetration in 2015 was a 6.7% of total municipal issuance going rack compared to 5.5% in 2014.
What we consider the insurable market insured penetration was 14.1%.
Our definition of the insurable market consist of municipal issuance rated BBB and A.
We believe our industry will experience steady positive growth over the coming years and National is positioned to benefit from that growth.
In the meantime our value creation will largely come from capital management.
During 2015 our portfolio reduced by 27% to $161 billion.
We estimate that our excess capital relative to the S&amp;P AAA criteria grew by almost $0.5 billion to $1.5 billion.
While S&amp;P will conduct its own analysis in the coming months we’re confident that National continues to strengthen its balance sheet relative to its insured liabilities.
We manage our capital conservatively and expect always to hold a cushion to the various internal and external capital requirements relevant to our Company.
Achieving the highest possible ratings and optimizing capital structure are priorities.
As we’ve stated in prior calls at the appropriate time we will seek special dividends from National.
Now let’s focus on our Puerto Rico credits.
As Jay referenced in the fourth quarter our exposure to the Government Development Bank was paid off and our exposure to Highway and Transportation Authority was reduced.
Together with the debt service payments on January 1 our total Puerto Rico exposure declined by $675 million excluding accretion on wrap capital appreciation bonds.
At PREPA we negotiated an agreement with the debtor and ad hoc group of bond holders that provides for an exchange added discount for the ad hocs and an increase in the security for the wrap bonds with no discount.
In return for a surety policy that we believe will enable the exchange bonds to achieve investment grade ratings.
The creditor group also agreed to buy $111 million of new three-year bonds from PREPA to further enhance its liquidity position.
As you know the governor has signed the law which enables the entire agreement to be implemented.
While passing this legislation was a major step the agreement remains in an implementation phase with a number of conditions precedent pending.
We believe the agreement appropriately balances the interest of PREPA its creditors and other stakeholders and we expect this transaction will come to fruition over the next several months.
Our exposure to PREPA is currently $1.4 billion.
Turning to our other exposures in Puerto Rico we believe the Commonwealth’s general obligation debt is well secured having a clear first dollar priority in repayment under the constitution of Puerto Rico.
The Commonwealth’s invocation of the claw back of certain revenues to repay this debt though subject to the litigation is clear evidence of the strength of the priority repayment pledge supporting these bonds.
We’ve $986 million of exposure to the Commonwealth general obligation debt.
The COFINA bonds that we’ve wrapped are senior lean capital appreciation bonds that do not have any debt service payments due until 2040.
As such these bonds do not impact Commonwealth liquidity.
And current sales tax collections which secure the bonds are adequate to service future debt service without requiring growth in the sales tax.
The original par amount of our wrap senior lean COFINA bonds was approximately $700 million and current accretion stands at $1 billion.
At the Highway and Transportation Authority the government’s decision to call back petroleum tax revenues to help service the GO debt impacts most of our exposure to the Authority.
Of our $715 million of HTA exposure $87 million of this debt can continue to be serviced from non-callback revenues.
The remaining $628 million however does rely on petroleum tax receipts for up to 70% of pledge revenues.
We believe the callback is not a permanent appropriation of revenues what is in intercept mechanism designed to protect the GO’s during periods of severe liquidity stress.
All our HTA debt enjoy cash funded that service reserve funds wholly for the benefit of bondholders.
And these funds are sufficient to meet debt service shortfalls into late 2017.
By which time we believe a solution to the Commonwealth liquidity needs can be in place.
We are also monitoring effects to create improved fiscal oversight of the Commonwealth and tourists equitably restructure some of the common wealth debt.
We believe that we will see some additional clarity on Puerto Rico exposures over the course of 2016.
But it likely take several years and a resumption of economic growth before the situation in Puerto Rico normalizes.
Beyond Puerto Rico our portfolio continues to perform satisfactory.
We’ve exposure to both Chicago public schools and the city of Chicago.
We continue to monitor the situation there closely.
Current budget impact is understandable as the state city and CPS continue to wrestle with large pension liabilities and disagree on policy.
Although the media often conflates the two the budget process is separate from the obligation to repay debt.
These issuers have access to significant resources gain market access to fulfill their mandate.
We’ve not altered our favorable view of the debt repayment profile these issuers.
At this point I’ll turn it over to Chuck for a review of our financial results highlights.
Thanks Bill and good morning folks.
Our combined operating income in the fourth quarter was $10 million or $0.07 per share compared to $22 million or $0.12 per share in the year-ago quarter.
The difference is that loss and loss adjustment expense about $15 million higher than in the Q4 to 2014.
Lower operating expenses in the most recent quarter provide a partial offset.
For the full-year 2015 operating income was $87 million or $0.52 a share compared to $185 million or $97 per share in 2014.
The negative variance here is primarily attributable to a positive events in 2014 that did not recur which Jay described.
The release of a tax reserve and an E&amp;O recovery.
Book value and adjusted book value per share both grew significantly 2015 primarily reflecting the favorable effect of Share repurchase.
Book value increased from about $20 to $25 per share and ABV from 25 dollars to $30 per share.
Share account has decreased from $192 million at year-end 2014 to $152 million at year-end 2015.
During our last call in November 2015 I indicated that the Board has given us another $100 million authorization which we expected to use if prices remained low.
And it turned out just that way.
Share price did in fact remain low and we’ve now used that entire authorization.
Most of these buybacks occurred in the first six weeks of 2016.
So at this point since year-end 2014 we’ve reduced shares outstanding by 29% to $137 million shares.
The average buyback price during this period was $7.25 per share.
We believe this represents substantial longer term value for our ongoing shareholders.
Couple of comments on the highlights in the segments.
National’s operating income was $44 million compared to $56 million in 2014 Q4.
The driver of the negative variance was increased lost and loss adjustment expenses.
On PREPA we believe that the agreement that Bill refer to has a good chance of being implemented.
All other things being equal this would result resulted in a reduction in reserves.
However we also increased reserves for a variety of other credits primarily other non-PREPA Puerto Rico policies.
The year-over-year variance in loss expense was $15 million essentially explaining half of that variance between 2015s operating results and 2014s.
We also did not have the gains on fund investments in ’15 that we had in ’14 and we took a write down on the salvage asset in 2015.
For the full-year National’s operating income was $188 million compared to $221 million in 2014.
Higher loss reserves contributed to the reduction as did again some positive items in 2014 that did not recur.
We continue to be very comfortable with National’s capital adequacy and liquidity.
Bill has referenced our excess capital level compared to the S&amp;P AAA standard at nearly $1.5 billion.
And the vast majority of National’s $4.5 billion investment portfolio is comprised of highly marketable asset.
The challenge for us in the medium term will be to get some of that capacity deployed into higher yielding investments either within National or at the holding company level.
As we continue to see positive momentum on the Puerto Rico credits continue.
The potential for near-term extraordinary dividends or other actions should increase.
In 2015 National paid $114 million dividend to MBIA Inc and paid $113 million into the tax escrow account pertaining to its 2015 tax year.
And that cash will become free at the holding company.
In early 2018.
Moving on to the corporate segment its operating loss in the fourth quarter was $34 million level with the loss in 2014s fourth quarter.
Higher taxes and the fourth quarter of -15 basically offset lower operating expenses.
For the full-year where operating loss was $101 million compared to $35 million in 2014.
Virtually the entire variance can be explained by the release of a tax reserve of $61 million in 2014.
As has been said our primary near-term strategy for increasing shareholder value has been VS share buybacks from 2014 to today.
We’ve spend $397 million buying back 55 million shares.
And the Board of Directors gave us another $100 million added to meeting last week.
In Using it will be guided as Jay has said by our liquidity and holding company leverage positions.
And we expect that the pace of repurchases will be slower than we’ve seen in the last nearly five quarters.
Now make a few comments about MBI Corp whereas Jay has referenced our intent is to maximize the margin of safety for policy holders and maximize the ultimate recovery for the surplus note holders.
We measure our results here on a statutory basis.
Start capital ended the year at $885 million compared to $859 million of year-end 2014.
This is the second year of relative financial stability for Corp and the first year since before the financial crisis in which it stack capital actually grew At this point the most important focus is on liquidity.
MBI Corp ended 2015 with $264 million in liquid asset.
After paying 149 million to retire the Zohar I bond in November.
Zohar II matures in January of 2017 with about $776 million currently expected to come due.
There maybe intermediate pay downs between now and then.
In fact a pay down occurred as recently this is January to bring the balance down to $776 million.
That’s $776 million.
We intend to exercise our rights to recoveries under Zohar I work with the new collateral manager to maximize the pay down of the Zohar II bond and to build liquidity within MBI Corp.
We issued an 8-K earlier this morning to clarify the comment that we’ve made in our earnings release.
We’re working with pediatric partners and other parties.
The final solution for Zohar II.
At this point our efforts are focused on replacing Patriarch’s collateral manager of the Zohar CLO’s but we’re not actively working with Patriarch at this point.
We will work with the new collateral manager when named.
Returning to MBI Corp’s balance sheet it contains $2.4 billion of claims paying resources but much of that value is tied up in illiquid assets recoveries like those from Zohar I and Credit Suisse excess spread recoveries on our second lien RMBS policies future installment premiums and investments and subsidiaries.
We are working on ways to increase MBI Corp’s liquidity ahead of the Zohar II maturity.
Now the outcome of all this is relevant to MBI Corp’s ongoing policy holders and to the surplus note holders.
We don’t believe that there will be any material financial impact on National or MBI Inc.
though one way or the other.
Finally beyond the resolution of the Zohar’s we believe that MBI Corp will be a much more stable entity that at any time since the onset of the financial crisis a decade ago.
In conclusion we believe the Company has created substantial value for our shareholders in 2015 by reducing the share count at advantageous prices and by beginning the reintroduction of National to the bond insurance market and growing its market presence quarter-by-quarter.
Some of the important first steps to resolving on Puerto Rico exposure have also taken place.
We believe that these accomplishments will provide a solid base for future shareholder returns.
At this point we’d be pleased to respond any questions that you may have.
The floor is now open for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Geoffrey Dunn of Dowling &amp; Partners.
Thank you.
Good morning.
First just a quick number question.
Chuck the cash flow for the Holding Company this quarter there was a $21 million inflow what is the source or sources of those $10 million $20 million $30 million per quarter type of numbers that we are seeing? They’re just miscellaneous flows that relate to subsidiaries and vendor payments and the like.
Okay.
And then with respect to the … Geoff I wouldn’t expect it to be recurring.
Okay.
And then Jay I thought your comments were clear and Chuck as well about the pace of buyback will slow.
But you said something similar last quarter I thought so I was surprised by how aggressive you were able to be to start this year.
So when we look at this new authorization as well as the cash flow plans and debt repayment targets is this an authorization that within your flows could be completed over the next two years or do we really need a special dividend to get this next incremental 100 done? Geoff when we put it out there it’s because we believe we can get it done.
But we don’t attach this specific timetable.
There is a lot of things that can happen both in the near-term and the longer term.
So from our point of view looking at it if prices remain low we’re going to do our best to figure out ways to utilize that in a shorter time as possible.
That said there is no specific timetable or plans of when that will be executed.
Okay.
And my last question could you outline the next steps in PREPA that we need to see to move towards a finalization of the agreement? Yes Geoff as you know there is several things.
One there is a rate increase that will be submitted by PREPA to the commission.
Then I think the activity really turned to the exchange bonds which would be the banker working for PREPA with the rating agencies and so those are kind of two of the important things over the next short period of time to outlook for.
All right.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Gadlin of Odean Capital Group.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Gentlemen at National I’m trying to bridge a couple of different numbers here.
The loss reserves at National on a GAAP basis increased by $15 million but they're actually brought down on a statutory basis.
Can you explain what's the difference there and what drives that? Sure.
The biggest difference is in the discount right.
There are a couple of nuances that are different between that and GAAP but the big impact that you’re seeing here is on discount rate.
I mentioned that when we look at the PREPA case specifically the way that we have modeled it had been where there are cash outflows and then cash inflows over a very long kind of extended period of time.
The discount rate for GAAP is the risk free rate.
And so the discount on the recovery if you will is very small the discount on the recovery for statutory is much more significant.
And so the -- I said that all other things being equal you would expect to see a reduction in reserves because of the positive progress that had been made on PREPA.
That reduction is much smaller on a GAAP basis than it is for statutory and it’s because of the discount on the recovery.
Got it.
Even though I mean the basic the last plan that came out essentially leave no outgoing client payments from National right? Yes but again we’ve indicated that there is still implementation risk associated with it.
So we’re not regarding it as a 100% certainty at this point.
Could you repeat what the dividend was from National to holding company? It was $114 million -- $114 million.
Got it.
And on the cash flow statement for National it shows up as only $14 million.
What drives that? Yes.
At the time that the dividend was paid in October we actually transfer $14 million of cash and a $100 million of high grade securities which then matured over the next several weeks.
We didn’t think that it made sense to have to liquidate those securities in National to make the dividend payment.
Got it okay.
Okay so those were transferred somewhere else.
And so National continues to own shares … They were transferred to the holding company and then they matured.
Right right.
And then does National still own shares in MBIA Inc.
It does.
Yes.
How many shares? I’ve forgotten the number of shares.
Yes I’ll have to get back to you.
I don’t have the number of shares with me.
Okay.
And its listed as an asset for National am I understanding that right? Yes.
That’s right.
Okay.
And then Bill mentioned in his remarks that National is targeting some smaller new business as opposed to large new business.
Can you talk a little bit about what drives that strategic direction is it better pricing? Is it lower risk in a sense because you don’t have the potential for these large Puerto Rico exposures that can create bigger headaches? Yes primarily it’s where the market has moved to since the financial crisis and the change in the model lines.
What you’ve seen is obviously much lower penetration than pre-financial crisis.
And what you’re seeing really is the smaller issuers in that $10 million to $25 million range.
In fact the average deal these days is sort of in the $14 million or $15 million range for the entire industry.
And again it’s those who really get the most benefit from an insurance policy in terms of the reduction in issuance costs.
So that’s really where the focus is.
Again you still see some of the larger deals as I mentioned but most of the activity is in that $10 million to $25 million range.
And how is pricing in that range in the $10 million to $25 million? Pricing these days as we’ve mentioned has been influenced by spreads and by the very low interest rates.
So because of low interest rates relative to historical norms it is lower that is pricing has been lower.
And so one of the things we keep looking at is making sure we’re looking for interest rates to go up we’ll wait and see what that does remainder of the year which we think will lead to more attractive pricing.
But right now pricing I would categorize as sort of adequate.
And one more question on the PREPA deal if possible.
You mentioned that part of the surety bond being issued by National but the reason for it is to help the new PREPA issuance get an investment grade rating.
Can you talk about some of the conversations you’ve had with rating agencies or get us comfortable that that can happen.
That they can get that rating with your surety bond? Yes.
As you can imagine we’re not at liberty to discuss the -- all the conversations that take place.
But as I think both Chuck and Jay and I have mentioned we’re optimistic that the deal will take place later this year.
Got it.
All right.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from the line of Brett Gibson of JP Morgan.
Great.
Good morning Jay and Chuck.
You guys mentioned a goal to reduce the amount of Zohar notes outstanding.
Can you just help me understand just implying the Corp could or would purchase them or should we be thinking about some other mechanism for that like the pay down that you referenced earlier? And then … We can't really comment anymore on Zohar.
As I said in my comments there’s a limited amount of information we could discuss publicly.
Okay.
But even the mechanism of how Corp would think about going about that over the last quarter? Including the mechanism … And then I think that this is more of a Corp question than that.
I mean can you give us examples of where the liquidity might come from? I think you referenced also trying to build liquidity at Corp in advance of that.
Can you talk about where it might come from? Chuck gave you the four sources of liquidity which he’ll repeat.
Sure.
MBIA Corp has a -- it has invested assets obviously and that makes up the $264 million of liquid assets that we have described.
But then it also holds a little over $2 billion of comparative illiquid assets and they are the recovery from Zohar 1 our Credit Suisse recovery excess spread in the second lien RMBS and those that follow us know that that’s been cash flow into us for the past roughly five quarters or six quarters installment premiums on policies that is not yet -- have not yet been received.
Oh yes sorry and investments in subsidiaries.
Right.
I guess my question is do you need to accelerate the monetization of any of those? Is there a way that you can sell those? Or is there anything you can do? I think that was the issue in the question.
Yes again plans are underway as Jay has referenced and we don’t want to go into the details at this point.
Okay.
And then I think this is also just a tangential question not related directly to Zohar.
But have you identified all the parties that own Zohar 2 bonds? Yes.
We know who they are.
Perfect.
Okay and then just my last question or two.
So I appreciate the disclosure in the 10-K on the possible rehabilitation or stock order payment at Corp and what that might mean? But Chuck maybe specifically can you give us some detail on what the acceleration of claims might look like including how that would work and what kind of magnitude we’re talking about the claims being presented would be? Yes again very hypothetical situation which we do not expect at this point to occur.
Obviously we have cautionary language in the 10-K but by in large the policies that we have are not acceleratable and that we pay timely interest and principal on them.
Is there anything in the 10-K that can help us size the potential magnitude of the policies that were insured in CDS form I think that’s what the question is getting to.
In our supplement there is a table that shows what the volume of par insured is that’s in CDS form.
Let’s see if we can dig that up.
Hang on one minute; we’ll get that for you.
Okay.
So it’s on page 30.
And so it shows that you have $2.9 billion of insured credit default swap based policies.
$1 billion of that is scheduled to come due second half of this year.
Right.
And again and a $1 billion of that is maturing in 2016.
They would have about $2 billion left.
Okay.
But we don’t know what the mark-to-market is on those $2.9 billion policies right now? The mark-to-market is disclosed it is -- again it’s small at this point.
There are very few policies that have material marks on them.
Okay.
And then the very last one is do you -- would you -- do you believe that a rehabilitation of stock payment order Corp would affect your ability to write new business at National? Or would that delay your business recovery strategy in any way? Thank you.
Again we don’t think that there’s any material impact of say outcome with respect to Corp on National as a holding company.
Okay.
Thank you very much gentlemen.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Charles of RW Pressprich.
Good morning.
I just have a couple of other follow-up questions about some of the numbers I’ve seen in your supplement and how that’s changing do you expect to recovery at Corp.
It looks here like you do have on page 28 of the supplement a recovery in the CDO category of $141 million and I think that’s the recovery that you would be expecting from Zohar 1.
And away from that it looks as if your case losses in CDOs declined to $360 million at year end versus about $391 million at September 30.
And I’m wondering if that is a reduction in previous reserves you had with Zohar or if that reflects maybe continued paydowns of losses on triple-B CMBS policies? Can you give … No I don’t want to comment on individual loss reserve positions.
Okay.
Can you talk about what your triple-B CMBS exposure is at year end? I think you had one pool generating losses at September exactly what the par outstanding was there.
Can you give me an update on that? Good morning Brian its Anthony McKiernan.
We have one transaction that has par remaining of about $230 million and that’s the deal that we have been paying claims on at this point.
The remaining triple-B exposure is paying down substantially we expect no issues other than that.
Okay.
So the $230 million that was -- for the one pool that’s outstanding at year end.
Can you remind me what was at September 30 it’s about $240 million? I would have to get you an exact amount but I think between $240 million and $250 million.
Okay.
Thanks.
Okay and then it’s -- I’ll just go into a couple of other numbers here.
I see that your -- the present value or at least your installment payment schedule that I think you provided on page 25 away from subsidiaries.
That seems to have come down as your expected installments from 2016 through 2030 and after.
It seems to have come down about $50 million from what the expected payments were at September 30.
Now is that commutation of policies? Does it have anything to do with Zohar? Or is that just other policy just being prepared? Just policies maturing and being prepaid.
Okay.
And then when thinking about excess spread your trick to recovery is there in your expected payouts.
Do you have any guidance on like what the timeframe over the expected remaining expected payouts might be versus the remaining expected recoveries? I know the payouts are probably -- are decelerating.
So those will probably stop sooner – certainly sooner than the expected recoveries on those -- on essentially other polices second lien.
Do you have any timeframe over which that -- any guidance over with the timeframe you expect that to occur? The recovery is coming over a long period of time.
The average lives of the second lien deals could be five to seven years.
So they do come in over a long period of time.
But we are in the net -- just to be clear we’ve been in the net receiver position of cash for some time.
The recoveries are exceeding any payments we’re making now.
Right.
Okay.
But I guess that maybe a couple of years ago when I was discussing this with you all.
I got the same -- you gave -- you had the same guidance about five to seven years.
I’m wondering is that still your guidance for like what is the remaining -- if I’m thinking about $414 million of expected recoveries away from put back recoveries.
Are you still thinking that come -- still comes over to a five to seven year or is that maybe three to five years at this point? No it’s longer -- it’s longer.
When Anthony says the expected average light is five to seven years it means some of the deals will run out 10 to 15 years.
So you can expect that we’ll -- if things play out according to how they’ve been playing out we’ll be seeing cash in flows for another decade or more.
And so whereas the substantial amount will probably come in over the next five years there will be additional payments literally for quite a while.
We have had outstanding mortgage deals that last the full 25 to 30 years.
So there is no specific end date that can be calculated until they occur.
Yes okay.
That’s fair enough.
But I guess if you’ve got a few deals that you’re expecting cash flows way down the future to offset that to get to a five to seven year average life.
One could estimate that you’ll have substantial cash flows in earlier years.
There is a -- there is some front loading in terms of cash coming in.
But it’s not just a few deals.
Its right across approximately the majority of them will come from about 30 odd deals and they’re all spread out over time.
So it’s just not something that you’re going to see happen that quickly.
Yes.
That’s fair enough.
Okay thanks.
And then finally … There is a table on that in the supplement its on page 31.
I mean it just provides the history where you can see the collections that we’ve received over the past several quarters and they’ve been net collections for some time now.
Right.
Okay thanks.
And then finally I know you can't discuss Zohar and you’re not -- you can't really talk about liquidity measures.
But I guess I want to have one follow-up question on I know if you come up with a liquidity solution to this and if each subsidiary National and MBIA Corp is able to service their policy claims.
The spirit of the 2009 transformation will have been satisfied and that Corp will continue to maintain policy payments without any outside I guess capital support that you’ve said in the past would not be coming from National or from Inc.
But I’m wondering if you’re unable to get some sort of liquidity solution just from Cops own resources.
Have you had any conversations with your regulator about what alternatives might be to minimize the involvement that the regulator would have to accept in any kind of a rehabilitation of MBIA Corp? And if so if any of those conversations talked about the tax escrow payments that you’ve been able to get at Inc which I guess I’m calculating now after $105 million in the first quarter 2016 might be about $665 million $670 million you’ve gotten from tax escrow payments going to Corp for the last several years and essentially been cash flows that have been devoted to share buybacks.
Anything -- have you gotten any indication from the regulator that there might be a suggestion that you divert some of those cash flows back to support Corp to minimize the impact that a rehabilitation or involvement from the regulator might have? We do not expect to have a rehabilitation for Corp.
We fully expect that we’re going to come up with the plan that will meet the current liquidity shortfall and I think that’s as far as I want to go in terms of answering what the pretty speculative type question that is actually I think well beyond something that we would want to talk about at this time.
That’s fair enough.
But I got to admit there’s a lot of speculation one has to make right now.
You’re free to speculate but we have a plan that we’re trying to execute which we hope to be successful on in the next 12 months.
So we don’t have to worry about speculation.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Peter Troisi of Barclays.
Thanks.
Just a question on the advances agreement that was established subsequent to yearend.
Does that allow National and the holding company to make advances to Corp and if so are there limitations on that from either a regulatory or rating agency perspective? No there aren’t any regulatory or rating agency constraints.
The advances can be made whenever the advancing entity believes it’s appropriate in their business interest to do so.
Okay great.
And I mean is there anything different about the agreement that we have now versus the agreement that was in place in the past? No it’s only that -- when it was originally put in place MBIA Corp was the center of capital adequacy and liquidity in the company and therefore it was kind of the banker that is no longer the case and so we’re substituting National for Corp in that agreement.
Okay.
So theoretically that could be used within the company really at any time? Yes it’s a cash management tool.
Okay great.
And then just a question -- it looks like incurred losses on the first lien RMBS portfolio picked up in the fourth quarter is there anything specific to call out there? Generally speaking we had a couple of transactions that we had already assumed full principle losses on and we increased our assumption on some of the interest short falls we would experience over time.
That was the main driver.
Okay great.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from the line of Seth Glasser of Decade Capital.
Hi guys good morning.
Thanks for taking the call.
A question with regard to the potential option of finding liquidity in some of the subsidiary investments that are owned by Corp.
Obviously the UK sub is the largest potential source of that liquidity it’s on the statutory book at $389 million.
We learned I guess on Friday that AGO now controls $375 million of the Zohar 2 notes given the transaction that they did during the quarter.
And so I guess my question to you is we know that AGO has been a consolidator and we know that they now own $375 million of the notes.
Is it possible at all that the UK sub could be sold to AGO in exchange for extinguishment of the notes that they hold.
Is that one way that you could possibly raise liquidity.
Everything is possible.
I think that obviously everybody can look at that Corp’s balance sheet and see that the subs are the largest potential source of liquidity.
So I think any clarity and I think people are having a hard time figuring out what the mechanism would be to actually raise that liquidity.
So I think any additional color that the market can have I think could be very helpful in that regard.
Not at this time.
That’s all.
Thanks Seth.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Charles of RW Pressprich.
Sorry.
It was one follow-up just to kind of clarify one point I was trying to make earlier.
Have any conversations you’ve had with regulators or can you give us any assurance that the regulators themselves are comfortable with your use of cash that you’re getting from the escrow payment which are going towards share buybacks.
Have you had any overtures from the regulators that they might be concerned about what that does for your policy claim paying resources or abilities I should say? The regulators are aware of what we do at the holding company level but obviously its not a regulate -- it itself is not a regulated entity.
So you have not had any overtures from them saying that they’re concerned about what you doing with the cash flow? Brian I think you should reread the tax agreement which we furnished in the past and make sure you understand it.
We think we have a clear understanding which doesn’t seem to match up with yours.
And I know you’ve asked the question repeatedly on past conference calls and we’re not going to make any additional comments on that.
Okay.
No I understand the plan.
But I’m speculating as to whether or not there you still have a regulator overlooking the overall company.
And I’m just trying to clarify that they haven’t given you any overtures that they might be concerned especially with Zohar 2 coming up.
If you’re able to get a liquidity agreement in place that’s grace but if you’re not there’s a good chance the rehabilitators or regulators are going to have to get involved.
Have you given them any kind of contingency plan as to how you mange your liquidity if you’re not able to come up with compromise before January 2017? Have they demanded any time of plan? Or have you been contact with them I guess.
I guess really all I’m trying to make sure I’m comfortable with is that are you in contact with the regulators and also that if you’re unable to get to liquidity point in place before January 2017 a resolution after that might be relatively smooth.
I think the issue if you stand back and you’re down in the weeds a bit on this one.
MBIA Corp has adequate capital adequacy based on our current estimated claim payments both short-term and long-term.
We do have a liquidity issue and if there is not sufficient liquidity in the event that Zohar 2 is not paid down before February.
We’ve had discussions ongoing discussions about liquidity at Corp with our regulator every quarter many times every month sometimes every week in terms of how we’re managing that liquidity and what our intentions are.
There is no action that has been proposed by the regulator at this point in time.
They’re waiting to see how successful we are in executing on our liquidity plan.
And then they will at that point in time we’ll have discussions if necessary as to what steps will be taken.
There is not -- it’s very hard to talk about something that we’re working very hard not to have happen.
We believe we’ve got a good plan.
We think we have several different steps to take and we believe those steps will be properly executed in the next 12 months.
And let’s wait and see how it plays out versus trying to speculate in advance as to what could happen.
Okay fair enough.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Jordan Dinwith of Philadelphia.
Hi guys.
I’m reasonably new to the story but we’re shareholders.
And I’ve just been on four five of these calls and the book value keeps going up and new business continues to be written a new industry continues to take back share.
I was just wondering have you talked to anyone else in the specialty finance side on the sell side or any other growth analysts that may not be looking at what could have happened to you five years ago what the worst case scenario could be if the world comes to an end and started to look at you guys more of an emerging growth story in an industry that’s kind of been through the worst and is now coming back? Yes I think you’ve sort of describe where we think we are at this point in time as I think some of our comments is -- or comment this morning touch on we’re over the financial crisis.
We’ve been through a lot.
We are starting to see some signs of growth albeit relatively small compared to historical standards.
But as we mentioned we think we’ve build up a lot of momentum last year.
We feel good about the start of this year.
There are some things that would help the industry in terms of rising interest rates and perhaps even spreads widening a little bit but I think it’s really the interest rates.
So I think you’ve described sort of the positive side of things and we’ll wait and see how the rest of this year and beyond.
But I think it really is a long-term proposition and so while we expect to see some further good signs this year we’re looking out three and five years to the return in growth of the industry.
But the fact that you guys reauthorized the share repurchase is very positive because six months ago basically if there was no resolution with Puerto Rico that wouldn’t have been possible and the fact that we got the PREPA deals done it means you can buyback more stock and all of a sudden everybody thought that your reserves are completely inadequate and they may end up being completely inadequate.
But it’s another longer debt and it’s another thing that’s gone in your favor.
Yes I think couple of things.
As we’ve mentioned the PREPA deal was very important.
Two the run off in the portfolio continues to be very fast.
So back in 2009 we had a portfolio of $550 billion approximately slightly above that.
As I mentioned at the end of 2015 it’s down to $161 billion and we know even just scheduled run off this year will continue to reduce that.
So again while we see some growth the portfolio is generating all this excess capital that we’ve talked about which ultimately leads to greater confidence that we can get the money up to the holding company which supports the stock repurchases.
At this point in time we’ve been able to use cash that has gone to the holding company.
So again I think you’ve described it correctly.
Thank you.
Thank you.
At this time there are no further questions.
I’d like to turn the floor back over to Mr.
Diamond for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Maria.
And thanks to all of you who listened to the call.
Please contact me directly if you have any additional questions.
We also recommend that you visit our website at mbia.com for additional information on our company.
Thank you for your interest in MBIA.
Good day and good bye.
Thank you.
This concludes today's call.
You may now disconnect.