Good day ladies and gentlemen.
Thank you for standing by and welcome to McDermott International's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Jay Roueche McDermott's Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Regina and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us to discuss McDermott's first quarter 2011 financial results which we reported yesterday after the markets closed.
Joining me on the call this morning are Steve Johnson McDermott's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Perry Elders our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over let me remind you that this event is being recorded and a replay will be available for a limited time on our website.
In addition some of our comments this morning will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These comments are subject to various risks and uncertainties and they reflect management's views as of May 11 2011.
Please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are available on our website including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 and our recently filed 10-Q for a discussion of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
And please note that except to the extent required by applicable law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
Also throughout our comments today reference to company records company history or other past comparisons relate to our continuing operations only which are typically represented by the former Offshore Oil &amp; Gas Construction segment.
With that I will now turn the call over to Steve Johnson McDermott's Chairman President and CEO for his remarks on the operational and business environment.
Thanks Jay and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you for joining us today to discuss the quarter our business performance and the markets that we serve.
In my view McDermott delivered very solid results for the first quarter of 2011 and we have laid a solid foundation to start the year.
Pretty much across the board we were pleased with the quarter.
Revenues were very strong at nearly $900 million and quarterly operating income exceeded $100 million for only the fifth time in company history.
While taxes were higher than recent periods at nearly 24% net income of about $69 million or $0.29 per share are still sizable improvements both sequentially and year-over-year.
Additionally bookings for the quarter exceeded $600 million which maintains our backlog in a historically high level.
Perry will cover the financials in detail but all in all it was a very strong performance.
Although we feel very good about the first quarter I always remind investors not to let 90-day results alone drive their investment decision.
As you know our projects are multi-duration and we build our projects outside and install them in the water.
So both of these activities can be affected by the elements.
We also used percentage-of-completion accounting and there are usually a number of puts and takes in any given quarter associated with our predominantly fixed price portfolio of contracts.
As such it's always best to take a longer-term view when evaluating McDermott.
Although revenue saw a strong increase we actually had a decrease in the total number of man hours worked but this decline was offset by increased marine activity.
To be more specific in our major construction facilities we worked a total of about 4 million man hours during the quarter.
This level is below both the sequential and year-ago quarters but it is still a full workload on a consolidated basis.
Similar to the geographic split of our backlog the majority of this activity took place in our Middle East and Asia-Pacific facilities.
However Atlantic facilities while still underutilized did see a pickup in man hours as compared to a year ago due to increased work in Mexico.
As has been the case for several quarters now keeping our construction vessels active remains a challenge for 2011.
But we did have more days under contract in 2011 first quarter than either the sequential or comparable year-ago period.
Our utilization during the 2011 first quarter was about 60% of standard days which is an improvement over the 2010 average of 55%.
Clearly as the year progresses we will be actively pursuing projects to fill up as much excess capacity as economically possible.
We continue to expect a high level of marine activity for 2011 than we did last year.
And if we're able to book additional work that could provide some leverage to our investment income's -- to our income statement.
The DB50 arrived at its prairie home in Asia-Pacific market and we'll see some good work days coming up in the second quarter before entering dry dock for the second half of the year.
And we are pleased that the DB16 has recently been awarded enough pipeline work from PEMEX to justify taking it out of cold stack during the second half of this year which is obviously good news.
Although we didn't replicate the record level of bookings that we delivered in the fourth quarter of 2010 we're quite pleased with the $620 million of work we did put into backlog in the first quarter.
This level of awards kept our backlog at a level near historical highs at $4.8 billion.
And although it's down a bit from year end this level is over 16% higher than the backlog in the first quarter of 2010.
We continue to expect about 1/2 of our backlog to be recognized over the remaining 3 quarters of 2011 which would make the 2011 a record year for revenues.
In addition we also have about $1.8 billion in our backlog that is expected to deliver revenues in 2012 which is another really good position for us to build upon.
Clearly as the year progresses we will be booked -- we will be looking to add new work marine work for 2011 and primarily EPCI projects for the out years.
Now while we customarily talk about expected backlog roll off I think you all can appreciate that schedules and plans sometimes change which affects the timing of revenue recognition.
Often it can be due to customer or other contractors working on the same project beyond just our own modifications.
We have such an example that we can potentially foresee right now which if it materializes would cause revenues that are forecasted for 2011 to slip into 2012.
Such a schedule change wouldn't materially alter the project's profitability but it would affect the timing of it.
To give you a little detail our customer is currently making adjustments to the previously agreed-upon field design and we need them to complete their modifications and sign off on our installation plan before the work can take place in the second half of the year.
While there would be the possibility for change orders if delays occur there is the potential that about $100 million to $150 million of revenues could be pushed out from 2011 to 2012.
With a book-to-bill ratio of about 0.7 in a quarter we're near record revenues -- with near-record revenues we feel good about the new work we signed.
Some of the new projects that join our portfolio in the first quarter include a multiyear subsea charter contract for Petrobras an engineering FEED [Front End Engineering Design] award on the Browse project in conjunction with Fluor a subsea contract with Chevron to fabricate and install umbilicals on the Jack/St.
Malo project as well as some smaller installation fabrication projects plus scope increases.
Of course as a project-oriented company we continue to push more for work.
In that regard we're recently optimistic that the market will remain strong.
At March 31 bids outstanding and change orders in process increased about 28% compared to year-end levels growing to $2.2 billion.
However beyond bids our list of target projects at quarter end that we see coming to market over the next 5 quarters is over $11 billion.
So if you take our backlog our bids our change orders and the target list this generates a revenue pipeline potential exceeding $18 billion.
To be sure competition remains tough in every market in which we operate but there appear to be plenty of opportunities available.
So we just need to win our fair share.
While like most everyone else we talk about the size of our backlog.
It's more important to win the right projects and the right characteristics of terms and conditions schedules and profitability.
And I can ensure you that McDermott will remain committed to our disciplines.
As I mentioned last quarter we could certainly improve upon our historic 25% to 35% win rate if we chose to but we believe our shareholders benefit from our longer-term disciplined approach.
The quality of backlog is always more important than just the dollar size in my view.
I spoke last quarter about the underperforming Atlantic segment of our company.
And while we have taken steps to improve our performance our results this quarter haven't reflected those actions yet.
We're continuing to make progress we're winning work.
And although we aren't expecting profits this year over the next several quarters we do expect to see a marked improvement.
One item that we're monitoring at this time is the potential for flooding at our Morgan City fabrication facility as the high waters from the Midwest work their way down the Mississippi River.
We've been in discussions with the appropriate local authorities as well as our customers who have projects in New York.
Based on our discussions thus far it's expected that the waterline will crest around May 23.
So it's still a few weeks away.
We certainly have developed contingency plans in case we're affected but we believe we'll be okay due to the nature of our facility and since we did not flood in 1973 which is the last time these same conditions occurred.
Obviously however our thoughts and sympathies are with all those individuals and businesses that have been and may be impacted along the river.
I'll turn the call over to Perry now to take you through the quarter's financial results.
But to summarize we're very pleased with the 2011 first quarter and more importantly the path that it sets us on for the full year.
We have visibility for 2011 but we're still looking to add quality work both to fill up capacity as well as to position us for the out years.
As always our major focus remains on the excellent execution of the projects that we do have in backlog.
With that I'll turn the call over to Perry to go over the details of the financial results.
Perry? Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
Starting at the top as Steve mentioned total revenues for 2011 first quarter were nearly $900 million up about 78% from a year ago and 67% compared to the 2010 fourth quarter.
The big driver behind the increased top line was predominantly the higher levels of rain activities in the Asia-Pacific and Middle East segments in particular the vessels  were working on the pipe lay and installation scope of large EPCI projects.
Our gross margin for the first quarter was 16.9% down from the 21.9% we recorded in the 2010 fourth quarter and the 24.9% we delivered in the comparable quarter a year ago.
The substantial decline is primarily due to lower project close-out income in the 2011 quarter as compared to the other 2 quarters when that type of income was much higher.
SG&amp;A expense held steady for 2010 fourth quarter at $55.4 million but it was up against the $51.1 million in the comparable quarter a year ago.
We do continue to expect SG&amp;A to run closer to $60 million per quarter for 2011.
Consolidated operating income of over $100 million this quarter generated an operating margin of 11.2% which is right in the middle of our guidance range.
This level of income far exceeded the $59 million in the 2010 fourth quarter as well as the $73 million we delivered in the 2010 first quarter a period that benefited from significant cost savings and change orders on certain Middle East projects.
Our results in the 2011 quarter were again essentially driven by the Middle East segment with a nice contribution from the Asia-Pacific market as well.
As Steve mentioned the Atlantic region generated a loss which we'll continue to address.
Below operating income the other expense which is primarily interest income interest expense and foreign currency expense was $5 million an increase of $3.8 million compared to the first quarter of 2010 due to higher noncash foreign currency expense.
A significant change this quarter related to our effective tax rate.
During the 2011 first quarter our tax rate was about 24% at the upper end of our 15% to 25% range we've discussed.
This compares to about 11% in 2010 fourth quarter and 17% in the first quarter a year ago.
This quarter's tax rate is a result of increased income from higher tax jurisdictions in Asia-Pacific such as Australia combined with losses in the Atlantic region that don't receive a tax benefit.
Based on our current backlog I would expect for the remainder of the year that our effective tax rate will probably remain closer to this level than what we've enjoyed in the past as a result of a higher percentage of income being derived in the Asia-Pacific segment as well as due to legal restructuring of our Saudi Arabian operation.
Nonetheless we do consider our corporate domicile to continue to be a very valuable structure for our share -- for our investors.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests primarily a minority interest partner in Indonesia and the North Ocean 102 entity was $4 million up from $2.4 million in the 2010 fourth quarter and down from $8 million in the comparable 2010 first quarter.
So at the bottom line the reported net income attributable to impairment from continuing operations was $68.8 million for the 2011 first quarter or $0.29 per diluted share a substantial improvement compared to the 2010 first -- fourth quarter as well as 2010 first quarter.
Looking ahead due to the soft award cycle of 2008 and 2009 that resulted from the -- during the financial crisis and the recent growth in our backlog from $3.6 billion level in the 2010 third quarter our projects overall are in the earlier phases or said another way our average percentage completion is at the lower end.
So similar to this quarter we should benefit from a higher revenue but there will be less opportunity for change orders closeouts and harvesting contingencies since we won't have as many projects nearing completion in 2011.
As such we continue to believe that the operating margins in the 10% to 12% range is the level to expect.
And as I mentioned earlier the tax rate for 2011 should be up compared to the year ago.
Nonetheless I think the first quarter 2011 got off to a good start and we expect the full year should again be one of McDermott's better ones.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Our financial position remains strong.
Our cash cash equivalents and investments ended the quarter at $741 million as expected and it's down from $140 million from year end.
However looking broader than just cash our working capital which is current assets less current liabilities increased around $420 million at year end to over $480 million at March 31.
Total equity as a percentage of total assets grew to about 62% from 58% at year end 2010.
In addition we maintained ample room available under our credit facility and funded debt was $65 million at March 31 2011.
To speak briefly to our pension.
Last quarter we discussed the possibility of changing our pension accounting to a mark-to-market approach.
However after completing our analysis we have decided to leave our accounting as is at this time.
We determine the potential for increased volatility in the future year's fourth quarter more than offset any benefit.
Our pension funds -- our pension remains well-funded and has been frozen with no new accruals or new entrants.
We think we have got our pension assets and obligations well under control.
Finally turning to our upcoming investor relations activities we have a number of items on the calendar.
Tomorrow we'll take part in the CLSA Energy Forum in New York.
In early June we'll participate in the Credit Suisse Energy and Construction Conference also in New York and then later in the month we'll participate in Johnson Rice's ENC 101 Conference in Chicago.
In addition we expect as always to host a number of office and field visits.
With several options to choose from in the coming weeks we hope to see many of you at one of these venues.
This concludes our prepared comments.
But following the Q&amp;A session if you have additional questions regarding the quarter or the company I encourage you to call Jay or Robby [Bellamy] in our Investor Relations department.
And with that operator we will now open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question today comes from the line of Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
A couple of questions.
One is there any way you can quantify in the quarter how much the Atlantic region impacted your results? And I understand we're not expecting for that to get much better this year but any type of improvement just so we can think about how that impacts the remaining 9 months? You mentioned you had less opportunities this year and in the quarter for project closeouts.
Just a question.
I understand that's impacting margins but how do we think about as-sold margins how much that's impacting 2011 relative to where we were at prior peak? And then last question I understand bookings tend to be volatile but as we look at the remaining 9 months on average should we expect a book-to-bill over 1? Jamie this is Steve.
Why won't I kick it off there's a lot in there.
The first question dealt with the Atlantic region for us.
Perry why don't you kind of cite a couple of numbers here as we think about the region from an income standpoint et cetera.
And then Jamie I'd like to come right behind Perry and talk about what we're doing in the Atlantic region.
Okay just the numbers.
The operating loss for Atlantic for the quarter was $17.6 million again in the quarter.
And as I mentioned it relates to the tax effect of that.
You can take 35% of that we're not getting that benefit in our tax rate.
So that's one of the reasons as I mentioned that our tax rate is as high as it is.
So those 2 are kind of the direct effects on this quarter.
And Steve do you want to comment going forward? Yes I think the things to think about as you think through the Atlantic region we're in a position where we've got to do 2 things and we've got to do both of them well in order to frankly pull ourselves through this year.
And as you cited and as you indicated we're not going to be profitable this year but we hope to be in the out quarters here into 2012.
The first thing we need to do is to make sure our costs are right and we do that on 2 fronts.
It's certainly the G&amp;A and the people associated with the business and the second is our marine fleet.
On the first front Jamie we have done quite a lot.
We have brought down the costs.
We've done what I would call taking it all the way to the bone.
We've got a few things that we can do to flex the organization but the next step is to get the marine fleet working.
And as you heard in my prepared comments we've got some good news with the DB16 in the latter part of the year that we didn't expect.
We've got to kind of sell our way out of this problem with the marine fleet and we're beginning to get some traction with DB16.
The DB50 in the second quarter will give us a little help corporately because she'll be -- is and will be working in the second quarter but then she goes into dry dock.
So that's one thing cost management.
And then the second is frankly to sell our way out of a problem in total.
As you heard us talk about 2 of the significant -- of the several significant awards in the quarter are for the Atlantic region.
The first of which is for the PLSV charter for our Agile for Petrobras a very significant win for a 5-year term; and then the second is to do some umbilicals for Jack/St.
Malo for Chevron.
So we're beginning to get some traction.
We're talking to customers about moving projects for the pipeline.
While not as robust as we would like it to be we know it will be in the future.
So it's about hunkering down and moving forward in the future.
You then had a question around project closeouts Jamie? Yes I mean it doesn't sound like project closeout opportunities will be substantial this year.
But I'm also wondering how much of the margin degradation is sort of driven by lower as-sold margins? Yes so you're right.
It's a little of both.
If you look back in the first 3 quarters of 2010 we really benefited from completion of work on Middle East projects principally Qatar and those drove margins up.
As we look at this quarter for Q1 of '11 and as we look at the rest of the year we just don't see that kind of a benefit coming forward.
And we saw that and we've been giving comments to indicate that and that's why we've been firm on the 10% to 12%.
As it relates to as-sold margins those are interesting.
Obviously we work hard in the bid process to get the work at a profitable level but we also look at what the opportunity for change is on the job or scope increase.
And as we look at the backlog that we expect to burn for the remaining 3 quarters of this year we just don't see as much opportunity to improve that as we have historically.
Now as those projects get more mature and nearer completion particularly in 2012 that's when we might be able to pick up more of those kind of closed out and kind of near project-end change orders that we experienced.
So that's kind of for the remainder of this year kind of why we're real strong on the 10% to 12% guidance.
And then just last book-to-bill on average for the remaining 9 months should expect over 1? Well it's -- It's very hard to predict.
It's our hope.
And looking at the pipeline of projects looking at the timing I can't control the timing.
But I can tell you that we're being very aggressive with bidding these projects in terms of telling our story and explaining our capabilities.
We are not doing things which would disappoint in the out quarters in terms of how we would price the work Jamie.
So that's all I can tell you at this time.
But it's certainly our hope.
Your next question comes from Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
Perry I'm going to start with you.
I know you're going to give me the answer to this question.
Anyway I'm going to ask you about the 10% to 12% margin guidance.
And the way I'm going to ask it to you is that your Atlantic division has been weak for several years now yet you've had this guidance with the Atlantic division losing tons of money.
And so as we go forward over the next year or 2 if you -- I think Steve would say "We're relatively confident we can fix this division make it more profitable." Why would you still have the same margin guidance as we go a year or 2 down the pipeline? Yes good question.
And as you look at the blend of our projects over the last year or so as you know most of it has come from the Middle East with a nice contribution from Asia-Pacific as well.
Some of those projects in the Middle East are coming to their conclusion now.
And so we're looking at what's replacing them in our backlog and we'll be burning off over the next year or so.
That blended with what we expect to be and are working hard to achieve in terms of reduced losses in Atlantic for the rest of the year but it's still losses.
So it's that blend of the 2.
So yes hopefully we can reduce the losses in Atlantic and eliminate them in the longer term but that's blended with the kind of a margin that may not be as high in the other regions going forward.
Could I add to that Andy.
Again I'm going to be beating the same drum here.
But I would tell you that as we fix Atlantic to just to use that term and as we begin to grow the company into the growth markets and just put a label on that that is more deeper water less conventional or shallow water we've got to earn our right into those projects.
And I wouldn't signal to you or to our competition that we're going to do anything drastic.
But we've got to find a way to get into those programs in a way where we may not be as credentialed as some of the competition.
And in order to do that you have to do some things commercially.
So there's going to be period of time here that in addition to what Perry said in terms of roll off of the backlog whereas as we grow this company into deeper water which includes the Atlantic basin primarily we're going to have to do some strategic types of -- make some strategic decisions on how to enter that in a more robust way.
Steve that's very fair.
If we think big picture though about the Atlantic you've doubled the backlog in the sequential quarter there and as we look forward if you put Morgan City and Altamira together I think that you're just short of the size of Jebel Ali.
And obviously you have significant revenue coming out of the region.
I know they're marine assets that sort of move the revenue needle too.
But how do we think about the potential sizing of the Atlantic business or how do you think about it as you go over the next year or 2? And can you have margins when things are doing better in that in the Atlantic can you margin like the rest of the company in that business? Yes.
The answer is we hope so.
And you said maybe in the next couple of years I would steer you longer than that.
As we think about the emergence of the programs in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and as we look about -- look at even Brazil timing may be a bit longer than that.
So I would say we're talking about 3 to 4 years before this thing really starts humming.
We've got to win our fair share of those projects.
And as I indicated we've got to do the right things on the front end in order to win those projects.
Now having said that we're still in the credentialing phases with Altamira.
It is going to be I think a fabulous facility.
But there are ton of issues.
There are issues associated with building it out.
And it is not ready frankly for the types of programs that we hope to build in it in the next 3 to 5 years.
I understand.
Just a couple of quick clarifications.
In the Q you talked about a little more than $3.4 billion of burn if you include the next 1Q plus the next 3 quarters.
Does that include the $100 million of the project that you said could get deferred into '12? Yes it does.
And then equity income was positive for the first time that I can remember.
What's in equity income? It's our FloaTEC...
Papa Terra? No.
Well Papa Terra is in there but I think as we talked before our FloaTEC JV has some G&amp;A cost and normally that joint venture sells off a small loss to us.
We had this quarter a pickup because of an unrelated to Papa Terra technology fee that we gained from another customer.
And so it came out the same fee but it's not related to Papa Terra.
And it's wasn't something that we expect to kind of have on a recurring basis.
So we'll go back to sort of the normal pattern in that business? Yes.
In the equity income.
Your next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.</strong> Could you talk about the outlook for the vessel market in terms of supply and demand when you look out to 2012 and '13 versus what you are expecting here for '11? Let me start Marty and then maybe others would have a comment.
My view and my forecast and my hope is that it continues to improve.
You've seen some at least in the first quarter with a 60% utilization of our fleet an improvement over 2010.
I think that is an indicator for the rest of the year with the caveat that we've got one of our major work barges going into dry dock the DB50.
I hope we can stay at that level or better throughout the year.
In 2012 my belief is that with our EPIC model we should have the pull-through with the marine fleet that will hopefully improve upon 2011.
I can't predict that.
If I look at the global construction marine market and we've done a recent exercise looking at all the vessels that are on the water I think we're strongly positioned with our capability in conventional water.
We're moving into a stronger position with deeper water with the North Ocean 102 working today and the North Ocean 105 coming out about third quarter next year.
So I would have to say we're delighted with the results with the North Ocean 102.
She's been pretty busy ever since she hit the water and we hope that will be the case with the 105.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay.
And in the Deepwater Gulf of Mexico could you talk about the potential timing for awards for some of the larger top-side projects that are out there in the news? Yes.
I would say this we've got a couple of them that are relative short term that we're pursuing today.
And those projects we hope to be awarded in the next 3 quarters hopefully both of them by the end of the year.
We're strongly pursuing those programs.
Beyond that there seems to be an acceleration of the programs.
I can't sit here and name all of them but I think there's an acceleration in 2012.
Our focus frankly Marty is to win these 2 that we're pursuing today to give ourselves some self-help with our Atlantic region and then to position following the refurbishment of the DB50 and get her back into the Atlantic region for more Brazil work with Petrobras and more work with the super majors in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and with PEMEX.
You saw an award with PEMEX.
It's a pipeline project this quarter.
We hope to look at more of those and there seems to be a better opportunity for us to win those programs this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
Just following up on the $3.4 billion of revenues this year up from $3.1 billion that you expected last quarter.
How much of that is better market versus just a change order from last quarter driving a catch-up? I think it's more that we know we have clear visibility of our backlog now.
So I think it's more of the latter.
Okay.
And then I guess a broader question.
How do you think about the pace of your various markets today versus being at maximum speed.
I know kind of where we stand on the Atlantic but where are we at full speed? Where are we at half speed? Where is somewhere in between? And if we're not at full speed what has to happen to get them up to full speed? And what I'm really trying to get at here is is there a market base potential to get a prospect list that's much better than the $11 billion that you have today? Or is it just going to be reliant upon moving into things like deeper water and things that you can do sort of at the company-specific level? It's an interesting way you pose the question in terms of speed.
I guess I'd come at it this way.
It's always about demand and supply.
As I think about the various customers in Asia-Pacific and the customers in the Middle East and the customers in our Atlantic region I kind of think about them in that order as I'm sitting at the end of the first quarter here.
Significant opportunity in the Asia-Pacific region.
It doesn't seem to signal any slowdown and as I've said in prior quarters a significant opportunity in both Southeast Asia and in particular in Australia.
And I would say we're very well-matched to that market with our fabrication and our marine capability.
And we're matched to that market with our emerging global fleet that can move around the globe to meet these opportunities.
I don't know that there's anything that we as a service supplier to that market can do to accelerate that.
I think that's a pretty high speed today if I think about Asia-Pacific Steven.
As I think about the Middle East there's a shift going on in our customer base.
It's a nice shift that is adding the work with ADMA OPCO as an example to our good work that we do for Saudi Aramco.
The timing of those are always in the hands of the customer and always in the hands of the competitive forces that exist there.
There's some very nice light large projects that are out there and I would color those more into in the late 2011 to 2012 time frame.
If I had to give you one phrase about both of those markets I'm pleased with them.
And if they accelerate more in terms of the bringing forward of projects it will only serve McDermott well.
The Atlantic region as I indicated earlier and I think you indicated you understood pretty well you really got to think 2 years and beyond maybe 3 to 4 years as you think about a major acceleration.
Having said that we're going to turn this thing around for McDermott in the next several quarters which does not mean 2011 it means into 2012.
And with these new awards and with new management in the Atlantic region I feel pretty good about our ability to do that and to give the company position for deeper water projects with Altamira and with our burgeoning relationship with Petrobras in Brazil.
And I hope that wasn't long of an answer.
That was very good.
If I could just -- maybe one other question maybe what are some of the scenarios that could play out in the event that you do see some flooding at Morgan City? Thanks for the question and the reason I'm thanking you is is because there's some people kind of in harm's way here.
Here's what I would tell you about that is there's an event that has yet to be decided upon and it has to do with the opening of the spillway at Morganza.
And it is highly likely if not a foregone conclusion that that will occur.
But as we started this call Steven to my knowledge that decision had that been made by the various authorities including the corps of engineers in consultation with the Governor.
But let's say when that occurs we have already taken steps to understand the impact of what it could mean to our yard in terms of people in terms of our equipment and in terms of our customers' facilities.
What I would have everyone on the call know is that as to risk of loss we've taken all the steps that we need to safeguard our plant and the equipment including the facilities of our customers.
I would have you know that for the most part we don't believe that our customers' work in progress is at significant risk really due to the nature of the facilities meaning the configuration and the stage of completion of those constructions as well as the anticipated level of flooding.
And furthermore our contracts with our customers our various contracts limit in various ways our risk of loss for such type of events.
Having said that look we've been through this before and the Morgan City yard has withstood many hurricanes many floods many floodgates opening without any significant event at all and there is some interesting things that we can do as McDermott to help the local community.
One of the things that we're planning to do now if we're given the go-ahead is to move one of our barges not a lay barge but a cargo barge put in place at a particular bayou with some sheet pile that will divert water not only away from our yard but away from Morgan City itself.
And we hope we have the opportunity to help them that way.
So the bottom line is we're concerned but it's more interesting than it is concerning having been through this before and we believe we'll come through this fairly well.
Your next question comes from the line of Will Gabrielski with Gleacher.
Inc.</strong> A couple of questions.
On the Aramco long-term agreement Saipem won a big program last quarter.
And I'm just wondering if you have an expectation about their new drilling program and the long-term agreement and potentially extending that what might your opportunities might look like there? Yes good question and I don't have an answer that would give you enough specifics I think to get where you want to go.
The announcement of their accelerated drilling program has to portend well for us over the long term of course as you think about the offshore program.
More drilling activity over the long-term means good things for McDermott.
The loss of the Wasit program I will say once again that while we are always disappointed with losses especially ones of those size we simply would not want the project any differently than had we did it.
The winner of that program we wish them great luck.
And if we can help them we certainly will as they go through that program.
My long-term view of Saudi Aramco well it will be for my career at McDermott always an excellent customer.
There are opportunities there for the short term with the LTA.
There are more opportunities coming forward in the next several quarters.
And you buckle that up with what's going on with other new customers there including ADMA OPCO we feel very good about that region.
Inc.</strong> Okay fair enough.
The utilization increase in Q1.
I know there's a seasonal factor to your business but obviously it was up from the average of 2010.
How much seasonality versus how much just increase to workflow was it in Q1? And then looking into Q2 and Q3 how much of a step-up can we see in utilization based on what you've already booked? It wasn't really a seasonality thing as much as it was just additional work and in compared -- comparative periods we're particularly low.
As we look forward I think as Steve mentioned we've got the DB50 in Singapore now and we think that we're optimistic about what it can do in the second quarter although we do expect it to go and be in dry dock for most of Q3 and Q4.
So that will -- kind of a hardwired reduction in the overall utilization.
And certainly there won't be any on that vessel.
And then that's offset to some extent by a few days that we picked up on the DB16 which are very meaningful although they're not a long -- it's not a long marine campaign in here on the Gulf of Mexico.
So we wouldn't expect net-net the meter to move a lot in marine utilization for the rest of the year although we kind of got some hardwire baked in reductions offset by some improvements.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
When McDermott booked all the change orders -- scope changes excuse me in Q4 obviously those were at pretty good margins.
When did that start to roll off? And would that be a potential driver of higher margins through the rest of the year versus Q1? Question one we did book it.
We did see some recognition of that in Q1.
And I think we also noted earlier that that was in part due to the downturn in Q4 that we recognized.
So we caught up some of that in Q1.
Now those change orders are baked in to our overall backlog and the comments we made earlier about the margins and the blend of the margins around the world.
So they're already baked into our guidance.
So don't expect them to reduce the margins if you will kind of above our guidance range.
Inc.</strong> Okay one last one.
LNG in Asia-Pac Australia specifically.
Historically you guys have done some work for Woodside some big work for Woodside I guess.
And I was just wondering you have the Gorgon modules but there's a lot of offshore work going on there.
You have the Browse FEED.
What is that in the bid opportunity number first of all? Is there any LNG work or in the bid outstanding number? And then going through the rest of the year what is the competitive environment like? Is it getting better from the fabrication standpoint with all these projects lined up or not? Yes.
Short answer to the question is yes.
There are LNG offshore opportunities in our target list.
There are some in the bids outstanding as well.
My view is that we are very well-positioned with our Batam fab yard for the fabrication side.
And as these things are often EPIC programs we're well-positioned as anybody.
Competitive environment I think across the whole Asia-Pacific region it continues to intensify.
And the reason it intensifies is because we've got some North Asian bidders that are still out there and bidding both in the Middle East and Asia-Pacific.
But having said that I think the supply-demand crossover is coming and I think it's coming with Australia Southeast Asia and the blend of all of those together.
And when that crosses over I think all of us that are in this business should enjoy some upside just to put broadly Will.
Your next question today comes from the line of Graham Mattison with Lazard Capital Markets.
Just a question on your cash position which is quite substantial still.
Do you see obviously you're looking at additional vessels out there do you see any opportunities to pick some up? And then on the longer-term basis are you happy with your deepwater exposure with the 102 and 105? Or are you still considering some additional deepwater assets? I'll take the second one first because it's real easy.
No we're not happy with our deepwater exposure but we've got a heck of a good start with the 102 and soon-to-be 105.
And these are world-class vessels not only with their capacity but with their transit speed and with at least in the case of the 102 the performance of that vessel so far.
Back to your first question are we looking at picking others up? We are constantly looking at what we can do to either buy or build.
And frankly we're accelerating that thinking because we have a much clearer view of the deepwater market than we did maybe even 6 months or a year ago and it is our intention to be a significant player in that market.
Recently we did what I would call a mini reorganization inside the company to get some focus on those types of things particularly with the marine fleet but also on the fab side Graham we created a venture's organization within the group underneath our CFO to help us get at that whole notion from a strategic standpoint from a financing standpoint from a dealmaking standpoint and in order to get the organization geared to move us in the right direction.
Now you came at this originally from the cash on the balance sheet question.
I would say this as the CEO of the company knowing the type of business we're in with the type of contracts that we have which are generally fixed price and the risks attendant to that and the lumpy nature of the business we still plan to be relatively conservative with our balance sheet.
But with that as a backdrop we think that we're equipped to go forward with the right kinds of moves into the deepwater market.
And you hit it right.
If we're going to make moves we're going to make moves in fab and marine that will lead us more into deepwater.
Your next question comes from the line of with Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
A couple of questions.
Number one if I recall correctly and this was a while back when you were still part of McDermott with B&amp;W there was a bit of scrubber work being run to the Morgan City fab yard.
I know you guys aren't a one company but if that was the case would that be a possibility still if environmental work picks up? And number two could you talk -- I know you've talked a lot about Brazil and Petrobras and PEMEX.
But I would like to hear any commentary you have on West Africa your initiatives maybe this seem obviously from your commentary there it's not the priority right now but what your outlook is over there? And if you did you see work in West Africa would that be run from Morgan City and Altamira as well? Okay I think the first one's pretty easy to dispense with the environmental work in Morgan City.
You are right to recall that we did some of that work in Morgan City when we were buckled up if you will with B&amp;W.
Look the way I'd say it is the Morgan City yard has 2 very interesting capabilities.
One is they can do our standard core business and they can do a lot of other things secondarily in terms of high-spec welding capability.
And if we can make a reasonable return we will do that work in Morgan City.
Having said that I can't tell you that there's anything on the horizon there.
Secondarily your question about West Africa in general I think it was the third quarter or fourth quarter of last year we were awarded a program with Noble the Noble Alen project.
And that work is ongoing now in Morgan City and it was what I would consider a strategic win for us because a it's West Africa; and b it's with Noble.
And we are very happy to have that in our backlog and I can report that that project is going well.
The second thing I'll tell you is that as we bring the DB50 out of drydock in Asia she will be heading to Petrobras for the Papa Terra lift.
And we're already in discussions with customers about utilizing her on the way in West Africa to do some what we would call driveby work.
Lastly to your question about West Africa all of the West Africa work falls within what we brand or what we call our Atlantic region.
So whether it's U.S.
Gulf of Mexico or PEMEX work in Mexico or Brazil or West Africa it all falls within that Atlantic region.
So that's where all the accounting would fall.
L.L.C.</strong> Great that was actually exceptional.
As a follow-up I just wanted to check on the competitive environment out there and you've touched a bit on that earlier on.
If I look at the recent -- most recent commentary coming from some of the Korean bids out there and I know those have been aggressive in the past around the E&amp;C chain the shipbuilding orders are up for example for Hyundai Heavy by 27% 28%.
So as you go across and try to gauge to the extent you can where your competition stands do you feel the shipyards have started to fill up.
But as you've done into maybe the end of this year into next year that perhaps even your market share could benefit on the fabrication side? I think the short answer is we hope so.
Don't know that I can predict the behaviors of others.
I do agree with you that there seems to be some uptick in the shipyards in North Asia.
So I would just say to you that as supply and demand moves the direction that we think it is both on the shipbuilding side and in our core business we're going to be okay over the long term.
Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Spittel with Madison Williams.
I guess just following up on the dead horse question with regard to the competitive environment and pricing.
Maybe I'll ask in another way.
I think last quarter we talked a little bit about where you are in terms of fabrication capacity utilization.
Do you get a sense that the North Asian competitors and I guess whoever is engaging in a little bit more nonsensical pricing is it a similar level of capacity utilization? And if so does that portend maybe this doesn't persist much longer than a couple of quarters? It's hard to gauge.
As a project company Jeff we just -- we look at this thing as macro as we can as you and the prior caller have asked about.
But I will tell you this.
What we really look at it is in terms of every project and every prospect and every outing.
In Qatar last year we lost one to a North Asian company that took a project below what we think is our cash cost.
On Wasit bid in the first quarter of this year interestingly enough the North Asians were involved and they didn't win.
They didn't win.
And we gave a very fair offering there.
So that might be an indication that there's a change.
But one in a row doesn't create a pattern.
I'd say we're cautious there Jeff.
Okay all right.
That's fair.
And just last one for me on the material cost escalation front.
Obviously steel prices are off the trough.
I guess in certain areas labor might be tightening up as well.
Could you just give us a sense to how that fits into the guidance and what do you expect to see some more cost escalation and how do you address that? Yes we do watch that and build that into kind of obviously our bids and we've locked that in as early as we can once we bit.
So as it relates to the backlog project I think we have a pretty good handle on it.
As it relates to the stuff that we're bidding and on our target list I think we can adequately address it through the contract or through initial awards immediately post contracts.
So that's on the material side.
On the labor side we recently as part of that change order late last quarter locked things in in Australia which was a big location where that could have affected us.
So we've got that known.
But generally speaking we're able to pass any major changes like that through either by the way we've structured the contract or as we come to new contracts.
Your next question comes from the line of John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
A couple of things.
First of all just following up on the hedging question the materials and labor.
Are you seeing prices increase there?  I realize you've got it hedged but...
Yes I'll kick it off John.
The major commodity that McDermott buys these days is steel but of course we buy pipe wire cable et cetera.
We're beginning to see some price move up on the steel side.
So we're managing that accordingly.
We're very close to the mills.
Perry do you want to add anything? No I think that's right.
And then secondly you talked about the various segments but could you give us a sense or breakout your revenue between fabrication work and marine work and I don't know other categories both in terms of revenue backlog and kind of prospects? Yes.
Obviously each project is different.
But on a full-scope EPIC project we might see as much as half of it as procurement 40% 60% depending on the job.
We could have the engineering on the front end again just depending on whether we're doing the FEED or not but 10% 15% maybe 20%.
And in the marine campaign on the tail end could be significant as it is in the case of Papa Terra.
So the way we look at EPIC projects is obviously across the whole thing.
So we don't look at revenues by sector and we don't look at profitability by sector.
We look at the entire arrangement.
Now that's on an EPIC project.
But we periodically will have marine-only jobs or fab-only jobs.
And so the entire blend for the company at a given period depends on whether it's principally EPIC stuff running through and if so what phase the project is.
So for example Papa Terra where the marine campaign is principally a 2012 campaign.
So on the contract we're really in the fab stage only the right now.
John I would also direct you to our most recently filed 10-K and in the back of that we break down our revenue by 4 or 5 components offshore operations which is predominantly marine fabrication procurement engineering and project services.
And so at least for 2010 that would give you a pretty breakdown of the components of our revenue.
Yes Jay I've seen that.
And I guess what I'm trying to get to it is I don't need exact numbers but directionally where we're going from sort of what that split is now to what you think it's going to be I guess near-term and then looking at that prospect list? John this is Steve.
I'd say it this way.
Our business model is of course as advertised to do as much EPIC work as possible and as the competitive environment says we should because there are a few of us.
That's data point number one.
Data point number two is the market dictates.
It's the buying behaviors of customers and it's also the nature of the projects.
That might steer you in some regions of the world away from EPIC.
And I would cite the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
So you would do it with more of a piecemeal fashion marine-only or fab-only et cetera.
Third data point I would give you is as you as you move into deeper water and you need the types of marine vessels that we have today with the North Ocean 102 and the 105 and other vessels you can find in that part of the world probably both EPIC and a blend of other projects.
So it's hard to say where it's going long term but if you think of McDermott moving over the next several years many years into more work in Brazil more work in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico blended into what we do today in conventional water in the Middle East and midwater and the conventional water in Asia-Pacific you could see us continue with the EPIC model trying to push the customers to buy that way.
But at the same time with the unique characteristics of our marine fleet doing marine-only and trying to capitalize on that as well as doing fab only.
Okay because it just seems to me the more that you can do more on the EPIC level I would assume if the marine level too offers better returns than just fabrication work which is.
.
.
It can.
Your next question comes from the line of Stephen Gengaro with Jefferies.
Inc.</strong> I just wanted to follow up on one thing that you said about the bidding process.
When you sort of thinking about the deepwater/subsea markets and kind of your competitive position there how are you thinking about the risks of that environment being a kind of new to you; and b maybe more difficult at times with the need to maybe be competitive from a bidding process to sort of get your foot in the door? That's an excellent question and I would come at you with this Stephen.
The first is I don't consider this company new to the phase of deepwater.
And that's just because what I know we've down over the past many years of the existence of this company.
We've done quite a bit of surfboard.
We've done umbilicals and flow lines in all of those connections.
We've done that throughout our history.
As things move into deeper water all of us and of the competitors are moving into a space that maybe most of us haven't been in.
So with that as a backdrop and your question was around bidding we I think have a very good insight as to what the risks and opportunities are in any one of these bids.
The key is identifying and understanding the risk and the response to that risk to put the appropriate cost in there for the risk and the contingencies associated with an event or the contingencies associated with unforeseen scope change or whatever it might be.
I think we're if not best-in-class where right up there with anybody including in deepwater.
Having said that we do need to understand that once we identify and cover that risk we can be aggressive in different ways in those bids.
We can be aggressive in how we look at a changed condition.
We can be aggressive in terms of how we form and frame the contract terms and conditions not signaling that we'll take on more risks signaling that we would rather have the conversation and then ultimately set the contract.
So without disclosing a lot of the means and methods around how we would bid those things the bottom line is I think we're very practiced in how we bid these things from a risk identification and risk mitigation standpoint.
Inc.</strong> That's good color.
And then just one follow-up and I know you talked about this already.
But why look at the Atlantic region right? You lost like $17.5 million this quarter.
You lost like $90 million last year full year in that region.
How should we think I mean without getting too granular but how should we think about that progression of maybe narrower losses to breakeven over the next several quarters.
Is this something you'll be -- that can be breakeven by the end of the year in the fourth quarter? Or is it longer than that? Any sense for how we should sort of think about that knowing it's sort of baked into your margin guidance.
I would say a very nice try to try pin me down and I just can't be right now Stephen.
The color I'd give us is that I would not expect profitability at all in 2011.
I want to be clear about that.
But I would say that sometime in 2012 I hope we turn the corner and hopefully that winds up being to at or near profitability in 2012.
Having said that this first quarter I hope and underscore hope I hope this first quarter is the bottom if you will in terms of the largest loss.
But I cannot sit here and tell you that it's exactly the case.
But I believe that it should continue to improve for the rest of the year.
And into 2012 at some point we hope to get it turned around.
Your next question comes from the line of Rob Norfleet with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Most of my questions have been answered but just one I wanted to ask.
Since you guys announced obviously the win with Papa Terra we haven't heard of a lot of activity as it relates to the FloaTEC fleet adventure and really what we're seeing in the FPSO market.
Can you kind of characterize the progress being made within FloaTEC and the opportunities you see in that market as well is really the ability to take some of the smaller work you're doing and convert into larger EPC projects? Yes I think the first thing Rob I would say to you is from the time of the creation of the FloaTEC joint venture to the award of the Papa Terra project was many quarters.
It was several years I think is the way to categorize that.
And it has only been since the first quarter 2010 since we were awarded that project.
It is both what FloaTEC has to offer as well as what the market is flashing up to us.
And I would say to you that there are opportunities out there for FloaTEC that will begin to accelerate over the next 2 to 4 years.
But I would say also to you that we've got to be very selective about what we pursue.
And I believe that our technology that's embedded in FloaTEC for TLPs and floating solutions is second to none.
But having said that we need to pursue those projects with a great deal of selectivity and grow that business.
So I know that's kind of a general answer but my view is that it's a very good joint venture and a joint company.
And over the long term we'll look back on this with Petrobras Papa Terra as being really the first major among many over the next several years.
Okay great.
My last question was just on margins for the quarter.
Mid-East margins were around 20%.
It seems a little higher than expected.
And Asia-Pacific came in at 8% a little lower than expected.
How should we look regionally at margins over the remainder of the year? Should they kind of remain in those ranges or should we see the Asia-Pacific margins kind of normalize back to more traditional levels? I'd say this the neighborhood.
We don't calculate margins at that kind of the division level but kind of we didn't see anything -- there were no biggies in the quarter either way in either region.
So kind of order magnitude in this neighborhood.
Okay great.
Thanks for your time.
Certainly it could be volatile quarter-to-quarter year-to-year.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the question-and-answer portion of today's event.
I'm going to turn the call back over to Jay Roueche for closing remarks.
And thank you all again for your participation and interest today.
I want to remind you that the call included some forward-looking statements and I encourage you to see our SEC filings and press release for more information on these.
If you have any follow-up questions or need any clarification please give us a call and we look forward to seeing many of you over the coming months.
And Regina this concludes our call.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you so much for your participation today.
This does conclude the presentation and you may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to McDermott International Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to our host Mr.
Jay Roueche McDermott's Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Kim and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss McDermott's second quarter 2011 financial results which we reported after the markets closed yesterday.
Joining me on the call this morning are Steve Johnson McDermott's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Perry Elders our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over let me remind you that this event is being recorded and replay will be available for a limited time on our website.
In addition some of the comments this morning will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
And these comments are subject to various risks and uncertainties and they reflect management's view as of August 4 2011.
Please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are available on our website including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 and our recently filed Form 10-Q for a discussion of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
And please note that except to the extent required by applicable law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Also throughout our comments today any reference to company records company history or other past comparisons relating into our continuing operations only and are typically represented by the former Offshore Oil &amp; Gas Construction segment.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Steve Johnson McDermott's Chairman President and CEO for his remarks on the second quarter and the overall business environment.
Thanks Jay and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today to discuss McDermott's results for the second quarter and the overall business environment.
In my view we had a good quarter albeit somewhat mixed.
Similar to the first quarter of this year there was quite a lot to like and we still have areas with room for improvement.
Our gross profit margins improved sequentially from 2011 first quarter although attenuated in the operating margin by a $5 million increase in SG&amp;A which was largely as a result of increased sales and bidding expenses and a $5.3 million negative swing from equity income in the first quarter to an equity loss in Q2.
Together these movements lowered operating margin by about 120 basis points compared to 2011 first quarter.
Notwithstanding I believe the results for the second quarter still keep us on pace for a good year.
Highlights of the quarter include over $800 million in new bookings generating a book-to-bill of almost 1 with another quarter of strong revenues while maintaining a solid financial position.
As I just alluded to revenues were robust at nearly $850 million down a bit sequentially but up 35% year-over-year.
Quarterly operating income was about $84 million which resulted in an operating margin of about 10%.
Net income of about $64 million produced $0.27 of earnings per diluted share.
Perry will cover the financials in detail but all in all we're satisfied with our results for this quarter.
As I do just about every quarter whether the results are good or they're challenging I always remind investors not to get too excited about 90-day results.
As you know our projects are multi-year in duration and we build our projects exposed to the environment and we install them in water.
We also use percentage-of-completion accounting and there are usually a number of puts and takes in any given quarter associated with our predominantly fixed price portfolio of contracts.
As such it's always best to take a long-term view when evaluating our company.
Although revenues were at a high level during the quarter interestingly we actually had a lower number of man-hours worked as compared to both the prior year and sequential quarters.
We had nearly 50% decline in fabrication for Batam Island in the Asia-Pacific segment which offset the increased man-hours in the Atlantic segment both at Morgan City and Altamira Mexico.
To be more specific in our major construction facilities we worked a total of about 3.5 million man-hours during the quarter which is both below the 2011 first quarter and the 2010 second quarter.
For the first time in a while we were below our fabrication standards for our quarter.
Similar to the geographic split of our backlog the majority of this quarter's construction activity took place in our Middle East and Asia-Pacific facilities but as I mentioned we did see an improvement in the Atlantic segment which is good news.
Our marine activity was also mixed but noticeably improving.
For our major work barges we recognized increased workdays both compared to the year-ago and sequential quarters.
The primary driver of the increased level was getting work for the DB50 in its temporary Asia-Pacific location.
Our fleet utilization during the 2011 second quarter was over 70% of standard days which is an improvement both over the 2011 first quarter and the 2010 average of 55% but still less than fully utilized.
Keeping our major construction vessels active remains a challenge for 2011 but we do continue to expect levels above last year's average for the remainder of the year even with the DB50 in drydock.
This higher activity with the large barges was partially offset by lower marine activity for our smaller vessels as compared to the sequential quarter.
Clearly as the year progresses we'll be pursuing projects actively to fill up as much excess capacity for vessels as economically possible.
We are quite pleased that bookings improved sequentially with over $800 million of new work that we added to backlog in the 2011 second quarter.
With the high level of revenues we recognized this level of awards kept our backlog essentially flat with last quarter at over $4.7 billion which is an increase of about 13% over the June 30 2011 -- 2010 level.
Our expected backlog roll-off indicates about $1.8 billion revenues should be recognized during the second half of 2011 from existing projects which would make 2011 a record year for full year revenues.
In addition we also now have almost $2.4 billion of our backlog that is expected to deliver revenues for 2012 which is about a 35% increase above where we were at this time last year.
Now while we normally talk about expected backlog roll-off I reminded you last quarter that schedules and plans often change which can affect the timing of revenue recognition.
Often it's due to something beyond our own control such as customer direction or as a result of other contractors working on a project.
Last quarter I was specifically referring to a Middle East marine campaign which was at risk of revenues slipping from 2011 to 2012.
The good news here is that we have successfully worked with the customer and we now expect that project to continue uninterrupted.
On the other hand we've had a development in our Asia-Pacific segment where a project has shifted as compared to last quarter's expectations as a result of a delay in customer supplied engineering and materials.
While the revenue impact for 2011 isn't overly substantial we now do have about 1.5 million man-hours that were previously forecast to be realized in 2011 move to the right to 2012.
As a result it creates some disruption in our planned work scope for both years and more likely than not will result in our fab hours for Batam being below standard for the full year.
We are in dialogue with this customer with respect to this matter.
I would note that this is just an example of the issues that can arise in construction projects.
I mentioned earlier the impact higher sales and bidding expenses had on the company's operating margin this quarter.
However there is an upside which is the $800 million of bookings we had this quarter combined with higher level of bids outstanding that we have now.
The largest award that joined our portfolio of projects this quarter was the subsea work for the Macedon gas project in Western Australia.
We were also successful in the Asia-Pacific segment this quarter winning the Kikeh deepwater subsea project in Malaysia and a transportation and installation project.
In addition we had some good bookings in the Atlantic segment including Hibiscus EPCI project for offshore Trinidad pipeline work for PEMEX in the Bay of Campeche and additional scope for the West Africa Noble Alen project.
So thinking about the higher sales and bidding expenses in the quarter I would make the observation that this investment has resulted in important returns in the quarter and hopefully in future quarters.
Of course as a project-oriented company we are pushing hard for more work.
In that regard we're reasonably optimistic that the market will remain strong.
At June 30 bids outstanding and change orders in process increased about 50% compared to the sequential quarter growing from $2.7 billion to over $3.3 billion.
A trend we have seen in our markets in recent years has been that projects are generally getting larger in size and scope and thus taking longer to award.
While we believe that this circumstance of larger-scope projects benefits our EPCI capabilities it does tend to make the binary event of winning or not winning result in increased lumpiness bookings and bids in any given quarter.
In addition to these projects we've already bid we also monitor our list of target projects at quarter-end that we see coming to market over the next 5 quarters.
This target project list has remained strong at about $10 billion.
So if you add up our backlog our bids change orders target list this generates a revenue pipeline potential of $18 billion.
To be clear competition remains tough in each market in which we operate but there remain plenty of opportunities available.
In that regard and in my view we are addressing our market in the right way.
Here's what I mean by that: We seek projects that fit our unique capability including marine fabrication EPCI and surf.
We are disciplined with respect to contract terms scheduling profitability and we accept risk that we can reasonably manage or get paid for all the while choosing to not follow an undisciplined competitor who may appear on any bid slate.
As a result of this approach I can assure you that while in any quarter we may see spikes or troughs the quality of our backlog is always paramount and I believe this creates the better result for our shareholders.
I've spoken the last couple of quarters about the underperforming Atlantic segment and while we have taken steps to improve our performance and the 2011 second quarter was an improvement both sequentially and as compared to last year our results still don't reflect where we'd like to be.
We are continuing to make progress.
We're winning some work like the Shell project we announced just this morning and we're continuing to address costs.
Now although we aren't expecting profits this year we continue to expect to see ongoing improvement.
And on a related topic I'm quite pleased that the potential flooding that we addressed in our May call turned out to be largely a nonevent for our Louisiana facility.
Our local management did an outstanding job in preparation for all contingencies including their utilization of our Intermac 600 barge to protect the Morgan City area from rising backwater.
Our facility remained dry as a bone and all in all the preparatory and preventative work that we undertook had little financial impact in the quarter.
Before I close out I hope you'll allow me a moment to reminisce because it's hard to believe that we just passed the one-year anniversary of the spinoff of the Babcock &amp; Wilcox company which transformed McDermott into a pure-play offshore upstream engineering construction and installation company that we are today.
While the time has gone quickly by I'm very pleased with the progress that our organization has made and I'd be remiss not to thank all my colleagues for their efforts.
Looking forward and having spoken with a number of our customers recently and on a regular basis I'm even more enthusiastic about this company now than I was a year ago.
I believe that we serve the best end markets in our industry.
Our results have been and likely will continue to be lumpy quarter-to-quarter however our markets are growing.
I believe McDermott has substantial opportunities ahead.
While it may not be as apparent from the outside looking in to our company we've been quite active positioning the company for growth.
We've increased our presence in new regions like Brazil and we're seeking to expand local content in other markets.
Our North Ocean 102 vessel has been a great asset and a major factor in some of the recent subsea and deepwater projects we've been awarded.
Her sister vessel the North Ocean 105 is expected to come out of shipyard about this time next year and we've already begun bidding its days.
We've authorized upgrades to the DB50 starting the second half of this year which will make it a more capable deepwater vessel and we're planning for it to be available in early 2012 and to return to the Atlantic region.
We are also upgrading our pipelay vessel the LB32 with lift capabilities which should increase its marketability in the Middle East.
And the DB30 is planned to add a new dynamic positioning system a rigid stinger for deepwater pipeline and a new abandonment and recovery wench.
And I'm excited with these and other initiatives that we have developed for growth mainly during the course of our first year as a standalone McDermott.
And I believe we have other opportunities in the years ahead to both continue to effectively serve our existing markets and to expand our ability to serve others.
We'll continue to be disciplined in the projects we approve the capital we spend and the returns that we require.
But to be clear we do plan to be a growing company.
I'll turn the call over to Perry now to take you through the details of the quarter's financial results after which we'll take questions.
But to summarize my view it was a good quarter.
We think at the halfway point 2011 is on a solid path for the full year.
We'll continue to be lumpy quarter-to-quarter but we have visibility for the rest of the year and a growing level of work for 2012.
We're still looking to add quality work both to fill up capacity as well as to position us for the out years.
And as always our major focus remains on the excellent execution on the projects our clients entrust us to perform.
Let me turn the call over now to Perry for the financial results.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
Total revenues for the 2011 second quarter were nearly $850 million up about 35% from the 2010 second quarter but down about 5% sequentially.
The big driver behind the year-over-year increase was predominantly the increased scope and higher levels of marine activity in the Asia-Pacific segment.
As Steve mentioned our gross margin for the second quarter was 17.2% which was up from the 16.9% we had in the 2011 first quarter but down compared to the 24.1% we had in the comparable quarter a year ago when we had a high level of income from contract closeouts and 0-margin projects combined with a much lower base of revenues.
SG&amp;A expense was up to $60 million about $5 million higher than the 2011 first quarter and $7.7 million above the 2010 second quarter.
As discussed higher sales and bid costs were the primary driver as evidenced by the significant sequential increase in bids outstanding.
While gross profit margin was up compared to the 2011 first quarter operating income margins declined as a result of the higher SG&amp;A and the change in income/loss from equity investees.
We were near the low end of our 10% to 12% operating margin expectation and this quarter's margin generated operating income of about $84 million down compared to a year ago and sequentially.
Our results in 2011 second quarter were largely driven by the Asia-Pacific segment which produced the highest level of operating income of our 3 segments.
The Atlantic segment generated less of a loss than either the 2011 first quarter or last year's second quarter but as Steve mentioned we will continue to address this segment to build workload and reduce costs.
The Middle East segment saw a decline this quarter as compared to both the sequential and year-ago periods mainly reflecting the low revenues in the segment.
At the other income and expense line which is primarily interest income interest expense and foreign currency gains and losses we generated other income of about $1.3 million an improvement compared to a net expense that was recognized in the first quarter of 2011 and the year-ago quarter.
The tax rate this quarter was about 20% right in the middle of the 15% to 25% range we've discussed.
This compares to about 24% in the 2011 first quarter and 13% in the second quarter a year ago.
This quarter's tax rate is a result of increased income from higher tax jurisdictions in the Asia-Pacific such as Australia combined with losses in the Atlantic region that don't receive tax benefit.
Based on our current backlog I'd expect for the remainder of the year that our effective tax rate will probably remain closer to this level or above than the low teens that we enjoyed in the past as a result of a higher percentage of income being derived in Asia-Pacific segment as well as due to the legal restructuring of our Saudi Arabia operation.
Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest primarily our minority interest partner in Indonesia and the North Ocean 102 vessel was $4.1 million this quarter compared to $4 million in the 2011 first quarter and $5.5 million in the 2010 second quarter.
So at the bottom line reported net income from continuing operations less noncontrolling interest was $63.7 million for the 2011 second quarter or $0.27 per diluted share bringing the year-to-date level to $0.56 per diluted share.
Looking ahead we expect about the same amount of revenues just from backlog during the second half of 2011 as what we delivered in the first 6 months.
We continue to expect profits from closeouts and change orders to be well less than what we earned a year ago.
So similar to this point in 2011 we should benefit from higher revenues for the second half but we continue to believe that operating margins in the 10% to 12% range for the full year is the level to expect.
I believe the first half of 2011 set a good start for the year.
Turning to the balance sheet our financial position remains strong.
Our cash cash equivalents as well as investments ended the quarter at $700 million which is down about $42 million from March 31 as a result of CapEx investments.
However looking broader than just cash our working capital which is current assets less current liabilities increased from around $480 million at the first quarter of 2011 to over $530 million at June 30.
Total equity as a percentage of total assets grew to about 63% from 58% at year-end 2010.
In addition we maintained ample room available under our credit facility.
I mentioned earlier that our Saudi Arabia operations were being restructured but I should note that in July we did complete that restructuring effort.
So in the third quarter the majority of our cash and equivalents that are shown as restricted at June 30 are now unrestricted and fully available.
We have also begun the process of amending and extending our current credit facility.
If successful we expect that we will achieve better ongoing pricing for our letter of credit used to secure projects and a longer maturity among other modifications.
We sincerely appreciate the banks that are evaluating this amendment to the facility.
Finally turning to our upcoming Investor Relations activities we have a number of items on the fall calendar.
In early September we'll be at the Barclays CEO Energy Conference in New York and later that month we'll participate in San Francisco for D.A.
Davidson's E&amp;C Conference.
In early October we'll be in New Orleans for the Johnson Rice Energy Conference.
In addition we expect as always to host a number of office visits.
We do hope to see many of you at one of these upcoming venues.
This concludes our prepared comments.
But following the Q&amp;A session if you have additional questions regarding the quarter or the company I encourage you to call Jay or Robby in our Investor Relations department.
And with that operator we'll now open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
I guess this is probably a tough question to answer but if you start thinking through -- taking a look at your prospect list through the remainder of the year is it probable that you're going to maintain a book-to-bill above 1 and backlog is going to grow for the remaining part of the year? And if you could just give us a little bit more color on where you're seeing the near-term opportunities over the next couple of quarters because it looks like the market is paying very close attention to what happens over the next few months.
Joe this is Steve.
First thing I would tell you is for the second half of the year it is hard to predict what the timing of some of these decisions are going to be with our key customers.
Having said that there are 2 or 3 projects that could -- significant projects that could come into backlog before the end of the year and then there maybe others that could roll out beyond that.
And there could be some materiality associated with that and those decisions are somewhat out of our control.
Having said that related to your second question we're seeing a lot of activity in both Asia-Pacific and Middle East and I would give a little bit more of a nod to Asia-Pacific as I think about what it may be coming forward.
But there's getting some more balance as well as we think about Atlantic.
So the Atlantic is giving us more opportunities in terms of bidding and even in the prospect list you'll see -- or we would note that there would be Atlantic there would be Asia-Pacific and the Middle East.
Bottom line to your question hard to tell.
The stated award dates for some of these projects are this year.
The likelihood that they'd go into next year is anybody's guess but some will and some won't.
Okay fair enough.
And I guess if I kind of look at some of your key drivers of your business you mentioned that you expect your marine vessel utilization to stay above last year's levels but I would imagine potentially coming down in the second half of the year because of the DB50.
Can you help me understand the trajectory of the man-hours on your fabrication business and whether we should see an uptick through the remainder of the year and as we move into 2012? This is Perry.
On both of those points taking the last one first on the fab yard utilization as Steve noted in his comments we are down in utilization and in fact with regard to that one job where we've got some customer delays we expect some of the hours to shift out of '11 into 12.
So we expect fab yard utilization to continue to be lower than our standards for the remainder of 2011.
As it relates to vessel utilization we were at about 70% this quarter which is as you noted above last year.
We do have the DB50 going in but we have better work prospects for other vessels than we had last year.
So we have the opportunity to improve slightly but not significantly in vessel utilization I guess is the way I'd say it.
So kind of this neighborhood would be the kind of neighborhood I'd expect for the rest of the year.
I'd add one piece of color to that Joe just on your question having to do with our major vessels there is a -- and this is a positive statement.
There is a lot of interest in and positive pressure on the utilization of some of our key vessels.
I would cite the North Ocean 102 our DB30 and the DB50 when she comes out so much so that we are dealing with the movement of these vessels from one project to another to make sure that we can get them to the projects in order to do the things that we need to do.
I call this a high-class problem.
We've got the right vessels is what this says.
And particularly in subsea I'm exceptionally pleased with how the 102 is performing how much appetite there is for her and that gives me great feelings about what we might be able to do with the 105 when she comes out this time next year.
Okay that's helpful.
And just one last question.
I'm sure there's plenty of people in the queue right now.
Speaking specifically on the Atlantic you announced an award earlier this morning which is great.
Can you just help me understand -- quarter-over-quarter you saw a slight increase in profitability in that business.
At what point do we get to breakeven in that business given the visibility that you have today? If you're speaking specifically to the Atlantic segment the answer that I've given for a couple of quarters here is as you said we don't expect it to be profitable in this calendar year.
Our expectation remains that the Atlantic region will return to profitability in 2012 and what I mean by that is by the end of 2012 to be clear.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
There's obviously a lot of moving pieces but how should we think about the headwinds and tailwinds on margin in the second half? And overall where are you thinking relative to -- I know you said 10% to 12% for the rest of the year but relative to the low end of the range that you're in Q2.
Yes.
Steven it's Perry.
What we're experiencing this quarter Q2 is kind of what we anticipated in terms of the projects that we're working at the earlier stages.
Therefore as Steve mentioned we have not seen the project closeouts and change orders at the same level we did last year.
We see that continuing for most of the rest of this year.
So there was some project closeouts and change orders in Q2 so it wasn't absent them entirely but just down substantially from last year.
And so we expect to see some more for the remainder of the year but again down from last year so kind of in this range if you will.
Okay.
So it doesn't sound like there's any particular tailwinds that can move us from where we are right now? Not in order of magnitude.
Move us a percentage point but not in order of magnitude.
Okay.
And what's your visibility of improving revenue trends in the Middle East and is there any reason to think that the revenues should improve from here for the next few quarters? And then I guess how good a sense do you have of when the better margins in the Middle East work will be realized? And I assume you have specific schedules for Keran and Safaniya and the U.A.E.
work as we think out to 2012? I think again this quarter certainly was meaningful from a new award standpoint moving into revenue for the Middle East.
Is it an anomaly? I think it probably is.
The pipeline of prospects that we have coming out of our Middle East region is no less robust than it has been in recent past quarters.
The drivers for us continue to be the Emirates in particular Abu Dhabi more opportunities coming out of Saudi Aramco.
We believe later this year and into 2012 there is no anemia in terms of opportunities coming out of the Middle East period.
It is simply a quarter result.
My view is I can tell you our activity in bidding our contact with our customers in the Middle East gives me a very positive signal and it's no less than it's been for a number of quarters.
So turning those to revenue takes a little bit of time but our bidding activity is strong and we've got more than just one to look at before the end of the year that are significant potential awards for us Steven.
And Steve I might even add some numbers to Steve's commentary.
If you look at our expected backlog roll-off on a consolidated basis for the second half of the year approximately $700 million of that is coming from the Middle East.
So we have some visibility into this level of revenue in the second quarter was at the low end.
Okay.
And then just on the part about when you might see the closeout opportunities based on the schedules that you have.
And we're thinking this is the first part of 2012 mid-2012 later 2012? Safaniya is the big one that we're kind of in the earlier stages on and we've got a job going on in the Caspian.
Several of those jobs again just in the earlier stages so we would be looking to 2012 and even possibly the latter part of 2012 before we'd kind of be getting to the stage on those projects where you'd see meaningful change orders and closeouts coming through.
Your next question comes from the line of Will Gabrielski with Gleacher.
Inc.</strong> Did you break out most of your bid costs by geography how those were spread out? No we didn't break that out but it was predominantly in the Asia-Pacific and the Middle East regions.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And I know I always beat Jay up trying to ask this question but when you look at the operating performance in the Atlantic division sequentially your revenue was up $12 million or $13 million.
Your loss only improved by about $1 million and I know there was some severance in there.
But going forward I guess how flexible is the remaining costs that you have in that region and can you sort of help articulate what you're hanging onto capacity-wise in anticipation of maybe a big Gulf of Mexico-related project over the next year or 2? Well I'll start and then I'm going to have Perry give you some quantitative numbers.
The first thing I would observe is the cost reductions the cost management that we did in the second quarter was towards the tail end of the second quarter.
We should begin to realize the benefit of those cost reductions in the third quarter and the fourth quarter and they should be significant.
The second thing is the new work that we have booked.
While some of it or much of it could move into 2012 we have the booked work and it could have not any material revenue benefit and operating income benefit for the latter half of the year.
Having said that the larger projects that are out there in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico are probably beyond the end of this year and well into 2012.
There are projects in Brazil however that are more near-term so we look at the Atlantic region holistically between U.S.
Gulf of Mexico Mexico meaning PEMEX Brazil and of course the opportunistic projects in West Africa.
And I would put Brazil in the first order PEMEX next and then the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico the larger projects in third position in terms of likelihood short term.
Perry? So that's in terms of perspective work.
In terms of existing work in backlog you recall that we've got 2 projects.
A large part of our Atlantic backlog is 2 Petrobras projects: one for our vessel the Agile; and the other is the Papa Terra project.
On that project we have a portion of the project in our backlog and the remainder in our JV's backlog.
On both of those projects you're not seeing earnings come through in 2011.
And so as you know we have Papa Terra on a deferred profit recognition so we're recognizing cost with these [ph] revenues but in fact there's just not -- it's very early stages on that project and we're kind of at around the 20% complete level having recognized about just under $20 million of revenue on that project in the first half of the year.
So that project is not contributing to profit and we hope to be in a position to turn it back on sometime in 2012.
And likewise the other part big part of the backlog is the Agile contract for Petrobras which commences later this year but runs for 5 years so it won't contribute a lot into the second half in terms of profitability.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then when you look at the market right now it's seemly oversupplied with marine day capacity across the entire industry.
Clearly there's an uptick in activity and you hear from all the equipment suppliers the amount of subsea orders that are going out right now so it looks good there.
Are there any weak competitors that you're looking at in the market where you can pick off some vessels and take advantage of that market and better utilize some of the marine days that are out there? Is there anything you're thinking about strategically on that front? The only answer I could give you at this juncture is probably.
Nothing is in the works certainly nothing I can talk about but that is a potential source.
In addition to building or leasing or buying one-offs there's always that kind of an approach Will.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Cook with Crdit Suisse.
Two questions.
One can you talk about -- there's a number of large projects obviously that are coming forward? Can you talk about the competitive environment? We are hearing signs from some of the other E&amp;C players that is has been improving and unit pricing has been up on a sequential basis.
And then my last question Steve can you just sort of update us on your -- I mean you talked about sort of potential plans on buying out smaller players on the vessel side but what are your thoughts on Brazil? Because I thought you were also planning on making some investments there to better position yourself.
All right Jamie I'll try to tackle both of them here.
On the larger projects that are coming forward I'd say we'd see similar types of dynamics going on with bidding on certain numbers of these projects.
As you saw on our prepared comments we did have increased bidding cost and the reason we had increased bidding cost wasn't just about volumetrics of more bids.
It was the complexity of and the ongoing clarification dialogue that's going on with some of these customers for these major projects which has some expense associated with it.
As we have those conversations with those customers post-submittal of a priced and technical bid we begin to learn more and more about what perhaps the competitors are thinking and we begin to learn more and more about where we are situated relative to those competition or those competitors as we listen to our customers.
I've got to tell you I feel pretty good about a number of them there and part of it has to do with the fact that I believe there's rationality in the marketplace whereas in 2010 and maybe in the first quarter of this year there was some irrational bidding going on.
I'm seeing less of that so all I can tell you is I'm hopeful about that.
And the only thing -- I can't predict awards and I can't predict win but I would bet those awards will happen this year 1 or 2 might slip over as I said responding to another question.
As regards Brazil we're moving forward.
There hasn't been any formal decision with that.
We believe the sun and the moon and the stars are aligning for a McDermott in Brazil.
It is important for us to have presence in Brazil not only in terms of marine campaign capability with our vessels as Perry talked about with the Agile hitting there late summer it is important for us to have fabrication capabilities there.
And we're not shying away from that at all.
It's a timing issue associated with how to put this transaction together and we're moving forward without a formal decision yet.
Any color on the magnitude of spend level that will be required? I would tell you if you're going to build a fully kitted-out fabrication yard as an example one could think in the range of $150 million to $225 million total.
The way McDermott would build a fabrication yard would be to do it in a just-in-time kind of mode.
So we would spread that investment out over several quarters and maybe more than 2 or 3 years.
So what I would say to you is that we are in a position where we're joint-venturing for that fabrication yard.
We will share that cost.
And because of McDermott's capability of running a fabrication yard we will have a superior financial position to our partners if we do such a thing as this because of our capability of running the yards.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
Steve your business overall I think is going through somewhat of a transformation more subsea work more deepwater work in general.
I know it's early days but maybe you can give us your assessment of how it's going so far in terms of execution.
It's hard for us to see what these projects look like as part of the bigger base of business so I'm just wondering about that.
And then also Papa Terra is one of those projects.
Maybe you could give us an update on that.
I'd be happy to do it Andy.
On the subject of subsea and deepwater I would say that the company is in transition but I'd say we're in transition in a manner which is we're kind of sticking to our kneading which is shallower water or midlevel water and at the same time growing into subsea and deepwater.
The performance of our assets in the projects that we have that are so-called subsea has been nothing less than excellent and it's largely due to not only the people that we have assigned to these programs but the equipment that we have.
So I am every quarter more and more sanguine about our ability to perform in subsea and deepwater and in fact whereas maybe a quarter or 2 ago I felt that we might have to get our ticket punched and pay a little bit in terms of reduced margins to enter this.
I'm not there anymore because we had as good of gear as anybody else and this time next year we'll have even more.
And as we add DP -- rigid stinger to the DB30 that I talked about in the prepared remarks we'll even have more capability along with the DB50.
So I'm pretty settled about our capability to compete.
I see no issues at all with any of these programs.
Now Papa Terra.
Papa Terra as far as I'm concerned is in good shape.
There are struggles with any of these projects that have some first-of-a-kind in terms of technology associated with them but as I said at the end of the second quarter staying close to that project the challengers are known.
We're past what I would consider the gating engineering and technology issues.
We are implementing the solutions to those technology issues and I see no reason at this juncture why we would have any particular problem.
Having said that this is a huge project.
There's a lot of runway in front of us.
We have to perform but I feel pretty good about it as we stand today Andy.
That's great.
Steve I know Perry's going to tell me 10% to 12% but the margins on these deepwater projects or subsea are I think higher.
So is it possible that you will have some tailwind from your margins if you don't have to punch your tickets so to speak? Well Perry's going to tell you 10% to 12% and so will I.
Having said that you know what? There's always that potential sitting out there.
It's a little bit too early to do anything to predict that we're going to be on the upper end of that range or ever exceed it.
I would say we've got to get some of these things under our belt and see them close out before we could do anything to guide anything different.
But I would just simply say to you I'm more than just pleased.
I'm delighted with how we're able to perform and I'm delighted with the pull from the customer community on that North Ocean 102 and will be on the North Ocean 105 and will be on the DB30.
It's a delightful thing for me to see.
Okay that's great.
You mentioned that it's the one-year anniversary of the spinoff.
As you sit here now versus last year you've got $2.3 billion in backlog for next year.
But this is -- 2011 is going to be a record year for you hopefully.
So as you look at all '12 versus '11 given where you are sitting in terms of your backlog next year how do you feel? How I feel in terms of ...
How do you feel -- how's your confidence level about next year being a growth year versus this year? You know what in the middle or early to the middle of 2010 last year we were looking into 2011 and were predicting that it was probably going to be a flat kind of year or flattish in terms of revenue generation and maybe all the financial metrics.
I'm pleased where we are in terms of revenue for 2011.
2012 at that time was expected to be an uptick and I see no reason why we couldn't be in a reasonable range there for 2012.
It is binary though Andy in terms of awards for revenue production in 2012 from a profitability standpoint.
As we get more and more of the subsea work into the mix I would hope that would improve.
And I now those are generic answers but I see 2012 being an improvement over 2011 in most financial metrics.
Your next question comes from the line of Roger Read with Morgan Keegan.
I guess I'm going to probably hit...
[Audio Gap] Typically we see vessel margins blended out over time better than fab margins and maybe you could walk me through if there's any reason that wouldn't be the case maybe leftover of a more competitive pricing from a year ago and some of this backlog that works off comes through or if there's something else that's in the moving parts there.
Perry and I are both going to give a shot at it.
I'll let you go first this time Perry.
Okay.
Thanks Roger.
Look you're right in that normally we would anticipate that kind of higher vessel utilization would kind of juice the margins if you will and we are seeing solid vessel utilization but not exceptional.
I mean we've seen vessel utilization well north of our standards in the past so this is good utilization.
It's not incredible so it's helping but it's not filling us up to the top of our range.
The second thing is what the real driver on the margins is the fab yard utilization comment I made earlier relates to how quickly we can recognize revenues on the projects because that's driving our percentage of completion recognition.
But the actual margin percentage is more affected by the closeouts and the change orders than it is by the activity level.
And because we see less opportunity for closeouts and change orders lightening [ph] of the job near the end of the jobs for the second half of this year as we did in this quarter that's why our view for the last several quarters as we've talked about the 10% to 12% has been and continues to be to hold to that.
So I think you should continue to expect these kind of margins for the next few quarters.
I think your math is reasonable Roger.
There's no question about that.
I would say that the biggest needle-mover is closeouts and just the phasing of these projects probably wouldn't indicate that we'd have any material upside to what we have been guiding you to.
But in subsequent quarters that is likely to occur.
Perry's answered about the vessels.
I don't think it's a big needle-mover for the next 2 quarters of this year although depending on what our awards are and how quickly we could go to work on some marine-only work it could have some impact.
My comment would be around fabrication.
As you heard in my prepared remarks we've got a minor issue in our Batam yard in terms of a particular project where we're subject to client engineering drawings and client-supplied material.
And as I said in the prepared remarks we're talking to this client about this issue.
I would guess that we're not going to be able to compel them to provide us engineering when we'd like to have it and we're not going to compel them to deliver materials.
Their engineering service company is frankly not performing very well so that won't happen.
So what happens in that occurrence? Well we get to a situation where we're in a position where we're going to have to claw back through change orders and settlements in some future quarter.
And I think that's really the tale of the tape with all of the things that we talked about fab closeouts and vessels.
So I'd expect us to not move the needle too much outside of the range where we are today.
At least for the second half of '11? Yes and that's really what I'm speaking to the second half of '11.
2012 our expectation is that we'll resolve these issues in fabrication with the customers by this time in 2012.
And then if I think about large projects expected to be awarded whether you win them or not obviously is still the question.
But if we're awarded the projects late '11 early '12 not many closeouts this year which would indicate a higher level of closeouts next year just without asking specific margins guidance how does that -- even look back historically and say we've had periods where these things overlap would startup on projects next year tend to keep margins on the lower end or is it such that as things pick up the type of projects you're looking at you could actually see margins maybe move back more towards the middle or even upper end of that kind of 10% to 13% range? There's the binary aspect of do we win or do we not win.
There is the mix of projects that will have an effect on the outcome here and the more marine-only and in particular the more of the subsea projects as others have observed that mix could improve the margins.
I just couldn't predict the timing or the total here but your rationale is not illogical.
And what type of projects do we need to look for in terms of having a big impact to the upside on margins? Would it be a focus on subsea or at least marine-oriented then? Marine-oriented subsea and change orders and closeouts the large EPIC projects have good marine confluence to them too.
So we'll see how those go.
All right.
And Jay you're going to keep us up on all those change orders when they happen then? Only in a public forum.
Your next question comes from the line of Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
I don't want to belabor the margin issue but I guess my question is a just follow-up to all the ones that have happened.
I know you're being very careful about what you're saying about the second half margins but I guess I'm still not totally clear because you've got second quarter margins at around 10% which is the lower end of the range.
When you're talking about margins staying at the levels at the range within the range are you talking about staying within the 10% to 12% range or are you saying that 10% is kind of the level you see them at in the second half? So I guess what I'm asking is are you essentially in your -- just by recent commentary are you indicating that they're going to be closer to the lower end of the range and there are fewer opportunities even from ship utilization to really push them to the upper end of the range or are you just saying it's just difficult on the ship utilization to push them beyond the 12%? Yes it's 10% to 12% is what we're saying both for the remainder of this year and it's difficult within the 10% to 12% to predict a few basis points here because of the possibility of some of the things Steve was talking about in terms of picking up book and burn[ph] work for the marine fleet.
And there are some change orders and closeouts that could occur in the second half but certainly not the level that we've enjoyed last year.
And that's why for the last few quarters when we've been inside this range of 10% to 12% and a number of folks were asking us to give guidance outside it we've held firm because we saw these kind of margins in our forecast.
And as we look forward for the next few quarters that's still what we see.
So I wouldn't try to be more colorful than that in terms of within the 10% to 12% what part of that range we expect to be.
I guess I was just trying to push my luck there but it seems like a lot of your commentary is really in terms of the second half is really is in terms of not -- that it's improbable that you will exceed that range I guess versus really hitting the upper end or close to the upper end of the range.
Would that be a correct assumption? Tahira I mean I would say it this way.
The projects have a life cycle to them as you well know and we've commented about the fact that we're not in that portion of the cycle where there's significant closeouts and settlements which is a material driver to the upside for margins and we don't see that in the second half.
So that would tell you that while we really believe we're in the 10% to 12% range I don't see anything material that'll drive us materially beyond that upper end.
Got it.
Actually that's very helpful.
Your next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.</strong> The potential push-outs in revenues in the Asia-Pacific region that you spoke about is that taking into account the $1.8 billion backlog that you expect to work off at -- this year? It is.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay.
And I haven't heard much about the China FPSO JV lately.
Could you talk about what's going on there and when we might see some contribution from that? Yes Marty I just visited there probably not 3 4 weeks ago.
The build-out is nearly complete.
It'll be I think substantially complete by the end of this third quarter ready to work.
We're doing some small work in there now that we've moved from one of our offshore projects to help get some of the labor force and get some of the equipment tested out and proven out.
I am pleased with the build-out of that facility.
It's well managed.
The association with our partner is strong.
We are now bidding work.
Seeking work and bidding work specifically for that facility.
As I'd indicated before it'll probably be into 2012 before we see the first project.
L.L.C.</strong> Okay.
And then just one last question.
The Gulf of Mexico deepwater your 2 competitors on the fabrication side for topsides have record backlogs and Morgan City hasn't been able to win one of these projects yet.
Can you just talk about what you're seeing out there in the bidding environment and what might be driving that? Well because of the nature of the market meaning few projects and central fabricators being able to serve those few projects and because of our bidding disciplines we are at the result we are at today.
That's probably the not-so-good news.
The good news is there's no question in my mind that those that have won those projects in the last several quarters have full yards and the ability to add additional work would be a question mark.
I don't have any specific insight into that other than knowing what our competitors' capabilities are there.
So with that as a backdrop the question is what projects at what pace will come forward for us to bid on and we will be bidding not just Morgan City but we will also be bidding from our Mexican fabrication yard which has a distinct financial advantage from a labor cost standpoint.
Your next question comes from the line of Chase Jacobson with William Blair.
You talked a lot about your bidding discipline.
Can you just talk about how that changes or potentially changes the win rate that you talked about on the contract that you actually bid for? Well I don't know that there's any significant win rate adjustment.
I would say there is disappointment from not having won some of these major programs in the Middle East and to some degree in Asia-Pacific.
But had we won those projects we would have had to had terms and conditions and prices below the winning bidder.
And as I've said before Chase those are projects that we simply would not want to have.
Having said that we're very focused on our cost and our cost bases in the Middle East and the Asia-Pacific as well as the Atlantic region to make sure that we're not missing anything in terms of our competitiveness in terms of our base cost to bid these programs.
And I don't believe we are.
We simply are disciplined around getting the right work inside the house here and that's kind of the full-stop answer here.
We've gone through these cycles 6 or 8 9 10 times in my career and the winners in these cycles are ones that have strong bidding disciplines and wait for the projects to come forward that we can have if not superior better return and lower risk than those that are taking this work in the opposite fashion during this downturn.
Okay that's helpful.
Just on the margin side when we look at Asia-Pacific is there any change in mix in terms of types of projects that you're working on that would maybe provide a tailwind to the margin in that segment maybe working on a more LNG-associated projects? Would that have higher associated margins than maybe projects you've worked on in the past? Chase did you say Asia-Pacific? Yes.
Yes possibly.
The awards that we've had in the second quarter here I think are emblematic of opportunities in Australia in particular and Southeast Asia.
We've had a couple of awards in Malaysia and both categories are subsea types of awards.
We look at both onshore installations like we are doing for Chevron and Gorgon and we look for offshore installations for our fabrication facilities.
As I think about our assets to do the installation work we are beginning to be at a point where we're not disadvantaged to anybody in terms of our competitive assets to do this work.
So yes there's some LNG drivers behind this.
The volume of opportunities that we have in our pipeline have been vetted.
They wouldn't be in there if they didn't fit us.
And as indicated in the prepared remarks if you add the backlog as well as the targets and the prospects out there we've got $18 billion worth of work to hopefully realize our share of.
Your final question comes from the line of Rob Norfleet with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Most of my questions have been asked but just a couple.
If we look at the bids outstanding that we talked about earlier of over $3.2 billion how should we look at the split between Asia-Pacific and the Middle East relative to what backlog is now? They're roughly in line in terms of Asia-Pacific Middle East having about the same amount of backlog.
Yes the mix and we've said this for the last few quarters is -- if you compare to what we've historically recognized in revenues or even what's in our backlog there's a bit of a shift towards the Atlantic because we've had very little revenues in the Atlantic in the last few years.
So it was a bit more in Atlantic geographically than the other 2.
However still look at the majority of the bids outstanding being in the Asia-Pacific and the Middle East with at this moment in time and this shifts every quarter at this moment in time a bit more in Asia-Pacific than the Middle East.
Okay.
And then one of the questions clearly you're getting a number of questions on margins understandably and I think you've obviously discussed the issue of how closeouts -- or really what is impacting that but if you look at the variance in margins between the regions in the Middle East the 600 basis points higher EBIT margin than what we're doing in Asia.
So I guess I'm just trying to understand as that mix shift obviously occurs and we have more work in the Atlantic and more work coming out of Asia-Pacific if the Middle East does get diluted that obviously has a potential for as we discussed that lower-margin situation.
I don't know that I'd look at it that way.
I mean the numbers kind of lead you to that conclusion.
But we're awarded work one project at a time and one prospect at a time and the margin and the work has a number of different elements to it.
And I can tell you some of the projects that we're looking at in Asia-Pacific would take not a backseat to anything we've had in the past in the Middle East.
Okay that's encouraging.
Last question just in terms of SG&amp;A what should we look at in terms of the second half of the year in terms of SG&amp;A? Obviously it was inflated in the second quarter because of higher bidding activity.
Yes we've given guidance to the last few quarters to be around $60 million and we hit that this quarter.
We had underspent it if you will the quarters preceding that.
So as Steve mentioned we've got some large opportunities in front of us that we're  building in the second half of the year.
So we wouldn't expect it to come all the way back down to where it's been the preceding few quarters but Steve also mentioned there's a little bit of Atlantic severance costs in here as well.
So hopefully it will moderate a little bit but maybe not all the way back down to where it was in the preceding quarters.
And the last question is on capital allocation.
Stephen I know you talked a lot about obviously some of the initiatives that are being undertaken in terms of the fleet possibly the JV in Brazil and the fab yard.
The share repurchase I know it's always been low on your scale of items though.
Is that even in the top 5 at this point? You know we talk about share repurchase on a regular basis inside the company and with the board.
It is never off the table.
I would say to you that as we look into the market which is a growing market that we serve the best return for shareholders that we as a board would say to you today is investing and enhancing the fleet towards deeper water and surf investing in those regions of the world where we need to have a presence example would be Brazil.
And I think the analytics that we've done would say that it would far overtake a share repurchase but I would bookend it and say we'd never take it off the table.
That does conclude today's Q&amp;A session.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Jay Roueche for closing remarks.
Thank you all again for your participation and interest today.
I want to remind you that the call included forward-looking statements and I encourage you to see our SEC filings and press release for more information on these.
Unfortunately I know there were still several people who were left in the queue so if you didn't get the opportunity to ask your question to us or if anyone has any follow-up questions please give Rob or me a call and we'll be happy to work with you.
And we do look forward  to seeing many of you over the coming months at the various conferences and office visits.
And Kim this concludes our call.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This does conclude the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to McDermott International's Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Preview Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to our host Mr.
Jay Roueche McDermott's Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Keanna and good morning everyone.
As you all probably have seen yesterday McDermott provided an earnings preview of its 2011 third quarter.
And today we wanted to provide additional color and an opportunity for the financial community to ask their questions.
Assuming our final results which will be reported on November 8 are in line with yesterday's preview this will likely be the only call we will have in regard to our 2011 third quarter.
Joining me this morning are Steve Johnson McDermott's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Perry Elders our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before I turn the call over let me remind you that this event is being recorded and a replay will be available for a limited time on our website.
In addition considering we have yet to finalize our financial statements for the 2011 third quarter most of our comments this morning will include forward-looking statements and estimates including with regard to our preliminary 2012 outlook.
These comments are subject to various risks and uncertainties and they reflect management's view as of October 27 2011.
Please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are available on our website including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 subsequent Form 10-Qs and yesterday's 8-K for a discussion of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
And please note that except to the extent required by applicable law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
I will now turn the call over to Steve Johnson McDermott's Chairman President and CEO for his remarks on the third quarter preview and the business and operational environment.
Thanks Jay.
Good morning everyone.
Obviously I wish we were speaking under different circumstances but I do appreciate you joining us today particularly on short notice to discuss the earnings preview we issued last night.
My goal this morning is to be as open and direct with you as possible to speak to the quarter's expected results with as much detail as we can and answer as many of your questions as time permits.
As we indicated in the press release the 2011 third quarter will be disappointing from an income statement perspective.
While the vast majority of our projects and backlog performed very much in line with our expectations we had a handful of challenges on certain marine projects that resulted in significant project charges for the quarter in the neighborhood of $50 million.
In addition a few other projects had timing issues and revisions to their expected profitability at completion which will result in gross margin recognized in the third quarter at a profit percentage below the gross margin we expect for the entire project.
Without these charges and adjustments we anticipate the quarter would have been much more in line with expectations.
Of the challenges this quarter each project had unique reasons for why the issues occurred or are expected to occur.
While I don't plan to discuss each project specifically let me start with some good news.
Of the projects that contributed to the expected $50 million of project losses in the 2011 third quarter all but one are now complete or expected to be complete by the first half of 2012.
This should provide some confidence that we don't expect a bunch of problem projects lingering into the future.
In addition we believe that some of the project losses we expect to report this period may merit claims or change orders in the future from insurance suppliers or customers.
Despite this belief however as required we will record the entire expected project losses in Q3 and should we recover monies at a later date we would recognize those amounts then.
Two projects I'll spend a little time on are in the Atlantic segment and represent about 75% of the expected $50 million charge.
The first project relates to an upcoming multiyear vessel charter contract.
I highlight it for 3 reasons: One it will represent just over half of the expected $50 million charge; two the marine operations under contract haven't begun yet; and three since we're delayed in beginning the project we've accrued liquidated damages.
So let me start at the beginning on this project.
In advance of beginning a multiyear charter in Brazil our Agile vessel began a drydock and upgrade program at a shipyard in Holland in February of this year.
After the program began and the ship was opened up we discovered additional work that needed to be done beyond the original scope.
In addition we were receiving frequent updates on the customers' requirements for the vessel.
This led to some cost overruns on the drydock upgrade program as well as delays coming out of the shipyard.
However the vessel completed its sea trials in September and left the shipyard headed for South America thereafter.
A few days after leaving the shipyard in early October the Agile began leaking fluids and had to turn around and go back into the shipyard and is still there today undergoing repairs.
We are currently expecting the vessel to leave the shipyard for the second time in early November and be on on-hire status in Brazil in January of 2012.
Additionally we've also forecasted additional operating costs on this project during the charter period resulting from an updated and more comprehensive review of the project execution plans that took place during this third quarter.
The Agile project developments are clearly the most disappointing event of the quarter to me and the company.
The second project in the Atlantic segment is a pipelay project in the Mexican waters of the Gulf of Mexico and is expected to contribute almost $10 million in losses in the quarter.
We were awarded this project in late April of this year and have only recently learned of a delay in beginning the marine installation campaign.
This delay is due to a summer tropical storm combined with customs clearance and site access issues.
Further this delay moves the project into more adverse weather months.
So we will necessarily continue to closely monitor the situation.
However our vessel has recently left the dock and should begin pipelay work this week.
The job is expected to complete in January of 2012.
Now there were 3 other projects which contributed around $12 million to the third quarter losses 2 in Asia-Pacific and 1 in the Middle East.
The changes in these jobs related to specific third quarter events primarily around marine activity including items such as the loss of other bid work requiring one job to absorb a greater share of vessel mobilization costs; the failure on another job of a supplier's product during installation requiring schedule delays and incurring liquidated damages; and on the final job weather and productivity which extended the duration of the marine campaign.
One of these jobs is now complete and the other 2 are expected to conclude in the first half of 2012.
So some may ask did we get it all? What I can tell you is this we've recorded everything we know and can reasonably foresee.
Further 4 of the 5 jobs are complete or near completion and while the fifth job the Brazil Charter contract runs for the next 5 years we have recorded everything permitted by accounting rules.
Let me at this point turn the call over to Perry to discuss in a little more detail our current expectations for the 2011 third quarter as well as our preliminary outlook for 2012 and I'll come back afterwards for some of the operational metrics and business updates that we typically provide as part of our quarter's review.
Perry? Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
Total revenues for the 2011 third quarter are expected to be between $870 million and $880 million an increase from both the sequential quarter as well as the 2010 third quarter.
The Asia-Pacific segment will prove to be the big driver behind the year-over-year increase as a result of increased scope and marine activity on a large EPCI project which will more than offset the year-over-year decline in the Middle East segment.
As Steve discussed expected project losses of approximately $50 million as well as timing and POC adjustments on certain other projects will significantly reduce our operating income and operating margin expected for the 2011 third quarter.
Further restraining this quarter's results we expect the lowest level of change orders and closeouts for the year in this quarter including Q4.
Considering these issues we are expecting our operating income to be in the $30 million to $38 million range when we report in early November therefore with operating margins between 3% and 4%.
The tax rate this quarter will be higher than we have experienced recently primarily due to limited if any tax benefit associated with project losses this quarter.
Therefore we're expecting a provision for taxes to be above 50% of our pretax income in the 2011 third quarter.
At the bottom line we currently expect that net income from continuing operations will be between $6 million and $12 million or $0.03 to $0.05 per diluted share for the third quarter.
Turning briefly to our liquidity our overall financial position remains strong -- remains sound.
We ended September with over $600 million of cash cash equivalents and investments.
Also during the third quarter we completed the amendment to and extension of our credit facility.
We now have a 5-year facility which was upsized at $950 million and has a lower ongoing cost than our prior agreement.
As before we currently only have letters of credit issued under our facility and we sincerely appreciate the banks that participated with us.
In addition to providing the preview of our third quarter expectations we also yesterday included a preliminary outlook for the coming year.
As you know we don't normally provide earnings guidance but we did want to give you a sense that we don't currently expect this quarter to be indicative of how we look at 2012.
In fact Steve will provide some backdrop in a moment on our long-term enthusiasm for the marketplace based on bids we have outstanding which have grown significantly throughout the year.
While we currently expect full year 2012 to be an improvement versus full year 2011 we do expect the coming year to see a pullback in our operating margin vis-a-vis our long-term product target range.
We want to reiterate here that as indicated in our forward-looking statement disclosures that these and the following comments about 2012 reflect our current expectations about future events and circumstances including factors outside our control and we undertake no obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements except to the extent it is required to do so by applicable law.
To give you a little more color as we indicated in our press release we believe revenues next year have a potential to remain at the record levels we're expecting in 2011.
Consideringly we will have realized over $2.6 billion in revenues through the 9 months of 2011 and we are expecting backlog roll-off in the fourth quarter to be around $900 million we're indicating a potential for revenues next year somewhere around the $3.6 billion range.
We've formed this expectation based upon about $2.6 billion which we expect to drive from our current backlog with the difference coming from awards on some of the bids currently outstanding as well as change orders drive-by work and other awards that may contribute to 2012.
Although we're expecting the top line to remain strong we're currently forecasting our activity level in 2012 to subside with lower levels of major marine activity as well as reduced fab work in at least one region.
It may seem counterintuitive that activity will slow considering the exceptionally high level of bids outstanding.
But there's a time lag between bidding when we expect bids to be awarded and when we forecast work to begin.
As a result we currently expect in 2012 that the company will incur an increased level of fixed costs that are not expected to be allocated to projects creating a drag on operating margins.
In addition we expect we will have some revenue that equals costs as a result of a small amount of revenues from the lost projects as well as from the project that remains on deferred profit recognition accounting.
Taking these and other factors into account we currently believe that 2012 will likely produce operating margins in the 7% to 10% range.
However our long-term margin's targets beyond next year remain unchanged as we continue to see a strong level of work coming to the industry in the not-too-distant future.
But we just don't expect to achieve that level consistently in 2012.
This pretty well summarizes our current expectations for the 2011 third quarter and provides the preliminary overview of 2012.
Now I'll turn the call over to Steve to cover some of the operational and business discussion from the third quarter.
Thanks Perry.
Clearly our major purpose today is to get our current expectations related to the quarter preview and 2012 out to our shareholders and to the financial community yet I also want to cover some of the other data from the quarter.
Bookings in the third quarter were relatively light and approximately $420 million.
However we believe this is predominantly timing-related.
As most of the $3.3 billion in bids outstanding from the second quarter are still outstanding and we've added another 50% to that level.
So at third quarter's end we had close to $5 billion in bids outstanding and we're excited about this development.
We started the year with $1.7 billion in bids outstanding.
We've booked about $1.8 billion during the first 9 months of the year and bids outstanding have grown to around $5 billion at September 30.
Our bids outstanding includes 2 large bids representing just over half the total dollar amount which are expected to be awarded in the first quarter of 2012.
And although we believe we have offered excellent solutions at competitive prices to our customers on these bids these are competitive tenders and our capture of these awards is uncertain.
Also as with any customer tender process the timing of award can shift to the right.
Also of the September 30 2011 backlog approximately $312 million is from projects currently in a loss position whereby future revenues are expected to equal costs when recognized.
Additionally as discussed the company continues to have one project that we account for under our deferred profit recognition policy representing approximately $145 million of the September 30 backlog.
The market environment is robust and we've been busy in bid reviews and working with clients on our technical solutions to their issues and we believe we're well-suited for much of this work.
If you combine bids outstanding with backlog and target projects all as of the end of the third quarter we see a potential revenue pipeline which is north of $20 billion.
To be clear competition remains tough in every market in which we operate but there remain plenty of opportunities available.
We seek projects that fit our unique capabilities including marine fabrication EPCI and SURF.
I can assure you that while in any quarter we may see spikes and troughs the quality of our backlog is always paramount.
Now our activity levels during the 2011 third quarter were probably as soft collectively as we've seen in some time.
We had under 3 million man hours in our construction yards during the quarter which is about 20% lower than our next-lowest quarter of this year 2011.
Likewise our marine-work barge days were right at the lows we saw in the 2011 first quarter at 302 days.
Both fab and marine were below standards for the quarter.
The good news is we expect an uptick in both of these metrics for the 2011 fourth quarter.
In both fab and marine our Asia-Pacific segments saw the most activity and the Atlantic segment remained the weakest.
So clearly for the rest of 2011 and throughout next year adding profitable work to our portfolio and executing on it will remain a top priority.
You know I've spoken the last couple of quarters about the underperforming Atlantic segment and we continue to focus on cost structure and getting our operations in line with the opportunities that we see.
While the third quarter will be masked by the project charges I've just spoken of we otherwise would have begun to see some improvement.
However our work isn't done.
I think we pretty well indicated we currently expect the company's overall activity levels to improve in 2011 fourth quarter and we expect that our operational results will improve as well both as compared to Q3.
But I do want you to be aware that we're looking at additional cost reductions primarily in the Atlantic region and some in corporate segments.
And as such we may have some nonrecurring charges associated with this restructuring.
I'll begin to summarize here so we can open the call up to questions.
Although I'm disappointed in our results this quarter and the timing associated with expected new work next year I do remain quite enthusiastic about this business.
We have a tremendous amount of work out to bid and we're looking forward to seeing these projects begin to be awarded.
Most of the disappointing projects in this quarter are about to be complete in a few months.
And while one larger project will remain we believe we captured the expected cost to complete.
While our results have always been lumpy I continue to believe that we serve the best end market in the industry and it's expected to continue to grow and not everyone has the reputation the experience and the global footprint that McDermott does.
And I believe we have opportunities in the years ahead to further serve our existing markets and expand our ability to serve.
We'll continue to be disciplined in the projects we approve the capital we spend and the returns we require.
Please look for us to publish our actual results through a press release and on Form 10-Q on November 8.
And with that operator let's now open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you might be able to address the competitive landscape out there? And if there have been any structural changes over the last year or 2 -- in what you see coming in the next year or 2 with a number of fabrication yards being opened in Southeast Asia or expanded and then Saipem's yard in Saudi Arabia opening up and some of your competitors having invested a lot in deepwater vessels in the last several years a lot more than you all have.
Is McDermott in a different competitive position or at a disadvantage versus where it was 3 or 4 years ago? Marty let's begin with the facts and you've cited a number of them.
It is true that some of our competitors may have and surely have invested more in both fabrication and marine on the fabrication side.
It is correct there's a new fabrication yard in Asia-Pacific in the Middle East there's a newer fabrication yard in Saudi Arabia.
On the marine side that story's been told in a number of vessels with fast speed flexible lay vessels et cetera.
I'd argue this: We are probably for reasons discussed in the past in a bit of fast-follower position.
We invested in late 2009 and are investing now and continue to invest in renewing our fleet through the North Ocean vessels.
We've got 1.5 of them the half of the one I speak of is coming to work the middle part of next year.
We continue to look at other vessels for the purposes of meeting the competition.
But more importantly having better technical capability than those we talk about in the competition.
And we may be later than others but we anticipate and expect to have better-quality higher-spec vessels to do the work.
On the fabrication side we have talked about further investment in the Middle East through a potential fabrication yard for modules due to the opportunities we see in the Emirates and potentially other places in the Middle East.
We talked about a Brazilian fabrication yard which we fully intend to move forward on if we are successful with programs -- bidding programs down there.
We are very geared towards just-in-time investment.
Now to the sense of your question.
Are we competitively disadvantaged? My view is no.
My view is the events of this quarter are very specific related to project issues that have very little to do with competitive pressures.
They have to do with the unique circumstances post-award.
And the larger view I would have is I believe our strategy will serve us well into the future as we think about when to invest and where to invest marine versus fab versus engineering.
I hope that's useful to you Marty.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Yes it is.
Just one follow-up question.
On the marine side for next year I was a little bit -- I was surprised at the commentary regarding the lower marine utilization when you're going to have the 102 the 105 and the DB50 coming out of drydock.
Can you talk a little bit more about the situation for next year? And is there opportunity to increase the vessel days perhaps as we move through next year? Why don't we let Perry begin with that one? The direct answer is yes.
There is opportunity and specifically on those 2 vessels you referenced it will be the latter half of the year before they're available.
The 50 and the 105 come out of their respective yards kind of late Q1 or early Q2 and then will go through some trials and fit-out processes.
And so those 2 key vessels won't be available for significant revenue-generating work until the second half of the year.
So -- but looking at what we currently have booked and what we can reasonably forecast we see a fairly low utilization year but there is some opportunity to improve that should we pick up additional work.
And our next question comes from the line of Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> If I look at your backlog backlog at Atlantic is fine.
It's going up.
Backlog in Asia Pacific is relatively flattish.
Backlog in the Middle East has come off pretty considerably this year as you burn work.
So maybe Steve you could talk about the Middle East region.
Have there things -- has there been things in this region that have slipped and as you look into 2012 that has caused more issues than maybe you expected? And there's this is long-term agreement that you have with the Saudi Aramco.
Have you not done as much work maybe as you thought you would get there? A lot in that question Andy I'll give it my best shot here specifically related to the Middle East.
The folks on the phone and listening in would be aware that last year we pursued 2 major programs in the Middle East one in Qatar and one in Saudi Arabia what we would call elephant programs.
We were not successful with either one of those programs for reasons discussed several times before.
The short version of those -- of that answer is we were disciplined with what we thought we should have in terms of risk-reward profile in those jobs.
We thought and still believe we had the best technical solutions for the customer.
In one case we had a North Asian competitor come in and take that project as advertised below our cash cost and I will forever not apologize for not winning that job.
We wouldn't want that job for our shareholders below our cost.
The second project was in Saudi Arabia and that program was won by another competitor largely related to a low-cost bid as well.
And I wouldn't say where it was related to our cash cost but significantly lower than our cost.
And because they had leveraged a Saudi Arabian fabrication yard and as it turns out our understanding is that much of that work can't be done in Saudi Arabia.
It has to be done in other regions of the world.
So with that as a backdrop what's going on in the Middle East? It is a swale it is simply a trough between where we were the bidding activity and the bringing on of new backlog.
If you add to that what's going on in the Caspian as we talked about before we had tremendous success in years past in the Caspian.
The cancellation of the  Kashagan job by Shell last year clearly hurt us as it did any other competitor in the Caspian.
Those projects will come back and we're looking forward to 2012 for some projects in the Caspian.
So it is simply a timing-related dynamic as I look at it.
We have I think one of the best if not the best one of the best if not the lowest-cost fabrication yards in the Middle East.
We've got absolutely fit-for-purpose marine fleet.
We've got excellent engineering capabilities in the Middle East.
There is no reason why we shouldn't be able to move forward as we get through this timing-related issue.
It will be driven by the long-term agreement programs from Saudi Aramco that you mentioned it will be driven by the UAE.
So we're very very positive about the Middle East.
Research Division</strong> Okay Steve that's fair.
Maybe if I could shift gears to Brazil.
Obviously it's a relatively new region for you and it looks like the custom reason before the Agile had problems was maybe change in the specs on your bid.
And so how does this make us feel about Brazil as a region for you? I think we've all been concerned about this as a new region for you and whether you can make good money in this region.
So I guess maybe you could talk about how this may be changes your thought process if at all on Brazil? I would say this about Brazil.
I think we're very level-headed in this company about Brazil.
We know what we know and we understand that there are things we do not know about how to operate in Brazil.
We've had this recent experience with our customer there having to do with the Agile and the changing of the specifications.
While we anticipated it we probably didn't anticipate the depth and the frequency that we were having to deal with.
It does not change our interest in taking a strong position in Brazil because we see few competitive pressures out there.
There are some to be sure but we see our unique skill sets being able to be applied to that market.
Now the broader issue is having just returned from Brazil a few weeks ago it's challenged and the bidding process has some challenges associated with it.
But we have and have demonstrated in the past an ability to build a project bidding strategy and a project execution strategy that is equal to or better than competitors anywhere else in the world.
We've done fab yards in the Middle East 10 years past we've done it in Asia-Pacific we're doing it now in the Atlantic region and we'll do it in Brazil.
So I'm giving you the positive message here but I will tell you underneath that is a great deal of study a great deal of caution and a fair amount of time spent with our customer our customers' representatives understanding the market bringing people on who understand this market bringing them on the payroll in the company and putting them in leadership positions so that we know how to go forward in Brazil.
I'm not -- while I may be disappointed about the Agile I'm not afraid of Brazil at all period.
Research Division</strong> Can we anticipate that you will change your strategy to adapt to the lessons learned from this bidding that you used the Agile on? I mean that's the concern right? That this is one of the first? And we're having some issues I mean can we -- are you going to change? Always you use the lessons learned.
The Agile is unique.
It's a 5-year charter.
It was about refitting a vessel to meet the requirements for the 5-year charter.
It is emblematic of how our customer will behave.
So yes we will respond to that and we will look forward to meeting those challenges on fabrication and in engineering and on EPIC.
So the answer is absolutely yes.
But the Agile is one data point and the one data point doesn't change an entire strategy and certainly doesn't back us away from Brazil.
And our next question comes from Jamie Cook with Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One I know you said the majority of the projects would be complete first by the first half of 2012.
Can you just give us on a percentage basis where the big projects are? My second question is sort of follow-up to what Andy's asking Steve but we had sort of 5 projects that sort of went -- that had issues all in one quarter.
It's a big number of projects for a company like yourself and you're saying it's not the competitive environment it's unique circumstances.
So specifically what did McDermott miss? And then my last question I'm just trying to get a sense of how you're thinking about margins next year? I think you said there's $300 million or I don't know $300 million and change is going through the income statement at 0 profit.
What about is there any way you can talk us through some of the other costs? You said there were some costs that couldn't be allocated to projects just sort of the other things that would be if you can quantify the other things impacting margins and I'll get back in queue.
All right Jamie we'll take this in 2 parts.
I'm going to start with kind of what happened on the projects to use your term what did we miss? And Perry if you would follow up with some more granularity on the numbers.
The first thing I would observe is yes 5 projects in a given quarter is material for a company of this size.
If you peel back the onion you will find that it is largely circumstantial.
As I reported in my prepared comments one project had a unique circumstance where the flexible product on that project as we were installing it had an issue.
I don't know yet whether or not that issue will be able to be put to others or it will be our problem but those things happen on occasion where you have an issue in installing a product.
Was it manufactured wrong? I don't know.
Did we install it with inappropriate equipment? I don't know.
Was there something damaged? We'll find out.
Another project had unique circumstances having to do with weather which extended the duration associated with the project.
In fact 2 projects had weather which put us in reduced productivity and standby costs.
Those are things that are unique to the project they're unique to the circumstances they are not endemic in the business.
As I look at these projects and I look across them as I look for a pattern of bidding or competitive pressures or I look at project execution issues that can tie me to some project execution issues I don't find a pattern.
What I find rather are unique circumstances related to these and it is somewhat surprising that in one quarter we have these on 5 different projects.
Having said that we have one project the Agile which we discussed at pretty good length here which is unique and the most disappointing.
And we had another the job in Mexico which is the next largest which is related to weather.
So Perry why don't you pick up on Jamie's other question that had something to do with the $312 million expense.
Research Division</strong> And then also the percent complete on the projects? Yes we've got them.
I'll get them to you here.
I'll try to handle it this way Jamie the biggest one the Agile.
Steve mentioned that it's just over half of the $50 million it's almost $28 million.
As Steve mentioned that vessel is still in the yard in Rotterdam.
We expect it will be in Brazil on location working in January.
The contract there runs through to 2016.
So of the $312 million the largest amount of that over $250 million of it relates to the backlog on that contract that runs for the next almost 5 years.
The next largest one that Steve mentioned was the job in Mexico that we incurred a $10 million loss on and that one is expected to complete in January.
And it is in progress and we're working as we speak.
Much of the cost overruns on that one were incurred getting ready to work because of weather delays getting out into the fields we're working now.
The other 3 projects that Steve mentioned 2 in Asia both in Vietnam.
One of those is now complete the largest of it 6 -- just over $6 million of the loss.
That job is now complete and behind us.
The other Vietnamese job is expected to be complete.
That's the one where Steve was mentioning the product challenges from a vendor-supplied product.
That one we expect to complete by the end of the second quarter next year.
So on that one we delivered 2/3 of the capacity that the contract called for us to deliver to the customer.
The challenge that Steve mentioned relates to the remaining 1/3 and we expect to complete that by mid-next year.
And then the final project which is in India in our Middle East Group was candidly not a problem with that project.
We had originally estimated that we would mob one of our vessels the DB101 and have 2 jobs to work on.
We lost the second job and so all of the costs of the mob and the demob we lost that second job this quarter.
So all the costs had to come into this job.
So there was really no execution issues per se on the job.
It was the way we allocated the costs of the mobilizations.
That job is expected to be completed in January of 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then sorry just last on the margins.
Yes the margin guidance for next year.
So as you can tell of that $312 million most of that will not burn off in 2012 because most of it relates to that Agile contract.
So -- but there is some piece of this $50 million-ish range that will burn off over Q4 this year and into 2012.
So it will have a minor dilutive effect on $3.6 billion of revenues next year.
In addition we continue to have the drag-on margins next year of the projects that's on deferred profit recognition through our FloaTEC JV.
So those kind of exacerbate the margin dilution for next year but they're not the principal drivers for low margins next year.
So just to clarify hopefully that helps you understand how the $312 million affects margins next year.
The real margin effects next year is utilization of vessels that we talked about.
And in one case our Batam yard is expecting lower man hours of utilization in the fab yard.
So those are the principal reasons for margins being down and it's because of this bids outstanding if we're awarded these jobs there's very little of the jobs that will begin work in 2012.
And our next question comes from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> When I think about execution risk typically it's been the bigger projects that you're worried about.
But really there was no mention of Karan and Safaniya and really I guess a passing mention of Papa Terra.
So can you just discuss how those projects are going? On Karan and Safaniya in the Middle East my comment would be on Karan while we've had some productivity challenges in the fab yard we expect that project to produce the results that we had planned.
These large projects have these kinds of challenges as you go forward but we don't expect anything out of the ordinary.
Safaniya is actually going very well and seeing nothing on the horizon that management is aware of to indicate any issues there.
Papa Terra we did give a glancing comment about that.
That project through our partnership has its unique challenges related to having a partner.
It has unique challenges related to being in Brazil.
We have some scheduled challenges in the fabrication side but we are at a point where we can see our way through the completion of the fabrication.
Our goal is to get the fabrication done with the topsides as well as the whole.
So that the marine campaign can begin as planned.
And I wouldn't signal any particular problem there it is tight.
But so far so good on all 3 of those projects.
If I could just complement Steve's -- to add on from a financial POC perspective the Karan project was almost 90% completed at the end of the quarter.
Safaniya is early stages around 15% and the Papa Terra project is around a 0.0025% complete.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so Papa Terra when you get to that 70% mark and you're still expecting to start recording profits as you originally anticipated? Well that's our policy allows us to start recording profits at 70%.
I will tell you that we will take a look at it at that time.
We'll understand where we are as against the plan where we are as against change orders and the like and make the call at that time.
But yes we do have the right under our own policy to begin recording profits at 70% complete.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on to the margins.
I mean how should we think about this long-standing 10% to 12% now that we're staring at about 7% to 10% for next year.
I mean does 10% to 12% really just only refer to an as-sold margin on projects really exclusive of overhead utilization? No it's not really the as-sold.
It does factor in the overhead utilization.
And as we've mentioned in our prepared comments we still expect to get back into that range beyond 2012.
And our view about that is there's a small portion of the backlog that would burn beyond 2012.
But it relates to the bids it relates to the nature of the work in terms of the opportunity for change on those bids and the expectation of the utilization levels in the fab yards and the marine vessels based on kind of a certain assumed successes on the bids outstandings and target work.
So it does include absorbing the G&amp;A overhead as well as the what we call DOE in the yards which is the direct operating expense in the yards.
So that does include both of those.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick numbers question.
Can you give us the regional breakdown of the $5 billion of bids outstanding? And when I guess do you expect those 2 big ones to be determined? I'll answer the last one Perry as you're looking for of the numbers on the breakdown.
The 2 large projects that we mentioned our expectation is those would be a decision by the customer in Q1 of 2012.
I couldn't give you any more granularity than that.
We do have a third one in that pipeline but we have not bid that project from a commercial standpoint yet.
We've only put in our bid for qualifications and technical submittal.
So we've got 2 in the first quarter and maybe 1 that goes on into the second quarter of next year Stephen.
Great.
On the numbers of the $5 billion bids outstanding about $3.3 billion is Asia-Pacific just over $800 million in both the Atlantic and Middle East regions.
And our next question comes from the line of Joe Ritchie with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I guess my first question on the Agile I'm trying to understand who the responsibility falls under for actually upgrading the vessel during the drydock? And whether that falls under your demand of responsibility or if there's a potential for you to recover some claims from subcontractors that are actually doing the work? Yes it is McDermott's responsibility to refit and outfit the vessel in accordance with the customer's requirements for this charter campaign.
And during the pendency of that refitting the customer is on board giving directions as to how we need to proceed the work as well as what the ultimate refitting should look like.
The shipyard is involved of course doing the work.
There are subcontractors involved.
There is this issue of our having done the sea trials and sailed away and found that we had a problem that caused us to bring it back to the shipyard which could depending upon our discovery work which is not yet completed put us in a position where there are claims where we could see some benefit in the future.
So I would say there is some likelihood that there are third parties that we will have to engage as we think about the diagnostics on the overall upgrade of the vessel and as well as the issue that we had with the propulsion systems after we sailed away.
And I think the latter would be more likely than some of the others Joe.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I know that you haven't given a number a percentage on what is feasibly recoverable from the issues that you incurred this quarter.
It sounds like there was potential -- some potential recoverability from the result of the supplier failure on that one project.
Maybe there's some recoverability here on the Agile.
Just trying to see if there's any number that you could give us or any guidance that you can give us on what your confidence level is that you're going to be able to recover any of these breakdowns that you took this quarter? It's early days on doing the diagnostics on both the Agile and on the product failure or the installation of the product and I wouldn't want to speak to it because there's a negotiation likely in the future here.
Having said that we're pretty darn good at identifying root causes.
So the root cause analysis is ongoing now on any and all of these projects.
Once those root causes are identified and the source of those causes are related to third parties we're pretty good at putting claims in front of the responsible parties and negotiating an outcome.
Research Division</strong> Okay Steve.
I know you just mentioned that the 2 large prospects that you've bid on are expected to be awarded in the first quarter '12 and you guys have also mentioned that you're expecting revenue to essentially be flat in 2012.
How much of -- are you expecting both projects to be awarded to McDermott in order to meet your revenue targets for 2012 or no? I don't know that I can answer that question as we sit here today.
I will tell you that both of these projects are quite large.
I don't know that there's a great deal of revenue that flows through the books in 2012.
So the question might be a little bit moot Joe and I don't mean to be offensive at all I'm just thinking through this.
There's just -- these projects are so large.
This is engineering in the early stages and some smaller work.
So they're not big revenue needle-movers in 2012.
Perry would you agree with that? Yes absolutely.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I have one last question.
Perry can you talk a little bit about the timing of the restructuring charges and perhaps the magnitude of those charges? There are evaluations and decisions ongoing that could result in costs related to personnel matters asset impairments potentially as well as facility costs.
I'm not in a position to announce those decisions or the quantification of them.
But as it relates to timing those decisions either have been made here in the early stages in the fourth quarter or will be made shortly and we would expect those to be recorded in the fourth quarter.
And our next question comes from the line of John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just following up too on the large project bids that are out there.
I understand the comment that it might have an impact on revenue.
But what about on the cost side? I mean if you win the projects and presumably your pre-bid costs would be spread out over the course of the projects.
If not would they have a significant earnings impact especially in the first part of the year? No our costs are recorded -- are incurred as we incur them...
The sales costs are expensed as incurred.
So those would not be spread out.
But I think you mentioned engineering costs the front-end work on that.
That would be captured over the entire length of the contract to be recognized under the POC a portion of the revenues and the costs and is part of the guidance around a small part of revenues a small part of those costs as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So success on those bids are not -- shouldn't have a material impact on the earnings in the first part of the year? Yes.
Certainly not in the first part of the year.
Those jobs both if won or either of them won would be kind of late 2012 execution and thus recognition.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Steve back to the -- some of the earlier questions about capacity in the market.
You mentioned in some of the new equipment was mentioned coming into the market new facilities.
Is there anything else that you're aware of out there that's being planned or possibly deferred now by competitors? By competitors? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Yes we monitor that pretty closely both on the marine side and the fabrication side.
There are vessels that are still in production.
We have seen it drop off new builds in terms of those that are being planned as we look forward.
There's still some that are in shipyards and being fabricated.
As you know we've got one in fabrication still and we are looking at others.
So on the marine side I think it's beginning to tail off a little bit but that can change in any future quarter.
On the fabrication side we talked about a new fabrication yard by a competitor in the Asia-Pacific region.
We talked about our 2 new fabrication yards one in Mexico and I planned one that we're contemplating in Brazil.
So I don't know how to add any more granularity to it other than it is company-specific.
But I think we're pretty close to where everybody is spending money and our next wave will be oriented towards Brazil and oriented towards faster vessels in deeper water with Flex-Lay or combination capability.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I'm sorry in terms of your final decision on Brazil I know you've indicated the link to some project wins but what's the timing on that? No change on that.
Our decision on Brazil I have indicated in the past John was by year end and I still stand by that.
The bidding for those projects dovetails with that decision.
And our next question comes from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is in regards to really the installation side of your business.
I guess looking at the 2 things that are really 2 factors that are impacting your business obviously deferred revenue from a percentage-of-completion method is obviously something that one cannot really hold against you.
But in terms of the projects project losses on the other things in my view would -- it seems like calling them circumstantial seems a little generous.
Is this an operational risk we should be looking in your business going forward as always been there? And if you look back into 2008 when you did have installation issues because you very tightly scheduled everything as you look at what's happened with Agile specifically do you feel that you have overextended your schedule you haven't built in enough of a cushion for maintenance? And as we look at what's in your backlog on the installation side could you comment to the extent you can on you really the kinds of cushion and productivity expectation you have in those and really how you're monitoring them like John Reese [ph] used to do in terms of joints per day? Yes I'm happy to do that.
I think the overriding comment whether you agree it's generous or not to say that these things are circumstantial I don't know.
But I will tell you as you drill into these projects and you look for an operational pattern that would suggest to me that we have an endemic issue or that we have overextended ourselves my findings would say no.
We do have circumstances which may not have been contemplated that we should have contemplated maybe we should have had additional contingencies but that's as far as I could tell you that we have true fault on as we bid these projects.
We are at fault for the overrun right? For the whole thing.
But the bottom line is is there's nothing that's a pattern.
There is nothing in there that I would say suggests that we have overextended ourselves in terms of to use your term joints per day and there is none of -- none of that in pipelay here none at all.
This is related to other issues.
There's no pipelay delay.
There is no issue in terms of productivity in a fab yard.
These are externalities for the larger portion of them related to weather related to flexible product and the installation thereof.
The Agile which is the preponderance of the issue in the quarter at around half of it the Agile is a unique circumstance where we have an older vessel that once we opened it up we found issues that we simply could not have foreseen.
One could argue we may we may have had or needed to have had more contingency and I would take that argument.
The other would be we had a customer whose demands were beyond what we had anticipated.
So this is much more of a unique circumstance Tahira not related to the fundamental blocking and tackling in project execution having to do with lay rates and productivity in a fab yard and solving for the best solutions with our customers.
These are externalities.
Research Division</strong> And I just have a quick follow-up to that Steve.
As you look at your businesses in Brazil and our team spent considerable time with your peers in Brazil just a few weeks ago as well.
Petrobras is considered to be how I shall say a fairly particular a pedantic client.
So as you have conversations on Agile with them what is the first impression you're getting in terms of how understanding they are about the scheduling issues et cetera that you've had? And number two in terms of the cost recoveries that you've talked about earlier are you building anything in for Agile? That would be helpful as well.
It remains to be seen the response from our customer as regards the Agile issues and the delays et cetera.
Our first order of business was to get that vessel repaired and get her headed towards the work.
The next step is the root cause analysis which overlaps with what we're doing today.
We're focused on getting the vessel working but we're also doing a root cause analysis.
And the final step is to work with our customer and we have not initiated that yet and that's because of the sequence of getting the information that we need to begin that process.
So I have to tell you that that remains to be seen.
We do understand the nature of the customer that we're working with.
And your second question I apologize Tahira what was the last one? Flow in the contractor contingency if I'm correct.
Go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Basically in terms of the cost recoveries you indicated earlier how much are you assuming return back from Petrobras potentially as well but I think you kind of answered that.
Yes we haven't quantified it.
Yes haven't quantified it and simply don't know at this juncture.
And our next question comes from Blake Hutchinson with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of points of clarification and then kind of a bigger-picture question.
I guess you've portrayed 4Q at least while we're here a kind of guidance mode I'll take the opportunity to think about this a little bit.
4Q is more of a kind of business as usual quarter before we head into 2012.
Would you care to reflect on where you think margins might be for 4Q? Should we be thinking more in that 10% to 12% range? Or will you make the immediate adjustment down to kind of the more 7% to 10% range? More of the latter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just again a point of clarification a lot of discussion around the Agile.
Is there any -- understanding the client was part of the problem it would appear is there any contractual opt-out due to the late delivery date? I would tell you I don't specifically know sitting here.
I don't have the contract in front of me.
There's always -- there's always an opt-out.
That is not the direction we want to head with this thing.
This is important for us to get this vessel to work and show what we can do.
I think our best defense and our best posture with this customer is to put the vessel to work and that's what we'll do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just kind of delving into the realm of the hypothetical a bit here.
You've portrayed the 2012 margin issue as a business that has a fixed cost structure that is waiting on better times.
I think -- is there a danger in calling that out as a fixed cost structure in that we start to think McDermott can't get to the 10% to 12% margins unless we have $4 billion-plus in revenue in throughput.
Hypothetically can you still manage to that margin? Are there still strings to pull on the cost side that if we were in a different world and things were softening you still think you can get to a 10% to 12% margin? Just again maybe more of just a discussion of up market down market that 10% to 12% is a good range for us to still be thinking about? Yes.
We get it we get the sense of your question.
I would say that it is -- it's pretty clear to me that we have a number of levers to pull which will affect margin in the company and they include not only the scale of the business and that speaks to your larger project scenario but it also speaks to -- well the other levers include cost management within the business.
If you look at the 3 reporting regions we have we have 2 that are performing well maybe performing differently than prior quarters but performing well and one that's not.
We're very focused now on getting the new work as well as adjusting the cost structure in the underperforming units.
So we can pull that lever.
As I think about the base business and how the projects produce the earnings it is almost agnostic to size.
To me it is the mix of projects and the timing of the projects related to any quarter Blake.
So I would say it almost doesn't matter to me the size of the given revenue in any given year.
Research Division</strong> So we're just -- I mean 2012 is very much a we need to -- we need to maintain the fixed cost structure given the market we see unfolding at '13? I would say yes but remember it's principally vessel costs which are -- we decided to divest in vessels.
That is the fixed cost.
The fab side we can and do flex up and down.
So [indiscernible] Just look at the labor.
Yes principally the vessel side.
And our next question comes from the line of Rob Norfleet with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Most of my questions have been answered but just a few.
I guess Steven the first question I have was post the issue obviously that we have with the pipelay work in Qatar where we obviously incurred charges back in '09.
I thought in some cases we had found ways to limit weather-related risk in contracts either through building in contingencies and handing that down in terms of the way that this products are bid.
Is that not the case or are there certain cases in which weather-related risk can -- in some ways be parlayed to the customer not just to the operator of the project? Yes.
Well obviously the latter is more correct.
There are certain situations where we cannot control or cannot lay off or otherwise cover off the weather risk.
We did change our protocols for estimating weather and for our endeavors in terms of trying to get weather covered off through contract terms through laying it off to other parties or otherwise dealing with it.
We did change those and I think that served us well.
It is not universal to all projects and these couple of projects we've got in the quarter here that have weather-related costs associated with them simply fell because of the nature of the weather delays simply fell outside of what we were able to wall off with the contract or estimated as a likely occurrence in the bid.
So those are going to happen on occasion.
I would say to you that related to this quarter's results we will be looking at those projects and seeing if we need to adjust our bidding strategies around weather once again.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And my last question is we just recently saw the government revise its tender policy to give Indonesian companies a price advantage in bid rounds up to about 7.5%.
Do you see other regions kind of adhering to a similar practice of increasing level of content and giving an advantage to their local base? And how do you see this impacting McDermott? Well it  impacts ourselves and all of our competitors fairly equally if you're not Indonesian in the case you cite or if you're not Brazilian and in the case of local content requirements in Brazil and in certain countries in West Africa.
We're quite aware of the Indonesian situation.
There are ways through this in Brazil where you see us partnering on the Papa Terra job with an existing fabrication facility.
You'll see us do that kind of thing if we decide to build the fabrication yard there.
In Indonesia you'd see us do a similar kind of thing to overcome the 7.5% penalty for not being Indonesia.
There are ways around this but I would say we're not disadvantaged any different than anybody else and we have to deal with the regulations that are in place and each one is unique and each one requires some thought around how to resolve the issue.
And our last question comes from Will Gabrielski with Lazard Capital Markets.
A couple of questions just to follow up.
In terms of your guidance or your commentary on revenue for next year at flat with this year which I guess would be in the $3.5 billion to $3.6 billion range how do you get there? It sounds like the $2.5 billion of big projects wouldn't really contribute much next year.
Do the other $2.5 billion have the potential to contribute more? Or is there something else that we should know about? Yes there's a combination of things Will.
It's -- we see about $2.6 billion rolling off from the backlog.
In addition to that we have change orders on existing jobs that's not in backlog that could be recognized in '12.
In addition there's sometimes we call it drive-by work or book-and-burn work that comes up particularly on marine installation.
And then some port as you mentioned of the bids outstanding could be recognized in 2012.
A small part of the big jobs we talked about but there's also revenues that could come from other bids outstanding in '12.
So if you look at that and that commentary and the language you used is it fair to say $3.6 billion is somewhat optimistic or it requires a few things to move in your direction and 2012 has a potential to be a down-top line year? Is that the fair way to think about it in a more realistic prudent sense? No I wouldn't say that.
Look every year that we go into we don't have all of our forecast revenues in the bank.
And so this is not an unusual circumstance at all.
In fact we feel pretty good about the fact that we've got $2.5 billion already booked.
So we don't put a shadow on '12 at all from a volume-of-business standpoint and the likelihood of that.
I mean certainly things have to happen that we don't have currently in backlog but that's not anything unusual for this year.
No I understand that.
I guess just to follow up on that you had $2.6 billion it implies you need to book and burn $1 billion next year including Q4 this year when you could book some work.
I know your typical 65-type percent burn rate that would imply somewhere in the range of $1.5 billion of work for 2012 needs to be booked.
And I just want to maybe emphasize the fact that $3.6 billion requires a little bit to go right.
And estimates therefore maybe from our side you don't need to go there right away and requires more than maybe you're letting on since that needs to go right.
Is that too cautious on my point of view? No I don't want to -- I probably said it all.
I can't say...
Just because coming into the call our consensus for next year was somewhere closer to $4 billion and if you look at where your backlog is right now versus where it was last year and versus what you had in backlog now for next year versus what you had last year at this time for 2011 it would seem that getting to $3.6 billion felt like a little bit of a stretch to me or required a few things to move your direction.
So following up on that though of the other $2.5 billion outside of the 2 major projects you're looking at the timing around those is it similar over the next 6 months or is that still sort of a 4- to 5-quarter look at bids? That's more evenly spread.
I would say a fair bit of that is Q4 and Q1.
It is more weighted towards Q4 and Q1 than the remainder of 2012.
Okay.
On the Brazilian project that you've talked about with the Agile vessel is it now are we going to look at the next 5 years that the contribution from that is going to come throughout a lower margin than what you initially expected? Yes 0.
So all work that you haven't even booked yet will come through at that margin? No no no.
We talked about Agile.
The Agile was a loss contract.
So it would come to a 0 margin in the future.
I thought that's what you were asking about.
Okay.
No sorry about that.
And then your CapEx for 2012 any sense of where that might shake out? We have ramped up CapEx in the last year.
So it will probably be in the order of magnitude of 2011.
We don't see a significant move.
There are no further questions at this time.
I'll turn it back to Jay Roueche for closing remarks.
Thank you all again for participating with us today.
And just in case we haven't made it perfectly clear I want to remind you that this call included forward-looking statements and I encourage you to see our SEC filings including yesterday's 8-K for more information on these.
And Keanna this concludes our call.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the McDermott International Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to our host Mr.
Jay Roueche McDermott's Treasurer and Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Diana and thanks to all who are joining this morning.
We appreciate you participating with us to discuss the fourth quarter and full year of 2011 which we released yesterday through our press release and our Form 10-K filing.
As usual joining me today are Steve Johnson McDermott's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Perry Elders our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before I hand the call over to Steve let me remind you that this event is being recorded and a replay will be available for a limited time on our website.
In addition some of our comments this morning will include forward-looking statements and estimates including with regard to our view of 2012.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks and uncertainties and they reflect management's views as of March 1 2012.
Please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are available on our website including the recently-filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 and yesterday's 8-K which provide a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecast estimates and expectations.
And please note that except to the extent required by applicable law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Let me now turn the call over to Steve Johnson McDermott's Chairman President and CEO for his remarks on our fourth quarter results the full year and his views on the business and operational environment.
Thanks Jay and good morning everyone.
To state the obvious our fourth quarter was disappointing.
The Atlantic projects in Mexico and Brazil that also impacted our third quarter offset otherwise good performance on the rest of our project portfolio.
My objective this morning is to provide an overview of the quarter the challenges we faced on the lost projects and probably more importantly our outlook for the coming year.
There's an important positive to this story.
We don't anticipate full year 2012 to look like the second half of 2011.
With the loss projects we have one advantage with the fourth quarter results and the later reporting cycle in that we are able to reflect the actual experience we had on these projects during January and February of 2012 into yesterday's reported financial statements.
Also in our press release yesterday we indicated that at this time we view the current range of analyst estimates as reasonable book-ends for your expectations of McDermott this year.
Our plan is right in that range and we believe it's achievable.
For your modeling we expect the first quarter to be the low point of 2012 with the improvement to come in subsequent periods.
But before getting too far ahead let me return my comments to a review of yesterday's news.
I'll let Perry cover the financials and the details thereof shortly.
But as pointed out we had a number of items going both ways in the fourth quarter.
In total the net impact was about $66 million negative.
None of the items had a taxable impact so the operating income effect dropped straight to the bottom line.
Clearly the 2 major negatives were the Atlantic projects that we discussed in some detail in late October.
They represent over 90% of the gross charges this quarter so they are worth talking about further.
As you may recall both our marine projects entered into during 2011 that are utilizing previously-idled vessels and the work on this projects hadn't begun as of the third quarter last year.
Beyond that the issues are largely unique to each project so let me take them one at a time.
The largest negative impact this quarter was the pipelay project in Mexico under contract to PEMEX.
In addition to our DB16 vessel we also have a subcontracted dynamically-positioned support vessel working with us.
As you may recall the project was awarded in the early spring of 2011 and we were expecting to complete it by the fall of that year.
Before the difficult weather that is characteristic of the winter months unfortunately we experienced delays beginning the project due to a summer tropical storm combined with customs clearance and site access issues in Mexico.
This delay moved the project into challenging weather months.
As such in our third quarter results we increased the expected marine days necessary to complete the job by over 50% for our DB16 pipeline barge.
However in late October 2011 our vessel still hadn't begun pipelay work.
We started in mid-November.
And as it turns out the weather we experienced was worse than the third quarter forecast.
Further the repeated starting and stopping associated with the weather downtime resulted in productivity at subpar levels.
With actual time and experience now under our belts on the project we have again increased the days expected to be necessary to finish out this project.
This time more substantially reflecting our actual experience on the project through mid-February as well as our expectations for the remainder of the project.
We added costs for full liquidated damages contingency and other costs.
In total we recorded a charge of about $55 million in the quarter.
We're expecting the DB16 to finish its work by the end of March and the subcontracted vessel and the whole project to be complete by the end of April.
Importantly we have completed pipelay of all 3 pipelines associated with the project which was the most weather-sensitive scope.
The remaining work entails dredging platform piping subsea spool tie-ins and various associated hook-up and commissioning activities.
The second project is the multi-year charter in Brazil for Petrobras.
In the third quarter we took losses on this project related to costs associated with the maintenance and upgrade drydock which we determined would be expensed against that project rather than capitalized like most drydocks because of the age of the vessel and the length and scope of the project.
In addition we increased our operating cost forecast.
The loss recorded in Q3 was $28 million on the project.
And this quarter we incurred an additional $39 million charge.
First let's start with the good news on this project.
When we had our last call we were stuck in Europe at the shipyard.
The vessel has made it across the Atlantic Ocean now.
And as of February 11 it is now on-hire.
This was about 1 month later than our forecast during the prior call largely due to additional ship yardwork needed once we arrived in Brazil to repair a nonfunctional thruster -- an event that arose just as we were preparing for on-hire work in January.
Of this quarter's charge on the Brazilian charter project almost half is related to increased contingency on the project.
We reviewed the issues we had that we had incurred to date that is and the anticipated risks remaining over the 5-year project ahead of us and determined more contingency was necessary.
As with all of our projects our desire is to avoid spending contingency and see it turn into future profit.
But the project needed more coverage at this time.
The rest of the charge was from a variety of miscellaneous items primarily some expected cost escalations and foreign exchange changes.
Last quarter I told you we had recorded everything we knew and could reasonably foresee.
The same is true now for the fourth quarter.
The difference is with regard to Mexico we've now finished the pipelines have the majority of expected working days behind us and are now using actual experience to determine the future productivity and weather downtime estimates.
And with respect to the Brazil project we're now on-hire and performing work for Petrobras.
We fully understand and share your disappointment regarding these projects and we're taking the lessons learned to improve our processes going forward.
In circumstances like these however some information was not knowable in the third quarter and certain other events were unforeseen.
Perry will talk about the benefits we disclosed that partially offset these project losses.
However I will briefly address one of them.
During the fourth quarter we reversed about $9 million of previously-accrued 2011 annual incentive compensation.
That's a more formal way of saying there will be no annual bonuses paid at McDermott for 2011 performance.
Shareholders should rightly believe that this is the obvious outcome considering the Atlantic projects which are in a loss position and it certainly is true.
At McDermott we're in it all together and we're aligned with our shareholders.
We did not achieve our collective goals in 2011 but as I tell every employee we will again.
Now I'm not a big believer in ifs and buts or except-fors.
However I do think it's appropriate to highlight that absent the $66 million of net charges the fourth quarter for the majority of our work was outstanding.
In the Asia-Pacific segment operating income increased by over $70 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
In the Middle East revenues were up modestly and operating margins were about 20%.
Together these segments made nearly $135 million in operating income for the quarter.
And I appreciate their good work and contribution.
This performance level is a clear indication to me that most of our projects have gone well and are in-line with or even better than expectations.
Of course I would have preferred spending most of my time today speaking to this positive news.
Now let me at this point turn the call over to Perry to discuss in greater detail the 2011 fourth quarter and the full year financials.
I will return afterwards and discuss some of the operational metrics provide business updates that we regularly provide and I'll begin to look forward in the business.
Perry? Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
Total revenues for 2011 fourth quarter were $816 million a 51% increase from the 2010 fourth quarter.
Revenues were somewhat less than expected from backlog roll-off primarily due to revised work schedules timing and POC slippage.
The Asia-Pacific segment was the major contributor to the year-over-year increase growing the top line by almost $200 million.
Although we also saw increases in both the Middle East and Atlantic segments as well.
For operating income McDermott produced $31.4 million in the fourth quarter as compared to $59.3 million a year ago.
Clearly the net $66 million charge was the largest reason for the decline.
We also saw significantly fewer project closeouts in the 2011 quarter compared to the 2010 quarter.
However the Asia-Pacific segment delivered substantial improvement compared to the quarter a year ago.
And the Middle East segment also provided solid results as well with about $74 million in operating income.
These pretty well covered the loss projects and the bonus reversal portion of $66 million.
There were 2 other items included in this number that we considered nonoperating that benefited the quarter.
The larger of the 2 was income derived from our captive insurance program.
As many of you know we self-insure a number of our potential exposures.
In evaluating our claim and safety statistics our third-party actuaries determined that our plans were over accrued which allowed for a release of about $17 million into income during the period.
Although they review our captive positions annually we regularly have adjustments.
The size of the release is larger than most years and we wanted to identify it accordingly.
The second item relates to our decision in the third quarter of 2010 to discontinue plans to build the fabrication facility in Kazakhstan.
You may recall at that time we took about $20 million charge associated with our expected cost to exit that facility.
After more than a year later we determined that our exit costs were going to be less than we had accrued.
And therefore we were able to recover about half the initial charge.
With all the items we had this quarter receive no tax effect the reported tax rate for 2011 fourth quarter was unusually high at over 75%.
Said another way our provision for income taxes was nearly 3x our net income.
As always our tax rate will be determined by the tax jurisdictions where we're working and our cumulative tax position therein.
For the year 2011 our tax rate was about 35%.
I'd expect 2012 to be around the 30% level.
Although like all our estimates this is a forward-looking statement.
Net income from continuing operations less noncontrolling interest was $9.3 million for the fourth quarter of 2011 or $0.04 per diluted share well below the $45 million we reported in the 2010 fourth quarter.
Turning to discontinued operations the loss in that category in the 2011 fourth quarter represented a write-down of the Canadian charter fleet business.
Based on conversations we've had with interested parties as well as outside advisors we believe the write-down was appropriate.
I should also note we've made good progress recently on this divestiture and are expecting these assets will be sold during the first half of 2012.
Quickly looking at the full year 2011 revenues were $3.4 billion.
Operating income was about $251 million and delivered operating margins of 7.3%.
Net income was $151 million or $0.64 per share.
Clearly without the $127 million of net charges 2011 would have been an outstanding year.
In 2011 we invested approximately $282 million in capital expenditures which is in line with our expectations for 2011 and going forward assuming no new growth initiatives.
Some major investments underway include the North Ocean 105 vessel and the DB50 upgrade both of which should be out of their shipyards this year.
Turning to liquidity we had over $730 million in cash cash equivalents and investments at year end.
Despite the challenges with the projects we had in the fourth quarter our liquidity improved by over $112 million sequentially and our working capital position grew as well.
Looking at 2012 we're sticking with our outlook we gave in October.
We expect revenues to be in the mid-$3 billion range with operating margins in the 7% to 10% range.
As Steve mentioned we expect the first quarter to be in the trough and we indicated that the range of analyst estimates is reasonable expectations for McDermott.
An important factor for all to note is that of our year-end backlog only about $350 million is from projects currently in loss position.
If our forecasts prove accurate this future revenues are expected to equal costs when recognized.
About 85% of this is from the 2 Atlantic projects we discussed earlier with the vast majority being the 5-year Brazil project.
We also continue to account for one project under deferred profit recognition policy representing approximately $144 million of the December 31 2011 backlog.
With that let me turn the call back to Steve for his remaining comments.
Thanks Perry.
We're taking a little bit more time with our prepared comments this morning to make sure we're getting the information out that you want and need.
I believe between my earlier comments and Perry's we pretty well covered the 2011 financials.
So now let me begin to look forward in the business.
Bookings in the fourth quarter were relatively light at approximately $440 million which has been pretty much the case for all of 2011 at only $2.3 billion for the year.
We expect over 80% of our year end $3.9 billion of backlog to become revenues in 2012 so we believe we have a solid foundation of work already booked to achieve our expectations for this year.
In the 2012 first quarter we announced the INPEX Ichthys subsea booking which is our largest single award ever at the time of contract signing.
This project was 1 of 2 very large bids that we discussed in last quarter's call.
All of the $2 billion plus of work will flow through our financial statements although we did name Heerema as a major subcontractor and they will perform a portion of the work under contract to us.
Whereas most of our contracts burn off very quickly and our outyear visibility is usually limited with the INPEX project the majority of revenue will be recognized after 2013 so we've begun to build up work further out than usual.
As of year end INPEX was still part of the nearly $5 billion of bids and change orders outstanding.
It's comforting for me to know that we've won the largest bid in this amount already.
The second large project that we discussed last quarter is still being evaluated by the customer.
We expect we'll know one way or the other during the second quarter and possibly by our next call.
After growing by 50% for the 2 previous sequential quarters bids outstanding stayed essentially flat from Q3 to Q4 which isn't unusual for the holiday season quarter.
To recap the year we started 2011 with $1.7 billion of bids outstanding.
We booked $2.3 billion during the year and then ended the year with nearly $5 billion of bids outstanding.
I'd say -- it is safe to say that the market remains active.
For all of our bids we believe we've offered excellent solutions at competitive prices to our customers.
However virtually every bid is a competitive tender and our capture of any award is uncertain.
And of course the timing of awards can shift to the right  as some customers don't move as quickly as they initially indicate.
Clearly we don't bid everything we see but we do try to go after projects where we feel we can add value and earn an acceptable return for our shareholders.
We seek projects that fit our unique capabilities including marine fabrication EPCI which is our model and of course SURF.
I can tell you that while in any quarter we may see spikes and troughs the quality of our backlog is always paramount.
We've identified North of $10 billion of targeted projects which are defined as projects that we are suited to execute and that we expect to bid in the coming 15 months.
Combining the bids outstanding with our backlog and our target projects all as of the year end we expect a potential revenue pipeline of nearly $20 billion.
Beyond targets we have a sizable lift -- list of backup projects or potential jobs that may or may not come to fruition.
In addition to the year-end amount's outstanding we've been busy thus far in 2012 reviewing new bids for submission as well.
We expect 2012 to be a solid booking year and we're off to a pretty good start.
We need to win a fair amount this year to keep revenues at a strong level for 2013 and beyond.
Our focus on becoming a serious competitor in the SURF-only market clearly has begun to show results.
I expect that about half of our first quarter 2012 backlog will relate to SURF projects.
As expected our activity level during the 2011 fourth quarter was much better than the quarter a year ago and as compared to the sequential quarter.
We had over 3.4 million man hours in our construction yards.
Likewise our marine-work barge days increased as well versus both periods at 476 days.
Going into 2012 we have over 400 fewer booked marine days than compared to last year at the same time.
And to the extent we can find profitable marine-work only it would substantially help our full year.
At this point I'll begin to wrap up so we can open the call up to questions.
But before I do so I'd like to make a few closing remarks.
The fourth quarter was unsatisfactory due primarily to only 2 projects.
And we're nearing completion on the Mexican project and have gone on-hire in Brazil both of which are clearly positive.
To me the best news is 2011 is behind us.
And I remain quite enthusiastic about this business.
The new year has started out well with what likely will be our best booking quarter ever.
And we have a good amount of work out for bid and solid opportunities on the horizon.
So it should be a good bookings year as well if we achieve our traditional win rate.
We'd like to get some work that contributes to the current year and build a foundation beyond it.
Both the DB50 and the North Ocean 105 are expected to come out of their respective shipyards and enter service during this 2012 year.
We've formed a JV in Brazil and begun bidding work through it.
We expect our financial results will improve during the year and in comparison to 2011.
March looks like a full schedule with current and potential investors at conferences and meetings.
And I very much look forward to continuing the dialogue with each of you.
And with that operator let's now open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Andy Kaplowitz Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Steve I'm trying to gauge your tone around the markets.
You sound I guess cautiously optimistic.
But at the same time we all know that you need to book a good amount of work.
Has the market changed at all over the last few months? If you look at your big primary competitors they do seem to be doing pretty well maybe getting a little bit more full.
There's lots of competition out there we can appreciate that but is there any reason to get more optimistic given the market and certainly where oil prices are? You know Andy I think there is.
And I don't have any hesitation with saying that.
The pipeline of prospects that we see and those that we've been reviewing recently gives me a great deal of comfort that we not only have good prospects where we have unique solutions to offer but we've also got what I'd call targets or alternates in the event that we're not successful.
That's one data point.
The second thing is I would say to you that as we moved into I'll call it new markets and maybe new regions an example of a new market would be SURF where we've been successfully recently.
And an example of a new region would be in the Middle East moving into the UAE we've been successful.
And we look at the pipeline of projects coming from both of those.
And I call those additive to our base or core business.
So taking all that into context looking at oil prices assessing the market on a global scale I feel as good as I ever have.
And I'd have to tell you I'd feel better than I have in any given quarter in the last 18 months about our opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's great Steve.
Let me ask you an unrelated follow-up.
If I look at your 2 problem projects one of them the PEMEX job I mean I think we -- it's a pretty small job versus what you can do and with a very large charge.
And I know you know the history of McDermott very well.
I mean McDermott had pretty big weather issues back in Qatar a couple of years ago.
How could this happen? I mean tropical storms happen in the Gulf of Mexico.
But I understand things happen all that kind of stuff but how can we make sure this kind of thing doesn't happen again? And how can the charge be so big compared to the actual project? Yes it's a great question and I'll give you the summary answer.
It's a dialogue we could have that would be quite lengthy.
The first thing to note is while we have spoken to the fact that we were pushed into a weather window which was worse in terms of its severity and its impact on our ability to lay pipe there's some other underlying issues that I would say are behind this particular project.
And there are a number of lessons learned associated with it.
But just in summary fashion the weather is a contributing factor to the low productivity standby times start-stop reacceleration all of that impacted productivity and therefore the cost on the job.
But at its root cause this project frankly was not bid well.
And it wasn't bid well not only because of weather risk but it wasn't bid well in terms of our execution plan.
And we are very quickly responding to that issue.
The execution plan I would say probably didn't have enough durations and it was too aggressive on some of the activities.
The barge the DB16 was frankly brought out of cold stack and that barge hadn't worked in laying pipe in a PEMEX project since 2007 so there were some disincentive issues to that.
And then the client.
And we like working for PEMEX but we hadn't done a significant marine campaign for PEMEX in some time.
So embedded in those issues are some lessons learned.
Overriding all of that is we're going to take another step on our weather-risk protocols that go beyond what the company did as a result of the Qatar projects in 2008.
So look for us to be addressing how we bid weather risk in the future in a more specific way.
And I don't want to go into any more details on that from a competitive reasoning standpoint.
But there are 4 or 5 lessons learned on this project that were somewhat related to weather but also related to the execution plan Andy.
The next question comes from the line of Jamie Cook Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Just more centered around your 2012 outlook and the 7% to 10% operating margin.
Steve I have a hard time -- I get the Q1 but I have a hard time believing the low-end of the guidance just given we sort of ended up there with all the problems that we had in 2012.
I mean I guess the first question is when -- at what point do we get to your -- within the quarter -- at what quarter do we get to the longer-term targets in the 10% to 12% range.
I understand Q1 is going to be weak but at what point do we run rate that you get to your longer-term targets? And then my second question is well how do we think about this might be too granular but how do we think about profitability by region? Because I look what you put up in the Middle East and Asia-Pacific in terms of operating margins and again to get to the low end you've got to assume Asia-Pac is just a complete disaster again in 2012.
So can you just help me with how we should think about profitability by those regions? And then I'll get back in queue.
So let me have Perry lead off and then I'll come back and book in that end for you.
Perry? Yes.
Jamie couple of things here.
I realize the guidance continues to sound somewhat conservative relative to the results x these project losses but...
Research Division</strong> I'm just hoping Steve set himself up to look good this year.
Okay.
As we've mentioned last time the major driver and I'll give you some data points here for 2012 is vessel utilization.
We mentioned it in the call that our utilization this quarter was almost 95%.
But if we look at the number of days that we have booked for the vessels going into 2012 compared to where we were a year ago we're down about 40%.
And so it's that vessel utilization and carrying those fixed costs that's going to be a real drag on us in 2012.
Obviously we're trying to book those available days but that's the overarching reason.
Research Division</strong> But what do you see in terms of potential prospects that can improve the down 40%? I mean Steve was also just talking and it's like he's never felt better about what he sees going forward for markets.
So I guess at least maybe not early in the year but I would assume why can't -- I understand where you sit today but why isn't vessel utilization going to improve? Or are you -- assuming we stay at these levels in your margin targets? Yes.
What I would say Jamie is we understand the challenge.
Now we've got to work on it.
The challenge as Perry indicated is clearly vessel utilization.
And we are targeting marine-only projects as well as our normal model EPIC or quick burn projects that will help us through this.
So my best guess is whereas the first quarter is going to be the trough as we indicated maybe utilization on marine assets will continue through the second quarter.
We have the DB50 coming out we have the 105 coming out we've got the first project for the 105.
Here's my plan and my goal.
Try to get the back end of the year to where the utilization kicks up so that we can come in the year and get back into our competitive range by the end of the year.
And that's about as far as I'd go with you.
But I know our challenge.
Question is can we find those projects win them and get to work on the water? Research Division</strong> But you see projects out it's not like there's not projects out there that you could -- not like there's no prospects Steve it's just a function of you getting them? Yes.
I'd like to always have -- I'd always like to have more Jamie.
But yes I see some out there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just how we think about the profitability again? Any color by region and how we think about the losses -- you know what I mean the losses again for 2012 by region? I mean again Middle East and Asia-Pac was so good I just dont understand.
Yes.
And we expect the Asia-Pac and Middle East to continue to be good although a couple of comments about it specifically.
For Asia-Pac and Middle East we do expect 2012 to be a year in which we will have more project closeouts and contingency resolutions and hopefully continue to see harvesting.
They are -- our ability to harvest that continuously and brighten these projects is a big key that's back-end loaded in the year.
The second thing is as it relates to the Atlantic which is the drag on the earnings x these 2 loss projects and we believe we've got those contained as Steve mentioned in his comments we're still incurring losses in the Atlantic.
We have taken a number of actions to [indiscernible] but that's still taking place in the early part of the year.
And then also in Atlantic as you're well aware we have the Papa Terra contract that is on deferred profit recognition and has the potential to get turned on in the fourth quarter depending on how execution goes and how schedule holds through 2012.
So we believe we've got the base structure of the Atlantic business in the right place but the Papa Terra project is a key to the Atlantic profitability particularly late in the year Research Division</strong> But you lost what $177 million into the Atlantic region in -- I mean so does that number improve relative in 2012? You'll be in a loss position but I'm just trying to figure out where we sit? Yes.
You know in the Atlantic region of the losses almost $140 million for the full year of 2011 was related to these 2 projects.
So again we believe we've got those 2 projects contained.
And if you look at the run rate of Atlantic losses x these projects we believe we've been managing those costs and the turnaround for the Atlantic region a big part of that is the Papa Terras.
So yes it improves in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Which is why I have a hard time again with your low end but okay.
I'll get back in queue.
The next question comes from the line of Tahira Afzal KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I'll try to be brief.
Two questions.
Number one have you included the divestitures gains in your expectations for 2012 when you're comparing it to consensus? And is this multiple or would it be something which is nominal? And number two you said Steve earlier on in your prepared commentary that you are making some active changes in your bidding processes.
Could you talk about whether this includes any change in personnel as well? Why dont I take the second one first and Perry will come in with the first one in.
We are making changes in our bidding process having to do with weather and having to do with getting a more robust and specific execution plan which is specifically targeted to each one of the bids.
As it regards personnel in the Atlantic region over the last several quarters we have made significant personnel adjustments both at the working level and through leadership.
I don't believe you will see significant leadership changes going forward.
In fact I feel very good about leadership in the Atlantic region now and that team I believe will lead us to where we want to go at the end of this year and in 2012.
Having said that if the prospective projects we see in the market doesn't come to fruition and if we can't find a way to get the Atlantic region turned around there could be something more draconian that has to be done but that's not in our plan.
And the first question then over to you Perry? Yes.
What we did was we took an impairment in the fourth quarter on Secunda the charter fleet business up in Canada that has that business now recorded at the value that we expect to realize the proceeds we expect to realize upon sale.
Therefore we do not expect to experience a gain upon sale.
But I'd also remind you that this is reflected in discontinued operations.
And therefore it's not part of our operating income guidance and the guidance that we commented around EPS from continuing operations.
And the next question will come from the line of Will Gabrielski Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys walk through on the Ichthys project what percentage of that will be burned off in '13 and '14 and how quick the ramp up would be based on what you see today? Yes.
Let me try to give you some color on that.
The way I'd have you think about the INPEX project is because of its size and scale and because of the nature of how the project needs to be planned there won't be significant revenues in 2012 Will it's largely getting ramped up and starting some engineering.
However we will be doing some procurement to derisk the project early on.
So 2012 will be somewhat immaterial in terms of revenues.
2013 a bit better but you really start seeing the revenue ramp-ups in the latter half of 2014 and in 2015 and beyond.
But the current year is pretty limited.
Research Division</strong> So if you were to -- I'm sorry for 2013 if you were to roll in Ichthys on top of the $500-or-so million you have in backlog coverage for 2013 today is there any way you can pinpoint a ballpark number? I'd tell you it's probably a number that is less than we would like.
But the nature of the project it's probably around $100 million to $150 million of revenue it's just not that significant.
2014 is when it starts moving.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Fair enough.
Bigger picture I guess if you look at trying to fortify maybe your position in the market and the way the market is shifting to deeper waters and advances in technology like subsea processing and separation FPSOs et cetera.
I'm just wondering what does McDermott do with its fleet of vessels to really position itself for that market where maybe theres a less of a fabrication component depending on what type of production system is being utilized and then b in terms of the bigger trunk lines versus subsea tie-ins and things like that.
How does McDermott think about itself 5 years from now if that market continues to go in that direction? Well and we think it does.
But I would also tell you that the base business the conventional business does not wane.
So it's the -- while we do need to retire some older vessels that are shallow water-related and we need to do some reconfiguration of fabrication facilities the conventional business the revenue opportunities for McDermott do not become de minimis by any stretch of the imagination.
So that's one data point.
Data point #2 is we are investing now and plan to invest over the next several years significant amounts of capital in SURF-related marine assets like the Reel-Lay vessels we already have underway North Ocean 102 working 105 comes out in the middle of this year.
We're considering a third type of vessel in the fabrication yards either through leases joint ventures or investment.
We will be looking at reel facilities so that we can reel the product for our vessels as we move into SURF.
So you'll see and you are seeing significant transformation going on in the business today.
But our strategy is one of not foregoing our core conventional business but being additive to it.
And we've been successful in SURF already albeit in some occasions by joint venturing or subcontracting as is the case with INPEX but as is the case with other projects Macedon et cetera we're doing it on our own with our own vessels.
Research Division</strong> You said and correct me if I'm wrong half of the backlog today is related to SURF-type work including Ichthys right? For the first quarter of 2012 is what we said.
Research Division</strong> Right so including excess.
And I'm just wondering if you look at your marine day capacity right now how much of what percentage of your total marine day capacity would you qualify as driven by the SURF market as opposed to your traditional market when it comes to marine days is that a fair question? Yes it is.
I don't know if you have a number Perry? The major -- the utilization statistics that we quote will relate to our marine work barges our major work barges that's the 500 days a quarter.
And in addition to that we have the vessel capacity that Steve talked about in terms of the 102 105 and anything we may add to that.
So we can use a few of those 500 days to support offshore work if there's a lift involved or once the DB30 gets the DP capability added to it.
But not a lot of the 500 days a quarter is available for the deepwater SURF market.
I would add not only the DB30 but the DB50 that comes out of drydock early summer also is getting additional thruster capability and deepwater lowering system on it.
So some of the existing vessels that were originally designed for shallower water through DP and thruster capability to hold them on station are also very applicable to deeper water.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question if you'll allow me.
On the subsea market if you look at the mix of backlog today versus your mix of vessel days do you have the capacity to go out and win another Ichthys size or half the size of Ichthys type subsea contract for execution in '13 and '14 right now or do you need more vessel capacity to do that? We absolutely do have the capacity to do that and depending upon the merits of that project or of projects we may or may not be partnering or subcontracting.
But we have the capacity to do that within the company for sure within fabrication and within marine.
And the next question comes from the line of Steven Fisher UBS.
Research Division</strong> What level of marine utilization do you need to get back in order to hit the 10% to 12% margins for 2013? Is it the full 500 days? And then just confirming you said you could get there either with big programs or with some fill-in work? No.
Steven we could move the meter substantially if we got back to more like a 2011 utilization and that doesn't mean the 95% in Q4.
If you take the blend of the full array we were North of 50% 60% for the full year and our current booked work with a modest amount of pickup still has to sit below 50% utilization in '12.
So if we can move that up by 25% or so we could move the overall consolidated margin up to the top end of our guidance range.
Research Division</strong> And it doesn't have to be through a big program it could be you through some of the fill-ins you said right? No.
It's actually preferred that we spread it out amongst more programs and several vessels.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just quickly what are the biggest risk factors on the Agile job going forward? I mean is it just keeping the vessel in service or is it based on some type of quality of performance metric? It's more the former.
The contract arrangements that we have with Petrobras and the Agile has a specific number of days available to work during the year.
That doesn't mean that the vessel is working those number of days but she has to be available.
So the first answer to your question would be is she available to work? And there's no reason to believe that we have any issues there at all.
In fact she's performing well on her first assignments although it's more light work as she gets started here.
The second thing is to make sure that we accept the work that the vessel is capable of doing.
And there are circumstances sometimes that a customer has needs and we've got to be settled that we work the boat within its technical parameters.
So those are the 2 things that we have to pay particular management attention to and the contingency that you heard us talk about in the prepared remarks which is a significant part of what we charged the project with in 2011 fourth quarter is therefore some unforeseen events additional drydock if needed.
We wanted to be as liberal as reasonable to make sure that we have coverage and we believe we do.
And the next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about potential uses of cash? You've been holding significant cash balances on your balance sheet for a long time and studying additional deepwater vessels but we haven't seen any announcements.
Would it make sense to put a share repurchase program in place if the money's not going to be invested? Thanks Marty.
The quick answer to your question is it may make sense to do that.
And in every discussion with our board that we have we have the issue of use of cash and we look at CapEx investments as well as dividends and share buyback et cetera.
I would observe for you though that in 2011 and in -- or 2012 and 2013 we're spending significant amounts of CapEx and investing in the business not only with our North Ocean 105 that comes out but also more on the North Ocean 102.
We are looking at a couple of new vessels to respond to the SURF and deepwater market.
And we're looking at Brazil associated with a fab yard there that you've heard us talk about.
That one is related to a win.
If we win work in Brazil we'll be investing through our partnership in a fab yard there.
We simply see the market telling us that there is so much work in deepwater and SURF and in new regions like Brazil that our focus should be investing in those assets.
But I would book-end my comments by saying even today as we speak with our board we look at all of those options for use of cash including share buyback and dividend.
Perry do you have something to add? The only other comment would be that our customers look at us and expect us to have the financial capabilities.
So from a competitiveness standpoint it's important for us to have this type of a balance sheet very liquid and conservative.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And in terms of the bids outstanding is there any help you can give us in terms of the timing of some of the awards you have bids outstanding on in the Middle East region? Yes.
Let me give you more than you asked for.
In the Middle East region we've got a number of projects that are I would say in the $500 million or greater.
And I can think of 3 of them now.
The first of which we expect some kind of decision by the end of the second quarter.
So the timing is pretty near here for the first of those 3.
And the others are in the third and fourth quarter.
In Asia-Pacific in our last call we mentioned that we had 2 significant projects in the pipeline of $5 billion.
We were awarded one of them with INPEX.
The other one is due to be awarded I would hope by the end of the second quarter.
And as we said in our prepared comments perhaps we'll even know about it by the time we get to the call.
But backing up to the Middle East the so-called LTA program in the Middle East from Saudi Aramco is showing some positive signs of providing McDermott with opportunity to do more work than we have in the last year or so.
And there's good logical reason for that and that's competition being more full with their fab yards than maybe McDermott is.
And in my view we should win equal to or more than our fair share of that LTA work.
And that might be late first half and into the second half of 2012.
The next question comes from the line of Joe Ritchie Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on the PEMEX project.
It looks like you reserved liquidated damages on the project.
You're using actual experience so that seems to have mitigated some potential additional write-downs on that project for the rest of the year.
Can you just talk a little bit about your confidence that we've kind of captured all of the potential charges at this point? Yes I'd be happy to.
First thing to note is we have reserved full liquidated damages.
So we can't reserve anymore LDs.
There's a good and a bad news story to that right? That's one data point.
The second thing is if I look at the details of the work to go for the 2 vessels that are working on that job there are really less than 30 days of work to do for the DB16.
And that's in my view based upon the contingencies we have laid in on top of weather-laden workdays a reasonable estimate to complete with that barge.
And there is no pipeline to lay and some of this work is above water on the platform.
On the DSV progress report and I'm just kind of Joe disaggregating it as we think about.
We look at it from the bottom up.
On the DSV progress I would say it's a very similar story and there's no reason why we shouldn't be able to complete in the April timeframe or end of April by that vessel.
So because we have actual weather experience and because we know exactly what has to be done and because we've reserved for full liquidated damages it's simply up to how much weather affects our work on a going-forward basis and the contingency that we put in the estimate for inefficiencies not LDs anymore but inefficiencies I think is robust enough to cover us.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful color Steve and that this disaggregation is also helpful.
I guess switching gears a little bit into Brazil.
You guys have mentioned the Papa Terra could reach profit recognition in 4Q.
Can you provide an update on how that project is going and your confidence level in actually hitting that profit recognition target? Yes.
As I've said before this is a huge project and these large projects that have multiple participants as this one does we've got a partnership on this project have their own set of challenges and we go through those on a regular basis.
My update on Papa Terra would be we are schedule-challenged to some degree but not without workarounds.
And we are challenged with the client to some degree in having the client recognize some of the change in scope of services and change in scope of facilities that we are installing.
But those are normal types of conversations you have on any one of these EPCI projects.
So at this juncture at the end of year report I feel like the project is on track not without its challenges.
And as we get to 4Q of this year we'll take an assessment of where we are with our change order recovery and where we are on schedule and make a determination about profit take-up.
Research Division</strong> And your sense on Petrobras willing to do scope changes and accept those change orders do you have any sense on that at this point given your pretty early stages in your relationship? Yes.
My sense of that is is that we enjoy working with Petrobras.
We would like to have them respond to our change notifications more quickly.
It simply doesn't work that way and that's the way it is and that's the way we have to deal with it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one last question if I may.
If I take a look at your revenue growth expectations on the Street today there's pretty aggressive expectations into 2013 with mid-teens revenue growth.
It seems like this is going to be more of a 2014 revenue burn but your prospects do look good going through the rest of the year.
Can you talk a little bit about your confidence in hitting that type of well a if revenue is going to grow and the opportunity to be in that type of range? Well the tale of the tape for 2013 is how successful we are in 2012 in bringing in new work.
And the earlier we bring it in and the characteristics of those new awards is the sub-key here.
And the more marine work we get the quicker the burn the higher the utilization of the vessels and all things turn good for us.
So we've got a challenge to book new work in 2012 for 2013 because of the revenue roll-off in 2012.
But we're focused on it Joe.
And the next question comes from the line of Brian Konigsberg Vertical Research.
Just a quick question.
In previous quarters actually I think it was Q3 you had mentioned that you're considering some restructuring of the fab yards based on utilization that is currently undergoing.
Can you just give us an update on that? Is there anything baked in for 2012 associated with potential restructuring charges? I'm at a bit of a loss here Brian as to restructuring of fab yards.
We said some restructuring possibilities for the Atlantic.
Right.
Yes.
The region the Atlantic region a reporting segment we were looking at potential restructuring charges.
There was little in the fourth quarter.
Don't expect anything significant on a going-forward basis for that reason unless there is reason to do so because of lack of market opportunities.
But as we stand now we don't see any specific restructuring at our Morgan City yard doing anything different there or at Altamira in the Atlantic region and certainly not in the Middle East or in Asia-Pac.
Got you.
And just curious from where you stand now I know you're still kind of getting through these projects but the potential for recoverability over 2012 is there anything baked in associated with that? And if not any change in the prospects of doing so? There's nothing baked in on either the Mexican job or the Agile.
A little color on that I'd say there's very de minimis opportunity on the Agile project unless there is some goodwill associated with LD relief but we don't anticipate that and certainly haven't baked in anything in.
On the Mexican job we believe that we have a claim basis for the delay which caused us to work into an adjacent worse weather window.
And I'll leave it at that because we've got work to do as we think about that claim.
So there could be some there.
Right.
And just lastly as far as bids outstanding and the prospects for '12 how much of that would you say is potential for projects in Brazil? And how does that color your view on going ahead with building the fab yard that you've been discussing? With Brazil at the moment and I think it'll change over time but Brazil at the moment is a bit binary.
We've got one bid outstanding and that is the trigger point for making a decision around building in the fab yard.
We may not know about that in the second quarter maybe even later in the year.
There is more to be bid in Brazil but we have none outstanding beyond the one that we have in the pipeline today.
The next question comes from the line of Robert Connors Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just real quick on those $5 billion of bids outstanding as of the fourth quarter did that include the INPEX LNG project? And if not what was the $2 billion that filled in the gap? Let's see it did include the INPEX Ichthys because that award didn't occur until the first quarter and that was a little over $2 billion.
Projects that filled the gap were probably numerous Perry do you have...
Well I think he was saying if it wasn't in your...
Yes.
But it did it was in there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So pretty much as of today that figure still stands at roughly $5 billion.
It does.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just regarding Brazil and more SURF-related work and the CapEx and infrastructure that would need to go into that.
Would we see that more of a 2013 type of event or later considering this binary one bid outstanding sort of goes in your favor? Just trying to get a sense of CapEx ramp going forward? Hard for us to know at this juncture.
All I could say is is we've submitted our bid to our customer.
I believe they're looking at technical side of the bid Robert.
No indications that there is any commercial assessment yet.
And I simply couldn't tell you until we start getting feedback from the customer if we do what that timing looks like.
So I don't have a sense of it.
But my guess is a 2012 decision on building which would depend upon -- building the fab yard which would depend upon award starts looking less and less likely day for day here because I just think this is going to take a while.
This concludes the question-and-answer portion for today's conference.
I would now like to turn the call back to Mr.
Jay Roueche for closing remarks.
Thank you all again for participating with us today.
I want to remind you that the call included some forward-looking statements and I encourage you to see our SEC filings and yesterday's press release for more information on these.
We didn't have time this morning to get to everyone's questions So please don't hesitate to call me later in the day if you have any additional follow-ups.
And at this time operator that concludes our call.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you once again for participating.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the McDermott International First Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to our host Jay Roueche.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Pamela and thanks to everyone who's joining us this morning.
We appreciate you participating today as we discuss our results from the first quarter of 2012 which were released yesterday through our press release and in our Form 10-Q.
As usual I have with me today Steve Johnson McDermott's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; as well as Perry Elders our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before I hand the call off to Steve let me remind you that this event is being recorded and a replay will be available for a limited time on our website.
In addition some of our comments this morning will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks and uncertainties and they reflect management's views as of May 10 2012.
Please refer to our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are available on our website including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 and yesterday's 10-Q which will provide a discussion of factors that may cause our actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
And please note that except to the extent required by applicable law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Let me now turn the call over to Steve for his opening remarks.
Thanks Jay and good morning everyone.
In my view McDermott had a very good start to 2012 with this quarter's results.
Two months ago we thought our first quarter results would be softer but clearly the operations and our project portfolio exceeded our prior expectations.
Some of this outperformance was timing-related some projects showed good improvement and we had cost savings and importantly we didn't have a large one-off project charge or charges that affected the last 2 sequential quarters.
Adding to our solid financial results the company also had its best quarter of bookings in its history at over $2.6 billion which grew our backlog to $5.8 billion also a high watermark in the history of the company.
Before I get too far into our prepared comments let me give a brief outline of our intended discussion this morning since we're likely to go a little bit longer than usual.
I'll provide a few more comments on the quarter before handing off to Perry to cover our financials in detail and supply some other metrics then I'll return for my view of McDermott's strategy both what we've been implementing as well as what we expect to be doing going forward.
My objective is to be as transparent and fulsome with respect to growth plans and strategic direction as is reasonable given this broad audience.
Following our prepared remarks we'll open the call to questions.
So let's get started.
As I indicated we're quite pleased with the first quarter 2012 in many respects.
McDermott reported net income from continuing operations of $59.3 million with earnings per share of $0.25.
I've always said not to read too much into any one quarter but it's a lot better saying this when we delivered solid results like this period.
While I don't intend to spend much time on it I do want to update you on the Atlantic loss projects that impacted the last 2 sequential quarters.
Both the PEMEX and Brazilian charter contracts continue to progress and go well.
The Agile project has performed well or better than expected.
On the PEMEX job we changed the logistics somewhat and made a decision to release our contracted dynamically positioned vessel and then to perform all the remaining work with our own DB16 vessel.
This change results in the contract taking a little longer to wrap up and an additional project charge this quarter of about $5 million but this amount should be offset through increased utilization benefits through the second quarter.
As I also mentioned earlier the company's backlog reached record levels at March 31 2012 with a total of $5.8 billion.
Bookings over $2.6 billion don't happen every quarter but we were pleased to be awarded this amount in the 2012 first quarter.
Clearly INPEX Ichthys award was the largest contributor.
Even without this award however our bookings in the 2012 first quarter would've exceeded the amounts we reported in each of the last 2 sequential quarters.
And in fact the level of bookings in this first quarter alone exceeded the total we had for all quarters last year 2011.
So similar to earnings we're off to a very strong start for this year.
As we discussed in last quarter's conference call the INPEX Ichthys subsea booking is our largest single award ever at the time of contract signing.
Although the reported revenues don't really start flowing until after 2013 and primarily in 2014 and '15 we've already committed about 40% of the total contract costs to procurement orders and subcontracts.
And in addition we've entered into hedges for most of our expected foreign exchange exposures.
To say it another way we believe that we've significantly de-risked a large portion of this project in a fairly short order.
In addition to the INPEX project we also received another sizable subsea order in the Asia Pacific region which we expect will utilize our new North Ocean 105.
This is the SeCaP project a deepwater job in over 4 000 feet of water installing pipe and pipe flow lines risers umbilicals and umbilical packages.
There are a number of firsts on this job and as such we'll utilize our deferred profit recognition policy.
Virtually all the revenues are expected in 2012 anyway so following this approach should have minimal impact on 2012.
The other notable award was the KJO Hout project which is an EPCI award in the neutral zone between Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
The scope includes a jacket deck-associated pipelines and some brownfield demolition work.
Additionally we had about $130 million of bookings this quarter come through change orders scope increases and settlements.
Over the last 4 quarters we've averaged about $235 million per quarter from this type of bookings so the first quarter was somewhat below the recent average.
However we more than made up for it in new awards predominantly in the Asia Pacific segment.
Turning to the Atlantic segment.
We had a light first quarter in bookings but as we announced earlier this month we signed a BG Trinidad &amp; Tobago living quarters modules contract which should show up in the second quarter.
In addition there are several Atlantic projects in the pipeline which we expect to know about in the not-too-distant future.
Even with record bookings and backlog our quarter end bids outstanding only declined modestly.
At quarter end we had $4.8 billion of bids and change orders outstanding which compares to $5 billion at year end but up significantly from $2.2 billion just one year ago.
It's worth noting that the $4.8 billion does not include a recent bid in Abu Dhabi which we've removed from the total.
In any given quarter we typically have about 30 to 40 individual bids outstanding.
Of the 2012 first quarter amount we have a couple of bids around the $1 billion level many more in the $100 million-plus range and the bulk of bids would be in the sub-$100 million range.
Since quarter end we've spent a fair amount of time reviewing new bids for submissions so the markets seem to be remaining quite active.
In the 2012 first quarter the dollar amounts of our awards were highly subsea-oriented.
However the vast majority -- the majority of our current bids outstanding can only be described as traditional conventional work and less than half of that total dollar value is fixed price.
For all of our bids we believe we offer excellent solutions at competitive prices to our customers.
But typically competition is involved so capturing any particular award is always uncertain and the timing of awards doesn't always match our initial expectations.
As always the primary goal is the development and execution of quality backlog.
The spikes and troughs we might see in backlog or bids for any one quarter are only noise.
Beyond bids our target list of projects has grown modestly.
We still have north of $10 billion of targets identified which we expect to reach award stage in the coming 15 months.
Combining bids outstanding with backlog and target projects all as of March 31 provides revenue pipeline potential that exceeds $21 billion.
Additionally we have a sizable list of backup projects or potential jobs that may or may not come to fruition.
With this market background let me at this point turn the call over to Perry to discuss in greater detail the 2012 first quarter financials and our outlook.
I'll return afterwards for the discussion of our strategy both in progress and upcoming.
Perry? Thanks Stephen.
Good morning everyone.
As we reported total revenues for the 2012 first quarter were $728 million about $170 million below the 2011 first quarter.
The Asia Pacific segment was the primary source for the lower top line.
Revenues in that segment were down primarily due to lower activity on the large Kipper Tuna Project in Australia as well as due to the completion of the Platong Gas II Project which was very active in the 2011 first quarter.
The Middle East also saw reduced revenues primarily due to the near completion of the multiyear Karan project and Saudi Arabia although the decline was offset somewhat by increased activity on the Safaniya project in the same country.
As we've discussed quite a bit over the last few quarters our Morgan City facility has an improved workload as compared to the last 2 years.
This work combined with a full quarter of DB16 marine days helped to offset declines in the Eastern Hemisphere and led to 150% increase in the Atlantic segment's revenues.
Gross profits in 2012 first quarter were down about $22 million from a year ago quarter as a result of lower revenues.
However the gross profit margin increased about 100 basis points to 17.9%.
The gross margin improvement from just projects alone was even greater than this but higher utilization as compared to the 2011 first quarter partially offset the project improvements.
With lower SG&amp;A largely mitigated by the swing in equity of unconsolidated affiliates operating income in the first quarter of 2012 came in at $80.2 million or a little over 11% of revenues.
This margin was largely in line with our 2011 first quarter.
The Asia Pacific segment had a 48% increase in operating income despite lower revenues largely due to project improvements and closeouts.
And we saw an improvement in the Atlantic segment but these improvements were more than offset by declines in the Middle East including fewer closeouts.
In the other income/expense line we had a $15 million positive variance compared to last year's first quarter.
While interest income net was up and other expenses were down the bulk of this improvement came from noncash gains on foreign currency exchange.
This gain was principally driven by the measurement -- the remeasurement of cash balances denominated in other currencies primarily the Australian dollar.
In addition with the INPEX project award the notional value of our foreign currency derivatives nearly quadrupled since year end from a book of about $300 million to around $1.2 billion.
Although these hedges protect our project profit at completion for much of the currency rate movements and operating loss a portion of the foreign currency fluctuations do impact current quarter earnings.
With this sizable increase in derivatives combined with a quarterly remeasurement of foreign currency monetary balances we have now booked a foreign exchange out to its own line in the income statement to increase transparency since it's likely this will continue to be volatile in future periods.
Even though we had a nice gain this quarter we'd encourage you to recognize this is largely a noncash nonoperational impact driven by external market factors.
The reported tax rate in the 2012 first quarter was about 32% which was up compared to last year's first quarter and a little higher than we'd expect due to unbenefited losses jurisdictional mix of earnings and some one-off items such as about $2.5 million for the tax provisions on the foreign currency gain I just discussed.
As always our tax rate will be determined by the tax jurisdictions where we're working and the cumulative tax position therein.
As Steve mentioned net income from continuing operations was $59.3 million for the first quarter of 2012 or $0.25 per diluted share compared to $0.29 we reported in the 2011 first quarter.
Turning to liquidity.
We had almost $900 million of cash cash equivalents and investments at the end of the 2011 first quarter an increase of about $170 million compared to the year 2011.
The sale of the former charter fleet business accounted for about 1/3 of the increase but ongoing operations represented the majority of it.
To cover some of our typical operational metrics our activity level during the 2012 first quarter was generally in line with the year ago and mix compared to the sequential quarter.
We were essentially at standards in our construction yards with over 3.9 million man-hours flat with the 2011 first quarter and about 15% ahead of the sequential period.
Likewise our marine work barges increased as well compared to the year ago quarter at 314 days versus 294.
However over 1/4 of this year's days related to the 0 margin PEMEX project which provided utilization but no profit.
Compared to the sequential quarter barge days in total were down as we expected and communicated last quarter.
In summary this quarter's barge utilization of 62% was better than expected for the remainder of 2012.
Taking a look ahead while operating margins exceeded our expectations in the first quarter of 2012 we're sticking with our guidance range we gave last October.
With about $2.8 billion of remaining 2012 revenues expected to come from existing backlog during the rest of the year we continue to be comfortable that the full year revenues in the mid-$3 billion range is reasonable with quarterly operating margins in the 7% to 10% range.
This would imply a pickup in quarterly revenues during the remainder of the year with operating income generally in the neighborhood we achieved this quarter.
So absent FX movements or other unforeseen or unforecastable items this would imply that the current mean analyst estimate for 2012 looks to be in a reasonable range based on our current expectations.
Of course we say it every quarter that McDermott's business model doesn't produce straight-line results and 90-day increments is probably not the best way to evaluate the business as our results do tend to bounce around somewhat and the anticipated work schedule does regularly change.
However the 2012 first quarter was clearly launched the year with a good start.
Considering the current year looks pretty good at this point the pushback we've received lately from investor relates to 2013.
While it's a little early to get excited or depressed at this point it is always true at McDermott and I assume at most project-oriented businesses that someone can look out into the future and see a cliff that isn't covered by existing contracts.
The nature of our business is usually clients wants us to get started on their projects shortly after award and the EPCI projects typically last a couple of years or so.
As such we generally have 12 to 18 months worth of visibility from backlog when the project portfolio is all averaged together.
It's a long way of saying this situation is not new to us.
We've been here before and we're actively addressing it.
The large INPEX award was a different profile than most of our work in terms of longer visibility.
However most of the projects we're bidding have a more typical expected revenue recognition.
After only one quarter in 2012 and considering how our projects awarded and worked off I can't at this point give you an accurate prediction for next year's revenues.
What I do know is we have over $900 million of work for next year that's expected to come from a current backlog.
We're expecting to see some scope increases and change orders beyond what we have now from current projects.
We've got nearly $5 billion of bids outstanding at March 31 and bidding activity thus far in the second quarter has remained strong.
Delivering a solid 2013 should be a combination of current work scope growth change orders and new awards comprised of small mid and large size projects.
This is our business model and therefore we never rest on our laurels since there's always a period ahead to fill out.
We recognize that at the moment we have capacity for this year and next and we're actively looking to sell it.
Visibility into 2013 will continue to increase as this year progresses.
Now let me turn the call back to Steve for his remaining comments.
Thanks Perry.
As I mentioned a few moments ago I'd like to take some time to speak to McDermott's strategic actions over the last couple of years and also what we plan to be doing going forward as we continue to position the company for growth.
Some of my comments will reiterate what we've said in bits and pieces previously but I believe it now makes sense to lay out our strategy in a more comprehensive way both from an end market perspective as well as a capital asset perspective.
In terms of end markets the McDermott brand is known globally as a leader.
With our strong positions and historically shallower markets such as the Middle East and Asia Pacific we're often thought of externally as only a shallow water market participant.
It is true that we excel in this market with jackets platforms and pipelines and we very much continue to see opportunities here for the foreseeable future.
However we also participate in the deepwater market with floating production solutions as well as subsea and SURF installations.
In my view this area is our largest growth opportunity and we have recently seen several important customer awards such that almost half of our first quarter backlog was for deepwater-related or SURF projects.
We believe these offshore upstream oil and gas markets are growing and long-term global economic fundamentals are very strong.
To further capitalize on this growing market opportunity we intend to increase our investments.
As you all know McDermott's business model is somewhat unique in the E&amp;C space.
We're more capital-intensive having distinct construction yards with the associated equipment and owning marine vessels for offshore installation.
We see a lot of advantages to this business model including the ownership of hard assets that have substantial value and our capabilities that enable us to keep profits that some others subcontract away.
However considering this model capital discipline is vital.
We view our cost of capital to be in the low double digits and obviously the capital deployed needs to exceed that level.
Our approach is to not only require appropriate returns on new capital invested but also to frequently evaluate capital that's already at work and ensure what is invested is still achieving its best return.
By way of illustrating this point in the 2012 first quarter we sold our charter fleet for about $61 million.
Not that it was a bad business but it wasn't poor and we believe we can achieve higher returns by deploying that capital elsewhere.
Without question our marine vessels had the most capital invested of our major assets and with the combined insured value exceeding $1.2 billion.
We've talked about our vessel renewal program in the past.
This effort is a combination of enhancements to the existing fleet and purchases or newbuilds of other vessels.
Divestitures and/or retirements of existing vessels is also important and a complementary component.
Considering this program cannot be a single quarter or even a single year effort our activities may have gone somewhat under the radar.
But let me assure you the company has been very active and will continue to be so in the future.
So let's talk first about asset enhancements.
Some of the highest return on invested capital can be achieved by upgrading and/or adding capabilities to an existing asset.
Less incremental capital is required as opposed to buying or building something but the benefits obtained would be similar so the economics are better.
We currently have 3 major enhancements in progress for our large work barges.
The first is on the DB50.
In conjunction with the scheduled drydock we've been significantly upgrading this vessel with over $150 million of planned investments primarily to upgrade the power and propulsion systems and adding a deepwater lowering system.
We're about 95% completed on the project.
And when the vessel returns to work its life expectancy will be expanded and the enhanced capabilities will enable it to pursue a wider variety of projects at an expected higher return rate and in deeper water all with reduced expected downtime allowing it to work more days.
The DB50 has traditionally been considered the queen of McDermott's fleet generally staying quite active and having work come to it and we expect this view will only grow once it returns to the marketplace this summer.
The 2 other enhancements are in earlier phases.
The DB30 is currently working on the Macedon Project in Australia but it's scheduled to go into the shipyard in 2013 to upgrade the vessel with a dynamically positioned system.
Currently the vessel operates utilizing anchor handling tugs to lay pipelines.
After the 2013 upgrade it will be deepwater capable and self-propelled for pipelay activity.
Similar to the DB50 we believe this upgrade will enable the vessel to expand its reach work in deeper waters experience less downtime and lower its operational cost without the need for as many support vessels in the construction spread.
The expected cost for this project is approximately $70 million and about half of it completed by year end 2012 and around half in 2013.
The major enhancement is for our current Lay Barge 32 or the third major enhancement I should say which is one of our newer assets entering service in 2010.
We have the vessel built at a cost of around $100 million.
Initially the barge was just a pipelay asset due to the work we had at the time.
Considering the success we've had with multiuse vessels i.e.
barges that can do lifts as well as pipelay we determined that adding a crane to the 32 should significantly increase its capacity and utilization for a variety of projects.
The investment is expected to be an incremental $84 million again with about half spent in 2012 and 1/2 in 2013.
We believe these 3 enhancements will improve our competitive position provide solid returns to shareholders enable our vessels to pursue expanded scope and reach and therefore I believe it makes sense -- makes a world of sense to pursue.
However not all of our assets are good candidates for upgrades and so we expect some new vessels will be part of our program as well.
Significant progress has occurred in this area.
In December of 2009 we completed the transaction that provided us ownership interest in 2 specialty subsea vessels.
This included acquiring a 50% interest in the North Ocean 102 the 102 vessel-owning company and a 75% interest in the vessel-owning company building the North Ocean 105.
We gained full access to the 102 subsea vessel in 2010 and have an option to purchase the other's owner share outright.
Since entering our fleet the 102 has been highly active and an important asset that has enabled us to win work such as the Macedon project.
Over the last couple of years the North Ocean 105 has been under construction and it is due to join our fleet this summer.
In fact just this week the final major pipelay component the lay tower is being installed on the back end of the vessel.
The North Ocean 105 vessel represents about a $200 million investment on our part and it's expected to head for the Far East relatively soon to begin working.
Both the 102 and the 105 significantly expand our SURF and deepwater credentials which are among the fastest-growing areas in the market we serve.
These vessels are fast transit dynamically positioned and will be positioned for rigid or flexible projects in water depths up to 10 000 feet which is a significant slice of deepwater market.
Considering the expected demand for these subsea vessels yesterday our Board of Directors approved plans for constructing a third vessel of this class.
Tentatively called the 108 we have attained a slot at the same shipyard that built the 102 and 105 and we'd expect to begin construction later this year.
It will be 100% owned by McDermott and is planned to enter service in 2014.
The total cost should be approximately $260 million spread out over 8 to 9 quarters during construction.
I've also spoken in the past about the potential for a deepwater S-Lay vessel which would provide McDermott the ability to lay larger diameter pipe in greater depths.
To date we've not yet acted upon this opportunity since before committing to a large sum of capital we want to weigh the economics the near-term demand and our capital structure against each other.
Considering buy versus build decisions and time any activity accordingly.
However the fact that we haven't yet announced anything should not signal that we aren't actively evaluating it or that it won't happen.
In fact we hope to finish our analysis and make a decision later this year.
Now it may seem ironic that during a year where we admittedly have lower marine utilization than we'd like that I'd spend this amount of time talking about our growth in marine assets and capabilities.
However this is a long-term strategy not driven by any single year's fluctuations.
Between the 3 enhancement projects that I mentioned the North Ocean 105 and the newly authorized 108 I've now laid out about $750 million in initiatives with about half of this amount already spent.
If we conclude that adding a deepwater S-Lay vessel to our fleet is the right thing to do the total investment for all projects mentioned would top $1 billion over a few years.
At the same time as we're pursuing upgrades and modernizing our marine fleet we're also focused on divestitures and retirements.
Similar to the charter fleet transaction if certain of our vessels are more valuable in other's hands we'll very much entertain the prospect of accelerating aspects of our renewal program.
Together the vessel -- this vessel management approach focuses on return on invested capital while improving the capabilities of our marine fleet.
While it's true that vessels are fewer in number and generally have higher per-unit valuations than our onshore assets our strategy is much more than just upgrading buying and selling boats.
At March 31 about half of our backlog is in SURF projects.
To effectively continue our growth in this market we'll look to expand and add to our subsea engineering capabilities.
This can be achieved or pursued more slowly organically or more quickly through acquisition.
Any acquisition would be people-focused and thus we would expect the cost to be fairly modest in comparison to the vessel capital.
Our fabrication facilities both current and prospective also represent an opportunity for strong returns on invested capital.
We announced last year that we formed a JV in Brazil and have obtained acreage for a new fab yard.
Considering that in the past McDermott has spent fair sums of money on capacity in China and in Mexico believing the market would come to us and that we haven't yet achieved the level of business we desire our approach to Brazilian facility is in fact reversed.
We will continue bidding for work for Petrobras on terms and conditions and with margins that are acceptable to us.
And if we're successful in winning such work then we will build out that facility.
Lots of contractors are racing to the South America chasing Petrobras spending.
But in my view few seem to be making meaningful income.
A winning-first building-second approach will help ensure we're not chasing work later simply for utilization reasons.
Likewise in Mexico we're well-suited now for a wide variety of projects but there may be some types of jobs or throughput levels that would require incremental investment.
Similar to Brazil we'll look to win first and then invest second in Mexico.
To be clear the demand for a traditional conventional work remains strong and we are in no way abandoning this market.
However if you evaluate what's under consideration it's all about upgrading our assets and capabilities and expanding our reach in deepwater and in floating facilities in SURF markets pursuing new geographies and directed squarely at achieving growth.
Within our strategy is a self-imposed constraint.
We will maintain a balance sheet with adequate cash and liquidity.
Likewise we plan for any debt to be limited to 1x EBITDA or ideally less over the long term.
So you might ask if the returns are so good why place any limit on yourselves? Well simply put the boneyard is really full with companies in our industry that got overlevered and overextended.
We want to continue to maintain ample cash and liquidity because we're predominantly a fixed-price contractor operating in cyclical markets.
Further while a strong balance sheet normally wouldn't win you work the lack thereof could cause you to lose work.
Customers want to be sure you have staying power before they award you a multiyear contract valued in the hundreds of millions or even billions.
Likewise some contracts occasionally have negative cash flow profiles where we spend money ahead of our customers.
We charge them for the cost of money in those cases.
But working capital movements in this business can indeed be large.
Finally a reasonable amount of liquidity allows us to be settled about any project upset conditions.
We've done a lot this far at McDermott with this approach utilizing primarily cash from operations and project-oriented debt.
As I mentioned earlier I'm working for shareholders managing our business and planning for the future with a longer-term view.
Our strategy is not swayed by 90-day results.
While I believe all the items I have discussed are substantial value creators and are in shareholders' best interest timing can be modified as needed.
I do not tend to focus on the daily stock price and I do not recognize the -- and I do recognize that the overall market has been jittery of late.
And while I'm not a market professional I do believe however that we've begun trading in what I consider a head-scratching level considering value of our hard assets over 1/3 of our current market valuation in cash the significance of our backlog and what I'd consider an excellent market ahead of us.
However I do believe the capital markets get it right over time.
While we do not currently have a stock buyback plan in place it's not to say that it couldn't occur in fairly short order.
The board regularly evaluates this alternative as well.
And frankly doing so would be a much easier process for us than managing for the long-term business.
We also clearly have worked on going beyond the long-term strategy as there are operational priorities as well.
The Atlantic segment has been challenged for a number of years preceding my arrival at McDermott and especially in recent quarters.
I believe however that with bold decisions and much hard work we're very much in the process of making the turn.
This segment has the greatest exposure to deepwater and SURF markets and represents a great opportunity for growth.
Our cost cutting initiatives are now largely complete and we're actually actively hiring in our Morgan City Louisiana facility and in our engineering centers.
The market we serve seems to be coming to us.
We're currently negotiating a number of projects which we would hope to become awards in the near term and would primarily provide revenues for 2012 and 2013.
As you know our scope on Papa Terra is only about $200 million but that project seems to be progressing and we're expecting to reach the 70% threshold in early 2013.
While we believe full year 2012 in the Atlantic segment is likely to remain in the red as I've mentioned before I expect profits next year.
Overall the keys to success are all about project execution and de-risking our projects.
Delivering certainty starts with bidding correctly scoping and executing the work effectively contracting well and partnering where appropriate.
As Perry indicated we don't expect this to be a straight-line business.
As long as we do predominantly fixed-price work and projects that last multiple years we'll continue to be lumpy from a 90-day viewpoint.
But we believe our markets will remain strong.
Offshore is the right place to be and McDermott is actively transforming its future with a well-conceived growth strategy.
At this point I'll begin to wrap up so we can open the call up to questions.
I know we went longer than normal but it's a conversation I simply wanted to have.
Since we had a strong quarter and didn't need to talk about any hiccups I thought now was a good time to lay out our plans in a more comprehensive way.
So in closing I remain excited about our future.
The first quarter exceeded our expectations on the income statement while our quarterly bookings and overall backlog reached historic levels.
Bids outstanding remain strong with solid opportunities beyond that.
We recognize what's needed for this year and next and we're preparing accordingly while maintaining even longer-term perspectives.
Two major initiatives the DB50 and the North Ocean 105 are nearly complete and should be contributing soon.
We take capital seriously.
We're shareholder-focused and we believe our future remains bright.
In May we have a number of investors visiting us and in June we're planning to participate at the Credit Suisse E&amp;C Conference in New York and the Johnson Rice E&amp;C Conference in Chicago.
And we look forward to continuing the dialogue with you in the months ahead.
And operator with that let's now turn the call over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So Steve as part of looking at the strategy of McDermott how do you get investors comfortable with the change in the backlog in the sense that you're now as you said half SURF? And McDermott historically has said we do -- we do best what we've done for a long time which has been shallow and conventional.
So as you focus on SURF how do we get comfortable that we're not going to have hiccups in the new business as we go forward? Well let me give you a broad response and maybe use the INPEX project as a proxy here.
As I mentioned in the prepared remarks Andy we're all about end of bidding stages planning for early de-risking of the project.
On that program we intended purposefully to subcontract out a significant piece of it as we ready ourselves to grow into this market further.
And in the first 90 days after the award we took great pains and great efforts to work with our suppliers to buy out those supply contracts.
That's just a method so there's one response to you.
How do shareholders get comfortable with us moving into this market? I think they've got to have confidence that McDermott has a method to approaching this market.
We don't bid at everything that comes our way.
And what we bid on we're highly selective.
And the criteria for bidding the deepwater SURF subsea markets are first do we have the resources? Second do we have the capability and can we subcontract for that capability? And third do we have an ability to get visibility on this project so that -- on any of these projects so that we can identify upset conditions? We felt that way about INPEX we felt that way about SeCaP we felt that way and feel that way about a number of others that are in the pipeline.
The good news here is we have the assets with the 102 and now the 105 and in a couple of years the new 108.
Assets are a key management discipline is a key but preparing for the risks and de-risking the project would be my overriding response to your question.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful Steve.
If I focus on the Middle East for a second in particular.
It's been a very strong historical region for you.
Your backlog is down a bit over the last couple of years.
Has there anything that's materially changed in that region either more competition now or is it just sort of the pendulum has swung and you're about to win a lot more work there? Look the first thing to say to you is if I could just say it this way nothing is broken in our Middle East segment.
In this particular quarter we had about $11 million of fewer closeouts compared to Q1 of last year which was a needle mover.
The rest of the movement is largely just a mix issue.
From a competitive standpoint same competition we've been seeing for years I think you would have to chalk this up a little bit more to deal flow and timing than anything else.
Would you add anything to that Perry? No that is correct.
As we look at the bids outstanding and the target projects there's a number of opportunities coming up in the Middle East both in Kingdom Saudi Arabia as well as Abu Dhabi and other markets there.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And just one quick clarification Steve or Perry.
You said $5 million charge on PEMEX.
Was that in 1Q or is that in 2Q? That was in the 1Q.
And just to make sure you got that that was done more consciously than some of the other charges.
We've swapped out a vessel and we swapped out a vessel for our own vessel which lengthened the project which resulted in higher costs in our vessel and the length of the time.
But that'll get offset in I would expect Q2 because of the utilization of the DB16.
So in my parlance it will be a wash.
And your next question comes from the line of Rob Norfleet with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is Bryce Humphrey on for Rob.
Appreciate your commentary on the margin front.
I wanted to dig in a little more.
Your performance this quarter was obviously impressive especially relative to where you were thinking you were going to be at this point of the year.
And you've talked about historically or at least the last quarter or so of marine vessel days being a big swing factor for margins this year.
So could you just talk a little bit about some of the initiatives you're taking to fill what was I guess a 400-day gap versus last year? And maybe update us on where vessel days booked stand versus this time last year? Bryce I'll take that.
As I mentioned in the comments there we did enjoy 62% utilization which was ahead of what we expect for the year which is below -- we kind of expect the year to be below 50%.
So we're not in a substantially different position as we look at the rest of '12 than we were last quarter.
We had a nice first quarter but that underutilization of those vessels is part of the drag on the margins and the reason for our guidance.
Now as it relates to the second question what are we doing about it? We principally have our vessels to fit on EPCI jobs.
We believe it is a strategic advantage to have that marine fleet.
But we do look for work to fill in between EPIC jobs and so we're obviously actively looking to put those vessels to work on marine-only jobs.
Research Division</strong> Great.
If I could just follow up there on margins.
If I recall correctly I think you'll have a few projects winding up in the back half of the year especially in the Atlantic which I guess could result in some closeout opportunities.
Is that the case? And if so is that another potential margin risk at the -- towards the back half of the year? Yes what Steve mentioned in his comments earlier was that part of what we enjoyed in Q1 was a shifting of some of the timing on some of those project closeout contingencies in the Q1 for the back half.
There is further estimated closure of projects and contingency harvesting in the latter part of the year.
The exact timing of that obviously we're not going to give up anything with customers on it to get it closed out earlier.
But it could occur earlier in the year that's why we're kind of challenged to estimate which specific quarter it's going to come in.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one on revenues.
You expect to burn $2.8 billion this year from current backlog and your targets -- you're targeting in the kind of the mid-$3 billion range.
So can you just talk about how you fill that gap? Is that additional bookings over the next quarter or 2 that start to generate revenue pretty quickly or is it just some of your more typical quarterly booking burn work? I really don't think there's a gap there Bryce.
We did $728 million of revenues in the first quarter and we're expecting $2.8 billion [ph] Research Division</strong> Got it.
So that's the delta? burned for the rest of the year.
And your next question comes from the line of Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
One Steve or Perry I was interested in your commentary on 2013 given the concerns out there that -- the concerns out there on 2013 consensus estimates.
I guess my question is I guess can you just talk to of the major offense [ph] out there that we're tracking? Assuming you win them would they start in 2013? Is there more of a delay start like that we would see with it? And can you talk about sort of the margin profile for those contracts as well? And then I guess my second question Steve I was interested in your commentary sort of on the share repo side just given the way your stock is trading.
So I guess what's holding you back and how do you balance the share repo given the pretty aggressive CapEx that looks like we'll be spending over the next several years? And with that I'll go back in queue.
All right.
Thanks Jamie.
Why don't we take them in order? Perry you want to try to respond to the first one on 2013? Sure.
So Jamie the profile of what we expect to book for the rest of this year is more of our traditional profile jobs that would result in sooner burn of revenue than what we saw in the INPEX project.
So we fully expect to book work this year that would contribute to revenues in 2013.
As it relates to the elephant projects yes there are several out there and they would make nice contributions to 2013.
But there are a number of kind of smaller-sized projects that is kind of our main line of business.
And I know the market gets focused on these big ones because they get a lot of publicity but we have a number of nice-sized projects $500 million or less that we expect to win and would contribute to 2013.
All right.
Taking your second question with respect to buyback Jamie I'd say it this way: I am not saying that we won't buy back shares so we'll start with that.
If we do buy shares I'd like to permanently retire them not just buy at $10 and reissue at $15 for example because clearly holders at $15 would be looking for a higher valuation.
I believe our longer-term strategy makes sense and needs to be pursued so that to the extent we use capital to buy back shares it will delay the strategy that I spoke to.
It'll delay the inevitable need to plan for the future and for growth.
Having said all that if you ask me the question is there a possibility that we can do both?  We certainly can.
It remains an option.
The priority is around the building of the buying of assets in order to return greater returns to the shareholders.
And Jamie I may not have completely answered your question.
You had a part related to margins of what we're pursuing.
And yes the work that we're pursuing that we see in bids outstanding and targets is in line with kind of our historic level expectations.
It's all about utilization as we've been talking about for 2012 and '13 on particularly the vessels.
And your next question comes from the line of Will Gabrielski with Lazard Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> You said you're hiring in Morgan City and is that just for the work you've booked so far or is there more of a robust bid pipeline for Morgan City potentially coming? Two answers to that.
The hiring that's going on now and has been going on for some time.
I believe the number would be around the 1 300 level today which is higher than it's been in many years in terms of the workforce.
But that was done for the work that we have in backlog today.
The pipeline of opportunities for Morgan City is similarly better than what we've seen in the past so we'll continue hiring depending upon the timing of those awards.
I don't know if there's a trough in between the backlog and the booking and the needs for the future projects but we would be hiring to meet the needs of projects under any instance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of potentially talking about that division the Atlantic division as a whole getting back towards a break-even number I think you had alluded to the fact that in '12 it could happen on a quarterly basis.
Is that still part of the plan? Look it's always in my head to try to turn it around as quickly as we can.
It is not off the table.
My estimation is is that investors should look for us to turn this thing around after quarter 4 and be profitable in 2013.
Am I going to be profitable even in the first quarter of 2013? Hope so but it'll be profitable in my view or I expect it to be profitable in 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you talk about the North Sea as an opportunity or is it something that you have a lot on your plate laid out a lot today? Is that a market where you might look again? The simple answer is yes.
And we're aligning our strategies and our assets around the North Sea.
There are opportunities that we're looking at today.
Subsea engineering capabilities exist in northern Europe particularly in the U.K.
and -- or in particular Aberdeen Scotland.
We have a new London sales presence and a sales office so we are moving frankly with a fair amount of caution but deliberately back into the North Sea.
These vessels that I talked about in my prepared comments including the ones that we've enhanced the DB50 as an example and any of the North Ocean vessels are suited for work in the North Sea.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on vessel utilization but more specifically within the SURF market one of the competitors is out talking about how tight it is this morning and Aker was talking about some of the potential bottlenecks I guess.
How if you go geographically do you guys feel your position right now within that market? And would you say your subsea assets are as utilized going over the next 12 to 24 months as the market is? The -- if you think about our fleet Will the vessels that are on propellers so this is the 102 the 105 the Agile the Emerald Sea and the Thebaud Sea we are enjoying nice utilization on those in the past and forecast based on existing backlog.
And so I think that's consistent with what it sounds like you're hearing.
The 62% figure that we quoted relates to our barges and we have 8 major work barges.
And so that's where we have a heavy fixed cost that we work to cover and is the drag on our margins for 2012.
But the vessels on propellers that you're referring to that are serving the deepwater are highly utilized.
And your next question comes from the line of Robert Connors with Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And it just sounds like reading through some of your comments Brazil is still high risk for contractors and Gulf of Mexico obviously has a lot of SURF potential.
And really we haven't seen the full earnings potential of the Atlantic and particularly the Gulf of Mexico region because since you started breaking out that hasn't really been an active market.
I guess structurally or competitively speaking is there anything different within the Atlantic region versus some of the other regions where maybe the earnings profiles may be a little bit better outside of it being obviously going forward a little bit more SURF potential? Yes.
Here's what I'd say the Atlantic region has been restructured and it's been restructured to get our costs aligned with the size of the market.
So that's one data point.
I would also say that with our fabrication capabilities there between Morgan City and Altamira we have a cost advantage in Altamira and we've got a capability in Morgan City that almost no one else has because of its history.
Stepping back from it look at how it's procured whereas in the Middle East in the Far East the preponderance of awards or contracts are EPCI not to say that there isn't the occasional marine-only or fab-only.
In the Atlantic it's almost exclusively disaggregated; engineering-only fabrication-only marine installation-only.
So we've called it an a la carte market for years around here and that's the buying behavior that makes it unique.
So we don't get the opportunity to bring our advantages as an EPIC contractor and that changes the dynamic and it changes how we operate here.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So basically I guess how you operate does it provide the opportunity to build in more contingencies for your bid where if you execute well you plow those back probably [ph] just more disaggregated? Well not necessarily.
We align our contingencies with the risk the contract risk the pricing risk the scope risk the weather risk.
So we try to align our contingencies with the nature of the risk.
What it does do is is it doesn't give us the benefit of bringing our full suite of capability and pull-through to bring vessel utilization through pull-through to an EPCI contract like we can do in Asia Pacific or Middle East for example.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you sort of mentioned your low single-digit WACC range but when you look at the 102 105 and upgrades to the DB50 where do you see the ROIC potential for those? If I could push you for a figure that'd be great but...
We hopefully didn't say or I hopefully didn't say low single digits it's low double digits.
So starting with that Perry why don't you take the ROIC question? Yes kind of low teens and so certainly the investments that we've made both in the enhancements of the existing fleet as well as growth assets like the 108 have to beat that.
When we put together our economic analysis Robert you would want to know that we're disciplined in the analysis that's why we haven't jumped at the S-Lay opportunity and we're being very thorough.
We're realistic in the assumptions around those.
And so we hope there's upside to what our kind of investment expectations are at the outside.
But in all cases we don't spend the money unless we can create value through the terms in excess of our WACC.
And your next question comes from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned the nice number of prospects sub-$500 million level.
So have you actually seen the market for smaller and filling work start to accelerate? Yes.
Well the first comment would be of the outstanding bids and even the target bids I wouldn't look at those as being populated heavily by elephants.
There may be only 1 to 2 that are in the billion dollar range.
The preponderance of what's in that pipeline are hundred billion dollar range and -- hundred million dollar range and lower.
So if that's emblematic of the market then that's what it is.
And in fact the focus on the larger elephant projects in my view isn't particularly helpful to the conversation we had earlier around 2013.
It's the smaller projects that we have that are the preponderance of what's in the pipeline that could help us in 2012 2013.
And Stephen in addition those comments and I think it was the principal focus of your question was around kind of the ones that we see in the pipeline the lead time kind of the EPIC projects.
But in addition I think you were asking about the kind of filling jobs of this consumed utilization and do we see those kind of jobs? And the answer is yes.
Obviously we saw some in the first quarter that helped our barge utilization up to 62%.
And Steve mentioned with the 50 being backed out in a few months here that job or that vessel does attract those kind of jobs when it's in a particular market and because of its capabilities.
So we believe those opportunities exist but we don't have them in the bag.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just maybe asking a 2013 question a little bit differently.
At what point in 2013 do you think that any new bookings would only have a modest impact on the year? Basically just trying to assess how many more quarters you have to book new work that could still move the needle for 2013? It totally depends on the booking.
It's the type of the booking and the quickness with which it starts.
And the example of course would be if it's a marine project that has a quick start it could start burning instantaneously.
If it's a large EPIC project the engineering doesn't drive a lot of revenues.
So it kind of depends upon the type of the booking.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just one quick one.
How far along are you on the Macedon project and how is that going? I don't have a percent complete in my head but the answer to how it's going is it's going very well.
We've got the DB30 moved up there.
All reports are that there are no issues or certainly no significant issues.
Do you have a number Perry? We were just 1% complete at the end of the quarter so we're just getting started.
And your next question comes from the line of Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> When you look at your bids currently outstanding could you estimate how much of that work would be executed in 2012 versus 2013 versus beyond that? And then same question also for your target list.
Yes let me try to give you some sense of that.
For the bids outstanding is what you're asking about.
Let me look it up here.
Do you have a second question? I'll try to get to something.
Research Division</strong> Sure definitely.
Again as you look out to 2013 are there any areas that you're starting to see capacity tighten up or that you think you could we've heard that from some of your peers? And any areas where you think you could start to see pricing improve? From the 3 reporting segments within McDermott the activity level in the Asia Pacific region is the highest and as well as the resource comment on McDermott and is also a resource comment on the competition.
If there was going to be a mover in terms of us being able to have expansion on our pricing it would probably occur in the Asia Pacific region.
Certainly wouldn't put Atlantic in that position just yet.
We're probably a year or so away from that.
The next ones on certain programs where we have capability in the Jebel Ali facility in the Middle East or we have the right vessel we can do that in the Middle East as well.
But I don't see a broad-based reason to think about it that way throughout the company for sure.
On the first question Matt on the bids outstanding the $4.6 billion.
As Steve mentioned there's a couple of large ones in there.
One of those would make a nice contribution to '13; the other really would not.
But most of the opportunity for '13 relates as Steve said a couple of times now to the numerous projects that are kind of below that $500 million range.
And I would say that a large portion of those would contribute to 2013 if we won.
Research Division</strong> So is that something like $3.5 billion $4 billion of bids outstanding would be primarily 2013 work? I don't know that we want to get into actually quantifying that.
But suffice it to say as we indicated the bulk of our bids are sub-$500 million and most of those would be our traditional bread-and-butter work that would have the very typical revenue recognition profile that would start up pretty quick.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And just one more question.
In terms of getting back to profitability in the Atlantic can you kind of walk us through how you get from here to there? Is it better utilization in Altamira? Is it more on the marine utilization side just less revenue from 0 margin projects? Could you just provide some color there? There's some of all of that in there.
Top of mind would be booking work for Altamira and for Morgan City and that's certainly the focus.
There isn't much to do on the costs or the SG&amp;A side.
We've accomplished that.
From a marine standpoint certainly the utilization of the DB16 would be a big help for us.
Our focus is in getting work for the 2 fabrication yards.
And as I mentioned in the prepared comments we've got some projects that we're beginning to negotiate for both of those yards.
And I think that will be the starting point for lighting the match to get the turnaround accomplished.
And your next question comes from the line of Scott Levine with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> One more quick one on the composition of the bids outstanding and the target bids.
I was hoping you might be able to break that down geographically if you hadn't done so already and indicate as well whether there's been any dramatic change in the geographic composition versus say 6 months to 1 year ago? I've got it right in front of me here let's see.
The bids outstanding think the snapshot at the end of the quarter 70% Asia Pacific 18% to 20% Middle East and the rest Atlantic.
And the second question was can we provide that kind of detail on targets? I don't have that.
Perry do we have that? Yes I have that as well.
And so think of kind of Atlantic in kind of the mid-teens and kind of the Middle East as almost half almost 50% and Asia the remainder.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then turning to Brazil.
It sounded like it was helpful perspective on that market.
I'm wondering if the perspective on the markets have changed and what's kind of informed that? It sounds like obviously you're still looking to attack that market aggressively but really decisions to invest depending on workflows but maybe broad observations on the Brazilian markets since you increased that activity there over the last couple of years? Yes sure.
Happy to Scott.
I certainly wasn't trying to be clever with my words around Brazil.
We do feel very good about Brazil.
We think it's a market that we should be participating in.
But the clarity that I wanted to convey was McDermott wants to do it in the right way with the right price for the projects.
And more importantly whereas in the past on a couple of investments we had built the yard and then suggested that if we build it then we would have projects come forward.
In Brazil the opportunity is afforded to us because of the nature of the timing of the awards and the full quantum of the projects that are out there for us to be able to be a consortium that owns land that has done some initial work to prepare the land for fabrication and then not do the full buildout or the partial buildout until we have an award.
That actually is available to us down there and we're taking that road.
That's not to indicate that we have any weakness in terms of our thinking about Brazil.
It's to indicate that we're being more prudent than we might have been in the past.
So on the bidding side there's another part of the equation.
We want to make sure that we bid the projects we can win and that we bid the projects against the competition where our new fabrication yard has the right solution and the right price with the right contingency cover and with the right margins.
All that is easy to say.
It's very difficult to do in the face of stiff competition.
In my view being a first mover down there building a fabrication yard may not be the right answer.
Being a fast follower as I've said many times before is probably the right answer.
The overall fundamentals of Brazil which is a sense of your question I think remains strong.
New leadership in Petrobras I think is going to keep the pressure on to continue to bring the development of the country forward and the development of those offshore facilities and we're going to be there to play.
And your next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Just thinking about Altamira and the path towards developing that yard more.
Would you expect to see the initial -- well I know you've done some work there but next ramp-up in terms of workflow there coming from PEMEX and kind of proving up the yard's rsum before you were able to successfully bid on projects outside of Mexico.
Yes I look at Altamira kind of that way.
Today is the 11th of May and we're expecting PEMEX' announcement on a fabrication award and we hope to be one of them.
There should be several of them so there's just kind of a data point for you that's current but we won't know until we know.
We will continue to build out Altamira.
But similar to my comments on Brazil we now have the luxury because of the level of buildout that we're starting with Marty to build out a skidway or build out additional facilities there in time to respond to whatever award we would see and we would try to embed some of that CapEx in the bids if we can.
So we're going to be building on a win-first build out-later basis.
And the market down there is going to be our traditional market and there's a possibility for us to do some more -- some nontraditional work in that facility as well.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And could you provide us with an update in terms of activity levels under the Saudi Aramco long-term agreement? Yes the LTA program for Saudi Aramco is moving forward.
There are a couple of dynamics that are going on inside of Saudi Aramco that are probably worth mentioning including some internal EPC contracting personnel change-outs.
But we're not quite halfway through the year but we expect LTA work to continue to come forward for McDermott and hopefully at a higher level.
So timing is always subject to change but we expect the opportunities on the horizon.
And there's several that are on the near-term horizon there.
And your next question comes from the line of Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
Just real quickly Perry the cost cuts it sounded like that actually was -- contributed nicely to the margin performance in Q1 as well.
I was just curious can you quantify what that actually did add to your profitability and how do we think about it going through the year? Is it going to provide a structural support or is it really the best utilization is going to kind of overshadow any kind of cost improvements that you've made? I think you've answered your own question.
Vessel utilization is the main story.
Cost improvements our cost cutting was appropriate and we've managed both corporate G&amp;A costs as well as as Steve has talked about for several quarters the Atlantic cost cutting which he has indicated as principally completed at this stage.
So I would say that that element contributed some.
Don't look for a significant structural change from here forward on cost side but the opportunity is in covering the fixed costs of the barges on -- from a utilization perspective.
Got it.
And just running on that line.
So the vessel opportunities it does sound like that the opportunities are picking up in the pipeline as you mentioned.
I was just curious as far as the assumptions that you're making are you assuming that utilization rate declines because you're just burning the work that's already in your backlog or are you assuming kind of a corporate-wide win rate as far as the opportunities you see ahead of you? So there's 2 things.
I want to make sure it's clear which question I'm answering here.
Remember I mentioned that we have 2 vessel groups.
We've got the barges and we're 62% utilization into Q1 for that.
As we went into the year we were expecting sub-50% and we still expect that sub-50% for the rest of the year based on what's in backlog right now.
We're going to work to improve that as we did in Q1 but we don't have line of sight to it at this stage.
The second vessel group is those on propellers.
Vessel utilization is strong.
But I thought I sensed in your question utilization around the newbuilds and as we build our economic cases around the newbuilds and what assumptions we make in that regard.
And the newbuilds that we're talking about the 105 and the 108 we use the experience that we've had on the 102 plus what we're -- what we've actually bidding the 105 for so we think we've got appropriate utilization assumptions on the newbuild.
Actually I was more referring to the barge side.
So less than 50% to the rest of the year.
So basically it's every -- it's work that's already booked but any opportunities that you see ahead of you which you said are kind of building in the backlog or in the pipeline that would just be incremental opportunity for you? Yes.
And your last question comes from the line of John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
First of all in terms of the cash flow in the quarter was very strong.
And I guess Perry did that have -- what did that have to do with project timing and downpayments on projects versus just collections as we think about that the rest of the year? Yes I mean I guess to cut to the chase of where I think you're headed with your question is are we going to hold that improvement? And the answer is yes as it relates to the year but we could have a quarter-to-quarter movement during the year.
We could get some of it back for example in Q2 and flip around and look at total working capital not just cash here.
And as Steve mentioned in his comments around the capital structure of the company we do have projects that do -- we do have to pre-fund in our customers and that's why we've got the level of cash that we have available.
So anyway the cash flow should hold for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Steve just relative to your comments on the breakdown of bids outstanding it looks like a 10% 12% in the Atlantic region do you have to hit a really high win rate there to get that business profitable or is it just have to do with mix because 10% of $4.8 billion I'm looking at your current revenue run rate? Yes.
Well the circumstance we're in is a delightful one from my standpoint.
We've got -- and I think I mentioned in the prepared comments John that we've got 3 bids that we're negotiating today.
So I think about it first from that standpoint that we've got some negotiated bids that if we get 1 or 2 of these things we'll go a long way to getting us to the point where we can see the horizon here.
But beyond that the deal flow seems to be picking up.
And part of that has to do with our selectivity around what we're pursuing.
The other part has to do with the fact that I believe the Gulf of Mexico including PEMEX and U.S.
operators are beginning to pick up with some of their projects and giving us opportunities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that's referring to projects that are not yet being bid on? Yes yes yes.
With no further questions in queue I would like to turn the call over to Jay Roueche for closing remarks.
Thank you all again for participating today.
Just want to remind you that the call did include forward-looking statements and I encourage you to see our SEC filings and yesterday's press release for more information on these.
Certainly if anybody didn't get a question answered that they would like I would encourage you to call me afterwards.
And Pamela this concludes our call.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
(Operator Instructions).
Your first question comes from the line of Scott Levine from JPMorgan.
Please proceed.
Hi good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning Scott.
So it seems like the results resolve the amount of your expectations and broadly speaking not much change in the outlook for 2012 but as you indicated a little bit of work to do to get to the 2013 numbers.
Can you provide a little bit more color I guess with regard to the jump in the bids outstanding and whatever reflects in terms of maybe customers looking to proceed with projects or do you've seen any change in the mind set broadly speaking there? And then as a follow-up if I can get a little bit more color maybe on our relationship you see into 2013 between margins and either the magnitude of revenues or utilization rates that you would project and what should the relationship be one would think between margins and revenues as you look into next year? Alright Scott Ill response to the first part of the question with respect to bids outstanding and Perry will handle the margins and utilization.
So Scott a little bit more color on the bids outstanding your question was maybe whats on the minds of the customers.
Id put it this way: we have a robust series of markets that we participate in globally.
In the three regions that we serve I would say the customers approaches to releasing work continues to accelerate with a few caveats.
The larger bid seem to have challenges associated with them and we have talked about several of those in the past and those seem to shift to the right or have been doing so at least in the past 12 months.
The growth in the bids outstanding I'm pleased to say is more balanced than it has been in the past with the addition of additional opportunities from the Atlantic region whereas the Middle East and Asia-Pacific have been kind of filling out the pie in the past several quarters.
I would say its a nice balance between what I would call conventional or more shallow water floating solutions and SURF.
In this particular quarter however the more conventional or traditional more shallow water work seems to be taking lead in terms of the overall carve up of the pie if you will but my overriding comment is that the customers are working with us they need our services we see high activity with tenders the bidding activity in the company in all three regions now is as high as its ever been because of those opportunities.
Perry you want to address the margins?  Yes of course.
Got about 2013 kind of revenues margins and activities I guess just to briefly reiterate Steves prepared comments on revenues.
We now have and have reported expectations that our backlog will produce about $1.5 billion of revenues for next year and we need to continue strong bookings and grow at 2013 revenues.
As it relates to margin expectations we are not ready to give any specific guidance around that although Id make a couple of comments here to help you out a little bit.
One is that as we look at the backlog and as those projects are  the stage they are expected to be in 2013 it will largely depend on the margins in 2013 or will largely depend on the closeout change orders and harvesting of contingency that might take place in that year.
And as we see the maturity of the backlog at that time dont expect to have significant dues coming to the margins from those type of activities.
Further and to your final question about activity fab yard activity looks to be fairly stable.
Steve reported we had a strong Q2 of 2012.
As we look into 2012 or into 2013 the fab activity looks good.
The marine activity Steve reported on Q2 was good at about the 60% range which is in line with where we were in Q1 but as we have been indicating what we know is happening was some of the vessels in terms of for example the transit of the 50 and 60 that was working on the Mexico project we expect that activity to be lower in the second half of 2012 as well as into 2013.
And because of the fixed cost on those major work barges thats a drag on our margins for the second half of 2012 as well as into 2013.
Understood thank you and maybe as a quick follow-up somewhat related I think it indicated that a bigger portion of the bids outstanding is not associated with fixed price work and can anyone provide a little bit more color as to why that is and what changes in the contracting landscape of mix there and also little bit more color on the risk and margins associated with the indicated more conventional work within your bid funnel as opposed to more of the deepwater and SURF opportunities differences between the risk and the margin profile for the two categories if you will?  Yeah the first part of the question Scott with respect to the nature of the contracting methodology I wouldnt read a great deal into the fact that we have less in terms of fixed price and the bids outstanding in any given quarter or greater in any given quarter.
I think it is just the particular trend in that given quarter.
I would say however that to the extent we can those portions of the projects that come to us that are not scope identified and we cant nail down the scope we argue to try to get those move into a non fixed price mode.
So the statement I made have to do with the total dollar amount of fixed price meaning versus non fixed price.
It is not a trend in the industry I would close with.
Now as it relates to the nature of the work from the standpoint of conventional or shallow water versus SURF and margins expectations related to that.
My view of the world is this we should be paid for the work we do the risk that we take and the uniqueness of the service that we offer.
I would generally feel that we would have and continue to have solid earnings within our guidance range for conventional work and over the long-term expectations are that there would be some increase in margins for the more technical SURF subsea types of programs as we are seeing on some of the awards weve had recently in the Asia-Pacific region.
Understood.
Thanks.
Nice quarter.
Good morning guys nice quarter.
Good morning Thanks Andy.
Steve or Perry I just want to follow-up on one of Scotts questions and maybe add to it a little bit.
Perry you mentioned you were at 120% in your fab yards.
I mean I know you know this usually the way the EPCI contracts work right as you would then proceed into marine after that.
So what I'm having a hard time with is why would marine necessarily be down next year if youre big in your fab yards this year assuming that you can book a little bit more work.
And then in conjunction with that you've got steel prices coming down here over the first six months of the year and as we all know procurement is a big portion of these contracts so wouldn't that help you as you go forward over the next six to 12 months? So Andy yeah I see your kind of logic flow on fab flowing into marine and it certainly does.
But again the marine portion of this is partly with our fleet and partly with contracted vessels but with respect to our fleet activity it still doesnt provide full utilization of those major work barges in 2013 more in line with kind of what we're forecasting for 2012.
So we are still not seeing  but as Steve mentioned we are looking for book environment work as well so but we dont we have that currently in the backlog.
One thing I would add to that Andy is not all of that utilization in fab yards currently as we reported the 120% of standards is EPCI work some of it is fab only so there isnt a marine component that follows so that should be thought about and to reiterate the point that Perry made we dont necessarily even if its an EPCI job have the marine assignment it could be chartered vessel or sub-contracted or directly contracted with the customer but having said that your thesis is generally right as regards material pricing and steel pricing I would say you are correct.
Steel pricing is coming down.
I think that is  that argues for lower fabrication pricing to our customers the customers should get that benefit and we should be able to mine some margin out of that over the future.
Okay thanks for that and then just focusing on the Atlantic division for a second.
I know you've talked about it going to profitability next year.
You are starting to ramp up in revenue and we are still not getting the fixed cost absorption so is it just timing and you have to put in cost before you sort of get the profit ahead of it I mean whats going on there Steve? And when can we really expect some impact on that business with the rising revenue? Yeah the good news has already been stated.
Were booking work here.
It takes SG&amp;A it takes investment to get that work so I would argue with the time with for you and with you on the timing thesis here we got to invest in order to grow the business and thats simply whats going on here.
If we werent getting the work and we were still spending money I would be a bit more concerned but I am pleased with the awards weve had the nature and the quality of those awards and the prospect for newer work on the horizon.
I would say to you that I am not as happy with the execution in that unit at the moment but we are working diligently to make sure that the execution is in line with McDermott standards everywhere else around the world.
Okay thanks for that Steve.
Thank you.
Hi good morning a couple questions.
One just a follow up on the margin question with regards to 2013 I guess the other thing that strikes me in terms of why margins.
Two questions on the margin front 2013 one Steve in your backlog right now are the presumed margins and sort of targeted 10% to 12% range? And my second question is if we look at sort of closeouts in the quarter they were abnormally low and below the long-term run rate and I feel like that's been a theme why is the level of closeouts still so low and it doesnt sound like you are expecting to get any help in 2013 which surprises me? And then the last question we keep having this theme that the marine utilization is lower than we anticipated which  or is lower which is creating a drag on margins so I am just trying to balance that with your aggressive CapEx plans to increase the number of vessels that you have so at what point do you say okay maybe the works not coming and maybe we sort of hone in on the  weve reduced the level of CapEx spend that you are talking about? Thanks.
Thank you Jamie there is a lot in there and so I think Perry and I are both going to have to way in.
The first part of your question with respect to margins in backlog I would say you are right thinking that we endeavor to achieve margins and backlog at the guidance range.
I would add however though that the ultimate margins at the end of the day arent necessarily exactly related to the as bid condition.
But thats what we endeavor to do.
Let me go to the back-end of the question on vessels utilization.
If vessel utilization over a longer period of time then we have experienced thus far continues to wane.
I would say you are exactly right on the CapEx side of the equation.
We dont see that at the moment and in fact as indicated last quarter on this call we have intentions to be aggressive with the next new vessel in our fleet the DLV a deepwater pipe layer that I mentioned in my prepared comments and we will move forward with that.
My view of the utilization issue is more timing related than it is anything else.
Perry Id have you comment about that in the market.
Yeah.
On that vessel utilization just to be explicit here Jamie the numbers that Steve quoted and I reiterated about the 60% so far this year relates to the major work barges.
Okay and thats where the drag has been.
But where the investment is going is in the other deepwater construction support vessels that are shipshape vessels not barges and the utilization in that part of the fleet is closer to 100% okay.
So weve seen excellent experience with those vessels and we are forecasting likewise.
So in that also ties in on the barge side to Steves comments about our retirement plans with respect with some of those older barges so just want to make that the delineation between the barge utilization that we get a lot of talk about versus the others.
And then on the third part of your question the middle part on closeouts you are right that 2012 has seen lower than expected closeouts thats what we expected thats why we set the guidance last year that we did and so not surprising at all.
As we look at the backlog burn into next year and where those projects will be there is the potential for additional closeouts into 2013 some of it relates to change order some of it relates to closing out projects some of it relates to claims with customers.
So its early for us to comment on the contribution of that in the 2013 but the opportunity is there.
But besides timing is there anything performance wise that is making you  that would allow you to think that the dollar amount associated with the closeouts would be less than what we saw in 2012? I am just trying to figure out if there is anything performance wise thats preventing us from getting from the closeouts increasing? Yeah the answer is no on the performance side.
There is nothing about the job executions that suggest to us that were going to have either lower closeouts in 2013 than we had at 2012.
I think youre waiting to see if there is upside to 2012 closeouts.
And I guess my answer is that there is the potential but its yet too early to call that.
Okay.
And then last I guess Steve I would like to hear your thoughts just broadly on some of the recent there has been a lot of M&amp;A in the space we saw some stuff last week.
I would just like to sort of hear your thoughts out there on whether you think this is sort of a sign of more to come and are you surprised there hasn't been more of the international players looking to get into the market and on a flipside how you think about acquisitions for the company in terms of doing something larger or being on the other end of that transaction? Thanks.
Happy to do that Jamie.
With respect to the announced transactions probably reserve any comment related to those I know those that are been reported I know many of the executives in those and Id say at least one of them is a significant undertaking that theyre pursuing I wish them well and beyond that I wouldnt add anymore.
The question is is there more M&amp;A activity? Is this a trend? I think its really too early to say I dont have enough information there is only one or two data points out there but I would say as regard to McDermott we understand our fiduciary duty here.
And are we a buyer or a seller? Frankly we could be on either side of a transaction were shareholder focused and none of us are tied to our offices here.
So in my view I dont know that I see a trend but I do know that there are certain business combinations out there that we would be interested in that are transformational and some of them would be more niche types and we constantly look at those and were very disciplined about those opportunities either way.
And at each Board meeting on the strategic discussion we speak to those and not just a passing way.
Were very significant discussion about all of the above.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Joe.
So my first question.
Steve thanks for providing some  back of the envelope calculations on the revenue for 2013.
I know that you are not expected to provide an estimate at this point but my question on if you were to run off $500 million to $600 million that you booked in the back half of this year I mean would that mean that you would have to book some of these large projects in the back half of this year and perhaps may be you can talk about the timing for those projects as you did mentioned they appear to continue slipping to the right.
Yeah be happy to do that Joe.
I would say where we sit today at the end of the second quarter and as I said in my prepared comments were not in a position to start guiding for next year.
There are a number of  an array of potential possibilities that still exist subject to a series of binary decisions by customers for projects that are in our bids outstanding.
I will also say that in my view this is not unusual for McDermott to be in this position and I would say that we dont just have two quarters left to round out 2013.
There are a number of projects that are out there that were following that could be quicker burn than others.
There are as I mentioned a large project or two as you also mentioned that have slipped to the right and one in particular has been reported in the press as slipping so significantly to the right.
I would tell you that its one of the issues that were dealing with for 2013 to replace that revenue that would otherwise been burned in 2013 if we were so fortunate to receive the award.
There is simply nothing we can do about that other than to look at the alternatives and look at replacement revenue and we look at that in a number of different ways including replacement of those projects that we didnt win replacement of revenue that slips to the right looking at what I would call quick hitting projects typically marine-only projects that would allow us to have quick burn of revenue.
So the management team is highly focused on all of those aspects and I invite a follow-up if I havent hit all of your points Joe.
No I think thats helpful commentary Steve.
I had a question.
I'm a little perplexed by something.
I know there were no major issues that really occured this quarter and yet in the queue the amount of backlog thats in a loss position has increased fairly materially call it 20% to 25%.
And so whats happening there given that there wont really any issues this quarter?  Well lets just dispense with the two past loss projects.
The PEMEX project in Mexico as I indicated is completed and the Brazilian charter contracts they continue to perform well.
We did have a couple of smaller projects that move to a loss position in the quarter but I would characterize those as typical of the project profiles where its not uncommon for projects to fade in the early phases and recover later through change orders and contingency harvesting.
And its just another example of why we have lumpy quarters but there isnt anything else in there that I would say is material to the increase in the loss projects value.
Perry would you add anything? Thats exactly right.
Okay.
And on the smaller projects if I am thinking about I guess Im just trying to think about the margin trajectory and I know you guys have guided already to 2012 but as I start to think about 2013 could these projects then potentially impact 2013 because they are coming through at zero or is there a potential benefit that you see on the change orders Im just trying to get my head around that? Yeah.
The additional its about $100 million I guess $90 million increase in the backlog for those projects as Steve referenced will burn in the second half of this year and early part of next year.
So but again the size of those is not significant to where it would make a significant movement in the margin.
But yeah it will roll-off in that period.
Yeah Joe if you look at the total amount weve sell over a half of the projects that are in loss position still relate to the Agile project and those revenues gets spread out over a five-year period and so the rest would be relatively de minimis to the total level of revenues.
Okay thanks.
And I guess one last question.
On the fab assets that youre looking to divest can you maybe help provide a little bit more color on who the potential buyers are for those assets and if you have any other commentary on timing that would be really helpful? You said fab assets but were assuming that you marine assets Thats exactly what I meant I meant the marine assets.
Sorry guys.
Yeah and they are marine assets.
Look these are the two or three older or shall I say more mature vessels that do have both some functional and economic life in them.
Timing has to remain unknown because there simply isnt a deal on the table today that we can speak to.
We have high interest on one or two of the vessels and it just remains to be seen and Im not in a position to talk about who the buyers might be or talk about anything related to the transaction as we maybe in discussions today Joe.
Okay thanks.
Ill get back in queue.
Thanks good morning.
Hi Will.
Can you talk about Papa Terra and progress there and whether or not youre on track still maybe in early 2013 to hit 70% complete and start recognizing profit? Happy to do it Will.
I would say this it is a first quarter 2013 of that with respect to achieving 70% of course which is our procedure and our policy on for deferred profit recognition.
I see that we will achieve that level subject to what the customer wants to do and the customer has a number of parts associated with the Papa Terra project which could cause us to move into a different timeframe were talking with that customer at this juncture but there's nothing further that we can report other than were performing well weve had challenges with schedule weve had challenges with technology and those are resolved as they come forward.
This is a big complex TLP and I would say and this is from the customers mouth to our ears that we are performing as well if not better than any contractor doing this kind of work in Brazil today.
Okay great.
On Ichthys can you talk about the hiring of subsea engineers progress you're making what the market looks like for those employees right now and how? Is that having any negative impact on the margin and the region until you ramp that project up? Yeah it is tough to be absolutely honest with you its tough to find the right engineers at the right time weve done very well down in Perth Australia.
So I am pleased with our progress in ramping up with the kinds of the engineers and support people that we need were always seeking more were in a hiring mode is that having an impact on the project or the ultimate financials on the project Id have to say at this juncture no.
We're monitoring it on a monthly basis through the head office here and the regional executives are looking at it I would say on a daily basis.
So there is nothing that I would say that has a negative long-term effect but its a battle everyday to get the right talent to these types of projects.
Okay.
And then lastly I guess when you look at where our consensus revenue is and you addressed in detail for next year very well with what your plan is and where youre right now.
But as a bigger percentage of your bids out becomes smaller projects I guess can you talk about the internal process to review those bids and whether or not I guess at the division level some of your employees might be feeling pressure to book work or not? And how thorough the bid review is on the smaller projects given that thats where weve seen the problems over the past few years in terms of execution? Yeah Joe I will speak to it from two sides here.
Will Excuse me.
Sorry Will I knew that Okay.
Look in two sides here number one is that we have not adjusted our thresholds for reviewing projects in a manner which would distance management from those bids and in fact any bid at $40 million and greater comes through me and my management team to review and in my view that is a very low threshold or very low test for reviewing these projects.
Further any projects that have unique characteristics associated with them contract terms that are unique or potentially onerous financing pieces any of those kinds of things get a lot of visibility.
We spend a great deal of our time these days focusing on those projects and whether they are conventional or subsea or SURF our attention doesnt wane.
So my view of the situation is that while we did have one sneak through the net in 2010 or 2011 today we endeavor to assure that that doesnt happen and we focus on those projects nearly almost in different to what the dollar value is.
We are focused on the risk and bidding reviews or a risk management process in this company.
Okay.
And then lastly you have a few vessels obviously marked for sale assuming you can get the right price.
Im just curious may be on if you can give a what the utilization was ex those vessels which I assume are largely underutilized at this point? They are in our forecast one of these particular vessels has been working recently.
I don't want to be more specific on that but as we look forward these are vessels that we dont expect to provide any activity for 12 or 13.
Right but if you were to strip out the utilization of those from your forecast what would your if you change the denominator if you would.
What the utilization might look like company wise? Well we dont have that math here with us right now it would depend upon a number of factors including which vessels were not part of the equation but suffice it to say these have tended of late to have been more of the under utilized vessels.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Yes hi good morning.
Im just curious as far as kind of the prospects that you have outlined as far as kind of utilization of the marine vessels the barges in particular would you say that there is a good portion of that coming from more interest in kind of marine only work has that picked up from the previous couple of quarters and maybe just give us some color around the dynamics of demand there? What I would say is we are pushing the utilization of our marine assets through our bidding practices.
And what I mean by that is it is a much better financial result to have the vessels working for perhaps a bit low margin than they have the vessels tied up at the dock Brian so you would find the management team doing the right thing on behalf of the shareholders seeking market opportunities for those vessels in any way that is reasonable in terms of return and risk.
So the characterization of the bids outstanding what I say there is a great deal of marine only that wasnt there in prior quarters I wouldnt claim that I would say that our sales force is very focused on the short term need to get the vessels working in 2012 and 2013.
Yeah and just curious about the comment about the insured value of the fleet I mean just kind of looking at the breakdown of your PP&amp;E does seem like that $1.2 billion probably vastly outstrips what you are carrying on the balance sheet.
Im just curious how that valuation came about is that kind of a DCF of future cash flows based on utilization of your vessel fleet? Just trying to kind of tie those together? It is a price value principally whereas what you see on our books obviously depreciated costs so there is $1.2 billion depreciated cost on the books for the entire PP&amp;E not just the vessels but the price value that weve spoken about are the insured value is principally the price value? But you have a carrying value of that vessel fleet can you provide that or what it is as far as cost on the balance sheet at this point? We dont have that broken out specifically I apologize for that Brian but if I were going to ballpark it Id say by roughly half of the net PP&amp;E.
Got it.
And as far kind of the incremental bids that came out that have kind of added to your bids outstanding can you just give a little flavor as far as geographic dispersion of that where is the incremental demand kind of or the incremental opportunity started to kind of flow into your pipeline.
Lets back into it I would say that in total bids outstanding is broken down about 70% Asia Pacific about 20% 22% Atlantic and 8% Middle East as we sit at the end of the quarter The other way Steve Middle East.
Excuse me yeah Middle East is 22.
22 and Atlantic is 8 I apologize.
I would say that the number of projects related to the type of work has moved more too conventional weve got about 65% of the bids outstanding are in conventional shallow water we still have a fair percentage in SURF and floaters.
The opportunities in the Atlantic are growing and the view I would say of the Middle East is largely around Abu Dhabi and Saudi Arabia was Saudi Aramco and in Asia Pacific its largely around additional work in Southeast Asia some in Australia to just give you a little bit more granularity.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Fair enough.
I can real quick make a quick comment weve got several more people in queue still and we would like to get to as many as possible if the remaining questioners can limit their questions to one a piece were willing to go another 15 20 minutes but would like to get to as many people as possible.
Good morning congratulations on a nice quarter.
Thanks Rob.
Thanks Rob.
Just a quick question.
Perry I know you discussed earlier the lower utilization on the large work barges.
Obviously will have an impact on margins which it has thus far this year in the second half of year but any reason that we shouldnt be thinking at margins for the year should at least be more towards the high end of your range of 7% to 10% given that youre averaging 10% due to first six months of this year and to get to the mid point you have to be looking at a pretty deep decline so I just want to kind of get your thoughts on that.
Yeah I mean just with respect to that one factor which is the major barge utilization we're expecting lower utilization in the second half of the year based on what we knows the schedule is for several of the vessels including the 50 transit in the 16 that was working on the Mexico project so that factor alone will have a dilutive effect to margins in the second half versus the first half.
And talk more broadly speaking and I see your math obviously in terms of where we are through the first half but given this lower barge utilization and a lack of significant opportunities to pick ups and claims in change orders in the second half is why we feel that we need to stick with the 7 to 10 for the second half.
Great and then my follow-up and Ill get off just quickly Steve youve talked about in the past moving towards chartering vessels on the spot basis to improve utilization levels and marine days versus long-term contracts especially initially when the DD50 came out how is that strategy working and how should we thinking about that in the second half of the year.
We continue to exercise that option where it make sense and we do it on a regular basis around the globe strategies working well for us I wouldnt consider it a major needle mover in the Company but it works very nicely for us as you think about timing of projects and availability of our own fleet.
Great thank you.
Good morning gentlemen.
Thank you for taking my call.
Ive just one question could you comment on any changes in competitive dynamics and your win grade as you look over the last two three months.
There seem to be a couple of new entrants of maneuvering within some of your competitors.
Thats all from me.
Thanks.
Yeah thanks Tahira.
In the past two three months I wouldnt say with the projects that we have been competing for weve seen a material shift or change each one of these bids kind of stands on its own merits.
The bid slate is what the bid slate is and the same cast of characters if you will the same bidders tend to show up on most of these there is noting that I would report regionally that is unique in the Middle East Asia Pac or in Atlantic.
We are always concerned about some Korean bidders showing up on bidding list in the Middle East and in some cases of course in Asia Pacific.
But that has been a constant over the past several quarters and hasnt changed in the last.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Inc.</strong>  Good morning thanks for taking my question Hi Rob.
Inc.</strong> I estimate about 339 unutilized barge days year-to-date.
Just wondering how much of that is related to the DB50 because it looks like with the Williams Partners announcement in the Petrobras work that's booked for 2013.
And then as a follow-up was there any other vessels that you are not looking at selling that are meaningful chunk of that.
Yeah I think your numbers are right Im looking at the year-to-date at 60% which is at 2 000 barge days a 1 000 in the first half youre about on target I think it closer to 400 days.
But no is the answer directly to your question of the underutilized days and excluding the 50 most of that would be related to vessels that we would be  were looking to move because there are three vessels and on a year youre looking at 2 000 days in total so 250 on average so you get there.
And the DB50 as you heard us report is out of dry dock has finished some trials is just finishing up and she has been out of commission for about a year.
About a year and its still 90 day mode to get her back over to this side.
So thats what were saying the second half of this year will suffer continue to suffer from that lack of utilization.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
I have other questions but Ill just contact you offline.
Thank you.
Thank you Erin.
And thank you all again for participating today.
I know we had a few questioners who had to drop off there at the end so please if they were any unanswered questions dont hesitate to follow up with me.
I also want to remind everyone that the call included forward-looking statements and I want to encourage you to see our SEC filings for more information on these.
And Erin we appreciate your assistance but this concludes our call.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to McDermott International's Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to our host Robby Bellamy.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Andrew and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today as we discuss our results for the third quarter of 2012 which we released through our press release and in our Form 10-Q yesterday.
Joining me on the call this morning are Steve Johnson McDermott's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Perry Elders our Senior Vice President Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.
Before turning the call over to Steve let me remind you that this event is being recorded and a replay will be available for a limited time on our website.
Additionally all comments will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks and uncertainties and reflect management's view as of November 6 2012.
Please review our filings with the SEC which are available on our website and our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 which provide a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ from managements projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
And please note that except to the extent required by law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
With that disclosure please let me now turn the call over to Steve for his opening remarks.
Thank you Robby and thanks to everyone for joining us today particularly on election day.
McDermott's third quarter results although they're -- although down compared to the first 2 quarters of the year have us on pace for a solid 2012 performance.
With no particular project or discrete item that needs to be highlighted we delivered good results across the business this quarter.
During the third quarter McDermott reported net income of $50.6 million with earnings per share of $0.21 which brings year-to-year -- year-to-date net income through September 30 to $162.6 million or $0.68 per share.
Perry will cover our financials in detail.
However we are pleased with the results we have delivered through the end of the third quarter.
Although we didn't announce any significant project awards during the third quarter McDermott had bookings of about $622 million and a book-to-bill ratio of about 60%.
Our ending backlog was $5.3 billion remaining close to the record levels from the first quarter of the year.
The new project awards and change orders this quarter were primarily small to mid-sized bookings across the segments that added up to a healthy amount and most of these added increased revenue visibility for 2013.
Included in bookings this quarter was our first export project in our Altamira Mexico facility for the design fabrication and load-out of a platform and some additional work in Saudi.
We're encouraged by the award in Altamira as this is a clear evidence that the yard is gaining traction and our international customers -- with our international customers and we expect to see similar opportunities ahead.
In addition this quarter's bookings had several change orders on large projects across the segments.
Change orders while difficult to predict are a normal part of our business and typically present an opportunity for margin enhancement.
Our bids and change orders outstanding grew slightly ending the quarter at over $7.1 billion.
This compares to $7 billion of bids and change orders in the sequential quarter and is about 40% higher than the $5.1 billion from a year ago.
To provide some more detail on the bidding and change order opportunities 3 projects are in the billion-dollar range about 10 projects are in the hundred million-plus range with the remaining 20 or so below $100 million.
Consistent with last quarter the majority of these bids relate to the Asia Pacific and Middle East regions respectively.
And while the timing of awards is never certain almost half of these 30-or-so bids are currently expected to be awarded over the next 2 quarters.
Clearly there have been some delays on larger bids as some customers struggled to complete either their bid review activity or finalize internal relationships.
Our list of target projects remains very strong at $9.3 billion at quarter end.
If successful several of these projects could also be awarded over the next few quarters and contribute to 2013 revenues.
As a reminder targets are those projects that we intend to bid in the future are well-suited for us and that we expect to reach award stage over the next 5 quarters.
So combining bids and change orders outstanding with backlog and target projects all as of September 30 2012 provides a revenue pipeline just below $22 billion.
We also maintain a list of back-up projects that may be considered.
As we've indicated several times in the past our primary goals are maintaining bidding discipline and the execution of quality backlog.
We see continued strength in our end markets and remain very encouraged by the amount of bids and targeted opportunities.
I'll now turn the call over to Perry to discuss in greater detail the 2012 third quarter financial results and at the conclusion of Perry's prepared comments I'll return for additional operational and other comments and then we'll open it up to questions.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
As we reported total revenues for 2012 third quarter were $1 029 000 000 almost $150 million above the 2011 third quarter.
Compared to last year's third quarter the increased revenues came from the Middle East and Atlantic segments which more than offset the decline in Asia Pacific segment.
In the Middle East segment the Safaniya COP pipeline and KJO Ratawi projects had substantial year-over-year increases in revenues which more than offset lower revenues from the nearly complete Korean project.
The Asia Pacific decline was largely due to lower revenues on the KTT project and the completion of the Platong Gas project offset by the ramp-up of Macedon in the third quarter of 2012.
Gross profits in 2012 third quarter were higher by $86.9 million as compared to the year-ago quarter.
The improvement was primarily due to approximately $50 million in project charges across the segments in the 2011 third quarter results.
In addition the current quarter benefited from increased fabrication and marine activity in the Middle East and Atlantic segments and additional change order activity in the Asia Pacific segment.
SG&amp;A expense increased by about $4 million to $51.8 million as compared to the 2011 third quarter primarily due to higher employee benefit costs.
This quarter we reported higher equity loss from unconsolidated affiliates compared to a year-ago quarter as bidding activities and associated business development costs have ramped up for our joint ventures in China and Brazil.
Operating income for the third quarter of 2012 came in at $82.5 million compared to $35.2 million from the comparable 2011 period.
All segments reported improved operating results as compared to the 2011 third quarter.
Operating margins this quarter were slightly over 8%.
Our year-to-date operating margins are approximately 9.1% which is in line with our 7% to 10% targeted range for the full year 2012.
In the other income and expense line we had an improvement of $1.3 million primarily due to higher interest income compared to the 2011 quarter.
While the net impact of foreign currency gains and losses had little effect on this quarter's results there were some offsetting items due to our large foreign currency derivative portfolio and foreign-currency-denominated working capital balances.
We strive to minimize FX impacts as a U.S.-dollar-reporting currency entity.
However the accounting for foreign currency transactions can and likely will generate some lumpiness in our other income and expense line in future periods.
Our tax provision in the third quarter of 2012 was $29.9 million resulting in an effective tax rate of 35.5%.
We're currently unable to recognize tax benefits associated with certain losses primarily in the Atlantic segment.
If we were able to recognize these tax benefits this quarter our effective tax rate would have been about 13 percentage points lower.
Also as we discuss regularly our effective tax rate is somewhat variable since our earnings are subject to various tax rates driven by the mix of jurisdictions where we work.
Net income after noncontrolling interest was $50.6 million for the third quarter of 2012 or $0.21 per fully diluted share compared to the $0.04 we reported from continuing operations in the 2011 third quarter.
Moving to the balance sheet.
Our liquidity position remains strong with $720 million of cash cash equivalents and investments at the end of the 2012 third quarter which is a decline from the year end and sequential quarter primarily due to changes in working capital and capital expenditures.
Although working capital has been increasing primarily due to net contracts and progress in advance billings we expect this trend to improve in the fourth quarter.
During the third quarter our debt position declined slightly to $108 million.
As a reminder at the beginning of the fourth quarter of 2012 we started servicing the North Ocean 105 loan facility in 17 semi-annual installments so you should expect to see our debt balance start to decline gradually.
Looking ahead we continue to expect operating margins between 7% and 10% for this year.
While we still believe long-term operating margins for this business should be closer to 10% to 12% until we have better asset utilization and additional roll-off of the 0 margins and deferred profit projects we expect to maintain the lower range.
At quarter end we are expecting about $1 billion of our existing backlog to roll off during the fourth quarter of 2012 which would put full year revenues in the range of $3.5 billion.
Finally at the end of the third quarter we committed to a plan to sell 3 of our older vessels the Bold Endurance the DB16 and the DB26.
During the quarter we retained a ship brokerage firm to assist in the process and have received a lot of interest in the vessels including several offers from prospective buyers.
I am hopeful that we will complete the sale of these assets by the end of the third quarter of 2013 including one that we expect to close by the end of 2012.
As a result these assets have been classified as held for sale on our balance sheet and are no longer subject to depreciation.
However since these older -- since these are older assets the annual savings from lower depreciation costs will be fairly modest.
Let me turn the call back to Steve now for his remaining comments.
Thanks Perry.
As we've discussed on the last 2 calls we need to continue to fill some holes for 2013 across our segments.
At the end of the third quarter our backlog was expected to generate about $2 billion in revenues for next year which is an increase of about $500 million from where we were at the end of the June quarter.
We have several prospects on the bid list and target lists as well as potential change orders that could add meaningful visibility to next year's revenue.
And while there are a number of possible outcomes I'm hopeful that next year's revenue will be in the $3-billion range.
However if awards slip to the right or we're not successful in securing some of these projects we have contingency plans in place to manage any gaps in our workload.
It's also worth pointing out that we have already almost $2.4 billion of work for 2014 and beyond so we view this as more of a timing issue than a structural issue.
Now getting back to the quarter let me highlight our normally discussed operational metrics.
During the 2012 third quarter our activity levels remained mixed.
We were at about 120% of our standards in our fabrication facilities with almost 4.6 million man-hours worked.
This is an increase of about 55% compared to the 2011 third quarter and roughly in line with the sequential quarter.
Our major work barge days on the other hand declined compared to the quarter a year ago at 210 days versus 302.
Similarly compared to 2012 second quarter barge days were also down about 25%.
Partially offsetting this lower level of work from our major construction vessels we saw increases in our multiservice vessels both year-over-year and sequentially including the North Ocean 105 which completed her first project in the third quarter.
Let me move to the Papa Terra project in Brazil.
And while our 50-50 joint venture contract and related subcontract are progressing well it remains likely that the total completion of the full field development will be delayed by approximately a year due to some challenges in other areas which are outside our scope of work.
This means that our marine installation scope is likely to be re-sequenced for a later period.
This change will move the DB50's marine campaign on Papa Terra to later in 2013 and possibly into early 2014.
While discussions with our customer are ongoing and it's too early to predict outcomes we don't expect this schedule change to adversely impact our project estimates.
However with the change of the DB50's installation scope moving from the first quarter of 2013 to later in 2013 and possibly into 2014 this may result in a delay in deferred profit recognition on Papa Terra.
A noteworthy positive outcome of this situation is that it also presents opportunities to bid and win some additional marine work book-and-burn for the DB50 in 2013.
Following up on some of the strategic thing -- themes we have discussed during the year I'd like to provide an update on a few of these initiatives.
During the quarter we signed the shipyard contract for the Lay Vessel 108.
Based on the current schedule the first cutting of steel will happen later this month and we expect to have the vessel in our fleet in the second half of 2014.
In September our board approved the construction of an ultra-deepwater S-Lay vessel.
This DP3 combination vessel will be equipped with a 2 000-ton crane for structural work 450 tons of S-Lay tension with a rigid stinger and a 200-ton crane with active heat compensation for performing subsea work at 10 000 feet of water depth.
This vessel is expected to cost about $450 million and is expected to be available in roughly 2.5 years.
Based on our study of the global offshore fleet this is a vessel that will be needed in the marketplace as projects continue to get more complex and it fits perfectly with our subsea and deepwater strategies.
In addition we continue to look for opportunities to grow our subsea engineering capabilities.
While any investments would be modest compared to a new vessel they would provide additional services for deepwater subsea technology to support a comprehensive solution for the entire field development.
Deepwater and subsea development represent the largest growth opportunities in the offshore market and we believe these initiatives will better position McDermott to serve our customers' needs and provide enhanced returns to our shareholders.
However as a result of these initiatives and our ongoing maintenance requirements you should expect our CapEx costs to continue to trend higher over the next couple of years.
I'll now start to wrap up so we can open the call up for questions.
We had a solid third quarter.
Like the last 2 quarters there were no major project issues to discuss; and bidding activities as does our backlog remain near record levels.
We feel very good about our end markets.
Our customers are pleased with our performance on their projects and we remain committed to our long-term growth strategy to better position McDermott as a leader in the offshore construction market.
And with that operator let's now open the call up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Tahira Afzal KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I guess my first question is in regards to the soft guidance in the sense that it provided you down on the revenue side for 2013.
Could you provide us with any color on as you look at $3 billion for next year what will make it potentially outperform versus your current expectations? Well let me begin and Perry you might want to add some color to it.
As I think about 2013 we are not in a position at this moment to provide guidance for 2013 on a quantitative basis certainly not to give any speculation at this point on revenues or operating margins et cetera.
I will tell you that knowing where we stand with bids outstanding and those projects Tahira that we do intend to bid those that are in our so-called target list there is opportunity to not only achieve the $3 billion that I indicated in the prepared comments I was hopeful of but also to eclipse that.
There's also the risk that if we don't win some of these projects or as we have seen lately on some of these larger programs they shift to the right there's a chance that we could come in below that.
So we're not at a point where we can definitize that for shareholders at this point.
We are monitoring it closely.
I'm frankly very pleased with the last 2 quarters of backlog build that we have indicated is building backlog for 2013.
And we're roughly at $2 billion at the end of the third quarter.
And as you are aware we not only have the fourth quarter to build backlog for 2013 we have the preponderance of 2013 to do that same kind of thing with some quick-hitting types of programs.
Perry would you add anything to that? Yes just maybe a couple of specific examples we have been booking just over $500 million a quarter for 2013 over the last few quarters and hopefully we'll be able to continue that.
But also as you know Tahira we'll get some book-and-burn work during 2013.
And particularly I'm thinking about our major work barges where we're anticipating we'll finish 2012 at just under 50% utilization and we're forecasting to be around that neighborhood for 2013 maybe a little above.
So that tells you that we've got quite a few days available on those barges in 2013 to sell which could fill some of that revenue gap and profits.
And particularly what Steve mentioned about the DB50 and the availability of that vessel in a key market because of the upgrade we've done to that vessel it should attract some work next year.
So there is some opportunity there on the marine fleet.
The ship-shaped vessels or the higher-spec vessels are already forecast to be at near 100% utilization so it's principally the major work barges where we could pick something up.
Research Division</strong> That is very helpful.
And I have one follow-up and I'll hop back in the queue.
As you look at your market share and your competitive advantage in the Gulf of Mexico region and the Middle East over the last 3 to 6 months have you seen any change that's notable or concerning? Or as you look forward do you see that market tightening where the competitive landscape is concerned? Yes I'll answer that and just kind of to break it down Gulf of Mexico competitive situation remains stable in our view.
We see upside for us from a competitive situation as the Altamira fabrication yard begins to take hold particularly because of the low labor cost and what we would consider to be equal to or perhaps in out years greater productivity or production out of that yard.
But I would consider it a competitive locale but nothing is material -- changing in a material way up or down.
Middle East you indicated or asked about I would say similar comments.
We have what I would say is the highest productivity fair market cost fabrication yard in the Middle East with Jebel Ali.
We do have the occasional rogue bidder come in and create a spoiler situation.
We must remain disciplined as we go up against them.
That is not a situation that occurs on every bidding outing but we do see it on occasion.
We feel very good about our strength in the Middle East.
We hold what we consider the strongest competitive position because of not only our Jebel Ali facility but also because of the type of marine fleet we have.
And we're expanding as you know into the United Arab Emirates with more work also into the neutral zone with KJO and additional opportunities where we have only one competitor with the so-called LTA program with Saudi Aramco.
Your next question comes from Andy Kaplowitz Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's Alan Fleming standing in for Andy this morning.
I wanted to ask you to comment on the bidding market.
It seems relatively decent especially on the small to mid-sized awards but it does seem like some larger projects are getting pushed to the right.
So my question is how do you have -- how do you get conviction that you're going to be able to book some larger projects over the next 6 to 12 months? And what gives you confidence that we won't continue to see some of these larger projects slip to the right? Well as regards these larger projects I would say this they are complex decisions for the customers that we're bidding into.
They are often projects that are a marriage of a supermajor and a national oil company and that presents its own administrative issues.
So the larger projects that you ask about that tend to slip to the right it's usually driven by those kinds of things.
It is not driven by the bidding community or our competitors.
It's driven by internal issues.
So what confidence do I have? I can tell you of the major programs that we're bidding today and those that have moved to the right I have not seen any indication whatsoever of a cancellation.
Period.
What we do see is the slippage to the right for those administrative reasons and internal reasons.
And I can think about Southeast Asia I can think about Australia in that light and also in the Western Hemisphere.
I've been around this business for a long time now and in the offshore upstream business I'll recite once again that I just don't see cancellations.
What I see are slippages to the right.
So at the end of the day it's just a timing issue for us.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are you assuming that you're awarded any of those larger projects in that $3-billion revenue number for next year? Yes we are.
But those bigger ones won't burn much revenue in 2013.
So award yes; revenue contribution not substantially.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if I could ask just one quick follow-up on the Atlantic profitability.
It seems like it is getting better.
It seems like maybe you're having a bit better fixed cost absorption there.
Should we expect a steady improvement going forward especially as you have had the pickup in bookings? And do you still think that this segment could be profitable next year? "Steady" is not a word that I would apply to the business and certainly not quarter-to-quarter.
As regards the Atlantic region it is going to be lumpy.
But I would ask investors not to look at the Atlantic region any more than they would look at the company on a quarter-to-quarter basis.
I do still stand by my belief that it is highly likely that we will return the Atlantic region to profitability into 2013.
As I indicated in my prepared comments the pivot point or turning point there could have to do with the Papa Terra program and when we can actually go to work and begin taking up profit.
If it occurs in 2013 that's to the good.
If it flips over to 2014 we've got replacement activities to try to ameliorate that situation.
Your next question comes from Steven Fisher UBS.
Research Division</strong> I know you guys are spending a lot on these vessels and you mentioned that CapEx is trending higher.
Can you maybe just give us a ballpark range for where that CapEx is going to be headed? And then how should we think about when you could become free cash flow positive? Would that be more like 2015 at this point? Or might it be before? Steven it's Perry.
I'll see if I can help you here.
As you know we are spending kind of maintenance CapEx if you will that kind of equals depreciation $75 million $80 million $100 million a year.
The programs that we've announced this year the LV108 and the DLV 2000 will kick up that CapEx over the next year or 2 specifically.
So we're kind of anticipating that we could be kind of in that $300-million-ish range this year.
It could go north of that.
Part of that will depend not so much on those vessel newbuilds which are pretty much scheduled at this stage but it would depend on some of the other things Steve was alluding to in terms of our other growth initiative in the localizations particularly fab and engineering localizations in some of the international markets.
So can't give you a hard number there but given the newbuild program is why we're guiding that we -- you should expect an increase.
In terms of free cash flow once we get beyond these newbuilds we could be in a free cash flow position again subject to further investment selections and growth investments.
So as it relates to what we've currently got scheduled and committed yes we'd be in free cash flow once we get past these vessel newbuilds.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then Steve you mentioned bidding discipline.
Can you just give us some sense of to what extent you're actually walking away from bid opportunities now versus a year ago as a result of increased bidding discipline? I'd be happy to do so Steve.
I would say that there are bids that we do walk away from and I'll put a little color on that.
There are also bids that we simply will not follow competitors down on if that makes sense.
So with the former we maintain a bidding rigor that says any project of $40 million or greater comes to the top leadership of the company including myself for review.
We look at contract terms and conditions cash flows margins contingency cover overall risk currency issues to make sure that we are bidding appropriately for the risk inherent in the bids and to get a fair return for shareholders.
As it relates to those that we have rogue competitors on we either choose not to bid or we bid it straight up meaning we might know what the rogue competitor would do but we simply won't follow them down.
And the hope there is that the customer will do their proper adjustment at the end of the day and award to a company that can do the work for the price offered with a fair amount of return and contingency rather than just to award to the low-price bidder.
We simply do not like bidding head-to-head with a -- what I would call a rip-and-read situation a pure price situation.
We have to bid that way in a lot of ways but our execution plan and our ability to deliver on schedule and deliver a quality product is really what we're selling here.
Your next question comes from Jamie Cook Credit Suisse.
Actually this is Andrew Buscaglia on behalf of Jamie Cook.
So just quick question just kind of back to the CapEx.
I know you guys announced that you would be building this S-Lay -- an S-Lay vessel.
And I'm just curious what was your thought process in terms of decision to build? And can you talk more about the deepwater market just as it relates to competition in that market and kind of the growth aspects you see there? Happy to do it Andrew.
I will try to confine my comments to a few data points here because we went through more than 1.5 years of analysis not only internal analysis but using third-party data customer conversations as well as competitive [indiscernible].
We looked at the movement of the market from its current point.
We looked at capture of a certain segment of the market.
We looked at build versus buy versus lease and we looked at the specification of the vessel including such things as the size of the lift capability in the vessel the transit speed of the vessel the business end of the vessel from a pipelay capability.
We put all that together and we were able to plot the type of vessel and its capability its regional and global presence compared that to the competition compared that to where the market scan said the market was moving in terms of lift in terms of trunk line installation in terms of water depth et cetera and arrived at our solution and our decision.
We went through as I indicated 18 months of that analysis.
We went through roughly 3 quarters of conversations with our Board of Directors and I believe we've landed on precisely the right vessel for the future and for this company.
It is a big-ticket item.
But at the end of the day we have done our diligence as the management team and believe it's the right solution.
And I'm happy to add more color if you have more questions.
No no that's helpful.
And actually just another comment on the offshore deepwater market.
Can you just comment -- I know Heerema and Technip had announced a JV in that market.
Can you guys talk about your thoughts on that and just kind of like how you guys are strategizing as it relates to competition there? Happy to do that also.
I think that that link up between Heerema and Technip in the first instance signifies the strength of the deepwater ultra-deepwater market and we see it the same way as they do.
Secondarily I would say perhaps similar to the Subsea 7/Acergy combination in recent years it could be a positive for McDermott and our shareholders as it does remove one potential competitor and creates the need for another qualified contractor to bid and win work in that particular market.
Having said that I believe whether it's the North Sea or ultra-deepwater elsewhere around the world or subsea market there is more than ample space for another 1 or 2 or perhaps even 3 top-tier players in this market.
It is the intersection of having the right kit if you will the marine assets plus the engineering capability plus the technology and then the critical mass and the resume of experience.
That is the centerpiece of our strategy so I believe that the Heerema-Technip alliance is an indication of what I would consider the fastest-growing segment of the market that we all as pure companies enjoy in the future.
Your next question comes from Scott Levine JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Hoping for a little bit more color on the underlying business trends in the Atlantic deferred profit recognition on Papa Terra's side.
I was hoping you might be able to comment with regard to the bid funnel there and it seems like it's lagging some of the overseas markets in general.
But are things picking up in accordance with your expectations? Maybe a little bit more color on Brazil and Mexico and activity levels there.
And maybe a bit more color on underlying profit potential in that market and then whether you see things gaining momentum as you move through 2013.
Why don't we start this way? Perry if it's okay with you why don't you start off on maybe the quantitative side of Scott's question and how we see the Atlantic region and then I'll come back with maybe some more strategic and operational comments to help it round out? Sure.
So we do have a nice level of bids outstanding.
It's 4 smaller projects but we also have a deepwater project that we would see coming to award kind of mid-next year but still kind of in that $200-million range so not the mega projects.
That's kind of in the bids outstanding bucket.
And then in the target category we have a number of projects kind of a handful of them in that $200-million to $400-million range that likewise we think could come to award over the next 5 quarters next 4 to 5 quarters.
So a number of nice opportunities there.
And we think we're well positioned not only with what Morgan City can perform but now as Steve mentioned with our first export project in Altamira well positioned for Altamira to get some of that work.
So Steve I'll turn it back to you.
A couple of operational data points for you Scott.
You may have seen in October we announced a rig repair project for our Altamira Mexico facility which of course is part of the Atlantic region.
We see that as a significant opportunity for us.
We've been focusing on rig repair as an adjunct market for the Atlantic region as we have done a number of other things in the Atlantic region to turn it around including reducing SG&amp;A and DOE and putting new leadership in place.
What we were looking for are -- is another market.
That award was for a couple of rigs and those rigs -- or at least the first of which is on its way or at Altamira now.
That is a growth market for us.
I would consider it the kind of program which is book-and-burn and it will help us for 2013 and there are others behind it perhaps.
It's somewhat lower risk because of the contracting terms and conditions.
And Altamira is suited with its large quayside to do precisely that kind of work.
In a more macro strategic or operational way -- or way of thinking about it that business unit for us which is Gulf of Mexico Brazil West Africa and now East Africa based upon any prognosticator you listen to is likely to be one of the highest growth markets for the company.
So we are -- we have sized that business for the current market.
We're poised to grow as these opportunities come forward.
We have what I would call -- consider to be the best fabrication yard in the Western Hemisphere when it is built out not yet fully built out and we have the right leadership in place.
I'm quite bullish on the Atlantic region these days.
Research Division</strong> Yes no it certainly sounds like it.
Maybe as a quick follow-up I don't know if this can be quantified but is it -- you sound like you have some backfill opportunities if indeed Papa Terra is delayed and pushes into '14.
Is that a market or a region that could achieve profitability without deferred profit recognition on Papa Terra? Is there enough opportunity there? Or should we be thinking about 2014 here depending on the timing of that project? Look I'm sticking with my view about 2013 for the Atlantic region until I have reason to adjust.
And I don't have good reason to do that.
I frankly believe that the Papa Terra program will go forward so that we can capture revenue and earnings in 2013.
We wanted to signal that it could flip across the calendar line into 2014.
So if it does are there backups? Yes.
Will they materialize in time for 2013? I have to put that in the to-be-determined category but it is possible just to be in full disclosure mode Scott.
Research Division</strong> Yes no that's fair enough.
One quick one follow-up if I may.
In terms of closeout opportunities for next year preliminarily would you guess or estimate that it would be roughly comparable to this year? Or is it too early to really tell? Yes I'd say order of magnitude yes.
We've got some jobs maturing so we didn't have any huge pick-ups in '12 and not anticipating anything substantially different in '13.
Your next question comes from Brian Konigsberg Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Maybe just first on tax.
You noted that it was a bit high in the quarter because you were unable to recognize some of the deferred losses due to the lack of profit in the Atlantic.
I guess how should we be thinking about that going forward in 2013? I know you won't -- don't want to give specific guidance but should we anticipate that once you do hit that kind of profit level we should see a downtick in tax rate and maybe kind of balance that with what you're seeing in the other regions as far as profit generation? Yes you're right.
It is hard to predict and we can't really give guidance on it.
Certainly if we turn the corner and get to profitability which we expect to achieve and depends on when that happens the U.S.
portion of those profits will come through untaxed which will benefit the tax rate.
But really a more kind of pervasive factor is the mix of work we do.
And to the extent we're doing a significant amount of work for example in Australia which is a high tax rate jurisdiction it can have an offsetting effect.
And so it's a hard one to call.
I can tell you on isolated factors like your question sure if we make profits in the U.S.
it will lower the tax rate if all other things are equal.
But unfortunately all others things are rarely equal.
LLC</strong> All right.
And just on the vessels that were placed in available for sale so I assume those were actually marked-to-market during the quarter.
Can you give a little color on how much that was marked up? Well you -- from accounting you do not write them up to market.
You would only write them down if your estimated sales price was lower than their book value which was not the case for us.
So there was no onetime pickup or charge in the third quarter related to classifying those vessels as held for sale.
LLC</strong> I got you.
And I just want to check you didn't mention it but any impact from Hurricane Sandy that might affect the Q4 results? None at all.
Your next question comes from Martin Malloy Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Just looking at the barges -- the large barges that you have and I think you said utilization should end up this year somewhere around 50% and it's I guess preliminarily looking about like that for next year.
Can you talk about the bidding environment for these barges and the opportunity to get some additional vessel days for them? Yes I'd be happy to Marty.
Almost have to take them barge by barge as you know.
The bidding environment for those barges especially those that are combination barges and for the larger barges like the DB50 that have dynamically positioned capability the opportunity to win work and to draw work is still very good.
We do have as you know plans for taking the LB32 into drydock.
And in fact she's headed towards Singapore now for drydock.
So call that November and won't be able to work probably until Q3.
So that's an out-of-commission situation with the 32.
The DB30 that we've talked to about committing to drydock we haven't actually scheduled that yet.
I would say that likely won't begin before the fourth quarter of next year so she's available for work and does have some booked work.
Some of the other vessels 2 of which -- of the 3 that are held for sale are simply unlikely to have material increases of booked work for the fourth quarter and into 2013.
So having said all of that I would say the DB50 has some real upside as we bring her back to the North Gulf of Mexico have her do work that is already planned for -- planned -- in the plan and pick up work.
I think there's some upside there.
And that would probably be our biggest biggest opportunity.
Perry anything you'd want to add quantitatively to that? Just a specific fact.
Those vessels held for sale that we mentioned the 16 and the 26 we are excluding those from our utilization statistics going forward so we have lower available days.
And that's in part why I said that it could be slightly over 50% in '13 compared to slightly under 50% in '12.
But the primary drivers are what Steve mentioned.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> And is there any maybe preliminary help that you can give us on '13 in terms of the margins or the direction of margins there without some of the problem projects in the Atlantic that hurt you in the first half of this year and then you've got the DB50 and the 105 helping to contribute? When we think about the 7% to 10% guidance that you gave us for this year can you directionally give us some help for next year? We're simply not in a position yet.
We will be at this time next quarter to certainly put a lot more color around that.
So what I would say is we're just not in a position to do that.
There are a lot of possibilities that still exist on the margin side as well as the revenue side.
And it's interesting how this 2013 is unfolding for us and that is in the fourth quarter there will be a number of what I'll just call moving parts here that I think will have some significant effect into how we predict 2013.
Your next question comes from John Rogers D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Couple of things.
First of all Perry I don't know whether you can answer this but the $28 million that you've -- or $29 million in assets held for sale I realize they aren't marked down but would you expect to book gains on these sales? Could you give us a sense of what the market looks like? I'm just trying to think about the cash flows.
Yes.
Well obviously implicit in my answer to the earlier question is we think we'll at least realize at book value and obviously I want to be careful because there may be sellers listening in.
In that case sure we expect to book gains.
So -- but that is not -- the potential gains from those sales is not reflected in our kind of earlier comments about 2013 that's upside to margin.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Obviously more about the cash flow side of it okay.
And then Steve I guess just going back to the 2013 again I know you're not giving guidance but the $3-billion revenue number that you mentioned there can you -- I guess how competitive do you have to get or could you have to get in -- especially in early 2013 in the bid market to fill that up? And would that have a meaningful impact on margins? Yes it's a fair question John and I'm sure I'm not going to satisfy you completely here.
But I will tell you that it's not in the first instance about being competitive in terms of taking cost out of a bid or shaving margins or not putting the appropriate amount of contingency.
That is a very rare thing that we would do.
Having said that there are opportunities that allow us to kind of fill the hole up to or around the $3-billion range that we are aware of that have some negotiation component to them meaning we're in a negotiated situation so there's still some of those left that could help us out.
There are also those where I believe we have a competitive advantage in terms of our technical solution or our project execution solution that won't cause us to have to take skinnier margins or not have the right risk cover.
But the preponderance of why I feel reasonable about $3 billion sitting at $2 billion in terms of backlog build today for 2013 is that pipeline of opportunity.
We win our fair share then I think we will be in that zip code.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one other thing if I could.
In terms of your -- I think last quarter you indicated that on some of the work out into -- beyond 2013 2014 you have about 50% of the costs contained or contracted.
Is that still a good level? Or has that changed at all? No that's still about the same.
And if you're referring to the large INPEX project in Australia no change in the quarter.
I would tell you we're proceeding with that work on not only buying out all the procurement and subcontracts -- we've done some more of that during the quarter -- but we have also landed on with our customer a more definitive engineering solution for the program.
And I think as time wears on that will tend to de-risk the program.
I do not have at this juncture significant concerns about that program.
But it's only in the 1% to 2% complete stage and it's a $2-billion program and we monitor it closely month-to-month.
Your next question comes from Rob Norfleet BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick question.
I think Steve last time you somewhat helped break this out a little bit.
But when you look at your revenue pipeline or bid opportunities can you give us kind of an idea of the breakout between conventional shallow and SURF and deepwater? And also has there been any meaningful change when we look at your bidding on deepwater work in terms of hit rate? Meaning since you're a little bit newer in this area are you having to discount work thus your hit rate's lower? I'm going to let Perry do the breakdown this quarter Rob if that's all right but I'll just handle the latter question here.
In my view of all of the subsea programs and the more deep-sea programs we are not doing anything significant to discount either our cost or our overlay meaning our margin or contingency.
And quite the contrary we're trying to make sure that we understand the market that we're not going to be a spoiler in the market to be frank with you and at the same time make sure that we have the right risk cover and the right return for our shareholders.
So we're not doing anything inordinately different on any one of these bids.
And we're not new to this market as some would have you believe.
We've been around this for many many years.
We do now have better capability engineering and marine assets to do this work and we've learned a lot about how to bid these programs.
Perry you want to give the breakdown? Sure.
Just think of the pipeline on a couple of dimensions: one a geographic and the other is an end-market dimension.
And we give the geo in the Q.
But just as a reminder on the backlog the Asia Pacific because of the INPEX project is the biggest chunk 60% of the backlog.
Middle East is about 1/4 of it with Atlantic being the remainder.
And then from an end market perspective for backlog the SURF is the largest part.
Again INPEX is the biggest driver at about 55%.
The conventional business is just under 40%.
And there's some floating and other charter business in there for the residual.
And then moving to the bids outstanding to -- directly to your question Rob is that the -- from a geographic perspective the bids outstanding are almost 70% Asia Pacific and 27% Middle East with Atlantic being around 4%.
And then from an end market perspective as we talked about last quarter the conventional is about 70% of the bids outstanding and the SURF business is almost 1/4 with the floaters being almost 10% of the bids outstanding.
And then if you go beyond that and look further at these targets fairly balanced geographically between Middle East Asia Pac and Atlantic.
And then from an end market perspective closer to 2/3 on the conventional side and 1/4 in floating and about 15% in the SURF business.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And just quickly in terms of a follow-on.
Steve just a quick question just your thoughts on consolidation and I mean it from the standpoint -- we've been talking about this huge amount of growth we're expecting to see in the SURF and deepwater market.
And clearly that's going to result in more competition.
But you've got a lot of competitors that don't have assets.
They don't have fab yards.
They don't have boats.
They're having to do JVs and take smaller pieces of the work.
I mean do you think given the growth that we're seeing in the deepwater markets -- you would think there would be some semblance of wanting to be able to participate at a higher level on this market.
And clearly they're not that many people that have the assets that you all do.
Do you see that as a trend going forward potentially? Yes I do.
I wouldn't want to add too much color to that wouldn't want to send any signals before our strategy is developed from a McDermott standpoint but I absolutely agree with you.
A consolidator strategy makes a lot of sense.
Your next question comes from George O'Leary Tudor Pickering.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.
Research Division</strong> Maybe digging down into bids and just a little bit more detail following on that last line of questioning regarding kind of the work that -- you mentioned some work.
You expect a material amount of awards to hit in the next 6 months the next 2 quarters.
Can you talk about maybe the breakdown by end market and geography of that work in particular or maybe just give a little bit more color qualitatively around that? So kind of from an end market perspective I would say out of -- Steve mentioned about half of the quantum of projects are expected to be awarded in the next few quarters.
That's half the number of jobs probably closer to 1/3 or so of the dollar amount of those jobs.
And then looking at it from an end market perspective as I mentioned a moment ago the majority of that is in the conventional side the vast majority.
Your next question comes from Robert Connors Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think I understand the impact on the D&amp;A line with the pending sale of the 3 vessels.
But are there also some sort of maintenance crew and drydock expenses that disappear once those vessels are sold? And is it material? Yes and no.
Yes it is -- there is cost.
No it's not material.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And then I believe that the DB16 had some Jack/St.
Malo work to be done in early 2014.
Is it still scheduled to be done on that vessel? Or has the work been transferred to another vessel? There's no prospective work for the DB16 at the moment.
That's the 102 that's going to do that job.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Oh okay okay.
And then just regarding Papa Terra.
What is the percent complete now? And just assuming it does go forward within 2013 what are you guys estimating as the percent complete when you exit the year? We're just almost 60% complete from a financial standpoint but it's the marine campaign -- that's the majority of what's left -- that's shifting around.
So really it just depends on what Steve's already covered which is when that marine campaign with the 50 occurs.
So if we get that into the fourth quarter it could be substantially complete by the end of the year.
I would add just so everybody's aware the topsides and the hull for the TLP which is largely our portion our joint venture's portion of the program is largely on schedule where other contributors to the overall development in the program are causing this consternation around delay or timing of first oil.
Our particular project scope is likely to be moved to the latter part of the year in order to allow some early first oil this summer if Petrobras can achieve that which puts us in a position where we would then need to work with our customer to recover costs associated with that delay.
Just to add clarity so that you can as investors understand the difference between what you read in the trade materials versus what we're saying.
Your next question comes from Sameer Rathod Macquarie.
I just wanted to focus in on the China joint venture and the FPSO market.
It seems like the Koreans want to play a big -- be big players in this market.
And given their history of being pretty aggressive how do you see this market shaping up? Well I think you've stated it well.
The Koreans are aggressive.
We built that fabrication yard for FPSO topsides construction and integration with our Chinese partner building the hulls.
That yard can certainly do that and it can also do more conventional or traditional work which is what it has been doing in the early stage projects.
So that fabrication yard is quite a full service yard so I want to make sure that everybody looks at it that way even though the advent at that yard was it's initially an FPSO facility.
Your next question comes from Will Gabrielski Lazard.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about in the Gulf of Mexico right now some of the bigger topside jobs that are out there and whether or not you're bidding those with Morgan City or Altamira and/or both and what the strategy might be for those types of projects going forward on the U.S.
side? I can -- if you don't mind I'm not going to speak to the specific named projects from a competitive standpoint but I will tell you that any of those projects that suit us we will bid and we will bid fabrication alternatively with Morgan City or Altamira.
I will say that one of those big topsides is perfectly suited for Morgan City.
A couple of them are perfectly suited for Altamira.
So it depends upon a number of things: what's the technical suitability; and then the other is customer preference; and then thirdly is cost.
And we can likely get lower cost out of the Altamira facility all underpinned by the fact that we haven't completely built out the Altamira facility and we're building it out on a just-in-time basis.
As these topsides come forward we speak to the customers about our plans for building it out so that it is completed before we need them.
Research Division</strong> Okay great and I apologize if I missed this update.
But did you talk about the prospects of building out any fabrication capacity in Brazil and whether or not you've been notified yet on any of the FPSO modules you were bidding? I don't think the question came up or we mentioned it with any kind of color.
Well I would simply state that we are still bidding.
We have not been given any notification of an award.
But our plans are still in place and still in effect for a build-out of a fabrication yard after being notified of an award.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly can you go back through Ichthys and the way you're working with Heerema on that project how the relationship is structured and how the risk sharing is structured now that we kind of have another reference venture in the market with them and Technip? I'm just wondering how that might differ or what you guys are doing to insulate yourself from execution risk around the Heerema side of the project.
Yes well it's a bit of a different structure.
It's a project-only relationship with Ichthys.
And we McDermott are the prime contractor.
Heerema in this particular instance is a subcontractor a dedicated subcontractor to McDermott with a fixed price and date-certain type of risk associated with it.
It is not a broader-based type of relationship which appears to be the Technip-Heerema type of arrangement.
But it does use the Aegir vessel which was also mentioned in the release between Technip and Heerema.
Research Division</strong> But in terms of the risk sharing on that on the execution side of the project how does that work between yourselves? And how do you align the interests between yourselves and Heerema? Each party is responsible for their work scope.
The risk that goes associated with it time risk cost risk goes to the party that's doing the work.
And we have no further questions.
So I would like to turn the call over to Robby for closing remarks.
Thank you all again for participating today.
I want to remind you that this call included forward-looking statements and I encourage you to see our SEC filings and yesterday's press release for more information on these.
Operator this concludes our call.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Q4 2012 McDermott International Inc.
Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christi and I will be your operator for today.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I'd now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Steve Oldham Vice President Treasury and Investor Relations.
Please proceed.
Thank you Christi.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today as we discuss our results for the fourth quarter 2012 which were released through our press release and in our Form 10-K yesterday.
Joining me on the call this morning are Steve Johnson McDermotts Chairman President and chief Executive Officer; and Perry Elders our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before turning the call over to Steve let me remind you that this event is being recorded and a replay will be available for a limited time on our website.
Additionally our comments will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks and uncertainties and reflect management's view as of March 1 2013.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC which are available on our website including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 which provides a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ from managements projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
And please note that except to the extent required by the applicable law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
With that disclosure let me now turn the call over to Steve for his opening remarks.
Thanks Steve and thank you to everyone for joining us today.
McDermott reported satisfactory results for the fourth quarter with consolidated numbers reflecting strong operating successes albeit with some productivity challenges on certain projects which I will discuss later.
During the fourth quarter McDermott reported net income of $40.5 million with earnings per share of $0.17 with our full year net income of $206.7 million or $0.87 per share.
Perry is going to cover our financials in detail however we are pleased with the results of our operations and our financial position entering the new year.
With several significant projects awarded in the fourth quarter McDermott had bookings of about $725 million and a book-to-bill ratio of about 75%.
Our ending backlog was $5.1 billion.
In December we received a letter notice of a significant award from a large customer in our Middle East segment under which we were authorized to proceed on a portion totaling less than $100 million which has been included in our year-end backlog.
However under our conservative booking convention we will record the balance of the award into our backlog only when we are authorized to proceed which we expect to receive shortly.
We expect the combination of backlog projects and this notice of award to generate about $2.6 billion of revenue in 2013 greatly enhancing our visibility this year.
Perry will go into more detail on guidance later in the call as well.
Our bids and change orders outstanding grew meaningfully ending the quarter at over $7.7 billion.
It is the largest in memory for the company.
This compares to $7.1 billion of bids and change orders outstanding in the third quarter and it's about 57% higher than the $4.9 billion from a year ago.
To provide some more detail on the bidding and change order opportunities 3 projects are in the $1 billion range about a dozen are in the $100-million-plus range with the remaining 30 or so below $100 million.
Consistent with the last few quarters the majority of these bids relate to the Asia Pacific and Middle Eastern regions.
Of course the timing of awards is never certain as we have seen our share of projects pushed to the right.
However we are anticipating over 90% of these 45-or-so bids to be awarded over the next 2 quarters.
While over half of our backlog relates to SURF projects the opportunities in our conventional business continue to be robust and the majority of our bids outstanding is for conventional-type work.
In addition our list of target projects remains very strong at $10.7 billion at year end.
We expect several of these projects to be awarded over the next few quarters.
As a reminder target projects are those that we intend to bid in the future are well suited for us and that we expect to reach award within the next 5 quarters.
So if you combine bids and change orders outstanding with backlog and targeted projects all as of December 31 2012 we are provided a revenue pipeline just below $23.5 billion also a record level for this company.
In addition most of you know that we maintain a list of backup prospects that may be considered for bidding as well.
Maintaining bidding discipline and building quality backlog remains our primary goal.
I have spoken to this many times in the past.
We see continued strength in our end markets and are very encouraged by the amount of bids and targeted opportunities.
Thinking about recent announcements by others in this space I would emphasize that adhering to our bidding rigors is paramount to long-term success in this largely lump-sum turnkey business.
And short-term wins even if they are elephants are not truly wins in my mind if we can't execute the work with reasonable certainty and profitability.
The better win is when -- is one where we have differentiated ourselves with creative solutions or have unique assets and resources to offer to our customers.
I'll turn the call over now to Perry to discuss greater detail for 2012 fourth quarter financial results.
And at the conclusion of Perry's comments I'll return for additional operational and other comments and then we'll open the call to questions.
Perry? Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
As we reported total revenues for 2012 fourth quarter were $996 million $180 million or 22% above the 2011 fourth quarter.
The increased revenues came from all our geographic segments.
The COP pipeline and Safaniya projects accounted for the bulk of the revenue gains in the Middle East segment and revenue increases in Asia Pacific were driven by the Macedon project in Australia.
Gross profits in the 2012 fourth quarter were higher by $103 million or 130% as compared to the year-ago quarter.
The improvement was primarily due to net decline of approximately $75 million and project charges across the segments included in the fourth quarter results of both periods.
At December 31 2012 while 6 of the company's projects were in a loss position 3 had no material effect on the fourth quarter's results and 1 was a subsea project in Malaysia.
In the Atlantic segment 2 fabrication projects were affected by low productivity and related cost estimate increases of approximately $10 million.
In the Asia Pacific segment we benefited from reductions in marine costs on a project during the quarter which was partially offset by charges of $23 million during the quarter relating to increased cost estimates on the Malaysia project which Steve will discuss later in the call.
SG&amp;A expense increased by about $12 million in the fourth quarter to $60 million as compared to the 2011 fourth quarter primarily due to increase in bidding activity.
For the full year SG&amp;A totaled $206 million a slight reduction from 2011.
However we expect our fourth quarter SG&amp;A run rate to continue through 2013.
Operating income for the fourth quarter of 2012 came in at $77.3 million compared to $31.4 million from the comparable 2011 period.
All segments reported improved operating results as compared to the 2011 fourth quarter.
Operating margins this quarter were slightly under 8% and our full year operating margins were approximately 8.8% which was in line with our 7% to 10% guidance range for 2012.
In other income and expense line we had an improvement of $4.8 million primarily due to foreign currency gains compared to the 2011 quarter.
We strive to minimize FX impacts as a U.S.
dollar reporting entity.
However as guided in prior calls the accounting for foreign currency transactions continues to generate some lumpiness in our other income and expense line item due to the movement between the spot and forward rates on the valuation of our hedges.
Our tax provision in the fourth quarter of 2012 was $42.2 million resulting in an effective tax rate of 49%.
We were unable to recognize tax benefits associated with certain losses primarily in the Atlantic segment but also in 0-tax jurisdictions.
Also as we discussed regularly our earnings are subject to various rates driven by tax jurisdictions where we're working.
For example several jurisdictions apply deemed profits tax to revenues regardless of profit or loss levels.
Had these tax benefits and the foreign rate differential been more typical this quarter our effective rate would have been reduced by 27 percentage points or approximately $0.10 per diluted share.
However we expect these factors to continue to drive our effective tax rate in the coming year into the 30% plus range with the rate dependent upon the jurisdictional mix of profits and the extent of unbenefited losses each quarter.
Net income after noncontrolling interest was $40.5 million for the fourth quarter of 2012 or $0.17 per diluted share compared to the $0.04 we reported from continuing operations in the 2011 fourth quarter.
Moving to the balance sheet.
Our liquidity position remains strong with $704 million of cash cash equivalents and investments at the end of 2012 down slightly from the sequential quarter due to forecasted and announced capital growth investments.
In 2012 we invested $286 million in capital expenditures an amount equivalent to the previous year.
However as we complete the build-out of the Altamira yard increase the capabilities of the DB30 and the DB32 and make shipyard milestone payments on the construction of the Lay Vessel 108 and the DLV 2000 we expect our investment levels to be significantly higher over the next 2 years.
Combining maintenance CapEx which is expected to remain in the annual range of $75 million to $100 million with our ongoing growth initiatives we expect total capital expenditures in the range of $400 million to $500 million during each of the next 2 years.
Working capital increases -- increased as anticipated primarily due to net contracts in progress and advanced billings and we expect working capital to continue to increase during the next year.
So considering the investments in growth initiatives and forecast working capital changes on customer projects the total cash cash equivalents and investments is expected to substantially decline in 2013's first quarter.
During the fourth quarter of 2012 our debt position declined slightly to $103 million as we made the first of 17 semi-annual principal payments toward the North Ocean 105 loan facility.
As Steve mentioned we're not chasing work just to keep our backlog full.
We remain focused on targeting the right projects ones where we could add value through creative solutions and maintain our bidding discipline.
As a result there are times when our assets will be underutilized and we will have to absorb their fixed costs.
We favor this discipline and seek to improve utilization through drive-by work and fast-track projects which maximizes our flexibility and reduces risk.
As a result like was the case in 2012 we expect to have excess capacity in 2013.
And this under-absorption could amount to a 3 to 4 percentage point reduction in 2013 operating margins from our long-term expectations of 10% to 12%.
With that said there are opportunities for margin expansion if we're able to pick up drive-by work or if we're able to favorably resolve certain commercial claims and change orders with our customers.
So we expect to continue to see operating margins between 7% and 10% in 2013 which includes the negative impact of the expected losses in the Atlantic which Steve will discuss.
From our existing backlogs and awards so far in 2013 we're expecting approximately $650 million to $750 million to roll off during the first quarter of 2013 and expect to realize about $2.6 billion of revenues during the full year of 2013.
Looking at this booked revenue forecast combined with additional short-term work that we typically accrue throughout the year we expect to see revenues in the range of $3 billion or perhaps higher in 2013.
Finally we previously communicated our plans to sell 3 of our older vessels the Bold Endurance the DB16 and the DB26.
We recently closed on the sale of the Bold and are in advanced stages of the sales process with a prospective buyer for the DB26 with the potential to complete a sale soon.
Now let me turn the call back over to Steve for his remaining comments.
Thanks Perry.
Just a few strategic and operational comments for you to supply some granularity.
We continue on our drive to be a top-tier player in the subsea market and we have been actively acquiring top talent in both subsea engineering and other important areas throughout the organization to support our growth in this area.
We see attractive opportunities available in the North Sea particularly in subsea.
To jump-start our reentry into the market we formed an alliance with Ocean Installer.
Ocean Installer has 2 vessels with another under construction that will complement our high-spec faster transit vessels and allow us to exclusively pursue and execute projects together.
Importantly we feel good about our fleet transformation.
We are not the same McDermott as just a few years ago.
Our new subsea vessels the DLV 2000 the 102 the 105 and 108 clearly open new markets for this company.
And the upgrades to the DB50 the DB30 and the DB32 offer significantly improved competitiveness and capabilities.
Finally we've made a strategic choice to sell our lesser-utilized traditional barges and vessels and that process is well underway.
During the fourth quarter we signed the shipyard contract for the construction of the DLV 2000.
Based on our extensive study of the global offshore fleet we believe the DLV 2000 was designed with the right capabilities to perform the subsea work required by our customers' complex deepwater projects.
And we believe the timing with completion expected in mid-2015 is optimal for the market opportunities that we forecasted when we did our build analysis.
This vessel is expected to cost around $450 million and represents an important step in McDermott's subsea and deepwater strategic transformation.
Additionally in December of last year we reached agreement with a licensed Malaysian fabrication company to form a joint venture.
Upon closing which is expected later this year the JV will be well positioned to bid EPCI work in that region and especially in Malaysia where we can expand McDermott's traditional transportation and installation profile.
Our transformation is proceeding well and with a sizable number of projects on the horizon that are nearing the bidding stage we're pretty excited about McDermott's prospects over the next couple of years.
We're confident that these strategic moves are positioning the company to win and to successfully execute work across our end markets.
In the interim 2013 isn't without its challenges.
As Perry mentioned earlier despite the strong bookings last year we see 2013 as a year with lower utilization than we've seen recently.
With the exception of the expected award for the Middle East project we expect most of our recently awarded EPCI projects to have profiles where a significant portion of the revenue is expected to be recognized in 2014 and 2015.
As evidenced by our revenue pipeline I'm very optimistic about 2014 and 2015 and believe they have the potential to be outstanding years.
I want to take a minute to discuss the projects that were in a loss position at the end of last year and specifically why I believe these are isolated situations and are not representative of our business as a whole.
Two projects comprise 80% of our projects in backlog that are in a loss position.
One is well known to you.
It is the continued burn-off of the 5-year Agile charter.
And I'm pleased to report that we did not incur charges this quarter related to that charter or at all during the full year 2012 and that that vessel has performed very well often times exceeding the expectations of our client.
The other project is a Malaysian project that includes a marine campaign for the North Ocean 105 vessel involving 4 rigid pipelay trips and 1 flexible and umbilical trip.
It's currently planned for execution in the second and third quarters of 2013.
Based upon our recent experience in operating this vessel we increased the time estimates required to perform those installations of subsea equipment and to convert the vessel from rigid pipelay configuration to handle flexible pipe both are required on this Malaysian project.
The new execution plan includes additional project days for the 105 and related support vessels resulting in the increased estimates -- or estimated costs to complete the project.
So now that we've -- we estimate that our costs to complete will exceed our revenues our total estimated loss was recorded in our fourth quarter results.
However we've been here before and know that there is potential to recover some or perhaps all of the loss in future quarters.
Turning to our Atlantic segment.
The Atlantic segment continued to be challenged in the fourth quarter and as a result incurred an operating loss of approximately $30 million.
In our Morgan City yard we experienced losses primarily on 2 projects in large part due to low fabrication productivity.
While not offering any excuses productivity on the U.S.
Gulf Coast is affecting many construction projects including those of our competitors.
In my experience these issues on the U.S.
Gulf Coast are cyclical and we are presently in a down cycle.
Also in the fourth quarter we were very pleased to win our first major EPCI contract with work for the Altamira Mexico fabrication facility for PEMEX.
We have also been successfully executing low-risk rig repair business out of that facility.
We're confident that Altamira will be the premier fabrication facility on the Gulf of Mexico with deepwater quayside access for float-overs and with cost advantages over our U.S.
competitors.
We will continue to invest in that facility on a just-in-time basis.
And we're pleased with the new work and expect both productivity and cost competitiveness to help us in the long term.
We previously implemented various cost-reduction measures in our Atlantic segment to better align our operations with anticipated business levels.
However we continue to evaluate and may implement further changes to the operations of this segment.
Moving to the Papa Terra project in Brazil which is a project accounted for using deferred profit recognition we are now targeting early fourth quarter 2013 for the commencement of the marine installation scope for our 50-50 joint ventures contract and our related subcontract for the completion of the full-field development.
However as has been in the past this is a moving target and there could be further changes.
But at this time we expect to mobilize the DB50 to Brazil in the third quarter with work to begin in early fourth quarter.
While discussions with our customer are ongoing and it's too early to predict outcomes we don't expect such schedule changes to adversely impact our project estimates.
We are now working to re-sequence project work for the DB50 on other jobs in the Gulf of Mexico and Trinidad.
Additionally we received -- we recently completed the Esso KTT project successfully and expect to close out the remaining commercial and financial items in the first and second quarters of this year.
Getting back to the quarter let me highlight our normally discussed operating metrics.
During the 2012 fourth quarter our activity levels remained mixed.
We were at about 95% of our standards in the fabrication facilities with almost 3.8 million manhours worked.
This is an increase of about 10% compared to the 2011 fourth quarter but a decline of 18% from the sequential quarter.
Additionally major work barge days declined significantly compared to the quarter a year ago at 153 days versus 475.
Similarly compared to the 2012 third quarter barge days were also down 25%.
Partially offsetting this lower level of work from our major construction vessel work barges we saw increases in our multiservice high-spec faster transit vessels year-over-year and utilization consistently high compared to the sequential quarter.
In summary we had a positive fourth quarter our backlog remains near record levels our pipeline of bids outstanding plus targeted prospects is the strongest in our history.
We feel very good about our end markets our customers are pleased with our performance on their projects and we remain committed to our long-term growth strategy to better position McDermott as a leader in the offshore construction market.
And with that operator let's now open up the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question does come from the line of Andy Kaplowitz from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So Steve I know we all understand your cautious commentary on the Atlantic but there's losing money and then there's losing a lot of money.
And if you look at 4Q even if you exclude the $9 million you're still talking about a pretty big acceleration in losses.
So maybe you can talk about that and then how we -- you expect it to perform in '13? I know you said in the K that it's not going to be profitable this year but then you said on the call about Papa Terra going into the marine by the end of the year.
So just if you could give us some more color on -- if we can -- if 4Q is an anomaly in the trend or if things have gotten worse again.
Yes.
I would say this to begin Andy.
Let's start with the back end first the back end of the year that is.
I remain positive about the potential to be profitable for the Atlantic segment towards the end of 2013.
It is highly dependent on the Papa Terra marine campaign.
It's also dependent upon further cost management measures.
It's dependent upon bidding discipline and a number of other factors including how we close out these projects in the Atlantic region that are currently being completed in our Morgan City fabrication yard which leads me to another comment about the Atlantic region.
I have a point of view that the Morgan City yard while very storied and excellent in terms of its history is challenged today and likely will be challenged for at least the short term here due to the lack of availability of greater numbers of qualified trades persons.
And it's not just a McDermott problem.
The charges on the projects that we mentioned in the call earlier are related to productivity in Morgan City.
I believe that some of those productivity issues are related to what I mentioned some of them are related to matters that we are able to put in front of our customers and get resolution on in future quarters.
So this fourth quarter while significant loss is related to items that we see in those projects in Morgan City that may have recovery in the future but there is at least a short-term endemic problem in productivity in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
Last comment for you.
We have been vigilant I think as all investors know with focusing on the end markets for the Atlantic region focusing on the assets that we have and focusing on our costs and our bidding discipline.
That will continue until we have resolved the issues in the Atlantic region.
And I expect as I have in the past that to occur in 2013 albeit at the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair Steve.
Maybe if I could shift gears and go to the Middle East.
I mean you mentioned that barge days were down significantly in 4Q.
Maybe that is the reason why the margins were so low in 4Q but we've seen margins go down in that region for like the last 1 year 1.5 years.
And so I guess the question is have we hit bottom there? Will the new Middle East job eventually help with utilization again? Is it something -- is pricing worse in the Middle East? Could you give us more color on the Middle East? I think Perry and I can both help you there.
First comment to make about the Middle East is I feel very good about where we are with Saudi Aramco under the LTA program and other major programs that are going on.
I would tell you that 1.5 or 2 years ago many would recall we were finishing out the closeout of claims on our cutter projects et cetera which frankly juiced the margins during those periods of 2010 2011.
So those have been exhausted and now we're working off of operating earnings.
The new award which has not been fully completed will help us in the long run.
It will include the usage of our vessels in that region.
It's an EPIC-type program.
And I will tell you while I think it has come -- I know it's come later than I expected our share of the LTA program under Saudi Aramco is as good or better than we had thought.
And the opportunities in Abu Dhabi although we haven't been successful I would chalk that up to our bidding discipline.
I'd rather not win those projects as others have won them and I would rather wait for the opportunity to win work in Abu Dhabi at the right risk return profile.
Perry you want to comment further about utilization? Yes Andy the only thing I'd say I think we're going to have a good year in 2013 in the Middle East.
The first quarter may be challenging may be similar to the fourth quarter because of the projects that we're finishing out.
But as you point out the work that we've got booked for particularly the back end of '13 should allow us to see nice margins there.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Cook from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Steve if you could just elaborate -- the projects that you had issues within the Atlantic region and you're talking about labor issues that a lot of your peers are.
I mean in your estimate do you -- I know you mentioned productivity issues but do you also assume in your forecast that labor costs are going up because that's an issue that other people are having? So I guess my concern would be that we didn't factor enough cushion in there.
And just how you'll manage through the labor issue longer term.
And then my second question just relates to your margins.
Sitting here again in the 7% to 10% margin range which is below your targeted range of 10% to 12% you cited a number of issues.
But is there any reason structurally as we look out to 2014 why margins can't get back within the 10% to 12% targeted range? Is there anything structural going on? Or are the new types of projects you're going after when we think of deeper water and subsea they won't allow you to achieve those type of margins? Because I'm just wondering at what point or ever if we get back there.
Jamie we'll try to answer both of them as crisply as we can.
With respect to the labor issues in Morgan City and the U.S.
Gulf Coast rightly you observed that wage rates are an issue as well.
I would say you put the basket of the following things and they have put pressure on our projects.
Labor availability has negatively affected us.
Labor productivity in terms of lack of the skilled labor workforce that we have had in the past has negatively affected us.
The fact that there aren't a number -- the numbers of skilled laborers that we need has caused us to work through a subcontracting labor approach where we're not direct hire and can't control the labor as well as we have when we had a higher percentage of direct hire.
And wage rates the competition for the skilled labor naturally creates wage rate pressure.
Now specifically you said did we include all of those in our estimates? Factually no.
We did not predict the extent of the issue in that yard and in that area specifically on the rates and that was part of what has caught us in the position that we're in.
At the end of the day I will tell you our customers are working with us.
They see these issues.
And as you know under our rules we take these charges as we see them and estimate them.
There's recovery potential in 2 if not 3 of those jobs that we've mentioned in the prepared comments in the Atlantic region.
So there's a future quarter potential recovery subject to negotiations with our customers.
Now let's go to the second question.
Perry? Yes on OI margins Jamie the structural question the answer is no.
There's nothing structurally that would preclude us from getting back to the 10% to 12% range long term.
And as you know we have the Ichthys job already booked for the out-years and this pending award in the Middle East will also help those years as well.
So we see that as -- we see pretty clear visibility to that much better candidly than we would normally have at 12 and 24 months out.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Fisher from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Last quarter I think you guys thought that utilization on the barges for 2013 would be slightly better than I think it was about the 50% you were expecting for '12.
But it sounds like now you think it's going to be below the 2012 level.
Can you just comment a little bit about what's changed since then? Yes Steven just want to make sure our comments were clear here.
A couple of things going on on the barges.
We had just below 50% utilization on the major work barges in '12.
We're forecasting that to tick up in '13 but most of that is because we've taken some of the older barges out of the capacity.
When we take that out it's then further mitigated by a bit fewer days on a couple of the vessels the DB30 that worked almost full time in 2012 and as well as the 27.
So factoring those into the mix we're thinking that the major work barge utilization will be a little north of 50% so a little bit better in '13.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So your apples-to-apples is improving.
Apples-to-apples I would call it more flat.
More flat because if you left those older barges in there we would be more closer to flat.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you just give us a sense of how well the progress is going on both Macedon and Ichthys at this point? I'd be happy to do that.
Macedon is a project that has been executed very well.
We have achieved that project with the productivity rates that were expected with our installation crew and our installation vessels.
We had one upset condition where that causes us to have stopped the work and come back and restart the work.
There's about a 10-kilometer section of pipe that still has to be installed which will be started very shortly.
But all in all the Macedon project has been executed according to plan but for that one change.
The crew and the vessel that did the work in my view has performed exceptionally well.
That crew and that vessel are one of the major programs that will be repositioned for the INPEX Ichthys project that you mentioned.
We have recently worked through the learnings on Macedon and a couple of other subsea projects or SURF projects and applied those learnings to INPEX Ichthys.
Here are a couple of data points for you on INPEX as you think about de-risking the project.
More than 90% of the procurement including the subcontracts of the total value of those have been positioned in a fixed-price way.
We have engineering underway according to our revised schedule with our customer.
The major subcontract with Heerema is aligned with that schedule.
And the planning for the marine campaign I'm pleased to tell you has twice as long as any of our other subsea projects to get us ready for how to perform the work on a day-by-day basis.
So I consider that a whole series of de-risking comments.
And I'm really pleased that we're going to be using the same crew the same vessel that we had on Macedon which was executed very well.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe to clarify can you say what the impact of that stoppage on Macedon is going to be? It is still pending.
We're in conversations with our customer.
We believe we're in a good position under our contract terms and conditions.
But I'll just leave it at that.
Don't expect to have any further information on that for maybe a quarter or 2.
Your next question comes from the line of Will Gabrielski from Lazard.
Research Division</strong> So a lot of moving parts this quarter.
In terms of the commentary on the productivity on the Gulf Coast and I think you had said lack of good people or qualified craft labor.
Can you just provide some color maybe on as you're bidding some bigger prospects in the Gulf right now that have a fabrication component and I think one did go out for bid a few weeks ago whether or not you're fully aware of this issue at that time? So if you're winning work in the Gulf from here we can expect you're using maybe current productivity and labor rates? Yes this is a learning organization here Will.
And any bid that has recently gone out for performance in the Morgan City fabrication yard has clearly factored in the lessons and the knowledge from our recent experience there.
I would confirm that.
I would also say to you that fabrication work for our Atlantic region is also being positioned for being accomplished in our Altamira fabrication yard where we haven't experienced productivity deterioration and we do have a labor rate advantage against the U.S.
Gulf Coast fabricators.
And there are no issues or residual in terms of having projects for export meaning non-PEMEX work out of Mexico to be done or performed in that fabrication yard.
But to be clear we did submit a bid recently for performance in Morgan City.
And among the issues that we reviewed over a multitiered review process were productivity and labor rates in Morgan City and they have been applied to that bid.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
On the margin guidance range of 7% to 10% for the year I'm wondering does that include recognition of Papa Terra? And then within that does that also take into account what you view as maybe probable closeouts or incentives or would those be on top of the 7% to 10% range you've given? Yes it does include the Papa Terra at the end of the year.
Yes it does include closeouts and settlements that we can reasonably estimate.
We don't see a tremendous volume of those in '13.
But what we have line of sight to has been reflected in the guidance.
So we mentioned that there's a little bit upside there Will potentially on the closeouts and changes for '13.
But don't think of that as a significant meter-mover.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
But is it up year-on-year versus what you had in '12 just in terms of the closeouts? No I'd say very comparable.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question.
The equity income line moves around a lot and it's becoming maybe -- if it's -- in the second half of the year I think it took $0.02 out of earnings versus the second half of 2011.
I'm just wondering what's driving that loss higher? Is it bidding work with FloaTEC or is there something else in there? Yes really the equity line has been principally driven by our JVs in Brazil and China.
And so I would tell you to kind of think about that as being a $3 million to $5 million hit per quarter until those ventures get more established and work flowing through them.
So kind of think about this run rate for '13.
And your next question comes from the line of Tahira Afzal from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Steve Oldham did a great job of explaining last evening to me the differences between what you're doing in Malaysia and really the big Ichthys project that's coming up next year.
But I guess my question is as I look at some of the productivity issues you've seen across the board whether it be in shallow water deepwater and sort of given the market or the macro outlook according to yourselves you're going to continue to improve how should we be looking at the risk for some of those projects which are going to be very key for you for next year? Have you gone back and really looked at those projects again in terms of the terms you have out there and tried to reassess them in terms of the new market? And then number two there seem to be some new competitors coming out from Asia for the first time on the offshore side.
Are you going to be guarding [ph]  the situation where you could potentially see costs going up but incremental pricing pressure as a consequence? Very good.
We'll respond to both of them Tahira.
The first one with regard to the Malaysian project and INPEX or implications for the INPEX project in Australia I'm sure Steve did give you some background on that.
Let me give you my take on it.
The first thing to note is that project in Australia for INPEX is much more like the work scope for the Macedon project in the Northwest shelf of Australia in a number of different ways including the fact that the water depth and location are comparable at around 270 meters to 300 meters where the project in Australia was significantly deeper at 1 350 meters.
Malaysia.
Oh Malaysia.
The point being that as you go to deeper and deeper water depths the challenges for the materials of construction how they are introduced to the water are technically more challenging.
Second thing I would say to you is that the Lay Vessel 105 the learning curve in my view is way up that curve on the earlier projects.
We will be using that in INPEX as I talked about earlier and we'll be using the same crew.
We took a strong look at the Malaysian projects the Macedon project and all of our collective experience and wisdom including the new hires that we brought onboard that are subsea technical experts and compared those criteria work scope durations how we are going to perform the work to the INPEX project and have gone through an exhaustive program to make sure that we have appropriately de-risked the project.
While I won't know until we're in the field and we have completed the work frankly how well that is going I'm pleased with that technical comparison.
A lot of lessons learned were frankly blown into the INPEX project but only time will tell there.
The best thing about this is we have a great deal of time to absorb that information from other projects and to put them into the INPEX project where we've got extensive flow.
Last thing I will tell you is as you know we subcontracted it out in a fix-priced way a major portion of that installation scope.
So on the next question new competitors from Asia margin pressures as a result of that my singular comment would be our discipline has to surf across those competitive forces.
In recent times we've seen undisciplined bids from a number of different quarters not just from North Asia.
And now some of those folks are responding to the market by saying they had put in undisciplined and inappropriate bids.
We have been forcing ourselves to not follow those competitors down and we don't have any intention of doing that when we see newer competitors come in.
What that will do is introduce a bit of lumpiness to some of the awards throughout the quarters but it will help assure that the quality of the backlog is where we want it to be.
Your next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy from Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about first half versus second half of this year in terms of the barge utilization? Is there a significant difference? For 2013 I think you're asking about Marty? L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's correct.
Yes.
Yes.
Well I'd first point out the DB50 which was in Galveston during much of the first quarter and then has some work booked for it in Q2.
But it has an extremely busy second half of the year on projects that are booked as well as a few projects that we expect to pick up before it goes to Brazil and then in Brazil throughout Q4 but in transit to Brazil at the end of Q3.
So that vessel alone will help utilization in the second half.
But I would say it will be more back-end-loaded.
Utilization on the high-spec fast transit vessels will be strong throughout the year.
Let me add to this Marty.
Reading into your questions might be a little bit more granularity on not only the total quantum of vessels we have but specifically the DB50 which is in the Gulf of Mexico today.
Looking at what we expect we see 4 projects that are in front of or around the Papa Terra program which represent maybe 70 days of booked work for the 50.
Then you've got the Papa Terra project itself which is fourth quarter maybe in the zip code of 100 days of booked work.
And then you have the transit days to and from Brazil which are paid under the Papa Terra project of about 60-some days.
So you add that all up you get into a number which is pretty meaningful for the DB50 which is good news for the company and the investment that we put in her is attracting work.
At the same time we're looking for drive-by work as Perry mentioned earlier in his comments for the DB50.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the North Ocean 105 and this Malaysia project can you talk about -- are there any follow-on implications from additional days being required to complete the Malaysia project that might negatively impact future work that was scheduled for the North Ocean 105? I think it was booked pretty solidly.
Yes don't expect any.
Perry any thoughts? No.
And I would say a couple of things.
That Malaysia project what we're talking about is the job that we expect to finish in kind of the October time period.
So these are forecast duration extensions taking our learnings so we've got to get through that.
Hopefully we can do better than that.
But the answer shortly is no Marty.
We don't see any negative implications on follow-on work for the 105.
We're very pleased with that vessel.
I think the important corollary answer is is the performance on the Malaysian job if we've got the durations right and we've got that credential crew now.
We're feeling pretty good that we've fully estimated the cost to complete that project and hopefully have some advantage with the performance based upon the recent experience.
And then we release the 105 to go do other work.
Your next question comes from the line of Brian Konigsberg Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Just following up on the questions on Papa Terra.
So in Q4 it sounds like you will hit that 70% mark.
How do you -- or how much did you actually bake in of the profit recognition? Is it a lump sum as far as the first 70% or is that going to be amortized over the next 30% in total? That will largely come in all in the fourth quarter assuming the execution schedule holds.
Not only will we get to that 70% but because of Steve's comment about the DB50 most of that will execute in the fourth quarter.
Some of it could lap over into early '14.
But our current schedule would have that all executing so you'd see it all in 1 quarter.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Can you tell us how much your baking in in that margin estimate that you provided? What the profit dollars from Papa Terra is going to be? I don't think we want to disclose job -- individual job profits.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And just also on your CapEx plans obviously ramping up fairly significantly over the next couple of years.
So you do have a fairly large amount of cash on the balance sheet.
You should have decent cash flow over the next couple of years.
But do you anticipate that you'll need to raise any debts over the next couple of years because of timing reasons or maybe just to have more comfort of cash on the balance sheet? Look Brian what we have planned out is a program which says it is largely funded out of operating cash flow.
It doesn't preclude that we would use other vehicles should we see the need to or judgments says we want to maintain a certain level of liquidity on the balance sheet and maybe make a modest capital raise of some kind or some kind of debt from other sources.
Your next question comes from the line of Robert Connors from Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> So if I read these correctly just from the utilization rates it seems like just in Brazil you already have booked inclusive of transit days about 160 days.
There's a potential for another 70.
But I'm just wondering where the Trinidad and Williams projects stand as far as -- are those meaningful as far as on the utilization days for the DB50? Yes.
The Trinidad job has roughly a couple of weeks of booked days in it.
If I can just kind of give you some summary data points.
We've got 2 Williams projects a total of which is about 45 to 50 days for the DB50 and those range in -- they're generally Q2 and Q3 days Robert.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I mean that's sort of -- my calc sort of brings that vessel like close to somewhere around like 60% capacity just on the vessel days whereas we're not really seeing any right now in the first quarter '13 because it was still in Houston.
Is that right? Yes it's largely been idle since the visit late last year but getting ready for the Arena work the Williams work the BG work and then ultimately Papa Terra.
So remember the transit days that I mentioned are inside the Papa Terra program itself in terms of being paid.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Right right.
And then just regarding that project too I mean I understand the deferred profit recognition is one thing but just on a cash flow basis too is -- just wondering how that project is progressing still cash flow-positive within what you estimated? Yes we've been doing fine on that project got an advance early on and as the project has been moving along we've been fine.
And obviously with this delay it kind of strung it out a little bit here whereas we were expecting to execute that marine campaign in Q4 of '12 we'll now execute it in Q4 of '13.
So -- but in terms of cash flow we're good.
We have no further questions for you.
And I would now like to turn the call back over to Steve Oldham for closing remarks.
Thank you again for participating today.
And we invite you to join us on Thursday May 9 2013 when we plan to review McDermott's first quarter results.
Operator this concludes our call.
Thank you and thank you for joining today's conference.
This does conclude the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to McDermott International's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] Now let's turn the call over to our host Steve Oldham Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Ian.
Good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today as we discuss our results from the first quarter 2013 which were released through our press release and in our Form 10-Q yesterday.
Joining me on the call this morning are Steve Johnson McDermott's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Perry Elders our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before turning the call over to Steve let me remind you that this event is being recorded and a replay will be available for a limited time on our website.
Additionally our comments will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks and uncertainties and reflect management's view as of May 9 2013.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC which are available on our website including our Form 10-K for the year ended 2012 and Form 10-Q for the 3 months ended March 31 2013 which provide a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
And please note that except to the extent required by applicable law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
With that disclosure let me turn -- now turn the call over to Steve for his opening remarks.
Thank you Steve and thanks to everyone for joining us today.
During the first quarter McDermott reported net income of $20.6 million or $0.09 per share.
Later in the call Perry will cover our financials in detail.
Those results reflect some isolated challenges on a few of our projects and we are absolutely focused on the resolution of those issues.
For example this quarter's largest project deterioration came from a Middle East project nearing completion that has been executed well into the final phase.
However during the hookup our customer directed us to complete significantly more punch list items than we have planned and as a result we incurred additional costs related to third-party support vessels.
I'd note that the overall project including this quarter's charges is expected to perform not only above the as-bid margin but also above our long-term target margins.
On another project in the Middle East segment we experienced unplanned mechanical downtime on a vessel which is a risk inherent in our operations.
On our Malaysian subsea project we increased our estimates to accelerate the project to meet the client's schedule and to incorporate recent experience with the vessels to be used in this project which is scheduled to begin late in the second quarter.
Additional cost increases were associated with a project in the Atlantic segment at our Morgan City fabrication yard due to further deterioration in labor productivity.
We have changed our estimate of our cost to complete to incorporate this deterioration and believe that the completion of this project which is estimated for the second half of this year reduces our exposure to the difficult labor climate on the U.S.
Gulf Coast.
We previously implemented various cost reduction measures in the Atlantic segment to better align our operations with anticipated business levels.
We anticipate further changes which if implemented would have a significant impact to the results of operations.
Recognizing the challenges inherent in this largely lump-sum turnkey project business in the past couple of years we have been implementing a comprehensive project execution operating model that emphasizes our key project management disciplines and uses our best practices on a globally consistent basis throughout the company.
The model encompasses all phases of our projects from business development to final delivery to our customer.
Key elements of the model include project planning including risk identification and mitigation planning interface management as well as the incorporation of clearly defined accountability across the organization.
Importantly I am bringing in project execution personnel from outside McDermott to assure best practices from industry are brought to bear on our projects.
As this model and industry best practice becomes even more pervasive in the company's culture I expect that we will be able to improve our execution on even the most challenging projects.
At this time I'll turn the call over to Perry to discuss greater detail for the 2013 first quarter financial results.
And at the conclusion of Perry's prepared remarks I will return for additional operational and other comments and then we'll open the call to questions.
Perry? Thanks Steve.
As we reported total revenues for the first quarter 2013 were $807.5 million $80 million or 11% higher than the first quarter of 2012.
Compared to last year's quarter the increased revenues came from all our geographic segments and the majority of the improvement was driven by our Atlantic segment's fabrication activity.
With about $2.1 billion of remaining 2013 revenues expected to come from existing backlog we continue to be comfortable that full year revenues are at or slightly above the $3 billion range is reasonable.
Gross profit in the 2013 first quarter however declined by $35.6 million as compared to the year ago.
The reduction was primarily due to higher estimates of our cost to complete several projects which Steve mentioned.
At March 31 2013 5 of the projects in our backlog were in a loss position.
Of these jobs one had no material effect on the quarter's income.
Another improved modestly and the remaining 3 deteriorated $15.1 million.
Additionally as is typical for our business we experienced changes in forecast project profitability on a number of jobs in a profitable position in the first quarter including both improvements and deteriorations.
As disclosed in our 10-Q during the first quarter we had 4 jobs in the Middle East segment deteriorate in gross profit by $34.2 million.
Several of these projects were in advanced stages of completion.
So under the POC revenue recognition policy the majority of the deterioration on these projects was recognized during the first quarter effectively a cumulative catch-up to prior periods' profits recognized.
We also experienced a roughly equivalent amount of profit improvement on other jobs which were in earlier stages of completion.
Thus the first quarter improvements did not fully mitigate the deteriorations on mature jobs.
SG&amp;A expense increased by about $5.6 million in the first quarter to $52.2 million as compared to the 2012 first quarter primarily due to increased bidding activity.
Going forward we expect our quarterly SG&amp;A to be in the range of where it has been for the last 2 quarters.
Operating income for the first quarter 2013 totaled $53 million compared to $80.2 million for the comparable 2012 period.
Operating margins this quarter were approximately 7% and included an approximately $12.3 million gain on the sale of the DB26.
This sale transaction represented an incremental 2% of operating margin.
We expect full year that 2013 operating margins to be in the range of the 7% reported first quarter operating margin and expect fourth quarter to make the most significant contribution because it includes the anticipated recognition of profit on our Papa Terra project.
As a result we may experience operating income margins below the 7% full year guidance in the second and third quarters which could be near breakeven or even a loss.
In the other income and expense line we had a decline of $11.9 million compared to the first quarter of 2012 primarily due to net foreign currency-related losses.
We strive to minimize foreign exchange impacts as a U.S.
dollar reporting entity.
However as guided in prior calls the accounting for foreign currency hedges and balances continues to generate some lumpiness in our other income and expense line due to the movement between spot and forward rates.
Our tax provision in the first quarter of 2013 was $27.3 million resulting in an effective tax rate of 53%.
We were unable to recognize benefits associated with certain losses primarily in the Atlantic segment but also in 0 tax jurisdictions.
Also as we discussed regularly our earnings are subject to various rates driven by tax jurisdictions where we're working.
For example several jurisdictions apply a deemed profits tax to revenue regardless of profit or loss levels.
Accordingly we expect these factors to continue to drive our effective tax rate in the coming year to over 30% with the rate -- with the specific rate dependent upon the jurisdictional mix of profits and the extent of unbenefited losses.
Net income after noncontrolling interest was $20.6 million for the first quarter of 2013 or $0.09 per fully diluted share compared to $0.25 we reported from continuing operations in the 2012 first quarter.
Moving to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with $502 million of cash cash equivalents and investments down about $202 million from the sequential quarter.
As we discussed in the last call forecasted and announced capital growth investments along with increase in project-specific working capital consumed cash in the first quarter and will continue to be a significant use of cash for the next few quarters.
During the first quarter we invested $38 million in capital expenditures similar to the amount last year.
The company's CapEx priorities for the year remain unchanged and include building out the Altamira yard increasing the capabilities of the DB30 and the 32 and construction of the LV108 and the DLV2000.
We continue to expect full year maintenance CapEx to be in the range of $75 million to $100 million and in combination with these ongoing growth initiatives we continue to expect annual total capital expenditures in the range of $400 million to $500 million in both 2013 and 2014.
Just like our customer projects shipyard payments on the new build vessels are based on milestones so our CapEx will be lumpy from quarter-to-quarter.
We previously communicated our plan to sell older vessels.
As mentioned we recently closed on the sale of the Bold Endurance and the DB26.
We're actively marketing the DB16 and KP1 which are classified as held for sale.
As such they are no longer depreciated and are not included in standard days of activity.
During the first quarter our debt position declined slightly to $101 million as we made quarterly principal payments on the North Ocean 102 loan which is now classified as a current liability since it matures in the first quarter of 2014.
Let me now turn the call back to Steve for his remaining comments.
Thanks Perry.
On a noteworthy positive note we booked the significant project in the Middle East during the first quarter that we signaled during last quarter's conference call driving McDermott's first quarter bookings to about $1 billion for a book-to-bill ratio of about 1.2.
Our ending March backlog was $5.3 billion.
At quarter end our bids and change orders outstanding were $5.6 billion compared to $7.7 billion of bids and change orders outstanding in the fourth quarter and $4.8 billion a year ago.
Our bidding and change order opportunities include 1 project in the billion-dollar range about 9 projects in the hundred million dollar-plus range with the remaining 30 or so below $100 million.
The planned reconcept of a perspective LNG project in Australia has caused us to move about $3 billion from our bids outstanding.
And with this adjustment the majority of the bids now relate to the Middle East segment.
The mix has also shifted and our outstanding bids are balanced between conventional and subsea work.
We expect several of these projects to be awarded during the second or third quarter of this year.
In addition our list of target projects remains strong at $10.1 billion as of March 31.
As a reminder targets of those projects that we intend to bid in the future are well suited for us and that we expect to reach award stage within the next 5 quarters.
As of March 31 the combination of our backlog was bids and change orders outstanding plus target projects which is our revenue pipeline totals $21 billion and represents the robust activity coming in the future.
The Altamira Mexico fabrication facility is actively working on 2 EPCI projects for PEMEX.
We are progressing well on these jobs and the yard's performance is gaining attention of our super major customers.
We're confident that Altamira will be the premier fabrication facility on the Gulf of Mexico with significant cost advantages over our U.S.
competitors.
Moving to the Papa Terra project which is our only project accounted for using deferred profit recognition.
We continue to target early fourth quarter 2013 for the commencement of the marine installation scope for our FloaTEC joint ventures contract and our related subcontract for the completion of the full-field development.
However this is a moving target and there could be further changes.
At this time we expect to mobilize the DB50 to Brazil in the third quarter with work to begin in early fourth quarter.
While discussions with our customers are ongoing and it's too early to predict outcomes we do not expect such schedule changes to adversely impact our project estimates.
As a result of our customers' plans to begin marine work in Brazil in Q4 we are now working to resequence project work for the DB50 on other jobs in the Gulf of Mexico and in Trinidad.
Now turning to the Atlantic region and looking at it holistically.
While we're not yet in a position to discuss any plans that we may be considering with respect to this segment I will reiterate that we do anticipate making decisions wish -- pardon me which if implemented would improve our longer-term financial results albeit with short-term changes or charges to our financials as you would expect.
My expectation is that we may be in a position to discuss any decisions by the time we reach the second quarter 2013 earnings call.
Turning to our subsea initiative.
We continue to make strides on our goal to be a top tier subsea contractor.
We're progressing with our planned vessel upgrades divestiture of older vessels and new additions to our fleet.
At the moment we plan on hitting the pause button on further expansions to our fleet and we'll look to leverage other relationships to complement our fleet when needed.
Beyond hard assets proprietary expertise is critical to developing superior technical solutions to capture a bigger share of the subsea value chain.
During the quarter we acquired DeepSea Engineering group a subsea engineering company in order to accelerate the growth of our engineering capabilities and as a catalyst for further organic growth of our subsea group.
Some of this experienced team is already engaged in the planning and execution of our existing SURF project.
While others are helping us prepare for future subsea opportunities in the North Sea Gulf of Mexico and elsewhere in the world.
To close out my prepared remarks I'd like to make the observation that while near-term challenges exist and we are actively taking steps to address them I believe we have the right focus and priorities.
We are maintaining our rigorous bidding discipline.
We are enhancing project execution and control regimes and we are positioning our assets and human capital to take advantage of the growing subsea market.
These are significant efforts and they are transforming the company into serving the most profitable markets with an important and needed step change in project execution discipline.
And with that operator we'll now open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first questions comes through is from the line of Andy Kaplowitz at Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Steve or Perry first can you clarify comments Perry that you made? Did you say that 2Q and 3Q could be breakeven or even in a loss? Is that for the company or for a specific division? That's for the company.
Yes that's what I said.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what's going on there? Is that the Middle East projects being in a loss position now combined with the Atlantic? Or maybe you can give a little bit more clarity on what's going on over the next couple of quarters.
Yes.
Essentially Andy what we're looking at is we've completed obviously our largest recent project in Australia so we no longer have the benefit of that.
And the forecast Atlantic losses are offsetting at least in insignificant part the profit in the Middle East and Asia Pacific.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Steve maybe we could step back for a second.
Has the market itself just gone -- I mean we know it's gotten more competitive but has it made it difficult to get acceptable contract terms? Is that what it is? It's been the last couple of years is just you've had to take contracts that maybe haven't had as good as terms in the past.
What I'm worried about is that the market of the 10% to 12% margins is gone for a while.
Talk me out of that.
Yes.
No I don't think that the range of 10% to 12% is gone for a while but I would say that we are maintaining our bidding disciplines and we are not doing anything that I would say would add additional risk to the portfolio of projects.
We have some unique circumstances during the quarter on these projects that we mentioned in the prepared remarks and each one of them have their own unique situations.
They are productivity and orientation and those are the types of things that you estimate at the time you bid the programs.
And as with others in our peer group we've seen deterioration in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico so we have had to adjust.
They are also related to in one instance in the Middle East project I mentioned a late situation on being asked to adjust our planning and adjust our project execution plan very near the end of the program so that wasn't a situation that was a competitive outcome.
And then lastly as we talked about in recent calls there are some challenges inside of the business that are only related to McDermott learning to do the more difficult and challenging subsea work.
So the confluence of all of those together is what you're seeing in the quarter.
And as you think about the next couple of quarters perhaps it's much more related to the roll-off of the large project in Australia just completed without the pickup yet of the INPEX project and some of the others that are in backlog.
So we haven't been able to recognize those revenues and profits.
Research Division</strong> Steve is there anything to the thesis that -- we sat here last year at this time.
We all talked about this sort of revenue hole in 2013.
Is it possible that the company was a little more aggressive at that time with going after and booking projects to fill this hole? Because you fill the hole nicely but it hasn't been the most profitable work.
And is it possible that maybe as you look into '14 and beyond it seems like the backlog is there for revenue.
I mean you've got the big Ichthys project in there.
So maybe this is a sort of momentary issue that could get better? I mean how would you sort of address that? Yes I would agree with the original thesis which is it is a momentary flat spot if you want to characterize it that way until we get into 2014.
It is not anemia if you will or a flat spot driven by being aggressive in order to fill the revenue for 2013.
We maintained our disciplines so that's not what's going on here.
Those revenues that we booked last year and a little bit before for 2013 for the most part haven't started rolling off yet.
So this is a lot more about the timing issue of the Australian project and then very specific and unique situations on the programs that we mentioned in the prepared remarks.
We have another question for you.
This one's from the line of Steven Fisher at UBS.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like since you're not planning or these were customer-directed changes at the very end of the projects in the Middle East.
I guess the question would be why wouldn't those be subject to a change order.
Well while -- and that's one project Steve in terms of customer-directed changes.
While it was a customer-directed change it was an execution plan that we put in place that we were unable to effect.
So very low likelihood if at all that there would be any recovery from the customer in this particular case.
I'd make the observation that that project is highly profitable and really reiterate that it's highly profitable and only in this quarter did we take a charge associated with that.
But it is well above as-bid margins.
Research Division</strong> And so the projects that you're bidding and winning right now in the Middle East did they have better risk terms than these 5 projects that kind of went tough this quarter? Yes.
Well we have 2 types of projects in the Middle East those that are EPCI projects or projects that are stand-alone basis and they come from our customers in -- our customer in Saudi Arabia also in the neutral zone and also down in or in the Emirates.
And those are contract terms that we negotiate with the customer at the time of submittal and beyond.
There is no material degradation to the contract terms at all in those programs.
And then the second classification of projects are those that are in the so-called Saudi Aramco LTA program long-term agreement program.
And those contract terms and conditions are largely very stable and very comfortable for us and we've been doing those programs for a number of years so therefore no deterioration on those contract terms either.
Research Division</strong> Well you mentioned that you're bringing in some project execution experts.
Can you just give a little more color on where these people are coming from? Are these essentially project manager types? And I guess the broad question that investors have is just how generally can you give them the confidence that you're going to be able to execute to normalize margins on the projects going forward? Sure.
I understand the question.
The broader response would be we have been working for a couple of years here with a new operating model that I mentioned in the prepared remarks which puts us into a position where I would say we are equal to best in industry in terms of project planning project analysis execution forecasting and control.
And that has been rolled out through the past 12 months throughout the entire organization.
There are sanctified rules associated with that program that didn't exist inside of McDermott prior to that.
That causes project leaders to adhere to a very prescriptive planning and execution set of protocols.
With respect to the people we're bringing in there are 2 general buckets.
There are people that we're bringing in for the new subsea business line that we're creating and these people are being brought in not only at the project execution level but also in top management or general management level.
The second classification of people are the whole suite of people that would be responsible for the successful technical financial and schedule outcome of programs.
And they are project managers project controls people meaning planning and cost engineers and they are project accountants and they are all the functional people that underpin that.
McDermott has had a great wealth of talent in what I would call technical solutions and good project execution but we're moving into a space using the new model and people from the outside with best practices capability and all of those functions that I've just mentioned to come to bear on our overall project execution regimes.
I've done this before.
I've seen this before.
This is what McDermott is needed.
And we've been doing it for several quarters now and it will begin to pay results I believe.
We have another question for you.
This one's from the line of Jamie Cook at Credit Suisse.
This is Linda Yuan in for Jamie.
Could you guys talk a little bit more about I guess in Q4 how much of a ramp in sales and margin should we expect there? And then sort of what kind of embedded core margin should we expect for the year.
I mean taking out the gain you had this quarter you're at 5.5%.
So I mean just kind of taking that out what should we see? Yes.
I'd say Linda on both questions there on the second question first on the margin guidance if as Steve mentioned the Papa Terra project can be completed as scheduled then we would see getting to around 7% in operating income margin for the year.
There's some risk to that as Steve mentioned.
As it relates to the first question -- and so just to clarify I'm sorry on the first question the 7% is for the full year which would mean in the fourth quarter we would exceed that because the next 2 quarters we expect to be below that.
As it relates to the volume of revenues in the fourth quarter I don't think you'd see a significant step-up in revenues in Q4 relative to kind of our quarterly run rate.
It's just these pent-up profits as Papa Terra begins to get recognized as we do the marine installation campaign.
Okay great.
And then switching over to the Atlantic region.
I mean where are you guys relative to those expectations of achieving profitability in that region? I mean are there any other actions or more extreme actions that you can talk to that you might consider taking to reduce those losses there? Let me kick it off and if I could park the former question and turn it over to Perry.
For really the latter half of the year Perry and what could drive improvement and profitability.
The overriding question is what is management contemplating with respect to the Atlantic region to eliminate the challenges that have been around for frankly a number of years.
As I said in my prepared comments I'm not in a position to talk about any of the plans that we're contemplating.
But I will tell you that all options are on the table.
We have been working for a number of months now looking through those options.
And when those decisions are made once the appropriate people are informed then we will be in a position to discuss them.
So all I could say to investors at this point in time is that management is very active with potential solutions to the Atlantic region.
And as it relates to the forepart of the question on timing in 2013 don't expect much of an improvement in the Atlantic here for the next couple of quarters.
And then the fourth quarter is profitable assuming that we hit the execution plans in terms of the marine installation on Papa Terra.
We have another question for you.
This one's from the line of Will Gabrielski at Lazard.
Research Division</strong> The question I had looking into '14 so it sounds like the next 2 quarters you break even or lose money and then Q4 has a chance to get better with Papa Terra recognition starting to show up in the P&amp;L.
But when you get into '14 right you probably have the remaining end of Papa Terra there but you also have the ramp-up presumably of Ichthys.
Can you talk about that'll ramp and contribute to the margin? And specifically in '14 I think a big chunk of the early work also has Heerema scope and how does that impact your P&amp;L? And how should we be thinking about that? So as we indicated in our prepared comments and as you can tell from the Q we do have in our backlog almost $1.8 billion that would roll off into 2014.
So we still have work to do to book additional business for 2014 although we've had increasing visibility to it.
As it relates to the specific project and that scope that work by Heerema would be part of I think our partial cost pool.
So we would begin recognizing profits when that portion of the work commences.
So that would progress the progress on the job...
With Heerema [ph] or ourselves.
Correct.
And that begins in the second half of 2014 just to kind of bracket it for you Will.
I would also add then in addition to INPEX the backlog in the $1.8 billion that Perry just mentioned for roll-off in 2014 includes a number of programs in the Middle East as well as in Asia Pacific.
And those programs in my -- from my perspective certainly in the Middle East are programs that we have brought in in recent quarters one of which is the Safaniya 2 program that we announced which has rolled off this year and next year.
And it should produce significant earnings power for us as well as a number of others in the Asia-Pacific region.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
You mentioned resequencing the DB50 on some of its other jobs so you can hit the timeline associated with Papa Terra.
And I'm just wondering if there is any risk we need to worry about associated with the resequencing.
No we are frankly having to work not only with Papa Terra to respond to their schedule needs which you would recall is driven by their delay of the marine campaign which caused us to have to then to move our vessels around.
And we had booked work for the DB50 associated with that campaign.
So we're having to work with other customers either to resequence or possibly even bring in some third-party vessels to assist with those programs.
Those conversations are ongoing.
Understandings are very clear and we should be in a position in short order here to be able to have that all very visible for us and for all the customers.
So don't consider that a major concern at all Will.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly so you guys burned a lot of working capital in the first quarter and -- or burned a lot of cash and working capital in the first quarter and it sounds like you're guiding for that over the next 2 quarters as well.
And I'm just wondering when you look at your financing plan right now for your committed capital for the on order and your maintenance CapEx that you do every year do you see any risk within your current credit agreement that we should be thinking about at this point? And then also are you guys thinking about going to -- how are you thinking about going to market to finance some of this CapEx over the next 2 or 3 years? Yes.
Thanks will.
You are reading our guidance correctly in terms of what we're anticipating.
But I would say it this way.
We're financed for our existing commitments.
Now that includes a conservative estimate of future operating profits.
And so we do see cash coming down as we have been guiding for the last few years that we would use this cash but we don't see an issue yet in terms of having to access the capital market.
But Steve did you want to comment about the other? Yes I just support that.
We're funding these vessels primarily out of operating cash flow.
We are focused on customer collections.
I will add that to the mix.
We want to make sure that we're in cash neutral or perhaps improve upon that with customers.
So we're very active there.
And then as Perry indicated we're not in a position where we're saying that we're precluded from making decisions for debt financing if needs be going forward.
We have another question for you.
This one's from Martin Malloy at Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> On the Middle East project that according to the Q $17.5 million increased cost to complete.
That's not going to be done until the end of -- by the end of '13.
What confidence can you give us that there won't be further deterioration on the project? I would say the confidence is fairly high and the reason I say that Marty is that it's a onetime situation as we have investigated that cost situation.
The work that's ongoing now is going well.
It's going in accordance with the estimate.
We're in the 90-plus percent complete range today expected to complete in of course the second half of the year.
But there's nothing that we can see or the project team can see that would indicate any further problems with that program.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then looking at the 1Q new awards with $900 million the press release for the 2 awards in the Middle East it looks like you only booked another $100 million of new awards scope increases change orders.
Can you talk about why that was so low and can we expect that to pick up here in 2Q? Yes.
Just a little bit -- it's a little bit of nuance here Marty but you may recall that in the last quarter we talked about the large award in Q1 that we booked a small portion of it in Q4.
So there may be more of that number attributable to other awards than you're thinking.
But I think directionally you're right and I think as we've talked about and Steve reiterated in his prepared comments a lot of the bids outstanding are large and lumpy.
And so we had one large one come through this quarter and that's been the case in the past and we expect that to be the case going forward.
So you may have quarters without other large ones booked in it.
We have another question for you.
This one's from the line of Tahira Afzal at KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> The Middle East contracts that you had to revise and revisit costs on could you give me an idea of when they were bid and when the construction started? I think she's talking about the one -- you're talking about the one that deteriorated this quarter Tahira? Research Division</strong> Actually the 5 projects you mentioned or maybe the question where you last said [ph] anything would help.
Yes.
These are projects as we disclosed in the Q that of the 5 projects 4 of them will complete this year one of them in first quarter of next year.
And these would have been projects that were bid several years ago.
I would say 2011 and maybe as late as early part of 2012 from the bidding standpoint Tahira.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
And I guess the second question is in regards to Papa Terra.
I mean I know you're working on the deferred sort of revenue schedule there and now there's a lot banking on fourth quarter profitability from that.
So any -- can you give us some idea of the risk that could be in place between now and the time you report in fourth quarter that we should just track in regards to Papa Terra? Well I think the sense of your question is could it move around in terms of timing.
At least that's one of the things that I detect from your question.
We are getting very clear direction from our customers -- customer that we should move the DB50 in the third quarter to site for an October -- early October begin marine campaign work.
And in fact in response to another's question here we are so confident of that that that's why we've had to go into this resequencing mode with other of our customers in order to make sure that we can have the DB50 there.
So is it likely that there could be some change? Sure.
We're not in control of that decision but we're getting very clear signals about that from a timing standpoint.
The vessel goes to work early part of October so the earnings -- the revenue generation and earnings production in Q4 that we are forecasting that we've spoken about in this call we feel relatively comfortable with.
We have another question for you.
This one's from the line of John Rogers at Davidson.
Research Division</strong> I guess Steve and Perry I just want to follow up on the guidance a little bit for the next couple of quarters.
I mean it looks to me like you had fairly good bookings of work that will be executed in 2013.
You've already recognized the losses on the projects in the Middle East and you said that the work that you're booking is in reasonably good margins and yet you're talking about 0 margins potentially in the second and third quarter.
Can you just help me with that a little bit? Yes.
The -- as I mentioned I understand the question.
Atlantic is continuing to lose money as the forecast and the profits in the Middle East and Asia don't overcome that.
So we do anticipate profits in the Middle East and Atlantic however because of these lost projects some of that revenue will be coming through at no margin as Papa Terra is coming through at no margin.
And then finally what we've discussed in prior quarters about the overall guidance we've given for '13 is that we just don't see a lot of opportunity on the projects that will execute this year for significant brightening related to change orders and closeouts.
So without that opportunity with more of the projects in a loss position that are wrapping up this year we just -- we aren't recognizing margin on a good chunk of revenue for this year.
I'd add John and take you back to my prepared comments with respect to the Atlantic region so an ancillary comment would be other than normal operating flow as Perry just talked about should we make decisions with respect to the Atlantic region.
Those decisions might result in Q2 and Q3 charges that we can't forecast today.
But I wanted to make sure we got that in.
Research Division</strong> But Steve those sorts of charges are outside of the guidance that you're talking about.
Is that correct? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the amount of work that you have in a loss position though $428 million actually it's come down a little bit what you had at the end -- or the beginning of the year.
Yes I mean that's what we've disclosed in the Q combined and then you have to put Papa Terra with that but yes.
And just John most of that is this year because there's only one of those that goes into early '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And in terms of Papa Terra can you give us some range of expectations on the deferred profits that's there now? And I know there's some disclosures the Q on it.
Yes I think you'll -- I can't be real specific other than the 7% for the full year includes recognizing that profit in Q4.
So that kind of should be able to bracket it for you in your modeling if you -- depends on how you choose to model Q2 and Q3.
And we have another question for you.
This one's from the line of Robert Connors at Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just real quick what is the man hours and utilization rates on the barges on the quarter? We didn't disclose that but I would say it's not substantially different than what we've been previously talking about for years.
The yards have been operating close to capacity in terms of our standards and the high-spec vessels likewise and then the major work barges have been operating well less than standards.
So part of this challenge with respect to margins is the underutilization of those major work barges so there really wasn't any update to provide there.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> And previously you had said that there are about 70 days of potential work around the Papa Terra project should it not go forward.
Just wondering what the status is of winning that potential work to possibly fill some of the hole in 3Q? Well we have some work in Q3 maybe some in late Q2.
But Q3 I would not say that we have filled the hole for the entire 70 days but we've utilized some of it.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then is there a potential that the Atlantic region could lose some of the existing backlog with the initiatives to be taken that you're going to announce in mid-2013? No.
We have another question for you.
This one's from Rob Norfleet at BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I just -- I had a question again on looking at the margins.
I guess getting back to Andy's earlier question Steve you kind of mentioned this is not a structural issue as it's been underbidding and backlog does not have just a lot of low-margin work in it.
And you kind of said this is more of a temporary issue.
So that being -- said when you look at -- I know there are a lot of moving parts here.
You look at some of the initiatives you need to take.
But when you look at your backlog the work that you're bidding and make some assumptions I mean is it possible that margins in 2014 can get back to 10%? Or from what you see today is that going to be a significant challenge? I would say it's possible.
I would say that where we are today at first quarter we're not in a position to give guidance for 2014.
But we'll go through the rest of the year and be in a better position later in the year to forecast that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my second question just deals with the wage rate inflation.
Obviously that you all and competitors have experienced in the Atlantic and obviously what that's doing to your labor productivity.
How are you going forward in the structure fixed price work to account for this and obviously higher wage rates impact the profitability metrics on contracts? Yes Rob it's the combination of wage rates and productivity that are hurting all of the contractors on the U.S.
Gulf Coast.
So what you have to do in this program is to make sure you've got the proper estimate of escalation that you can foresee and reasonably foresee in the bids.
In terms of wage rate and in terms of productivity we've got a lot of experience now with what the productivity is resulting in our Morgan City fabrication yard.
And we'll be using that experience if we bid further.
We have another question for you.
This one's from the line of Brian Konigsberg at Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Just a couple of real quick questions just on Q4 so excluding the Papa Terra gain you expect to or the profits you expect to realize would that still be a breakeven quarter or does that include more project closeouts and other margin-enhancing opportunities within it? Well I think I understand your question.
We certainly forecast Papa Terra to contribute to profit.
If the question is what happens if Papa Terra doesn't contribute anything then I think you'd have the losses from the Atlantic region to consider.
But we've got profits going in the other businesses.
So if Papa Terra contributes profits or at least enough profits to make it breakeven you'd be profitable because of the profits coming through from Middle East and Asia Pac.
LLC</strong> Yes yes.
And Steve just a strategic question I mean obviously we've had a couple of -- a bunch of tough quarters behind us and also in Q1.
I mean this just seems to be a very very difficult business.
I mean you're having customers approach you about change orders that you're having to assume the cost on the liability on a lot of just execution disruptions.
I mean as far as McDermott operating as a stand-alone public company has your view of your ability to maintain this current structure changed at all over the last few quarters? Or maybe you could just touch on that a little bit.
Yes I'd be happy to.
What I have said in prior quarters is that because of that business model we are open to as McDermott any manner of way to get scale to attenuate the volatility on behalf of our shareholders and to grow.
And that view has not changed at all.
The continued volatility in the business does not give management any more comfort than it has in prior quarters.
We are working hard to organically adjust that through the things that I've talked about with our operating model et cetera.
But as indicated we continue to seek opportunities to grow build scale for the company on behalf of shareholders.
We have a further question for you from the line of Will Gabrielski at Lazard.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on the comment around the 7% margin being possible for the year and maybe you can help me clarify but I'm having a hard time getting to what would drive that.
So you know you did 9 -- if you work backwards I'm trying to figure out what the implied op income is from that.
And you take the $0.09 you did in Q1 breakeven in Q2 and 3 that implies a $0.41 quarter in the fourth quarter by my math.
And I'm just wondering what else besides Papa Terra gets you there because that seems like a bit of a stretch and maybe I'm just doing the math wrong and you can help clarify that.
Yes.
Well I think you're taking that math maybe to the extreme which is what we've said in terms of Q2 and Q3 is that margins below 7% maybe is a breakeven or a loss.
So I think your math is taking it all the way to 0 and assuming that for both quarters.
So I think you're doing the math right.
I'm not sure that's the way we're guiding though.
What we're guiding for the Q2 and Q4 -- or Q2 and Q3 to be lower than 7% and possibly down to a breakeven or loss.
Research Division</strong> Oh okay that explains it.
There's no further questions at this stage so I'd now like to turn the call back to Mr.
Oldham for closing remarks.
Thank you again for participating today and we invite you to join us on Tuesday August 6 2013 when we plan to review McDermott's second quarter results.
Operator this concludes our call.
Thank you.
Thank you for your participation in today's conference.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the presentation and you may now disconnect.
Have a very good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the McDermott International's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to our host Steve Oldham Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Stephanie and good morning everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today as we discuss our results for the second quarter 2013 which were released through our press release and in our Form 10-Q yesterday.
Although we will not speak directly to them during the call we have supplementary slides posted on our website which summarize the management actions and changes that we'll be discussing today.
Joining me on the call this morning are Steve Johnson McDermott's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Perry Elders our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before turning the call over to Steve let me remind you that this event is being recorded and a replay will be available for a limited time on our website.
Additionally our comments will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks and uncertainties and reflect management's view as of August 6 2013.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC which are available on our website including our Form 10-K for the year ended 2012 and the Form 10-Q for the 3 months ended June 30 2013 which provides a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
And please note that except to the extent required by applicable law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
With that disclosure let me turn the call now over to Steve for his opening remarks.
Thank you Steve and thank you all for joining us today.
As you read on our earnings announcement from yesterday McDermott reported a net loss for the second quarter 2013 of $149.4 million or $0.63 per diluted share.
These disappointing results were driven primarily by charges on 2 projects which we intend to cover in some detail on this call.
We have a large amount of material to discuss today as there are a number of changes initiatives and actions that we are taking to improve the operating performance of the company.
Following my review of the challenging projects and management's actions Perry will provide additional detail regarding our financials including financial guidance.
Let me begin with a discussion of the problem projects.
In the second quarter we increased our estimate to complete the Malaysian subsea project by $62 million.
The Malaysian subsea project is a deepwater rigid real pipe-in-pipe installation project using our recently constructed Lay Vessel 105.
Regretfully we have experienced a number of issues on this job.
We disclosed in Q4 last year that we believe we had underestimated the duration of the installation in the bid and increased our estimate of the cost to complete this project at that time.
In the second quarter delays from suppliers and a prolonged reconfiguration of the Lay Vessel 105 for rigid real pipelay further extended the installation schedule into the monsoon season.
In response we have changed our execution plan to install the pipe over 2 marine campaigns one in 2013 and one in 2014.
The Lay Vessel 105 completed its conversion in sea trials in July and we expect to start spooling pipe at our Batam Indonesia real base very soon so we would finally be underway.
Once we finish the first of 4 scheduled pipelay sequences which is expected to occur later in the third quarter we will have a better view of our cost to complete this project.
This was a significant bid miss and a learning experience for the organization.
And I'll discuss the direct measures that we are taking shortly.
In the Middle East we had further deterioration of $38 million on a project that also resulted in a reporting loss in the first quarter.
While the total project remains profitable and above our as-bid margins the deterioration was a result of poor project management especially around change conditions.
As a result we terminated the project management team in the second quarter and shifted the oversight to another one of our project leaders who has had -- who has recently completed a very successful project in order to bring this one in to successful completion.
We estimate the additional vessel mobilizations will be necessary to accommodate and extend offshore hookup campaign.
We are due to demobilize the main work vessel spread near the end of October ending the hookup phase and lowering the go-forward risk profile of the project significantly.
Other work is expected to continue into the first half of 2014.
Our experience on this project again highlights the importance of quality project leadership and the continual focus we must place as an organization on those individuals.
I'd like now to direct my comments to our management response to these issues.
To be sure we're engaged in a number of efforts to address the weaknesses that we have experienced in our operating performance.
I will outline 4 of these actions in greater detail and note that we intend to update our shareholders on the progress of the initiatives in future quarters.
As mentioned earlier supplementary slides are available on our website although we will not be speaking directly to them.
Management response #1 Atlantic segment restructuring.
Our Atlantic segment has had issues with chronic underutilization of our assets and productivity for several years stemming from lower activities in U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and customers moving to deeper waters.
We previously took measures to rightsize the operations and focus on projects that we thought matched our capabilities.
Those have resulted in minimal success.
After an extensive market analysis we don't have the confidence in our future ability to competitively bid all of our Atlantic segment assets with the proper level of return and risk coverage.
Therefore yesterday we announced a restructuring of our Atlantic division that includes the closure of our Morgan City fabrication yard and marine base.
The fabrication yard is to be closed after the completion of the facility's remaining projects expected in this year's fourth quarter.
And the marine base is to be closed after the expected completion of a project in 2014's second quarter.
In addition we've decided to close our engineering office in New Orleans and to reduce staffing across engineering support operations and management at our Houston and Brazil offices to reflect anticipated future needs.
We anticipate this restructuring to cost between $45 million to $60 million in the aggregate and have already recognized $15.5 million of these costs in the second quarter.
We expect the majority of the remaining costs to be expensed over the next 4 quarters.
Going forward we believe that our Altamira Mexico fabrication yard which enjoys a competitive cost structure and deepwater access provides a compelling solution to our customers in the Western Hemisphere.
As you know we have been investing in this yard over the past few years as a customer-paid work as justified including expansion that is ongoing today.
We will be moving various fabrication and marine base assets from Morgan City to Altamira.
Second management response project bidding and execution.
Fixed-price EPCI contracting demands careful bidding disciplined execution rigorous controls and forecasting and the ability to react and plan around in other words manage the inevitable volatility that characterizes large complex projects.
We have significantly underperformed as compared to our own expectations.
We've looked in the mirror and want to walk you through our findings and the actions we're taking to remedy our issues.
After evaluating our fundamental processes and procedures related to project execution we concluded that we possess the structure to succeed.
However we found that our processes and procedures were somewhat inconsistently applied throughout the organization and that management needs to improve adherence to our proven processes and procedures.
While we certainly believe we have many top-tier employees and project leaders at McDermott we have also realized that we currently don't have enough of it and we are taking remedial actions.
Before we get to our efforts we'd like to more precisely describe the positions we need to fill.
Two of the most critical roles in project leadership include the project manager and a project controls manager.
For those not familiar project controls managers schedule the activities; identify the risks as they evolve; develop planning and mitigation strategies; and estimate the cost of and the work necessary to complete the project.
Project controls managers report directly to the project manager who has overall responsibility for the project.
Given the importance of the 2 roles more experienced and more skilled personnel are now being recruited being trained and assigned to projects by our global operations management.
Our objective is to assign our best project leaders to the most impactful projects.
Now to the status of these efforts.
Our global operations management is actively recruiting project management talent for both the conventional and subsea markets.
We're aggressively seeking top project managers and project controls managers from within and outside the industry and have retained a search firm to assist us with this process.
This effort is in its early stages and we expect to significantly enhance project execution capabilities as we go forward.
There are significant benefits to having a deep roster of project leaders.
In many cases we can assign project leadership to manage the proposal the bidding and the estimation of the project with the goal of the same individuals executing the project if awarded.
We believe accountability is enhanced with our new project-based incentive compensation plans on selected projects.
Those project leaders are now compensated to a significant extent based upon their performance against as-bid conditions and expectations.
Furthermore portions of their incentive-based awards are withheld until the applicable projects are closed out.
Finally we're adding additional oversight on the execution of projects.
All projects over $100 million in anticipated contract revenues and all projects with significant first-of-a-kind elements require highly experienced executive project sponsors who will provide critical review of the project teams and drive accountability.
We are now requiring additional rigorous communications at all levels of the organization for project changes and there will be increased line-of-sight reporting and accountability to project managers.
Finally we're also increasing our application of risk coverage in our bids.
In summary for project execution we're taking comprehensive and sweeping action.
We'll be recruiting project talent aggressively; managing training assigning that talent to proposals and project execution compelling adherence to our processes; and ensuring project leaders are incentivized towards the right goals.
We expect these enhancements to project oversight will deliver improved and more predictable results.
Third management response.
Looking back to 2009 after significant analysis the management team decided to pursue a strategy of entering the subsea installation market.
We believe and still do today that there is a need for another top-tier player in the subsea sector and the market offers McDermott opportunities for growth scale and margin expansion.
Entry into this market requires substantial assets technical expertise and experience.
We are currently persevering through these barriers to entry.
Since our acquisition of our first subsea vessel in 2009 we have attempted to operate in this market on a geographic segment basis as an extension of our conventional business.
The technical challenges have proved formidable under this structure.
With additional subsea vessels under construction and scheduled for delivery within the next 2 years we are increasing our investment in the experienced leadership and engineering expertise that we need to succeed.
Earlier this year we acquired DeepSea a U.K.-based engineering group to provide a critical mass of subsea engineers to the company.
We've also established a subsea division led by seasoned industry veterans to maintain oversight and management of our subsea bidding project execution people and assets.
Specifically we've added 7 subsea leaders to date and expect an additional 4 to join us within the next 2 months.
We believe our investment in experienced personnel is already helping us to avoid additional learning mistakes.
We had our subsea division do a "cold eyes" review of the Malaysian subsea project and they have challenged the assumptions made to date and built a more competent execution plan.
The new group has validated the assumptions on the INPEX Ichthys project and is supporting its execution.
Finally we are leaning on the experience of this team to develop a plan to grow profitability in the subsea market.
Fourth management response market focus.
I've previously spoken about McDermotts need for scale to better accommodate this project-by-project volatility that we see in this business.
I believe McDermott should grow in a controlled fashion and in markets where we can sustain a competitive advantage.
Accordingly we have launched an initiative to identify the markets and refine our participation to where we have sufficient scale expertise and relationships to deliver superior returns.
To be very clear we will not necessarily follow a market solely for its size or projected growth.
When evaluating our existing and our future markets we intend to examine our circumstances and answer the following questions: One do we have the scale to be a top competitor in the market? Two can we efficiently use our existing resources? Three do we have the necessary relationships with the right customers? Four does the contracting model fit with our strengths? Five do we have the technical expertise in the organization to mitigate learning mistakes? Six finally and most importantly can this market deliver the proper risk-adjusted return on the capital employed? This is an ongoing initiative which challenges each project each joint venture and each asset to meet the requirements necessary to answer the aforementioned questions affirmatively.
We have already discussed one example Morgan City that did not nor do we believe that all of our joint ventures meet these requirements.
With fewer better opportunities we can more confidently deliver execution and earn our right to expand in our target markets.
I'll now ask Perry to discuss the financial change initiatives and discuss the quarterly results in more detail.
Then I'll come back for some updates on selective active projects and some closing comments.
Perry? Thanks Steve.
In terms of the financial response management is also taking actions to maintain our conservative and disciplined financial policies and improve corporate liquidity and financial flexibility as we work through these challenging projects and cultural changes.
We've targeted certain G&amp;A reductions throughout the company including the elimination of the 2013 management bonuses in order to offset additional costs associated with increased bidding and hiring project managers.
As we look to a more focused and controlled growth we plan to defer certain capital expenditures that were previously forecast for 2013 and '14.
But as I will discuss in a moment we are not reducing our planned growth investment.
We are also working to improve our working capital management including collections from customers.
Finally we recently executed amendment to our credit facility to provide additional financial flexibility.
As we reported total revenues for the second quarter of 2013 were $647.2 million a decline of 27% from the second quarter 2012.
Compared to last year's quarter the revenue decrease was driven primarily by reduced activity in our Middle East and Asia Pacific segments as several significant jobs that were active in the quarter a year ago have since been completed.
With about $1.5 billion of remaining 2013 revenues expected to come from existing backlog we expect full year revenues of approximately $3 billion consistent with our previous guidance.
Primarily due to the challenging projects which Steve discussed gross profit in the 2013 second quarter declined by $206 million as compared to the 2012 second quarter to a loss of $76 million.
Essentially under the percentage-of-completion accounting rules we recognized in the second quarter the entire expected degradation of projects which are scheduled to be executed over multiple future quarters.
Although GAAP does not permit us to accrue the worst possible outcome we believe that we have recorded sufficient reserves to cover the remaining execution of these jobs.
Additionally there's opportunity to improve the outcome of these projects through the execution enhancements which Steve mentioned.
So although such upside is not bookable at June 30 we cannot [indiscernible] and we cannot promise or assure such the potential exist.
Those of you who followed the company for some time will recall that we have in the past experienced meaningful callback of losses in periods subsequent to loss recognition.
At June 30 2013 3 of the projects in our backlog were in a loss position.
The Agile charter contract in Brazil had no material effect on the second quarter's income has not deteriorated since 2011 and the vessel continues to perform as expected.
The second is the Malaysia subsea project which Steve discussed.
And the third is a relatively small fabrication project in Atlantic that's expected to complete in late 2013.
General and administrative expenses increased by about $5.1 million in the second quarter to $52.6 million as compared to the 2012 second quarter primarily due to increased bidding activity and was partially offset by the reversal of the management performance bonus accrual.
Going forward we expect our quarterly SG&amp;A to remain in this range.
The operating loss for the second quarter of 2013 totaled $149.5 million compared to $79.4 million of income from the comparable 2012 period.
We expect 2013 full year operating loss to be approximately $15 million to $20 million with the third quarter near breakeven or a slight loss.
We continue to expect the fourth quarter to make the most significant contribution because it includes our anticipated recognition of profit on Papa Terra.
Regarding 2014 we are currently expecting operating income in the 5% to 8% range with the understanding that a significant portion of the forecasted revenue projects remain in our bids outstanding so they have not yet been awarded to us.
To be clear the backlog profit has deteriorated in the second quarter to low-single digit operating margins.
Projects with backlog deterioration are on average about 1/3 complete which is not unusual for our business since there's often brightening toward the end of project -- of a project based on improved project execution change order negotiation contingency harvesting and commercial settlements.
So our 2014 profitability expectations are tempered by low margins in the backlog and just under half of our 2014 revenues remaining to be booked.
In the Other Income and Expense line we had an increase of $6.4 million compared to the second quarter of 2012 primarily due to net foreign currency-related gains.
We strive to minimize foreign exchange impacts as a U.S.
dollar-reporting entity however as guided in prior calls the accounting for foreign currency hedges and balances continues to be volatile due to movement between the spot and forward rates.
Our tax position in the second quarter of 2013 was $5.9 million.
We were unable to recognize tax benefits associated with certain losses primarily in the Atlantic segment but also in 0-tax jurisdictions such as the UAE and Malaysia and deemed profit jurisdictions such as Indonesia and Azerbaijan.
Accordingly we expect these factors to cause us to continue to incur tax costs even with consolidated losses or minimal profits with a specific rate dependent upon the jurisdictional mix and the extent of unbenefited losses.
The net loss after noncontrolling interest was $149.4 million for the second quarter of 2013 or $0.63 per diluted share compared to the $0.22 of earnings we reported in the 2012 second quarter.
Moving to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with $473 million of cash cash equivalents and investments down about $27 million from March 31.
However we improved our cash balance relative to the expectations that we discussed during the last call through an effective focus on working capital.
Going forward the forecast and announced capital growth initiatives -- investments will continue to be a significant use of cash for the next few years.
During the second quarter we invested $106.8 million in capital expenditures an increase of $22.9 million over the second quarter of the previous year.
The company's remaining major capital -- CapEx priorities include building out the Altamira yard as well construction of the LV108 and DLV2000 vessels.
We now expect full year maintenance CapEx and the ongoing growth capital investments to be in the range of $300 million to $350 million in both 2013 and 2014.
This is down from our initial plan of $400 million to $500 million for each of those 2 years.
Similar to our customer projects shipyard payments on the new build vessels are based on milestones so our CapEx will be lumpy from quarter-to-quarter.
We previously communicated our plan to sell older vessels so we are actively marketing the DB16 and KP1 which are classified as held for sale and as such they are no longer depreciated.
During the second quarter our debt position declined slightly to $95.6 million as we made quarterly principal payments on the North Ocean 102 loan facility which is now classified as a current liability since it matures in the first quarter of 2014.
With that I'll turn the call back over to Steve Johnson.
Thanks Perry.
I'd like to update you on a couple of active and important projects as I earlier indicated and then provide a brief on the business outlook.
With respect to the Papa Terra project in Brazil which Perry just indicated is material to our fourth quarter and year and which is our only project accounted for using deferred profit recognition we continue to target early fourth quarter 2013 for the commencement of the marine installation scope for our FloaTEC joint ventures contract and our related subcontract for the completion of the Full Field Development.
We have rescheduled the work program for the DB50 and are preparing to mobilize the vessel to Brazil later this month for an anticipated start to the installation campaign in early October.
Petrobras approved the project delay change order in the second quarter which is reflected in our backlog and believe we are aligned with our customer regarding the additional compensation to us for the re-sequencing of the DB50's project schedule.
We are still working with Petrobras to resolve other claims on this project however.
We often receive questions regarding our $2 billion contract with INPEX for the Ichthys subsea field development.
In the first of many quarterly updates as we move through the 36-month execution plan we are encouraged by the continued progress in the engineering phase and marine campaign planning.
Despite being only 3% complete from a financial-percentage-of-completion perspective we've been active on the engineering and procurement disciplines.
Engineering is now 2/3 complete including the conceptual and design development.
The remaining 1/3 comprises structural detailing of the subsea components which is similar to the traditional engineering work undertaken for standard jackets and topsides modules.
In addition as I mentioned earlier in my comments we have conducted several engineering reviews by our recently added subsea technical experts within our subsea division.
They have validated our design and basic assumptions regarding our estimates to complete which incorporate lessons learned from our Malaysian subsea project.
We expect to complete the engineering by the end of this year and we continue to feel confident about this project.
On the procurement and subcontracting side of the project we have contracted $1.2 billion of the $1.4 billion total procurement budget with the remaining related to bulk items and miscellaneous marine support.
Included in the subcontracted cost is approximately $750 million for Heerema Marine Contractors' installation of rigid pipelines subsea structures and mooring piles.
This subcontract is on a lump sum back-to-back basis for the prime contract where the risk of productivity and weather downtime during installation is borne by Heerema.
We have commenced fabrication on schedule in our Batam Indonesia yard and continue planning for McDermott's offshore campaign to install flexible flowlines umbilicals jumpers and associated tie-ins.
The water depth at the site is around 270 meters or about 900 feet with conditions similar to a subsea project with a successful marine campaign recently executed off the North West Shelf in Australia.
In addition our North Ocean 102 which performed much of the subsea scope on that project will install the flexible installations for Ichthys.
We expect to commence the offshore program in 2014 third quarter.
Now turning to our revenue pipeline.
Our bids and change orders outstanding at quarter end were $8.1 billion compared to $5.6 billion of bids and change orders outstanding in the first quarter and $7 billion a year ago.
Our bidding and change order opportunities include 3 projects over $1 billion in value about 8 projects between $100 million and $1 billion and the remaining 45 or so below that level.
Included in our bids outstanding is approximately $2.7 billion relating to Chevron's large Indonesian project which has been reported in the trade journals recently.
While we acknowledge that we are the low bidder our price is well above the customer's project budget.
At this point it's uncertain whether the customer will decide to enter into negotiations with us or choose to cancel the bid and re-tender the work in the future.
In addition our list of target projects totals $9.7 billion as of June 30.
As a reminder "targets" are those projects that we intend to bid and are well suited for us and that we expect to reach award stage within the next 5 quarters.
As of June 30 the combination of our backlog bids and change orders outstanding and target projects our revenue pipeline totals $22.8 billion.
Before I close I want to highlight that we have either added new leaders or expect to add new leaders in some operating functions this year related to project execution engineering marine and HSES which is safety-related.
We see these changes as positive for our company.
And as a final note I'd like to acknowledge Jack McCormick the company's Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer who has announced his intention to retire later this fall.
I appreciate Jack's decade of service to McDermott and I wish him well in his retirement.
We have started the search for his successor which includes both internal and external candidates and we expect to have a smooth transition in operating leadership.
This has been a disappointing quarter and we are well aware of the challenge ahead as we execute the changes and initiatives throughout the company.
I want to assure you that we have the financial flexibility the customer relationships the operating strategy and more than ever the urgency to perform.
And with that operator we'll turn it over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Steven Fisher from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wonder if you could just talk about what was the difference and how you approached the charges this quarter on those couple of projects? Kind of what you reflected in that $62 million and the $38 million if that's perhaps really now worst case scenario? Or did I hear you say that you could still have to reassess your Malaysia costs again in Q3 after you spool the pipe? Yes Steve it's Perry.
Certainly as I mentioned we've recorded what we think are conservative estimates here.
GAAP doesn't allow us to record what you call the worse case theoretical possibility because it can't reasonably estimate that.
But we've recorded not only everything we can see but -- that we can reasonably estimate but in the case of that Malaysia job we had to start the marine campaign.
So there is a risk but as I mentioned there's also an opportunity to improve that project.
Likewise in regards to the Middle East project as Steve mentioned we've taken what we believe is the reserves that put us in a conservative position although not the worst case theoretically possible.
But likewise we're hopeful to build and not only complete that within the estimates but hopefully to improve it.
But there's less chance for improvement on the Middle East than there is on the Malaysia project.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then in terms of the 5% to 8% margin next year wonder if you could help kind of parse that out a little bit.
The margins already in backlog that you have I guess the $2 billion of work that's not loss generating -- I mean are they below that range or in that range? And what do you still expect for the margins that you have to book -- that you still have to book? And then I guess what are you assuming in terms of utilization? Yes.
Okay.
3 parts to that question.
On the backlog part as I mentioned the margins are kind of in the low-single digits.
And what we have not baked into that guidance is significant brightening of those margins as you know which is a possibility but that's what we have line-of-sight to in terms of what's in the backlog.
In terms of the bids outstanding and what we call prospective work we are expecting and particularly considering Steve's comments about the increased rigor in our bidding that we will obtain work at more of our traditional margins.
And then finally the third part of your question which was utilization and we're anticipating fab utilization about where it's been in 2013 and similarly the case for the marine vessels both the barges and the fast-transit vessels.
So we're not expecting a substantial improvement in either fabrication or marine utilization.
And that's -- those are the 3 elements to the guidance.
Research Division</strong> And just a follow-up on that.
I mean what's the reason you wouldn't assume any improvement in utilization? Is that just kind of caution and being conservative at this point as -- I mean you're still several months out? Or is that more a reflection of how you see the market? Well I'd say what we've assumed is what we certainly have line-of-sight to in terms of the backlog jobs that'll use the vessels in the yards.
We do have some prospective work in our forecasts so it's not just what we have on the books so to speak.
But at the same time we're not assuming a big uptick either.
So there's room if we could attract some book-and-burn work if you will during the year.
And you're right we're still several quarters away from 2014.
The next question comes from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Steve with all due respect I think most shareholders believe that many of the actions management has taken today should have been done a while ago.
So what can you say to investor to convince them that things still don't get worse from here? And how long would we have to wait for the results of these initiatives that you're putting in place today? Like when do you think we'll have all of these guys sort of operating and doing better for the company? That's a fair question Andy.
I would say this.
Many of the actions but not all do fall into the category of basic blocking and tackling if I can use that analog.
As I indicated in my prepared remarks we have the procedural discipline in place.
But we have had challenges recently in having our project teams adhere to those procedures and disciplines.
That's a management problem and a management issue.
So while they do seem in some cases rather basic that's the point.
They need to be basic so that they're clear that management needs to respond now and very quickly to compel performance against those procedures.
That'd be my initial response.
How quickly will these new people their new training and management fiat take over I would say it would be very quickly on backlog projects.
We've put these procedures and these new management initiatives in place and in effect now.
Now we can't do anything about the bid misses.
We have to deal with those straight up with our customers and with our shareholders as we liquidate the backlog.
But on new projects the rigor around estimating bidding making sure that we've got the proper risk coverage that we've got the proper margin in the bid is a day-by-day plan.
Lastly the subsea organization it's hard to probably tell from what I said in my comments but I have moved those people with specific technical expertise and managerial experience to oversee backlog projects that have a subsea component to them.
In many cases they have direct line-of-sight responsibility call it P&amp;L over those projects.
In other cases they are looking over the shoulder of the other P&amp;L entities.
So they are in place and in effect.
There's not enough of them yet but by the end of the year we feel we'll have the top line of that organization in place so that they can oversee these subsea programs.
I'll pause there and see if there's a follow-up Andy.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So Steve I mean I think we understand the subsea issues.
I mean it's first of a kind.
I think we understand that.
The thing that I'm having a hard time with though is that why is the rest of the business really falling apart now? Your COO was around for the last 10 years and you've had several years of decent performance over the last decade.
Yes you've had your issues but this seems like gaping holes in a lot of your businesses.
And so it just means that all of a sudden this is happening.
Is it more competition ratcheted up on you and the company was slow to respond? Or something else? I think it's 2 things.
To be fair there is an element of that that suggests that competition has ratcheted up in certain of our markets Andy including the Middle East and including Asia Pacific.
And while it is not our intention to follow them an undisciplined bidder if you will or an irrational bidder sometimes you find yourself in a situation where you make assumptions in the bid that you should not make and that's our management failing.
The bigger issue in my view is that we were not fully focused on managing the backlog with a full line of sight from the management from operations management of the company through the regional leaders and into the projects.
And many of the things that I'd talked about in my prepared comments create that line-of-sight visibility and compel performance to our procedures and places oversight on top of these programs.
That was not present in the company and I've changed that.
Research Division</strong> Has the business become so lumpy and volatile that you really need to find a partner? And if you did need to find a partner what can you do to make the business more attractive for that partner? I think settling down the performance Andy is the obvious answer.
We have got to have more predictability in the business and it starts with project execution.
And that starts with making sure we understand the scope of the facilities and the scope of services we have to provide and adequately pricing it in pricing the risk and getting paid for the risk.
So I think that's the answer.
We've got to settle it down.
The next question comes from Jamie Cook from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of clarifications.
One Steve can you just talk about the anticipated savings that you expect to generate from Morgan City and at what point you would expect that business to be profitable? Or any other additional actions that you can take? My second question relates to the guide.
Perry I just want to be clear when you talk about the $15 million to $20 million in losses what do you assume for -- does that exclude restructuring? Include restructuring? And then my last question is you talked about the I don't know $45 million to $60 million of restructuring costs.
You talked about hiring additional people across multiple levels of business.
One what is the incremental cost for hiring those people over the long term? How does that impact your fixed cost structure? And then my second question is what are the savings you expect to generate I guess from the restructuring actions? Jamie we'll take them in order and I'll answer the one you addressed to me first which is what are the projected savings from Morgan City.
I would broaden that and say -- I'll give you a response for projected savings for the Atlantic restructuring as you've heard which includes certain things we're doing in closing the New Orleans office and downsizing the Houston operations.
After restructuring charges we think the Atlantic can be breakeven by the end of next year or better over the long term certainly.
We were losing as you know about $10 million to $15 million a quarter before project losses.
So that's $40 million to $60 million a year more in operating income for the company.
And Jamie the other 2 questions on the 2013 operating income guidance of $15 million to $20 million yes that does consider the remaining restructuring charges that we expect to take in Q3 and Q4 and so that's already baked in there.
And the restructuring charge I just want to clarify my comments.
The reason we're having to take these over an extended period of time is we -- is GAAP won't let us all book them in the quarter where we make the decision.
We've got to expense them when we incur the cost in some cases.
Your second -- your third question was kind of with these additional costs that we're bringing into the business with respect to additional project management people what does our fixed-cost structure look like? And that's why I mentioned that our expectation is to take certain costs out of the business to offset the increment of those fixed costs.
So our G&amp;A guidance continues to be about where we were this second quarter.
So we're expecting to build and mitigate the incremental cost.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess just Steve do you assume going forward that your win rate relative to history on projects goes down? And to some degree one because you're more stringent; but two because you're going to be in this transition period where you're adding different people to the business they're reviewing things differently so how do you think about that in terms of how do we think about your future? I mean it's good to be more disciplined I get that part but also there's another level of disruption with the changeup you're seeing internally.
Yes.
Well I actually do think it will in the short term go down and the reason is as you indicated.
If it doesn't go down in the short term I think we're not being faithful to the adjustments that we indicated.
But I don't see that over the long term.
Clearly we've got to get new people that are knowledgeable about the bids in place and in effect on all of these bids that are associated with subsea.
As we bring in new project execution personnel we want them involved in the bids.
I would say that would be tempered by a number of things the first of which would be our key competitors in EPCI have had their recent challenges and we're beginning to see different kind of and maybe more rational bidding.
So we're mindful of that.
I would say lastly that we're return-based focused and that is what's inside of all of these changes and execution plan alterations that we talked about.
So we're not chasing revenue in the short term.
We're not chasing revenue in the long term.
We're chasing income and that's what we're focused on.
The next question comes from Vishal Shah from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> [Audio Gap] Also I just wanted to understand when -- how soon your new management will take over the bidding process in that region? I wonder if you could repeat your question.
We apologize it sounds like you may have been on mute.
If I could ask you to restate? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Can you hear me now? Yes sir.
Please go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I just wanted to get your level of confidence in your ability to compete in the subsea segment while maintaining your target margins.
And also how soon you think the new management team will take over the bidding process in that segment? The last one first.
The subsea management is now overseeing all bids that have significant subsea components to them.
And in fact recent bids the leadership of the subsea organization had done their review and led the reviews for the senior management of the company.
So they're in place doing that now.
So our ability to penetrate that market -- I think there's a timeline associated with this and I would say that we have backlog projects that are subsea-related and we want to execute those in accordance with the as-bid condition.
We have others that are coming up.
But we won't see I would say a real entry into subsea in a more material way than is portrayed by our backlog until the 2015 season.
It takes that time to be able to bid in those programs.
And in fact an example of that would be many of the 2014 programs have already been tendered and are underway and we didn't plan to bid those.
So I would say 2015 season would be the date that we would be in a position to claim our territory in subsea.
The next question comes from the line of Will Gabrielski from Lazard.
Research Division</strong> [Audio Gap] change and a couple of questions around that.
One do you guys have flexibility to break any of these vessel orders should you so need or desire at some point down the road and what the fee for a breakup would look like? And then secondly has anyone approached you guys just to sort of take over one of these vessels given the attractiveness probably of the delivery schedule that you have versus what you can get in the open market right now? Will this is Steve.
I think I got both questions and please follow-up if I didn't.
I think you were also on mute for the first phrase or 2.
But have we looked at canceling these vessels I think was one question; and then second was -- has anybody approached us.
Is that right? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Anyone approached you on those specific vessels saying they're willing to pay a premium to get a delivery in 2015 versus going in the market and getting it in '16 or '17? Yes.
Well the Lay Vessel 108 and the DLV represent for us key assets needed to complete our subsea market execution capability.
I mean it's just axiomatic to me that we need those vessels to compete.
And therefore it's part of our long-term business plan.
We're also building that subsea division's leadership and technical capabilities to utilize these vessels.
As regards cancellation economically I would say where we are today both vessels are underway in the shipyards.
The right thing to do wouldn't be to cancel them and suffer cancellation charges.
Economically from a shareholder value standpoint it'd be better to complete the vessels and then seek to sell them when they're complete.
Having said that we have not had any approaches from others with respect to purchasing the vessels as they stand now in their development or at completion.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Perry I was wondering if you could talk about -- I guess you see losses in the business and you wonder if there's risk of impairment on any of your assets at this point.
And the follow-up on that would be around how you guys value the equipment in your fab yards and whether or not there needs to be any reassessment of the Morgan City equipment.
Or does that just get moved to Brazil -- or excuse me to Mexico and continue to be carried at the same value and depreciate it from there? Yes Will that's true and we have assessed the assets in the Atlantic region.
And the charges in Q2 do reflect some impairments to the level that we expect we can realize either through relocation and redeployment principally in Altamira or through a sales process.
So we've already recorded in Q2 that adjustment.
More broadly if we make other business decisions like Steve referenced in other markets we'd have to evaluate that at that time.
But you're right and we've already done it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly when you have -- when you talk of having 2 campaigns for the 105 does that in any way alter the schedule for the 105? And anything else you may have been working on or bidding for that period? Well we have looked at all of our vessels holistically around the world.
And as it relates to the 105 we're in good enough shape.
We've got 102 available to us.
So no.
No other knock-on effects that we would report today.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'm going to squeeze one last one in.
On the credit agreement amendment can you just comment really quickly on whether or not that reflects your expectation for losses over the next few quarters or your expectation for a debt offering or both? Yes is the short answer.
We're in compliance.
We were but we wanted to create some headroom going forward as we did amendment.
And so it gives us the cushion that we think we need based on our forecast.
The next question comes from the line of Tahira Afzal from KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> As I look at your stock today it's trading close to its tangible book value which could make it a very very interesting story going forward and I guess the key risks are really trying to get comfortable around Ichthys to a great extent.
So I know you've provided lots of details but would it be possible to provide a little more color? We know that the cost of Ichthys could be going up fairly notably as per recent reports.
And I just wanted to get comfortable that those are not going to trickle down to your sales.
We've read the same reports and talked to our customer about a number of the onshore elements of the program indicating cost increases.
So I would acknowledge that what you've heard is similar to what we have heard.
I would have to simply reiterate what I said in the prepared comments Tahira and we will update every quarter on this call with respect to Ichthys.
But our costs seem to be in line.
We have had the third-party cold eyes subsea people look at it.
Having said that we don't start the marine campaign until the second half of next year 2014.
So just like any of these marine campaigns there's a lot that is to be known or unknowable elements of the project until we get into the marine campaign.
But as regards materials labor subcontract we are virtually in line with the as-bid condition.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And I guess the second question is a more tricky one.
If I look let's say year out from now and you're -- let's say you're struggling to the same extent and Ichthys does end up being an issue yet you would have divested some of your less profitable ships -- would be largely done to a great extent on the Morgan City restructuring and very well underway in terms of really getting those new ships onboard that would suggest what we estimate that your liquidation value would far exceed where you are right now.
Is there a sort of timeline the board has considered in which to continue to survive as an independent company after which you would explore other options? To the extent you can share.
Yes and I appreciate the questions and the sentiment behind it.
Look the board is supportive of management's plan management's business plan which we review with the board on an ongoing basis.
We speak to the topic of blending the company with others.
And where we stand today is the board is absolutely aligned with McDermott's management focus on pushing into the subsea market with caution with the appropriate assets and in fact as I would say behind where we are in spending capital deployed capital into these markets.
An upset condition in future years is not something that we take lightly and is why we are looking through third parties and new subsea people into the backlog projects most specifically Ichthys.
And I would say that there is more focus on the Ichthys project than ever was on the most recent first-of-a-kind project which was the Papa Terra project which we believe now is going to be a success for the company as we get through the fourth quarter.
We're more focused on Ichthys especially because of the results coming out of the Malaysia project and we simply are not going to yield on that focus.
The next question comes from Randy Bhatia from Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of quick ones if you don't mind.
Just thinking about the new bidding rigor I guess the back drop of record bids outstanding today.
Can you kind of characterize how confident you are in that $8.1 billion and how much of those bids out today would meet the new bidding threshold that you guys have set for yourselves? One dimension I can -- well thank you for the question.
One dimension I can give you is that the bids and change orders outstandings kind of split up as follows: almost 60% of them are conventional.
They're not subsea.
We've got one project out there that we mentioned in the prepared comments that falls into the category of floating meaning it's got a significant hole associated with it and we would only do the topsides.
So that represents about 30%.
And subsea remains as just right around 10 or sub 10 in the bids outstanding.
So if you think about subsea being our newest market the bids and change orders outstanding have a natural de-risking to them because most of the work is stuff that we are -- have a long history of performing.
Now as regards to the backlog and the new bids that are coming forward that new rigor is in place.
We review bids every week all week long and the organization now has thresholds and minimums that they must meet in terms of project-assigned personnel.
They must be available.
They have thresholds in terms of risk coverage in terms of margin in terms of contract terms and conditions.
We thought it was pretty decent going forward.
It's much more strong and we are turning down certain bids until those thresholds are met.
And I'm open to a follow-up Randy if you have one.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes I do.
I appreciate that color.
Just if you could speak specifically about the bid out on Gendalo with regards to your new thresholds and how confident you are in that bid as you've been reported as a low bidder there.
Yes.
I would say the fact that we are a low bidder is not only a function of our estimate and our cost of the facility.
It's also a function of the belief by other bidders about our viability as not necessarily an EPCI provider but our viability as an Indonesian entity.
And I won't go any further than that but you can read in the trade journals what the beliefs are about that.
We are still several hundred million dollars above the owner's estimate.
My expectation is the owner in this case Chevron with their partner will allow us to negotiate to close some of that gap.
They are going to have to close the most of that gap or likely this thing will have to go to re-tender.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could just sneak one more in I'll appreciate that.
Can you just give us the details on the go-forward Morgan City lease terms? Yes.
Perry why don't you handle that? There are a number of leases there Randy and we've got timelines and plans associated with it.
Yes.
There's a -- on the main peninsula there Randy there's 10 leases.
All -- 9 of them go for 5 more years.
One of them on the largest space goes for 10 more years.
And to be clear that's one of the things I was referring to in answer to an earlier question is we can't record those lease termination costs until we stop performing work in that yard which is in future quarters.
And that's when we'll take some lease termination costs there.
Our expectation is once we stop using that facility we would -- likelihood to sublease or terminate the leases or some other avenue but in terms of the legal contractual 5 to 10 years.
Your next question comes from Martin Malloy from Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could talk maybe about your liquidity situation and how you see that going forward into next year given the charges on these projects and how that might impact your operating cash flow.
And then maybe talk about how you've taken down your CapEx guidance from the $400 million to $500 million previously annually to now the $300 million to $350 million.
And maybe also about what CapEx would be required in Altamira to bring it up to be competitive with the Kiewit yard.
Okay.
I'll start with that.
Liquidity I think we were pretty effective in June as I mentioned in managing working capital.
We're pleased with where the quarter end.
But based on the profile of these growth investments we do expect to spend a fair amount of that cash over the remainder of this year.
But as you know we have an undrawn revolving credit facility standing behind our cash.
We will continue to maintain a cash balance as a kind of a safety cushion.
You could see us borrowing under the credit facility.
But our forecast of not only the cash we have available in the credit facility but a very conservative estimate of our forecasted operating cash flows allows us to afford the CapEx investments that we have already made commitments to.
In terms of the reductions in those commitments we principally have cut back on our plans on some discretionary items around maintenance CapEx.
The total amount of our growth investment is not expected to change.
So most of the kind of management of the CapEx was related to that maintenance.
And then there's an opportunity on the growth ones as far as the timing over the next few years but that's just shifting around of timing; it doesn't change the total quantum.
So is that getting at the question Marty? L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And then Altamira? Oh yes.
As we mentioned and reiterated in our earlier comments we've been pacing that investment and we're now at around $100 million invested in that yard.
And we have ongoing approved further investments in the $20 million to $30 million range which will allow us to have the capability there to execute all the backlog projects.
Should we get additional work which is our expectation in our forecast then we will make further investments there.
And the extent of those will be timed and the quantum will be based upon the extent of customer commitment as we have been doing so far.
So we don't see it as a binary switch to turn on the additional investments in Altamira.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the language in your 10-Q about the amount left to spend on the 108 and the DLV2000 it remained at $650 million to $750 million in that range over the next 3 years.
How much is actually left to spend? Is that the right amount? No it's not.
I mean that's the total commitment.
The Q does disclose -- we can -- the IR guys can point you to the page where it discloses the amount of the expenditures so far -- I'm sorry the commitments at this point in time.
But I think on the balance sheet we have an order of $100 million in construction and progress.
Most of it relates to those 2 vessels.
And now I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Steven Oldham for closing remarks.
Thank you again for participating today and we invite you to join us on Tuesday November 5 2013 when we plan to review McDermott's third quarter results.
Operator this concludes our call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your participation in today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you and enjoy the rest of your day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to McDermott International's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to our host Steve Oldham Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Deborah and good morning.
We appreciate you joining us today as we discuss our results from the third quarter of 2013 which were provided through our press release and in our Form 10-Q yesterday.
Joining me on the call this morning are Steve Johnson McDermott's Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; David Dickson our Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; and Perry Elders our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before turning the call over to Steve let me remind you that this event is being recorded and a replay will be available for a limited time on our website.
Additionally our comments will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks and uncertainties and reflect management's view as of November 5 2013.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC which are available on our website including our Form 10-K for the year ended 2012 and Form 10-Q for the 3 months ended September 30 2013 which provide a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
And please note that except to the extent required by applicable law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
With that disclosure let me turn the call over to Steve for his opening remarks.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
To begin the call this morning I'm pleased to note that after a lengthy and exhaustive global search the Board of Directors has named David Dickson as McDermott's Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.
David joined McDermott last Thursday.
As discussed in our press release last month I intend to retire at the end of the year and the Board of Directors intends to elect David as President and Chief Executive Officer by mid-December.
The board also intends to elect David as a Director at that time.
David's background includes over 23 years in the offshore oilfield engineering and construction business.
He was most recently the head of a multibillion American operations of one of our international competitors.
You'll hear from David later in the call.
Turning to the quarter McDermott reported a net loss for the third quarter 2013 of $64 million or $0.27 per diluted share.
These results were driven by both lower utilization and charges on certain projects.
I'll begin today by highlighting the status of our ongoing projects.
In the third quarter we experienced additional vessel-related issues on our deepwater pipeline project in Malaysia.
During the first of our 4 installation campaigns our Lay Vessel 105 experienced mechanical failure on a thruster and we identified additional configuration issues with the vessel's back-deck installation equipment.
The mechanical downtime required the vessel to suspend installation in the middle of our first campaign and traveled to Singapore for repair while our full marine spread was on hire which includes third-party vessels.
The issues with the vessel's back-deck equipment which includes the lay tower tensioning system resulted in lower-than-anticipated productivity.
We identified and resolved the root causes of these mechanical problems and believe the fix will be effective for the pipe-in-pipe work which is just commencing.
During the period I'm pleased to report that we reached a commercial agreement with our customer that mitigates monsoon season weather risk and waives liquidated damages subject to certain conditions.
As a result we now intend to maintain continuous operation in order to install the customer's production-critical elements in calendar 2013 but expected final completion in mid-2014.
In addition to the Lay Vessel 105 our new execution plan incorporates the use of our North Ocean 102 and our Emerald Sea.
In October we completed the first installation campaign and expect to commence the second installation campaign in a matter of days.
We've already completed loading the pipe on the Lay Vessel 105 for this second campaign.
Our experiences to date are reflected in our estimate to project completion which incorporates changes in duration assumptions on the remaining pipeline campaigns subcontractor productivity adjustments and additions to contingency and when combined with the commercial improvements I discussed earlier results in a net charge of $33 million for the quarter.
Moving to our contract with INPEX for the Ichthys subsea field development.
While only 5% complete overall from a financial percentage of completion standpoint there are many ongoing project activities.
Our new subsea division has continued their review of the project and its progress.
Detailed engineering is now 80% complete with design reviews completed for most of the subsea structures.
On the procurement and subcontracting side we have now committed 98% of the budget with the remaining related 2 bulk items and miscellaneous marine support items.
Included in the subcontracted cost is approximately $750 million for Heerema's installation of rigid pipelines subsea sea structures and mooring piles.
The subcontract is on a lump sum back-to-back basis for the prime contract and where the risk of productivity and weather downtime during installation is borne by Heerema.
We continue to work with our supply chain to ensure on-time and on-spec delivery of materials.
In the third quarter one of our suppliers completed production coding for lined pipe and another commenced manufacturing of the umbilicals for the project.
We're in the early stages of fabrication of the riser support structure in our Batam Indonesia fabrication yard and planning is ongoing for McDermott's offshore campaigns to install flexible flowlines umbilicals jumpers and associated tie-ins.
The first phase of our installation scope is expected to begin in the second half of next year with additional campaigns in 2015 and beyond.
McDermott's direct marine installation scope accounts for less than 20% of the anticipated project costs.
Now based upon our progress in the quarter and performance on critical project elements we believe that the INPEX Ichthys product will be completed on time and profitably.
Turning to the Middle East.
We're pleased to report that all of our projects in this segment contributed to gross profit during the quarter and none are in a loss position returning this segment to profitability.
The project in Saudi Arabia that was discussed last quarter has demobilized all of the major workboats as we wait for customer decisions on the onshore and power-on works.
We expect those to be completed during the first half of next year.
With this milestone we anticipate reduced operating risk for the balance of the project.
And as we have noted several times previously as estimated the project remains profitable and above the as-bid margin.
Turning to our Atlantic segment.
A loss in our Morgan -- a loss project in our Morgan City yard that we discussed last quarter has progressed fabrication ahead of our previous estimates and is expected to be completed in the fourth quarter.
However the fabrication project in Mexico experienced estimated cost increases related to scope growth and schedule extension resulting in a project loss of about $9 million.
While uncertain we believe that it may be possible to recover some of the project loss through future change order opportunities with this customer.
The DB50 is on site with all preparations completed in order to commence installation on the Papa Terra project in Brazil.
We expect installation to be completed in the late fourth quarter or early first quarter of next year.
Our expectation is to recognize most of the profit associated with this project in the fourth quarter this year.
On last quarter's earnings call we outlined the number of change initiatives to drive improvement in the company's performance.
With respect to our Atlantic restructuring effort we anticipate completion of the remaining fabrication projects at our Morgan City facility soon and expect to vacate that fabrication facility during the first quarter of next year.
In addition we plan to exit a joint venture in Brazil for the construction and integration of FPSO topsides.
Our actions to improve project execution and bidding we have made progress in all of our efforts to recruit new project leadership and have implemented many of the more rigorous oversight and accountability initiatives across the organization.
We have also increased margins and risk coverage on our recent bids and expect recently awarded projects to add to high-quality backlog.
With respect to our subsea division.
Most of the leadership for the division is now on board and that group continues to exert growing and positive influence in the organization both on new projects and existing subsea backlog projects.
Now before I turn the call over to Perry to discuss financials in depth it's my pleasure to introduce David Dickson to you.
David would you like to say a few words about your background and experience? So thank you Steve; and Steve thanks for the introduction.
So as a naval architect and subsea by trade I've been able to progress my career over the years into a strong business leadership which has been based on my passion for developing productive customer relationships and profitable project execution on a large scale.
I'm very excited and privileged to be back at McDermott after 15 years and looking forward to leading the organization in the future.
I see tremendous potential in the McDermott brand which represents a long history of dedicated employees and customer commitment in engineering and construction industry.
And in addition the company has got a strong balance sheet and experienced and dedicated workforce and is very well-positioned to take advantage of a great upstream oil and gas market.
And for me these trends are very much alive here in McDermott.
While the company's legacy is mostly firmly written in the shallow water side of the market a segment what I would refer to as offshore I see a very attractive -- I see very attractive and compelling opportunities for the company to make it into the subsea sector and in particular the deepwater.
I've only been on board a few days so very too early to speak explicitly about the changes that I plan to initiate.
But with my background and experience and the knowledge that I have with the insight and the context that will guide me will help me with my observations and to get to know the company's people facilities vessels and customers.
Lastly make no mistake I understand and welcome the challenge that the board gave me upon accepting this role in McDermott.
I hope you will sense my enthusiasm energy and commitment to make an impact on the company's operating culture and leveraging McDermott's strength to grow and attract talent and cut through to the business.
So to finish I'm very excited to be here.
So now I'd like to turn the call over to Perry.
Thanks David.
As we reported total revenues for the third quarter 2013 were $687 million a decline of 33% from the third quarter of 2012.
The year revenue decrease was driven primarily by reduced activity on large jobs that were active in the quarter a year ago and since then completed.
We reported backlog of $4.6 billion of which 58% was subsea work as of September 30 with bookings during the quarter -- of the third quarter of $207 million.
In the fourth quarter early in the fourth quarter we have been notified of our selection for approximately $700 million of new work.
With about $800 million of remaining 2013 revenues expected to come from our existing backlog we expect the full year 2013 revenues of approximately $3 billion consistent with our prior guidance.
Due to lower utilization and project charges as Steve discussed gross profit in the third quarter declined by $138 million as compared to the 2012 third quarter.
Under the percentage-of-completion accounting rules we recognized in the third quarter the entire expected degradation of projects in a loss position which were scheduled to be executed over future quarters.
Although GAAP does not permit us to accrue the worst possible outcome we believe that we have recorded sufficient reserves to recover the remaining execution plans for these jobs.
As of September 30 4 of the projects in our backlog were in a loss position.
They are the fabrication projects in Morgan City and Altamira and the subsea project in Malaysia that Steve mentioned.
In addition the 5-year Agile charter contract in Brazil which remains in a loss position but has been operating as forecast over 1.5 years and thus had no material effect on the third quarter's income.
General and administrative expenses decreased by about $5 million in the third quarter to $46 million as compared to the 2012 third quarter as a result of restructuring efforts and lower bidding activity.
Restructuring charges for the third quarter were $4 million of which less than $1 million were cash charges.
To date we've expensed $19.5 million of restructuring charges.
Combined with the charges for management changes taking place in the 2013 fourth quarter our total charges are expected to be $55 million to $65 million.
We anticipate the majority of the remaining charges to be expensed over the next several quarters.
The operating loss for the third quarter of 2013 totaled $53 million compared to $82 million of income in the comparable 2012 quarter.
We expect the operating income in the fourth quarter to be in the range of $50 million to $80 million driven primarily by our expectations regarding profit recognition on the Papa Terra project.
So as we head into the end of the year we have a combination of strong bookings early in the fourth quarter improvements on challenging projects mentioned in prior periods work commencing on major projects in Brazil and Malaysia as well as commercial agreements in principle with certain customers.
Like last quarter though we continue to expect low-single-digit operating income margins on backlog projects.
However until David has time to assess the business we're not in a position to offer guidance for 2014.
In the other income expense line we had an increase of $4 million compared to the third quarter of 2012 primarily due to net foreign currency related gains.
We strive to minimize foreign currency impacts as the U.S.
dollar reporting entity.
However as guided in prior calls the accounting for foreign currency hedges and balances continues to be volatile due to movement between the spot and forward rates.
Our tax provision in the third quarter of 2013 was $12 million.
We're unable to recognize tax benefits associated with certain losses primarily in the United States U.A.E.
and Malaysia.
Accordingly we expect these factors to cause us to incur tax costs even during periods with consolidated losses with the specific rates dependent upon the jurisdictional mix of profits and the extent of unbenefited losses.
So the net loss after noncontrolling interest was $64 million for the third quarter as Steve mentioned or $0.27 per diluted share which compared to income of $0.21 we reported in the third quarter of 2012.
Moving to the balance sheet.
We ended the quarter with $318 million of cash cash equivalents and investments down about $155 million at June 30.
In addition the company maintains its $950 million credit facility of which there were no borrowings outstanding at September 30 but $237 million of which was used for letters of credit.
This left $713 million available under the facility for borrowings and additional letters of credit issuance.
As outlined last quarter we continue to focus on managing our working capital as efficiently as possible and have implemented measures to prioritize G&amp;A spending.
During the third quarter we invested $81 million in capital expenditures an increase of $33 million over the third quarter prior year.
The company's remaining CapEx priorities include building out the Altamira yard in Mexico the construction of the LV108 and DLV2000 vessels as well as spool bases to support our subsea operations.
Similar to our customer projects shipyard payments on the new build vessels are based on milestones so our CapEx will be lumpy from quarter-to-quarter.
We also continue to market the DB16 and the KP1 which are classified as held for sale and as such they're no longer depreciated.
During the third quarter our debt position declined slightly to $94 million as we made quarterly principal payments on the North Ocean 102 loan facility which has $31 million remaining balance and matures in the first quarter of 2014.
I'll now turn the call back over to Steve.
Thanks Perry.
I'd like to wrap up our prepared comments and remarks with the review of our future project opportunities.
Turning to our revenue pipeline.
We've been quite active with bidding in the quarter as our bids and change orders outstanding at quarter end grew to $9 billion compared to $8.1 billion of bids and change orders outstanding in the second quarter and $7.1 billion a year ago.
Our bidding and change order opportunities include 2 projects over $1 billion in size about 13 projects between $100 million and $1 billion and 18 projects between $10 million and $100 million.
In addition our list of targeted projects totals $8.9 billion as of September 30.
As a reminder targeted projects are those that we intend to bid are well suited for us and that we expect to reach awards stage within the next 5 quarters.
37% of the value of our targeted projects relate to subsea work.
As of September 30 the combination of our backlog bids and change orders outstanding plus targeted projects or our revenue pipeline totals $22.5 billion.
Of the total revenue pipeline 27% accounts for subsea work.
With that amount of activity in our revenue pipeline and a healthy level of ongoing customer discussions I'm very optimistic about the trend of order intake and order flow.
The industry is still in the early innings of a drive into deeper waters offshore.
Not only are deeper water developments increasing but also advances in technology allow for more of the production infrastructure to be on the seabed floor.
Our customers' needs are getting more complex.
And I believe McDermott is positioned to be the next and one of only a few companies that will have the ability to address this market in a meaningful way.
On a final note before we turn the call over to your questions the company recently celebrated its 90th anniversary.
McDermott has a storied history of being on the leading edge of oil and gas infrastructure.
I believe the men and women of this company will continue that spirit for years to come and we all again welcome David Dickson to lead the company into this next era.
With that operator we'll turn the question -- or the call over to questions.
[Operator Instructions] And your first question comes from the line of Tahira Afzal of KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> My first question is in regards to Ichthys.
Could you talk a bit about North Ocean 102? I assume that's still the main ship you're looking to use.
Could you talk a bit about any drydock et cetera upgrades that might need to be done before you start your installation mid next year? And that ship as you pointed out performed pretty well in its prior installation.
So any kind of color on its schedule before it starts off so we can get an idea of really what condition the ship is going to be in as it starts installation that would be helpful.
Yes Tahira I think your question with respect to INPEX Ichthys program and you mentioned the 102.
The 105 is involved with a program in a more meaningful way.
Look the way we see that Ichthys program and as it is developing and with the use of both the 105 and the 102 on the Malaysian program that's ongoing now if I could say it this way we are debugging those vessels.
They are in my view going to be well understood.
The crews will be quite experienced by the time the Ichthys program begins although we've had our challenges not only with the crewing but also the back deck.
And as you heard me report in the prepared comments we lost the thruster on the 105.
I'm pretty confident that the 105 will be shaken out.
It will be able to perform the amount of work that she has to do; as well as the 102 I think will be well within the capabilities of those vessels.
The planning for Ichthys is as you might imagine ongoing now.
The bigger piece of the work in 2014 although McDermott has some work in 2014 the bigger piece of the work is with Heerema in 2014 as well.
So I'm happy to follow up if there's any further questions on that.
Research Division</strong> That actually is very helpful.
And the second question is Steve and David to the extent that you can comment at this point as you look out to the regions clearly Africa is one that's emerging.
But also it seems if you look at the plans for Petrobras they continue to be very aggressive going forward and present a good opportunity even though Petrobras can be considered one of the casual customers out there.
So in terms of regional expansions and strategy could you both talk about really the outlook going forward? What regions should we see you guys getting more scope in as you look forward? Tahira I'll begin and I'll be brief and then turn it over to David for his observations recognizing that while he's an industry veteran he's been with the company 4 days here and he deserves some time to think through strategies.
I would say as you mentioned Africa particularly West Africa but I would extend that to East Africa as well.
These are opportunities for what I would brand as the newer McDermott with our capabilities in subsea with our faster high-spec vessels.
So I would include that in a future strategy and I know David would agree.
Secondarily you mentioned Brazil.
You heard me say in the prepared comments that we are exiting a Brazilian joint venture for FPSO topsides fabrication and integration.
That should not single -- or signal I should say that we're abandoning Brazil by any stretch.
We simply couldn't make that joint venture materialize in the way that we had hoped.
We do have ongoing work as you know in Brazil with the Agile.
We're just beginning the Papa Terra project for the installation of the Tension Leg Platform.
So let me pause there and let David comment about those regions or any others you'd like David? Yes.
Tahira very good question.
And as Steve said with only being day number 4 also very difficult to make any definitive comment.
However what I would say is that as you know I've got extensive experience on working in Africa and in Brazil.
And clearly it is where McDermott is not significantly present or even in Africa not present.
And certainly as I develop or work with the strategy that some of it would be initiated here that these are things that will be definitely will be considered because clearly that is a significant large future in both West and East Africa.
And obviously Brazil will continue to be Brazil.
But that's something that I will address over the next couple of months.
I would simply add Tahira I just wouldn't want to leave out the North Sea as we think about growing the company into being a top-tier player in subsea.
Thank you.
And your next question is from the line of Jamie Cook of Crdit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One you did comment on the call that you won some awards in this quarter which was encouraging.
Given what we saw in the third quarter can you just talk about the bidding practices behind those projects sort of where they are and how we should think about the margin profile of these projects just given the execution issues that we've had? And then I guess my second question David while I won't ask you a question specifically about McDermott because that would be unfair given your experience I was wondering if you could address sort of your view of the capacity today in the subsea market? And given that growth trajectory that you see over the next several years do you think that there is a need for another player in the subsea industry? Thanks Jamie and good morning.
We'll take them in the order you asked them.
With respect to the newer awards we wish we could have announced those before the time of the call but as you know we're all in this industry subject to the timing and decisions and formalities of our customers.
But the numbers that Perry indicated in terms of new awards that we expect to have in the pocket so to speak are largely Middle East-type programs.
And they were subjected to our updated bidding regimes meaning that we pursued only those projects where we felt we had a competitive advantage.
We did not compete against irrational bidders.
We competed against rational bidders.
And both the margins and the contingencies in those programs are those and at the level that investors would expect for the long term or greater for McDermott.
And I'll pause there...
Research Division</strong> And I guess Steve before David answers the question just with regard -- I mean I guess the awards you got would suggest not but are you -- just given some of the changes that are going on with McDermott in terms of -- I don't need to go through them you know what they all are.
But are you seeing -- I mean do you think that's decreasing your win rate? Are you being more selective? I guess how are customers viewing McDermott just given some of the issues that are going on right now? Yes great question.
With our changes it's possible that the win rate could and -- could be having a decline.
We don't have a great deal of visibility into that yet just with a quarter under our belt of having made these changes because of the decision timing of those customers.
I can tell you the bids that have been submitted since the time we've made those changes we've been faithful to those bidding regimes.
Give us another quarter or 2 to see how those win rates play out to see if there's a material effect or if there is a longer-term effect.
My expectation is that because of others that we compete with going through their own strife that everybody is trying to improve their margins and lower their risks that it will not be a material effect in terms of win rate and it won't be protracted.
But on the other hand it will give us an opportunity for margin expansion and risk coverage.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then David sorry the second question? Yes Jamie I suppose my answer could be pretty quick in that obviously I wouldn't have joined McDermott if I didn't feel there was room for a new strong competitor in the subsea market.
Now saying that let's not forget that McDermott is also very strongly positioned in the offshore market which also has a significant future.
So the answer to the question yes I firmly believe that there is room for a competitor.
As I've said before McDermott has the right foundation for that in terms of a strong balance sheet.
It's got great people and it's already started the process in building and developing some strong assets.
And with all that with the brand over that and the history of the company as Steve said the company is 90 years old definitely there's room.
And I firmly believe that McDermott's going to create a really important part in the future in both offshore and subsea and in particular the deepwater.
Your next question is from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz of Barclays.
Research Division</strong> David welcome.
Steve good luck on your retirement.
Steve if I could ask you about the Malaysian job and just can you talk about your comments that you've contained the weather risk or you mitigated the weather risk and the customer is going to be more forgiving preparing the late delivery of penalties.
I'm just trying to figure out what these comments mean.
And you talked about that Lay Vessel 105 that you've been working out the kinks.
Like what are the chances that you worked out all the kinks for the Malaysian job or should we sort of expect the unexpected still over the next couple of quarters? As always Andy very good questions.
Okay let's start with the weather.
During the quarter as I reported in my comments we worked with our customer to help them realize their production needs for 2013 which is to say they had needs for first oil in 2013.
And the negotiations centered around some assistance that McDermott needed in order to limit the cost exposure on this project for going through 2013 and the early months -- and early weeks and months of the monsoon season.
So frankly the trade-off was to assist our customer with their needs.
And for us to be put in a position where both weather costs and liquidated damages for being beyond the contract date which we are for completion of the work would be on the table.
Both parties were successful.
It was a very comfortable mutual discussion between the 2 parties.
And what this means for weather is that for the most part not 100% but for the most part during the tendency of the monsoon seasons as of the third week in October the weather exposure is de minimis for McDermott as we complete the work which is a good thing.
That's not additional exposure that we wanted on behalf of our shareholders.
Now for the second -- and liquidated damages were extinguished and will not be applied subject to this agreement.
The kinks in the vessel as you called them the North Ocean or the Lay Vessel 105 look we frankly have a struggle with getting that vessel in a ready position through the bumps.
We missed some of the issues associated with the risks and underestimated some of the work scope on the project.
And with the 105 we've identified those risks.
We've priced those risks.
We've identified the underinvestment if you will and we priced those into the estimate of completion.
Then we started having a few challenges with the vessel.
And most recently in this quarter we lost a thruster had to have that replaced.
And we had some issues with the tensioner and appurtenances on the back deck of the equipment.
I have to tell you that the newer subsea individuals technical people in the company deserve a lot of credit for identifying the issues finding the root cause designing the remediation and the fixes for that vessel.
And I'm just comfortable as I can possibly be at this juncture recognizing that we have the second campaign beginning now that the vessel will perform and will perform well.
It is the nature of these things where new vessels that are going to work on these kinds of projects do have the occasional issues like this.
Do I -- and your last question was do I have comfort that we've in my parlance gotten it all? My point of view is is that every quarter we update the estimate to complete the project.
This estimate reflects our best estimate including all of the things that we can see under GAAP.
As you know Andy we can't create extra buffer or reserves but we do top up our contingency to be in alignment with the work that we see and we've done so.
So second campaign we'll see how she goes.
We should be starting on that in a matter of days.
Research Division</strong> Okay Steve that's helpful.
And maybe if I could shift gears and ask you about the Atlantic division.
You mentioned the loss on the PEMEX job at Altamira.
It just -- it doesn't exactly inspire confidence as we transition to Altamira.
Can you talk about the risk that you see in the new yard there in terms of labor visibility into estimated -- to being able to estimate contract profit at that site.
I know it's not that large a loss so I'm not overly worried about it.
But at the same time it's a new yard and I don't think that any of us want to see charges there.
Exactly so.
And I understand the comment.
Here's the root cause if you want to call it that related to that project for Altamira.
This is a project that because of design because of customer direction et cetera has experienced scope growth and related weight growth.
This is a big deck associated with this program.
And when you have scope and weight growth depending upon the root causes or the underlying reasons for that they can be placed into a claim or change order situation where the customer would adjudicate over whether or not those costs associated with that program were contributed to by their direction or by things that could not have been known at the time of the bid.
We feel we're in that space.
We intend to submit scope growth-related costs as change orders and may be able to bring this project back to breakeven.
So this is one of those programs where in the early days the profit picture might deteriorate.
But we're very hopeful because of the nature of the cost increases we'll be able to negotiate a fair settlement with the customer.
Having said that you asked about labor and productivity et cetera I'm more confident now than we were when we began that program that we know the rate in terms of the cost of labor.
We understand the productivity and we've dialed those in to the extent that we're aware of them.
So I feel like we've done the right thing by adjusting the estimate to complete on this project.
I believe we've got the right cost dialed in from a labor standpoint material standpoint and execution standpoint.
Now it's a matter of completing the work and ultimately settling with the customer on these change orders.
Research Division</strong> And Steve when you look at Altamira as a whole though do you feel comfortable with sort of what you're doing there now as you transition Altamira? Like this wasn't -- there are no other surprises with the transition over there so far? I would say this in this business as you know there are surprises.
I was just down there about 6 or 8 weeks ago and spent a full day with the team and with the overall facility.
This facility is laid out much more efficiently than our U.S.
Gulf Coast yard is.
That should lend itself to performance.
It has some newer assets there to perform the work.
It's a strong leadership team.
So all of those things contribute to my confidence.
Having said that in the future and as we've said before we do plan to continue the build-out of the Altamira facility to get additional real estate to get additional assets and appurtenances associated with it.
And we'll do that on a just-in-time basis.
Your next question is from the line of Steven Fisher of UBS.
Research Division</strong> On Ichthys just trying to get a sense of the risks that you could take some more write-downs between now and when you hit the field in the second half of 2014.
So I guess what do you expect to learn over the next 6 to 8 months that might influence your cost position there? I know Steve you mentioned debugging the vessels now but what else is going on? I break the -- Steven thanks for the question.
I break the project down into its risk elements.
The first of which of course was as I talked about for a number of different quarters is the procurement.
And we bought out roughly 98% of the materials and the subcontracts.
So we know the price of those materials and subcontracts as against the budget.
And we're in good shape there.
So that's a significant piece of the overall size of the program.
The next risk is in the supply chain how we're able to manage the quality manufacturer delivery of those materials.
We're in the middle of that program now.
We've got some major activities going on.
And I would say so far so good.
I don't expect any upset conditions although on occasion they're in the manufacturing process you can find issues associated with materials that delay their delivery or engineered items that delay their performance.
So we're monitoring those very closely.
And where we find those issues we're dealing directly with our customer to try to resolve those.
The major issue remaining once we get through the planning phases for the marine campaign is certainly having to do with marine installation.
So marine installation begins second half of next year.
It's both us and Heerema.
That planning is ongoing.
There are some minor elements having to do with A in getting engineering done in getting pipe well procedures in place.
But those are all resolvable within the timeframe before we start the marine campaign.
But make no mistake the remaining risk on the project having gone through the engineering to 80% substantially bought out the materials and the subcontracts now rest with the remaining fabrication in Batam and elsewhere and the marine campaign Steve.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Steve best wishes.
And then David congratulations.
I'm just wondering if you could share what performance targets you have to hit in order to get your incentive compensation over the next couple of years? Steve obviously this is only day number 4 so very early to comment on that.
But maybe we could discuss that at the next call but too early to talk about it.
And your next question is from the line of Martin Malloy of Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if you could talk maybe about the liquidity and some of the factors that might impact that over the next 2 years.
In the Q it said that there's $500 million to $600 million left to spend on the 2 new build vessels.
How should we think about the minimum amount of cash that you need to run daily operations the maintenance CapEx and what we can expect in terms of operating cash flow maybe as you look forward? Yes Marty it's Perry.
Thanks for the question.
A couple of things.
For the use of cash that we've been experiencing in 2013 it's as forecast which is for the investment programs.
Now we didn't forecast the project losses which used some cash but the majority of the use of cash including in this quarter is from the CapEx.
As we look forward we're pleased with the level of cash we ended the quarter with not only because it's in line with our expectation about the growth investments but also as I mentioned in my prepared comments about the working capital management.
So more specifically going forward we got to let David get his feet on the ground and evaluate our investment programs.
But after that we are in the middle of a continued investment in the DLV2000 and the 108 as well as finishing the Altamira yard.
I mentioned spool bases to support the subsea operations.
So we do anticipate being in a heavy -- continuing to be in a heavy CapEx period in '14 and '15.
And therefore we do not anticipate generating free cash flow in those periods.
As it relates to maintenance CapEx we have been running around BDNA around $75 million to $80 million a year.
We have some discretion over that.
So you recall last quarter I mentioned that as part of our financial strategies to respond to the operating challenges we have curtailed that a little bit not substantially.
But taking that down to kind of the mid-$50 million -- $50 million to $60 million range.
So we will continue to have maintenance CapEx but the big mover is on managing working capital with customers which is staying on top of collections and payments.
And then also the decisions we make with regards to our investment programs which are pending David's review.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Keppel made an announcement regarding a yard that they're going to invest $400 million in down in Altamira.
In the press release they've said that the yard would be able to fabricate topside modules and other offshore structures.
How does that impact your Altamira yard plans? Yes Marty this is Steve.
Good question.
That announcement was one that we knew and we're expecting.
The initial idea for Keppel as you can read in that article was for them to build in their base business to build holes and to build jackup or rigs for PEMEX.
As you know McDermott has a long-standing relationship with Keppel.
And we have ongoing discussions that we're not able to report on just yet that might have benefit for both McDermott and they as they endeavor to build their jackups and do a whole fabrication.
We're a topsides and integration-type company down there.
But with our relationship with Keppel there is a "1 plus 1 equals 3" solution here.
And I'll pause there until we're ready to talk about that further.
Your next question is from the line of Randy Bhatia of Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I think most of my big ones have been asked but I do have a couple of small questions.
Can you just give us an update on the status of the Gendalo project bid? Is that bid still valid and when might we hear something on that? Yes happy to do that Randy.
This is Steve.
Not a whole lot more that we can add to what has been in the public sector.
I would simply reiterate what is known publicly and that is according to the trade journals McDermott's bid was in excess of the owner's estimate as were the other 2 bidders' bids.
We can only explain our bid of course.
We can't explain or reconcile the much higher bids from the others.
I would say this to you though Chevron and their ultimate partner have a decision to make as they go forward as to whether or not how to negotiate or to decide that it is a failed bid because all bids are above the owner's estimate and they would go through a re-tender.
Qualitatively the important thing for our investors to know is is that I believe that McDermott because of its Batam fabrication facility our long-term presence in Indonesia our local content capability in our structure gives us a lot of confidence that what we did and how we're able to execute it would be the lowest cost and the highest quality solution.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then just one last one from me.
I think in the -- on the announcement of the management changes I noticed that it wasn't revealed who or when we might hear about who's going to take over as Chairman of the Board.
If you could give us any color on when that decision might be made on when we might hear about it that'd be helpful.
Yes happy to on that one.
And the easy answer is it's not yet determined Randy.
We recently completed a board meeting in advance of our earnings release and this call and that decision is pending.
And your next question is from the line of Brian Konigsberg of Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Welcome David.
I just had a couple of just quick questions.
I noticed in the Q that -- I think it was mentioned on the call as well that revenue or backlog in the loss position at $565 million.
That's up $190 million sequentially but Malaysia and Brazil went down.
You said there are 2 I guess Morgan City projects that are in the loss position as well.
But the step-up in loss revenue in the backlog just seems abnormally high.
Maybe you could touch on that? And secondly I know you don't want to give 2014 guidance but you did talk about margin range of 5% to 8% next year.
With such a large step-up in revenue that's going to be burned from backlog at 0 margin.
Does that change your view of next year's margin profile? So on the loss project -- Brian this is Perry -- first of all the addition of the Mexico projects we have 4 loss projects just to be clear.
We have one in Morgan City which would be the last job in the fab yard there finished up late this year.
We have the Agile contract in Brazil and we have the Malaysia contract.
Both of those -- all 3 of those are continuing from last quarter.
This quarter we added the PEMEX contract in Altamira Mexico.
And that is the reason for the increase there.
So the contract value of that Mexico contract PEMEX contract is larger than the delta that you pointed out.
But at the same we recognized revenue on some of the other loss projects during the quarter.
So that's the roll-forward if you will of the loss project.
As it relates to 2014 guidance that the only thing we can say is reiterate what we said last quarter about the backlog including low-single-digit operating income margin.
And again until David gets underneath the hood here we're just not in the position to give any further comment about 2014.
LLC</strong> Got you.
And secondly on CapEx plans.
So at the midpoint in the Q it's down about $150 million.
I know there was a range provided.
But it's down about $150 million and I think you condensed the spending to 2 years.
Previously you were saying 3 years.
Can you just touch on what has changed there and why? So the CapEx I think you're referring just to level set through 9 months we're at $225 million this year versus $179 million last year.
So we're actually up $45 million from last year.
What we discussed last quarter was I think you may be questioning relative to the guidance that we've given.
And that's not uncommon for us to push these out.
But if you recall last quarter when I talked about the financial actions that we can take we talked about G&amp;A cost we talked about working capital but we also talked about CapEx.
And so without reducing our long-term growth investments we have been working with shipyards and others to defer and manage those -- the progress payments.
So you're seeing a bit of that.
So we're not signaling any change in our long-term investment plan at this stage.
LLC</strong> And lastly if I could just sneak one last in.
The bids and change orders outstanding at $9 billion that did include the $700 million of projects won in early Q4? Yes.
Your next question is from the line of John Rogers of D.A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> David welcome; and Steve all the best.
Thanks John.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to follow up on one point.
Just relative to the equipment comps that you've had and Steve you said that some of it is debugging issues on a lot of this.
How much of a risk do we run over the next couple of years with this big capital spending program and lot of equipment coming online that we continue to see those problems reoccur? Yes John this is Steve.
Fair question.
The experience that we've had on the 105 one could say it's axiomatic that if you've got similar vessels coming online you might have the same problems.
I would say this the centroid of the issues with the exception of a thruster going out here and there on some of our vessels which is not uncommon the centroid of our issues on the Lay Vessel 105 has to do with the gear on the back deck of the vessel.
And that whole kit if you will was supplied by one manufacturer one supplier.
And they are a multiple numbers of issues.
They are software-related issues for control and instrumentation.
They are mechanical issues.
They are interference issues.
They are tensioner types of issues.
All of which are resolvable.
And frankly all of which should have been identified during the manufacturing process and certainly during the testing process.
And we simply didn't get into those and discover those problems early enough before this project began.
So if that's the case then how can I give us some assurance about these additional new assets and our ability to predict and get these things performing? Number one the people that have helped us identify the problems and resolve the problems are on board on station today.
We've been hiring them since the early part of this year.
They're not only subsea experts in terms of project execution many of them are technical experts on board the vessels that have seen this equipment before and related equipment.
And they have helped us quickly identify these problems and resolve them.
Number two these same people are now engaged with in an oversight manner in direct oversight manner related to the new build of the Lay Vessel 108 as well as the new DLV2000.
So we've got the experts in place.
Lastly I would say that one of the mistakes we've made with the 105 was selling her into a project before we had enough lead time to get this vessel shaken out understood get the crew trained before we went to work.
We will not do that with the newer vessels on a going-forward basis.
And in fact we'll not be bidding those projects until we've completed in a very robust way that kind of work.
And John there's a whole lot of other detail underneath that with lessons learned from the 105 that will apply to the building of the new vessels to the configuration of those vessels to the startup of those vessels to the sea troughs and a whole host of other things.
Research Division</strong> Okay I appreciate the color.
And one other thing if I could just -- and I'm sorry if I missed this but Papa Terra when -- where are we on that in terms of hitting the fourth quarter? Yes.
We gave a summary comment in the prepared remarks John.
It wasn't in too much depth.
We are on station now with the DB50.
And the support fleet is down there as well with all of the appurtenances all of the tendons all of the piles et cetera.
I've got an update during the call which indicates that if weather cooperates today we should be in installation mode sometime today in Brazil.
And it's an important milestone for us because not only will it help us start the continuous campaign subject to weather so that most of the financial returns or financial results will occur in the fourth quarter recognizing that some will flip over into 2014.
But if we start that process today we also will be in a position where weather downtime is not to McDermott's account.
So we're very anxious to get that started today.
But expect that we'll use the word most most of the income for the Papa Terra project will get turned on in the fourth quarter.
Perry do you want to add anything to that? No I think that's fine.
I would now like to turn the call over to Steve Oldham for closing remarks.
Thank you Deborah.
Thank you for participating today.
Operator we'll just conclude our call.
Thank you for joining today's conference.
This concludes the presentation.
You may now disconnect and good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to McDermott International's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Steve Oldham Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Celia and good afternoon everyone.
We appreciate you joining us today as we discuss our results from the fourth quarter of 2013 which were released through our press release and in our Form 10-K today.
Joining me on the call this afternoon are David Dickson McDermott's President and Chief Executive Officer; and Perry Elders our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Before turning the call over to David let me remind you that this event is being recorded and a replay will be available for a limited time on our website.
Additionally our comments will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks contingencies and uncertainties and reflects management's view as of March 3 2014.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC which are available on our website including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 which provides a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
And please note that except to the extent required by applicable law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Now with that disclosure let me turn the call over now to David for his opening remarks.
So thank you and good afternoon.
As I join you today in my first call as Chief Executive Officer of McDermott we are addressing some of the deepest challenges our company has seen in years.
We are learning and growing from those challenges and restructuring both financially and operationally to ensure that we have the resources and the dynamic and accountable organization to achieve long-term success to best meet our customers' needs.
Over the past few months I have been conducting a rigorous review of our organization.
We have looked at our strategic focus our projects operations business oversight accountability and cost structure and today I feel I have a realistical view of the business.
While it is clear to me that we must stabilize and transform our business it is also apparent that there are plenty of strengths and successes to celebrate in the organization.
We build some of the most complicated unique structures in harsh environments and we do it safely.
We have attracted strong subsea and technical expertise reaching critical mass in many experienced individuals who have recently joined our company.
Our Ichthys project is one to be admired and emulated.
Additionally in our offshore business fabrication and marine construction are in our DNA.
Our employees know it and our customers know it and it is our aim to demonstrate it to our shareholders as well.
Today I am laying out my business improvement plan which involves some strong and clear action but also establishes a path forward to meet the expectations of our stakeholders that is our customers subcontractors suppliers lenders employees and shareholders.
The actions we are going to take are immediate and will have a near-term positive impact on our business.
But we note that it will take a longer period of time before they see the benefit in our financial results.
First Perry Elders our Chief Financial Officer will discuss our fourth quarter financial and operational results.
I'll ask Perry to focus more on the key issues and the operational matters rather than reel in number and our P&amp;L as you have those in the 10-K and the press release.
Afterwards I will detail our action plan for McDermott.
At this time I'd like to turn over the call to Perry.
Thanks David and good afternoon everyone.
McDermott reported a net loss for the fourth quarter of 2013 of $324 million or $1.37 per diluted share.
Such amount included an operating loss of $316 million in the fourth quarter.
And of that amount about 80% reflects cash outlays that were made prior to the fourth quarter.
So of the $316 million fourth quarter operating loss approximately $134 million related to commercial issues approximately $80 million related to operational matters approximately $86 million related to asset impairments and approximately $16 million related to restructuring charges in the Atlantic segment and for a corporate reorganization.
As David mentioned we performed a rigorous review of all backlog projects over the past few months.
As you know GAAP does not allow for changes in judgments without changes in underlying economy events.
However there were a number of events which occurred during the past few months that triggered changes in our estimates.
The revised estimates reflect all information available to the company about both the triggering events and the forecast future project outcomes.
We believe the result of such changes in estimates is a realistic forecast of project profitability.
So I'd like to discuss some of the specific triggering events on projects.
First of the approximately $134 million of operating losses related to commercial issues key drivers included changes in our recovery estimates on projects with unapproved change orders and claims previously submitted to customers.
In most cases the work was performed and the cost was incurred prior to the fourth quarter.
We have advanced commercial resolutions on these projects in order to resolve these issues and improve our relationships with key clients.
As a result of those discussions written communications and in one case a settlement we no longer believe the full value of those claims and change orders on several projects are likely to be recovered.
More specifically approximately $91 million of the commercial losses are attributable to 2 projects.
1 project in our Asia Pacific segment was physically completed in the second quarter of 2013.
The triggering event for the estimate change followed mediation and subsequent negotiations with the customer and we settled the claim last month.
We are also no longer recognizing certain claims on another project in our Middle East segment.
The triggering event for the change in estimate for that project which is now in a loss position resulted from communications and negotiations with the customer in the fourth quarter as well as early 2014.
We remain in negotiations with the customer and anticipate fiscal completion and commercial resolution of the project by the end of the second quarter.
Second of the $80 million fourth quarter loss related to operational matters approximately $50 million was related to our typical quarterly SG&amp;A cost.
In addition the key driver was a $28 million loss related to a deepwater pipelay project in Malaysia.
During installation on this project we experienced both mechanical downtime on one of our vessels due to failure of a thruster and lower-than-anticipated productivity in the fourth quarter of 2013.
However since the fourth quarter we are especially pleased with the turnaround of our deepwater pipelay project in Malaysia.
The North Ocean 102 has completed its work and has demobilized from the project.
The Lay Vessel 105 is now in the middle of laying the final section of pipe which is the last of 4 pipelay campaigns.
Since our thruster issue the vessels have performed at or above our expectations and industry standards and the customer reached first oil last month.
We expect to complete the project later this month.
And although this project resulted in a substantial financial loss from operations' point of view we're pleased with recent technical accomplishments.
Third during the fourth quarter we impaired $86 million in assets.
As David will discuss later $39 million of impairments were triggered by changes to our vessel capital investment plans.
In addition $47 million of the impairments were related to goodwill primarily related to a 2007 acquisition which was triggered by forecast profit reductions from the profit estimate changes in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Finally we also incurred $16 million in restructuring charges during the quarter of which $10 million was a non-cash expense.
These costs related primarily to the restructuring of our Atlantic segment which was announced last summer and is progressing as expected.
The costs are -- also included a broader corporate reorganization which began in late 2013.
We expect in aggregate of $90 million in restructuring charges through early 2015 of which $34 million has been incurred through the end of 2013.
In addition I wanted to update you on a couple of other larger customer projects.
We commenced the installation of the Tension Leg Platform on the Papa Terra project in the fourth quarter.
However weather and operating conditions prevented us from making all the progress we previously anticipated during the fourth quarter.
Seabed conditions were worse than expected and resulted in piles filling up with mud and resulting delays.
We also experienced significant weather-related delays which is compensated by the customer but is essentially breakeven.
So from a financial perspective we currently estimate the Papa Terra project to be around breakeven although there is an opportunity to improve its financial performance.
From an operational perspective the platform is now connected and in position.
The marine installation is nearly complete.
So the most challenging elements of the project are behind us.
We are in the process of demobilizing the equipment and vessels from the field and expect to substantially complete with the project later this month.
Moving to our contract with INPEX for the Ichthys subsea field development which is the largest subsea project in the industry at the time of award.
Activity remains robust and our detailed engineering is substantially complete.
We have committed nearly all of the cost in our procurement and subcontract budgets and are focusing on managing our vendors and subcontractors for quality and timely performance.
Fabrication is well underway in our Batam Indonesia yard and we are planning for the project's offshore campaigns to begin in the second half of 2014.
Over the last quarter we conducted an extensive review of the project with experienced individuals who recently joined our company and concluded that the project is expected to be completed on time and profitably.
As David indicated earlier we are very proud of the Ichthys project and believe it demonstrates McDermott's strong capabilities and potential.
Turning to our revenue pipeline we reported a backlog of approximately $4.8 billion of which 59% related to our offshore operations and 41% related to our subsea operations.
Bookings in the fourth quarter totaled $709 million and included epic work in the Middle East a transportation and installation contract in Brunei and a charter of the North Ocean 102 in Brazil.
Our bids and change orders outstanding at year end were $3.6 billion compared to $9 billion at the end of the third quarter.
The decrease includes one mega project in Indonesia that was included in our bids outstanding as of September 30 but as of year-end was included in our target projects.
That project was retendered by the customer but we have been identified as 1 of 2 qualified bidders.
We are in the process of preparing a rebid and expect to submit it in the next few months.
Approximately 75% of our outstanding bids and change orders relate to our offshore operations and 25% relate to our subsea operations.
The 2014 awards are expected to be more back-end loaded.
Our list of target projects total $16 billion as of year-end.
As a reminder targets are those projects that we intend to bid in the next 5 quarters.
Approximately 82% of the value of our target projects relate to our offshore operations and 18% relate to our subsea operations.
The December 31 '13 -- the combination of our backlogs bids and change orders outstanding and target projects which is what we call our revenue pipeline totaled $24 billion a record level for the company.
Clearly there are many compelling opportunities for McDermott in the market.
Demand is strong and our company is uniquely positioned to benefit.
Now moving to the balance sheet.
We have a strong balance sheet and cash position.
We ended the year with approximately $150 million in cash and cash equivalents of which $25 million was restricted.
During the fourth quarter our total debt position decreased to $89 million as we made a quarterly principal payment on the North Ocean 102 facility.
As of the end of last week the company has approximately $335 million in cash and cash equivalents restricted cash and investments.
Our $950 million credit facility had no funding borrowings at year end.
Since then we have drawn approximately $250 million of the credit facility and repaid $32 million to retire the maturing debt related to North Ocean 102 vessel.
In light of the project issues described earlier and although at year end we were in compliance with the covenants of the credit facility in early 2014 we entered into discussions with the lenders of our $950 million credit facility for an amendment to provide additional flexibility going forward.
Among other things an amendment could modify the form of the facility amount of borrowing limits and the financial covenants.
We are pleased with the constructive nature of our ongoing discussions with our bank lenders and appreciate their support.
We also recently entered into a commitment letter with Goldman Sachs that provides up to $950 million in new senior secured financing which is expected to be available while we negotiate the amendment to our credit facility.
The new financing contemplated in the commitment letter would have a term of 5 years and the proceeds would provide funded capacity for letters of credit as well as working capital and general corporate purposes.
Upon completion of the amendment to the existing credit facility we expect to terminate the new financing commitment.
If the existing credit facility is not amended as contemplated we believe than the new financing commitment taken together with our projected cash flows from operations would be sufficient to fund our liquidity needs for more than a year.
In addition if funded much of the contemplated financing is expected to be used to cash collateralize letters of credit issued to our customers as part of the normal course of business.
So it would essentially be a gross up of the balance sheet for cash and debt.
While we're not providing guidance for the upcoming year I would like to remind you that our backlog's operating margins remains in the low-single digits.
In 2014 we expect $2.6 billion of backlog to be recognized as revenues.
Of this amount $395 million or 15% is expected to come from projects in a loss position.
Therefore they'll contribute revenues but no gross profit.
Our recent awards where margin is in line with our long-term market expectations although those awards are not expected to make any significant contribution to 2014 earnings.
Additionally we expect to incur an incremental $55 million to $65 million of restructuring cost during 2014 and early 2015.
This is both corporate and Atlantic which is expected to be heavily weighted towards the first half of 2014.
As we work through this backlog and close out our legacy issues we expect that McDermott will deliver improving financial and operational performance over the longer term.
Now I'd like to turn the call back over to David Dickson to discuss our plan for recovery.
Thank you Perry.
So following Perry's discussion of the fourth quarter results I would like to highlight our plan of action for McDermott that is already underway which we expect to stabilize the business and position our company for long-term growth.
Today I am announcing a new organizational design to do additional focus on our end markets and customers and to better leverage our global assets and capabilities.
The new organization will be designed around 2 operations that is offshore and subsea and will be led by 2 strong individuals.
Scott Cummins who will lead our offshore operations has been with the company for more than 25 years in various operational and management roles.
Tony Duncan who will lead our subsea business operations joined McDermott last year with nearly 30 years of industry experience including 15 years of management experience with tier 1 marine contractors.
Our business line leaders will be responsible for the strategic direction of our businesses and align us with our customers' needs.
They will also provide business oversight and project execution support for our regional operations.
Our business line leaders will be held financially accountable for their business line results and for efficiently allocating our assets among our regions.
This structure facilitates a transfer of our tough lessons learned in one region for the benefit of the others.
It is designed to improve consistency and allow more efficient flow across the organization.
Our new operations will be supported by teams from 4 regions that is: Americas North Sea and Africa Asia Pacific and the Middle East.
The regions will have P&amp;L responsibility and will be held accountable for business acquisition processes execution and cost management.
Our management team and organization will focus on 4 key areas with both short-term and long-term targets and goals.
They are: one strengthening our balance sheet and instilling capital discipline; two improving alignment with our customers and building stronger customer relationships; three improving our cost structure and increasing our competitiveness; and four building a performance-oriented and highly accountable culture.
McDermott has reorganized in the past but the organization has been slow to evolve and has not fully addressed the structural issues that have created operational challenges.
Our near global structure combined with a new culture of performance and increased accountability is real change across our organization.
Our first focus is to strengthen our balance sheet and instill capital discipline throughout the organization.
While our corporate staff continues its work to negotiate an amendment with our bank group my vision for a more disciplined organization involves a project execution team becoming more mindful of the cash impacts of project operations and change orders and improving our working capital position at the project level.
In addition and in keeping faithful to both our long-term strategy and financial discipline we are reevaluating and modifying some of our capital investment plans.
For example our DB30 is a very capable vessel for our offshore construction services.
However the additional capital and operating costs of our previously planned dynamic positioning upgrade would not help provide the ability to compete effectively with near high-spec deepwater vessels.
Therefore I have canceled the planned upgrade.
We will look for other opportunities to similarly curtail CapEx spending.
Finally we expect to divest underutilized non-core assets some of which we have announced.
Their sale provides a benefit of cash available for reinvestment and a reduction in the fixed operating cost on a go-forward basis.
Now let's talk about customers.
By adding value for our customers we expect to create value for our shareholders.
We designed our new organization to better align our customer needs and strengthen customer relationships.
We will add new positions that are designed to proactively address customer expectations and promote commercial agreement.
In addition we will have dedicated personnel manage our global relationships with key customers.
Those relationships will pay dividends to the organization that can help us strategically commit future capital spending and be on the leading edge of our industry.
Another focus of our strategy is to evaluate our cost structure and increase our competitiveness.
When analyzing the business we found that we were highly burdened with fixed cost.
It goes beyond just underutilized vessels.
We will be moving to aggressively lower our fixed cost and build a more flexible organization.
This means operating with more of a global perspective.
Our new leaders will have the flexibility to allocate assets around the world.
We expect to realize some efficiency by having consistent global standards and the flexibility to use the most efficient office vessel or yard.
Global flexibility will not only allow us to be more efficient on what we do today it will also allow us to pivot to the customer needs of tomorrow.
We will also look to take advantage of economies of scale as we break out of regional silos.
Lessons learned in R&amp;D ought to be spread among the organization.
Our new organization will also be much flatter than the one it replaces.
For one we will not be hiring a Chief Operating Officer.
Layers of management are being eliminated to provide more direct accountability from our operations to our corporate leaders.
With fewer layers I believe we can be more responsive as an organization to our customer and operational needs.
Because of these changes most of the fixed cost reductions will come from direct operating expenses and G&amp;A.
It is not about shrinking the business it is about leveraging the strength that many regional competitors do not have.
Our fourth and last key area is culture.
Culture is difficult to change but can often be the identity of an organization.
Our organizational changes are consistent with a high-performance and accountable culture.
Since I joined we have hired over 80 experienced professionals from -- many from tier 1 EPCI companies and we expect many more.
We plan to reinforce our culture of performance and increased accountability with an overhaul of our short-term and long-term compensation plans.
The new plans will work company-wide performance goals related to not just operating income but also to growth and cash flow.
Despite the recent internal turbulence the underlying external market opportunity for McDermott is impressive.
We are targeting to bid over $16 billion in new projects over the next 5 quarters.
Our North Sea and Africa region while relatively new to the company has extensive subsea bidding opportunities and with the right people and structure can be a profitable source of growth.
Now looking at the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and the Americas region.
I have a number of years of experience there and I'm confident that I am -- confident that with the right team we can build this region into a major driver of profitability for the company.
Lastly I would like to talk about our Ichthys project in Australia the largest subsea project at its time of award.
We have conducted extensive reviews of the project with new subsea professionals who have joined the organization.
We are making good progress to date and I am impressed with the quality of the team working on the project.
The project is being executed in line with any tier 1 competitor.
I personally will continue to remain focused on this project to see it through to a successful completion.
In closing 2014 will be a transition year for the company in many ways.
Business as usual is over.
This will require your patience as we implement our course of action to restore long-term and sustainable returns that shareholders deserve.
And with that I would like to open the line to questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from the line of Tahira Afzal KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> I guess -- my first question is David as you've decided to take over this role you are very familiar with potentially the projects McDermott has bid on at the small industry.
And I guess as you've hired people to review excess in particular could you talk about what your impressions of the project risks were before you were here and if they have changed as a consequence of the review? So yes -- I mean coming on board which we highlighted in our remarks there is that after joining we did an extensive and rigorous review of all our projects both for offshore and subsea.
We have been very fortunate and lucky that a lot of industry experienced personnel have joined our company and in particular the subsea arena.
A lot of people will relate everything back to the SeCaP project.
But I would say since the account which was bid and awarded some time ago is that there have been significant improvements internally in the company in terms of both bidding and executing subsea projects.
In addition some of the people that have joined the company have extensive experience in bidding subsea projects.
And we have made some let's say temporary fixes in our processes which will become permanent fixes as we roll out the organization commencing next week.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And second question David and then I'll hop back in the queue.
As you fermented this financial structure to see through your transitionary phase could you talk about how your customers have reacted? Are they trying to appeal with anything? Or has there been any slight concern at all? Tahira since I joined McDermott I would say that all our customers have been very positive.
Clearly our customers would like to see a strong McDermott in the market and that has been clear.
And the fact that our bidding activity even though we say in the fourth quarter bidding activity is done our bidding activity today as of beginning of March is very high and the prospects at hand looks good.
So I would say that the feedback from our customers has been positive.
Yes there has been some concern with the results from last year.
But in my discussion with the customers they feel that there is a position for McDermott in the market.
McDermott has a lot of strengths that it can offer our customers from people to our fabrication facilities to our vessels and also our EPCI capability.
And I think our customers are very pleased or will be pleased as we get through this transition and develop a strong organization.
The next question comes from the line of Jamie Cook Credit Suisse.
This is Linda Yuan in for Jamie Cook.
So I understand that you're suspending guidance.
However can you help out with some components? Like what is the ability to grow revenues beyond what has been burned in backlog? What is the profitability of backlog? And in terms of that $55 million to $65 million in restructuring when is that payoff expected? Is any of that expected in 2014? Linda I'm going to ask Perry to take this question.
Okay.
In terms of the latter part first on the restructuring cost I think you said the payoff of that which I assume you mean the benefit of it the payout which is the expenditure of it will occur in the first part of the year primarily.
The benefit of it we'll begin to see in the latter half of the year.
But certainly we will not see a full run rate of the benefit of that restructuring in 2014.
In terms of bookings as David just mentioned we do have a substantial amount of activity ongoing at the moment as it relates to bids and putting together tender activity.
And so as we look into 2015 you would be aware from the 10-K disclosures that we've got almost $2 billion in our backlog that will be recognized in 2015.
So we see that we've got more visibility to kind of 2015 than we ordinarily have because of Ichthys primarily.
But the other bidding and tendering activity is very nice and as we had a nice fourth quarter in that regard we see that continuing.
But as I mentioned in my earlier comments we expect those bookings for '14 to be kind of back-half loaded.
That's not to say the activity is low or that our prospects are low but just the timing of the customers award processes on the specific jobs that we're bidding looks like the bookings will be more back half of '14.
Okay that's helpful.
And then switching over to cash.
What -- how do you think about your ability to generate cash if any in 2014? And what are your assumptions on CapEx? And then could we have more color on the divestitures that you're contemplating? I mean what is the size of the portfolio? And do covenants become an issue at any point? Okay.
A lot of aspects there let me try to get at different ones of them.
So as I mentioned we kind are on pace for where we expected to be in terms of cash.
We've been as we've talked in the past managing our working capital appropriately.
Those actions have borne fruit in the last 6 to 9 months and we expect to continue to do that.
As we look forward one of the detailed elements of the action plans that David described in general is to move to a different business model if you will to the extent we can with both customers and vendors.
We haven't implemented that at this stage so we're more doing kind of the old school working capital management.
But as we go forward we are seeking to improve our cash flow from the projects as David mentioned by holding the project teams accountable for cash flow as well as profitability.
And so we believe that over time we will be able to take these short-term gains in working capital and convert them into sustainable gains driven by the business model.
As it relates to CapEx we do have hardwired CapEx programs underway for our Lay Vessel 108 as well as DLV2000 and you'll find in the 10-K updated guidance with respect to the CapEx programs for each of those years -- for each 2014 and '15 for those 2 vessels.
So we do expect to continue to be free cash flow negative in 2014 in terms of the consumption of cash on projects just based on existing backlog of business as well as use of cash for our growth CapEx.
We have deferred certain items as David mentioned and we have reduced CapEx.
And we believe we've done so appropriately without taking any business risks.
As it relates to divestitures the 10-K does disclose and has previously disclosed a couple of vessels that we're holding for sale.
We hope to advance those sales in the near term.
There were no additional vessels announced as being held for sale in the 10-K.
So still the ones the DB16 and the KP1 that we talked about previously.
We do have other "long in the tooth" older vessels that we're actively considering and we may move them to held for sale classification in later periods.
But right now they're under consideration.
As it relates to covenants as we mentioned we were in compliance at December 31.
We are anticipating being in compliance as we move forward in terms of the amendment that we're working to complete with our credit facility banks.
So that's the key focus of our capital financing efforts at the moment.
The next question comes from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So David with all due respect you still have a long list of projects and loss positions and you've actually added to them here this quarter.
So as we go forward what's your confidence level that you can stop adding to those to that list and that -- this is probably the last big quarter of charges.
I mean I know you're going to tell me that accounting said this is the last big quarter but we've been through this a number of times over the years at McDermott.
And I know you're a new leader here so hopefully we're all optimistic that it gets cleaned up.
But why is this time really different when it comes down to it? Well Andy I mean there's not much I can talk about the past because obviously I wasn't here.
So the process that I've gone through since coming on board was actually to personally review every project with the corporate team and go into a lot more detail.
My view is that what we have today are realistic estimates -- I won't go through every project in detail -- coupled with the fact that we've also been adding to the team high grading the team in some areas.
We have had some changeouts in personnel in some areas.
So there's a lot of activities that are ongoing [indiscernible] to get to the bottom of this and a lot of effort has gone in the last 4 months since I came on board.
So what I feel at the moment is that today we have let's say a more realistic and achievable position.
And then secondly a lot of these projects that we're talking about in a -- that are in a loss-making position or what I've referred to as the legacy projects and a lot of these are coming to an end.
If we talk about projects such as SeCaP you heard from Perry we're only a few weeks away from completing that project.
And although it has been a significant financial loss I think it's important to highlight that the operations for the last 2 months have been in line with industry standards and comparable to the performance of any other tier 1 competitor.
Secondly we talked about Papa Terra.
And Papa Terra at the moment is forecast to be breakeven.
But again the TLP is now hooked up so the most difficult and technically challenging part of the project is complete and now we're into the demobilization phase.
So when I look at the backlog a lot of these projects are coming to an end.
I'd also like to highlight what Perry also indicated is that in at the backlog we're also adding projects.
And those projects have margins which are in line of where I want to take the company in the future.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then David maybe can you can talk a little bit about when you might achieve a more normal business? Obviously you've talked about restructuring and you talked about that sort of going to '15 and gaining the benefit of that.
Do you think based on the backlog that you have that '15 could be a more normal year? And then what is normal to you? Is that sort of the 10% to 12% that McDermott used to talk about in terms of margin? Is that 5% to 8%? What should the business do in your opinion? Well I think Andy the first point is is that -- difficult to compare with the past.
As I indicated we're moving to a 2-business segment organization.
And over a period of time we will start to publish our results separate of subsea and offshore.
The timing of that I cannot confirm yet.
But as we go through this year we'll go through that process.
My long-term target is to get the subsea business performing in line with the rest of the tier 1 companies.
And same with -- on the offshore and -- and you know what those numbers are by looking at the other competitors in the market.
So that's where my long-term plan and where I plan to take this company in the future.
Research Division</strong> Do you think you can achieve that by '15? Or is that too early to say? Andy I would say that firstly I've been in the seat for 2 months in terms of the CEO and I think I would be only speculating at this time to give an indication of when that would be.
What I would say though is that I am happy with the organization that we're putting in place.
I think it provides the right focus.
I'm very happy with the people that have joined the company and I'm also very happy with a lot of the strength that McDermott has.
I mean it has a lot of potential.
So I think at this time Andy it's too early to state -- to say when we will be through this -- what I've referred to as a transition period.
A question from the line of Steven Fisher UBS.
Research Division</strong> Wonder if I could just ask you to clarify or give a little more detail on your "aligning with customer" initiative.
I'm just trying to understand what that means practically.
And how would this help your competitive positioning? Steven I would address them to me.
So firstly more upstream with the whole process.
And that is today I feel that we could enhance our competitive position by being more involved with our customers as our customers look at future developments and future programs.
And today we're not in that space.
And I think it's a great opportunity to take McDermott to that space through LNG engineering activities and also developing relationships with our customers as we discuss future technology and future R&amp;D.
The second part of it is I refer to what Perry talked about in his remarks in that we've had some challenges in the fourth quarter in terms of recoveries in our projects from change orders and claims.
And some of that is a result of some relationship.
And I won't say breakdowns but we were -- lack of strength in our relationship with a customer or let's say an enhanced relation with a customer could probably have brought a better result.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then for Perry when do you think you'll have all your financing all finalized? I believe second quarter is our plan to have the credit facility amended by then and the final financing arrangements in place.
So it should be over the next -- hopefully near term the next few -- certainly next month or so but could run into early Q2.
A question from the line of Vishal Shah Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Jerimiah Booream on the line for Vishal.
I know you guys mentioned that Papa Terra would be breakeven but with a possibility of profitability.
So I was just wondering how likely that is and what level you could get to in a best-case scenario? So obviously if it was probable we would have recorded it that way.
So that's probably the first way to look at it.
As David mentioned we believe these forecasts are very realistic.
As I commented there is upside on this.
We have submitted several change orders with the customer and there's other situations with the customer that could improve the margin on this as we close out the job over the next few months.
We've got to finish in the field and then we'll move into the commercial closeout process.
So we're not in a position to give you any specific numbers around that.
But I think the -- again the breakeven position is very realistic with upside.
Research Division</strong> And on the North Sea and Africa segment that you plan to roll out what's the opportunity and the timeline there? And David how might you bring your expertise to that rollout? These opportunities are real and real today.
Our near subsea division in North Sea Africa which will be based out of London is already more than 130 people today.
We are actively bidding projects both in North Sea and Africa.
I don't want to name them but we are more than 4 projects in North Sea.
Bids ongoing today.
Our bids are being submitted.
And 2 major projects in Africa.
So that opportunity is realistic today.
We obviously have ways to go in terms of pure strengthen in our position there but it's certainly a great growth opportunity for McDermott.
A question from the line of Martin Malloy Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Given the $306 million of letters of credit it looks like you've outstanding in the last month and $250 million of borrowings and the CapEx expenditures that you have going forward here; $450 million to $500 million just for the DLV2000 and LV108.
What is your ability to go after this $16 billion in target projects? Do you have the letter of credit capacity to pursue all these? Perry do you want to do that? The short answer is yes Marty.
These projects either would be financed through the existing capacity that you referenced because we do have capacity under the credit facility and the other backstop that we've put in place.
But also these larger projects in particular can be self-financed with the customer either in separate facilities or other arrangements with the customer.
So we don't -- we haven't seen and don't expect that to be any issue at all.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you talk maybe about the top people that you've been attracting? What have they seen in McDermott that has allowed you to attract them to the company? I would say most of the people joining the company see an opportunity and more focus obviously on the subsea side to grow something that maybe the opportunities don't exist where they are today.
McDermott has an excellent brand and has an excellent reputation and was previously as you know in the subsea business until in the late '90s.
So with the investment that's been ongoing with projects that's been awarded there has been attraction for a lot of people to join the company and be something -- be part of something as we grow it and as we implement our strategy.
The next question comes from the line of John Rogers D.
A.
Davidson.
Research Division</strong> Just following up on one of the earlier questions.
I'm just trying to understand I guess maybe for Perry as we get in towards the end of 2014 with the negative cash flows and the CapEx I guess how close is this going to get in terms of making sure that you're still funded all the way through the year? I mean is that -- can you give us a sense of where that -- those 2 lines get the closest and kind of then where cash flows should start to catch up? Yes.
I mean we obviously have a detailed rack up by project of the cash flows of the projects and the plan for the CapEx.
We have been working with the shipyards in terms of managing those CapEx programs you referenced.
And the simple answer John would -- I mean I can't give you our forecast but we're financed and not by the skin of our teeth.
We're comfortably financed with the $950 million either under the credit facility or the backstop.
Research Division</strong> But that $950 million -- I mean the backstop you've got a year under that and...
No it's renewable structurally after the year.
But the expectation is that if we access it which -- again we don't expect to access it.
It would be a 5-year facility.
So our expectation is we'll renew the credit facility which has 2.5 years left to go and the backstop is just kind of a safety net.
If we access it we expect it to be a 5-year facility.
Research Division</strong> And then for David -- I mean in terms of your review you've talked about some of the project reviews.
But are there services or capabilities that you need to add at McDermott over the next 2 years to compete in the market? Let me start from the basics where we are today.
My first plan is what I've said in my remarks in that I want to stabilize the organization.
So that's been the process.
We're going through the backlog.
But also by turning initially a temporary fix in for the one-up process which becomes a permanent process in the next couple of weeks.
This isn't a fix it's just an enhancement of the process which was already existing.
It also involves strengthening and some of the team and also reorganizing the business that creates a better oversight.
That's more on the process and that carries through into how we review our projects.
And that -- and in fact how we review our businesses.
More on the strategic side what I have done today is I have put and I indicated in the remarks a small pause on our strategy whilst I evaluate the strategic move into subsea which is the right one and more evaluating -- making sure it is the right path but also with the addition of some of the expertise that were brought on that we're fully evaluating how we should better spend our CapEx dollars as we move forward.
And that exercise will complete over the next couple of months.
The next question comes from the line of Robert Connors Stifel Nicolaus.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Just to touch upon the CapEx issue can you just remind me how much you had budgeted for the DB30? And then just on top of that I believe the annual maintenance CapEx of about $75 million to $100 million per year was cut a couple of quarters ago.
Just wondering when you'd expect that to get reinstated? Sure.
The DB30 originally was circa $80 million or so.
We had spent some of that money and that's why there is an element of impairment associated with that related to the monies we had spent.
In terms of maintenance CapEx you're right circa $75 million to $100 million.
We curtailed that by about 50% to kind of the mid-50s.
Again well within kind of our normal profile.
We reduced kind of some of the "nice to haves " if you will.
So we don't see that jumping back up for the next year or 2.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then David you sort of selectively pointed out that Gulf of Mexico is going to be a major profitability driver especially with your experience in the region.
So just conceptually if we look at McDermott say 3 to 4 years out is the story going to change for McDermott much more to be maybe a little bit more focused as a regional player? Or do you still see yourself geographically pretty distributed? The plan is that we will remain geographically distributed.
My reference to the Gulf of Mexico is that McDermott has had some challenges over the years in this region.
And as you know there was a strategic shift to close Morgan City and focus on Altamira in Mexico which was definitely the right decision and one which I support even though it happened before I came on board.
I think there is a fantastic opportunity for McDermott to grow in this region.
The opportunities ahead and if you follow the activity I think Gulf of Mexico particularly the drilling activity today is that 2 to 3 years down the line I think there's going to be extensive opportunities for McDermott to grow.
However in the meantime we're going to make some organizational changes that'll involve strengthening the leadership for the region that will help us become more competitive.
Nicolaus &amp; Company Incorporated Research Division</strong> And if I could just tag on one more on that subject do you see the Altamira yard as critical towards that strategy? Absolutely.
What we're doing with the investment we also -- if you picked up during my remarks I talked about a solid [ph] organization.
And what we're working towards is that we have -- in McDermott where fabrication is in the DNA we have a yard in Jebel Ali which is working extremely well; a yard in Batam which is working extremely well.
And as part of the reorganization we're going to look to move some of the expertise from those locations to Altamira so that you have all yards working to the same processes the same systems and the same productivity.
So I'm very very confident and very excited about the Altamira yard for the future.
At this time we're going to turn the call back over to Mr.
Steve Oldham for closing remarks.
Thank you Celia and thank you for participating today.
Operator this will conclude our call.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to McDermott International's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the prepared remark we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at the time.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Mr.
David Dickson President and Chief Executive Officer.
Go ahead.
Thank you.
So today Im pleased to announce that we have made significant progress on the turnaround rebuilding of McDermott.
We are seeing notable improvements in many areas including our culture operations and our customer relationships and we believe it puts us on track to build our backlog and sustained profitability.
This quarter three legacy projects turned to profitability as a result of improved operations and relationships with our customers.
We finished and closed out two other legacy projects in the quarter which brings down the number of zero margin projects in our backlog from nine last quarter to four.
Just as important there were no near loss project identified in the second quarter.
We still have a long way to go but we are committed to bringing that metric down further.
We also completed recapitalisation of our balance sheet to provide the financial flexibility we need to execute the turnaround.
In addition to our efforts to improve our execution we reorganized the Companys leadership trials and set the groundwork toward shifting McDermotts culture to be more externally facing and customer driven.
We believe this will be instrumental in building profitable backlog.
These actions are designed to build a stronger McDermott for the long run.
One that has a strong reputation when a contract of choice for our clients.
I've said it before there is no quick fix and we are in the early days but I believe we are doing the right things and with time our results will reflect our efforts.
With me on the call today are Perry Elders our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Steve Oldham our Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
I will first turn the call over to Steve for our disclaimer and then let Perry discuss the second quarter financial results.
Steve?  Thank you David.
Good afternoon everyone.
Wed like to remind you that were recording this call and that a replay will be available on our Web site where you could also find our second quarter 2014 results press release and the Form 10-Q that would be filed today.
We've also posted a presentation that will be available for a limited time on the investor relations section of our Web site that contains supplemental information on our operations and business outlook.
Additionally our comments have and will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks contingencies and uncertainties and reflect managements view as of August 4 2014.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC which are available on our Web site including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 and subsequent current quarterly reports which provide a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
And please note that except to the extent required by applicable law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Perry? Thanks Steve and good afternoon everyone.
Im pleased to report that our results were in line with our expectations for the period.
In an effort to increase transparency in our turnaround I'll refer to several metrics today which we used to manage the business.
As Steve mentioned we posted a presentation that provides additional details on those metrics which is available on our Web site and which investors may find helpful in understanding our results.
McDermott reported net loss for the second quarter 2014 of $11 million which included gains of asset sales of $46 million expenses for financing transactions of $28 million and restructuring charges of $1 million.
These items net to $17 million both on a pre-tax an after tax basis for $0.07 per diluted share.
Revenues for the quarter were $476 million down 26% from the second quarter 2013 on lower Marine activity contribution.
Second quarter operating income totaled $28 million and included the aforementioned gains on asset sales and restructuring charges.
Were pleased with the progress made in the disposal of our older underutilized assets.
On our subsea vessel utilization a 51% was well within quarter and this quarter and lower this quarter due to preparation of the Lay Vessel 105 for a charter contract with Petrobras in Brazil.
Also unabsorbed direct operating expenses total $22 million in the second quarter.
We have provided metrics on our asset utilization in the presentation provided on our Web site.
Importantly as David mentioned we made good progress on improving the execution of our legacy projects.
In addition to operational improvements our commercial teams have been working with our customers to settle change orders and closed out those projects.
For example we recognized the gain in the second quarter on a Caspian project from the recent customer approval of change orders.
Our relationship with that customer has improved and we have been able to find common ground on a number of areas.
We are pleased that the project has return to profitability this quarter along with two other jobs that had been previously listed as lost projects.
In addition we recorded project closeout improvements of $30 million on the Wellhead Tension Leg Platform EPCI project for Petrobras which was completed earlier this year.
On the other hand as we discussed with investors in June when the platform EPCI project for PEMEX and it was one that was already in a loss position and at that time we indicated it was showing signs of further stress.
We increased the estimate of the cost to complete by $20 million in the second quarter.
Also in the second quarter we completed the design and factored current productivity and our New Americas region management team reworked the schedule and execution plan.
The project is undergoing a full re-estimation with considerable attention on meeting a delivery schedule that results in physical completion in late 2015.
So we closed the quarter with realistic and achievable estimates for this project.
On a subsea project in the Gulf of Mexico for Chevron which was also in a loss position we recently experienced vessel downtime that increased our estimated cost to complete by $13 million.
However the North Ocean 102 returned to work and completed its portion of that project today.
We expect to be operationally complete on the entire project by the end of the month.
Last quarter we indicated that our backlog contained nine projects in a loss position.
During the second quarter we returned three of the projects to profitability completed two and added none.
So we enter the second quarter with four loss projects.
This objective measure is the representation of progress made on improving our execution performance.
Moving to our contract with INPEX for a subsea development in Australia; fabrication activity at Batam Island Indonesia yard continue as we prepare to commence the marine installation phase of the project.
We remain on schedule to deliver the fabrication components to Heerema for a load-out and installation window which is currently scheduled for early fourth-quarter.
After Heerema completes their installation scope we expect to install flexible risers and complete the remaining scope.
We are performing well on our contract with INPEX and continue to believe that we will deliver the project successfully and profitably.
A large portion of our backlog contains projects characterized by low margins.
As previously indicated until we book new profitable backlog our legacy projects will continue to weigh on our results.
Therefore we expect an operating loss for the second half of this year.
Turning to our revenue pipeline we reported backlog of approximately $4.1 billion of which 39% to our offshore operations and 61% related to our subsea operations.
However our bids outstanding are heavily weighted towards offshore operations.
So over the medium-term we would expect our backlog slightly more weighted towards offshore operations.
Bookings in the second quarter totaled $176 million in line with our expectations for awards for which customer responses are concentrated in the second half of this year.
Our bids and change orders outstanding at the end of the quarter were $8.4 billion compared to $3.5 billion at the end of the first quarter 2014.
Approximately 93% of our outstanding bids and change orders related to our offshore operations.
The increase in bids outstanding relates to a strong bidding activity and includes the Chevron offshore project for two floating production units in Indonesia which David will discuss later.
Our list of target projects total $9.8 billion as of June 30.
As a reminder targets of those projects that we intend to bid and are expected to be awarded in the next five quarters.
Approximately 65% of the value of our target projects relate to our offshore operations.
As of June 30 2014 the combination of our backlog bids and change orders outstanding and target projects what we call our revenue pipeline totaled $22.3 billion down from $24.8 billion last quarter.
There have been some timing slippage to the right on projects putting them outside our five quarter award window.
However bidding activity remains strong and we see good opportunities in areas where we have strategic advantage through our local content in national oil company markets including Mexico Saudi Arabia the UAE Indonesia and Malaysia.
We have provided additional information on our revenue pipeline in the presentation on our Web site including the number of projects and various contract value size ranges.
So we expect to convert our share of the revenue pipeline into profitable backlog over the second half of 2014.
Regardless of the results of the bid with the share run for two floating production units in Indonesia we would be disappointed if we finished the year with a smaller backlog than we started 2014.
Moving to the balance sheet at June 31 2014 we reported $958 million in cash restricted cash and investments with $904 million in debt outstanding.
We completed financing transactions during the quarter which we expect to provide but with the financial flexibility to execute our turnaround plan and provide the liquidity to support our growth plans which include the delivery of the construction support vessel or CSV 108 and the DLV2000 vessels.
We have $375 million to $425 million left to spend on the two vessels and related equipment with approximately $100 million of that payable in the second half of this year.
We expect total capital expenditures including the amounts for these two vessels in the second half of the year around $150 million.
Restricted cash increased this quarter as we chose to utilize a portion of our cash for collateralized letters of credits which is currently more cost-effective than placing them under our revolving LC facility.
We continue to focus on working capital management.
Our free cash flow metric defined as cash flow from operations less capital expenditures was as we expected for the quarter and supports or belief that the turnaround is on track.
I would also like to discuss a few housekeeping items.
Interest expense during the quarter totaled $39 million.
This included $28 million of expense related to prior financing cost.
Going forward we expect an annualized run rate of about $52 million of interest expense which includes cash interest and approximately $13 million in annual deferred loan cost amortization net of approximately $21 million of capitalized interest.
Also our basic and diluted share count remained flat last quarter due to the anti-dilutive effect of the TEU shares on a reported loss.
Depending on the stock price until the segment of the units we could include an additional 33 million to 41 million shares.
To summarize we continue to work through our legacy backlog and closeout our loss projects.
We have a number of opportunities to book meaningful new work and continue to execute the turnaround plan for McDermott to deliver improving financial and operational performance.
Now I would like to turn the call back over to David Thanks Perry.
As I mentioned earlier we made significant progress in the first two quarters of the year and we believe our turnaround is on track.
With respect to changing our culture we are seeing signs of success with the new organization.
At this point the new organizational structure is in place and all the individuals with changing roles have fully transitioned into the new area of responsibility.
We have succeeded at recruiting the initial wave of experienced professionals and our future efforts will focus on filling specific needs.
With everyone in their seats we have gained traction on advancing the culture change to build a sustainable profitable business.
As the dust has settled we have been able to identify areas of excellence as well as gaps that we are addressing.
For example we identified several gaps on the platform EPCI project for PEMEX which Perry mentioned and it's still in its early stages.
Both the new leaders of the Americas region and our new project assurance organization have identified issues now that the design has been completed primarily productivity and schedule concerns.
They also identify realistic and achievable mitigation measures which we believe will reduce the impact to our financials and deliver on schedule to our client.
On the other hand we have been very satisfied with the progress and quality of workmanship on our contract with INPEX to date.
Our fabrication capabilities and performance represent significant differentiators between us and other major contractors which we believe provide McDermott with a real competitive advantage when building projects with sophisticated subsea fabricated structures.
As I mentioned in prior calls we have been breaking down the silos in the Company and expanding the areas of excellence around the organization with global processes and procedures.
We are identifying those areas of excellence and re-writing processes and procedures based on best practices.
Our new leaders have the drive the desire to improve and the will to learn from others.
Its a clear sign that the culture is changing.
The culture is not only changing with respect to internal issues but the Organization is significantly more externally focused today.
An example of our emphasis on building strong customer relationships from the project level to the executive level is our Leader of Strategic Relationships a new role whose primary responsibility is facilitating communication and building relationships between members of senior management and our key customers.
Beyond customers were working on strengthening our ties to the communities where we operate.
We support many jobs in the U.S.
Mexico UAE India Malaysia Australia China and Indonesia and it's important to communicate that we want to be a partner in the development of their energy infrastructure and technical talent.
Our ability to support local communities and provide local content is a differentiator in the eyes of many of our customers.
For example we believe that in connection with the energy reform in Mexico there will be 25% local content requirement on most developments eventually rising to 35%.
We expect our Altamira yard to be a differentiator as Mexico accelerates its development of offshore fields.
We have engaged with our customers on both current projects and future opportunities.
This quarter we resolved many change order issues especially on our legacy projects.
Today we find our customers are much more responsive than they were just a couple of quarters ago.
In addition to our discussions we have been able to identify particular customer needs on new project opportunities that had not been on our radar which leads me into an important point.
With our execution improving we must now build profitable backlog for the turnaround to be a success.
In that regard in June we announced that the McDermott led consortiums bid was selected to engineer procure and construct the floating production units on a Chevron-operated natural gas development in Indonesia.
The total potential contract value including our consortium profits is large and between $2.5 billion and $3 billion.
If ultimately awarded we believe this will be another excellent opportunity to showcase the competitive strength of McDermotts Batam Island fabrication yard.
As of today the contract has not been awarded.
There are still various hurdles to clear including government and regulatory approvals and final investment decision by Chevron most of which are beyond our control.
Were busy pursuing other bids and opportunities as well we are actively adding to our sales force and bringing on talented individuals to build longstanding relationships with our current and potential customers.
We have been successful winning small or short-term projects like the recently announced platform installation for Walter Oil &amp; Gas.
Our goal is to keep our sales force winning a blend of anchor EPCI projects other EPCI projects that may not make the headlines and smaller short-term work to keep our assets utilized.
Now taken all this together its encouraging that our execution is improving and we made significant strides in changing the culture to unblock McDermotts potential.
Business acquisition will be a high priority in the second half of this year as we expect most of our bookings to be back-end loaded.
At the same time we are taking steps to become an attractive competitor and take advantage of what we see a strong long-term demand for offshore and subsea services.
Now with that Id like to open the line to questions.
(Operator Instructions).
And your first question comes from the line of Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
I guess just a couple of questions.
Given the progress that youve made on the problem project that you had and now we only have four I think in a zero margin position.
I mean what gives you I mean are you more comfortable today or can you say with more confidence that we have the four zero margin projects more in control relative to -- just given the progress youve made do you feel more comfortable that these are more in control.
And then just your second comment about backlog with the standing Gendalo I think you still said youd be disappointed if backlog wasnt up at the end of the year.
Can you talk about the other sort of projects that are out there in just your line of sight when we would expect to see orders should Q3 bookings be up or would it be more of a year-end scenario? Thanks.
So on the first question the answer is you can never be sure youre actually done yet.
But I think what I would say today the people would be bringing in the processes and systems that weve been implementing we're starting to see surprise losses.
Also still got a long way to go but certainly what we've seen over the last quarter it would start to generate more confidence that we're moving in the right direction.
I think thats reflected in the fact that we're going from nine then to four projects.
So thats important part.
I think I said it on the call before.
A big part of the challenge is making sure that we first improve our execution.
And I think we're on the right track there.
On the second question I am going to pass it over to Perry.
Thanks Jamie.
In terms of building profitable backlog we definitely expect second half bookings to come about and therefore we do expect to build profitable backlog.
And what gives us confidence about that as you will see on the Web site is the number of projects that we have -- over 20 projects in the bids outstanding.
So its not just GG and Indonesia.
There is a number of projects that are kind of in the singles and doubles range that we believe that we're particularly well-positioned.
For example we think we've got an advantage over the Koreans in Brownfield work.
And so as we look at each of those bits outstanding as well as the target projects you can see enumerated on the revenue pipeline started on the Web site we think we have a number of very specific situations that will allow us to book work in the second half of this year.
And then sorry just a follow-up I think you said you still expected operating losses in the back half of the year.
Anymore color you can provide because there is lot of noise like you had the gains in the quarter that Im assuming youre not expecting anything in the back half of the year.
So should be look at ex-that or any color you could provide Perry that would be helpful.
And I will get back in queue.
Yes.
Thanks Jamie.
Yes is the answer.
Thats why we called on those non-recurring items in the second quarter.
And as we forecast the second half of the year we're not for guessing any of those in our guidance and so as I mentioned the loss project in our backlog as well as low margin in our backlog is why we're so focused on improving execution and we believe that we'll work through this year and into next year on improving execution.
Thanks.
And your next question comes from the line of Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Please proceed.
I guess first question is just some sort of follow-up on Virginia.
If I think all the closeouts you had that youve identified in year 10-Q they roughly add up to around 75 million or so which is obviously a good chunk coming from legacy projects.
So congrats on that.
And as I really take some of the negative charges and subtract them out and really look at where your profitability net-net ends up ex of all the positives and negatives around $5 million or maybe a little higher than that in EBIT ex-restructuring.
So I guess Perry when youre talking about the second half losses what are you including or excluding and am I looking at it the right way in terms of the second quarter.
As you know we're not giving financial guidance yet and so we're trying to help you understand not only what happened in the second quarter but as we look forward what the improving execution can deliver for us.
And so as Ive mentioned a few times in the past these realistic and achievable estimates that we've got on the projects now leave us with some opportunity going forward.
I would say bluntly that the second quarter results we have not drained the balance sheet of those opportunities.
We believe there continue to be opportunities to finalize the closeouts on some of the lost projects including ones that we made progress on this quarter to further assist for the rest of the year.
And so we think that level of resolution that we made good progress on this quarter will continue through the second half of the year notwithstanding that with our fixed cost structure we don't anticipate being able to be in the profit for the back half of the year.
Got it okay.
And the second question; David if you could comment a bit on the slippages in terms of your target list what's driving them and how you see them playing out at this point? And really as you look at your potential backlog as you exit the year and given your lean fixed cost structure when should we start to see that sort of EBIT line turn and inflect positively? I know you can't give me guidance for the quarter but some kind of qualitative guidance in terms of inflection would be helpful.
On the slippage of these projects obviously the one which is offsetting the market and public demand is whats happening on GG and we cant really comment.
Thats with their regulatory its with Chevron.
So not going comment.
On the other projects that were bided and we haven't seen any significant slippage these are projects that we have actually started bidding during the second quarter that we'll take into Q3 Q4 before we start to see any results.
And as weve said many times is that at the beginning of the year we had said that our backlog our success and when it was always going to be a back loaded for the year.
None of that has changed and obviously it's going to be a large part of our focus as we move into the second half of the year.
What I would say though is that we have made significant changes in our lets call it our win-it organization with the people internally McDermott that were promoted and people that were brought in externally to join our win-it teams that certainly gives us a lot more confidence as we look to bit projects in the future and avoid these bid messes that weve had in the past.
So I think were making a lot of steps.
On the second part of that question when they start to see some of that coming through well as we've said before a lot of our low margin backlog has taken us all the way into 15 and we havent given any guidance yet but weve always said that 2015 would be a year of transformation and so thats where we are that position remains today.
And your next question comes from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Please proceed.
A lot of good extra disclosure today thanks for that.
So Perry can you talk a little about cash generation in the quarter? Going forward CapEx looks pretty high in the first half of the year and you did increase the spend on the LV108 and DLV2000 a bit.
So maybe you could talk about that and you said it was sort of in line with your expectations but last quarter was sort of a neutral working capital in this quarter you built a little bit.
So maybe talk about what we should expect over the next few quarters going forward?  So just to be clear our estimated costs on these two new builds has not increased.
There may have been some confusion in the past that we created by the way we disclosed the cost to go because the GAAP disclosure requirement is around kind of what purchase orders youve issued and we have been disclosing that number but the total cost of the projects has not changed from what we have been expecting in the last few years.
So our CapEx budget remains very much on target and what we have seen in the first half of 2014 is as expected.
So the two numbers I gave in the prepared comments around a 100 million for the remainder this year on those two projects and an additional 15 million for the remainder CapEx is bang on what we are forecasting coming into the year.
And the remainder of the spend on those projects principally it will be -- not principally it will exclusively be the DLV2000 in is 2015 is on forecast.
So thats on the CapEx side.
And then on the working capital side Andy as you know for the last year weve put a lot of emphasis on our working capital improvement and cash generation.
And so I think weve made a lot of progress and individual kind of project by project improvements customer-by-customer and thats manifested itself in terms of not only being able to collect from customers like the example that David mentioned but also in terms of getting inventory or work-in-process build.
And so we are making good progress on that.
This is still a very working capital intensive business and so we're not expecting to be cash flow positive as we work our way through these operating losses and the CapEx program.
And then maybe shifting gears David I hate to ask you sort of the same question in a different way but thats exactly what I am going do.
It looks like you are saying you could book 1 billion or more per quarter over the next two quarters based on Perrys comments and thats excluding Chevrons project.
So I know what Perry said that these bids are outstanding and you had a big conversion that you went from 3.5 to 8.4 in bids outstanding.
So maybe you shift as simple as that as you just have a lot more irons in the fire so you figure that a few of these are really going to hit over next two quarters.
But it is a sizeable step up for you and again I think we are all aware that youve been talking about this now for two or three quarters.
So like do you feel pretty confident? You must and to put these numbers out there because they are pretty big numbers for the second half of the year.
Well firstly Andy you answered my question so thank you for that.
As we look at we changed how we are bidding work entirely and Ive said that in the last couple of quarters with some new people that weve been bringing and but weve also changed how we look at a lot of projects in that what best suits McDermotts capabilities.
So we know were chasing everything.
So what we have the projects were bidding today for me our projects which McDermott is very well -- our capabilities are well suited but also projects where margins would make sense rather than just chasing everything.
So we have a lot of activity ongoing.
As you know I wasnt too keen about too much bidding in Q1 because we were in the start of the turnaround we didnt have whether it was people processes or systems in place.
So we have a lot of activities in the second half.
I think we are making strides in terms of customer interaction and Ive said that a few times today and I'll continue to say that but we have made a significant efforts in that side and Im actually starting to see some fruits of that.
So moving into the second half yes weve got a lot of work to be done but I think as a company were in a lot better positioned where we were a six months ago.
And your next question comes from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
Please proceed.
Just to follow up on the target lift how quickly should we expect that that lift can back to say the double-digit billions? Is that something that could take a couple of quarters or might it be as soon as next quarter? I'm just wondering is that commentary on sort of the health of the markets out there?   Steven thanks.
As we think about building profitable backlog and specifically the projects that are in the target list and then as I mentioned those that have slipped beyond the five quarter into maybe the next quarter I agree with your comment the way you asked it that it could be back filled to double digit billion targets next quarter as soon as next quarter.
Obviously we dont control how quickly the oil companies go to FIDE or they get regulatory approval.
But it also is a function of kind of as weve developed our North Sea and Africa business unit that has given us access to new and growing market particularly in Africa and that gives us confidence that that overall market and McDermotts accessible overall market is growing.
And again both in response to your question and Andys prior question you guys may not have had a chance to look at the data we posted to the Web site and you will find on there that we have 10 projects in the $50 million to $1.5 billion range in our bids outstanding and we have 35 in our target projects and so that really does give us a lot of confidence about our ability to build this profitable back log.
And then David youve made a lot of progress obviously.
Not to give you a too broader question here but if you had to summarize what elements of your turnaround you think still required the most amount of work going forward? Is that really just sort of building backlog at this point or are there other things as well?   Another way to look at as I've gone through my to-do list over the last six months is obviously now were moving into an area of building that profitable backlog.
As I said I'm very happy with the people that we've brought into the Company a lot of people with expertise and relationships that's going to help us in that area and thats going to be the focus area for a lot were doing.
Having saying that obviously we're going to continue to make sure we're focused on improving our execution.
As I said we've still got a long way to go in a couple of those projects.
But as I said earlier in terms of how we bid and how we are pitted in those teams together as a fee that weve got the right skill sets in terms of moving forward.
And your next question comes from the line of Vishal Shah.
Please proceed.
I just wanted to better understand as a mix comment you made about backlog.
Is it function of industry or is it just your focus on building more projects and backlog in the offshore and just as you think about thought softer [indiscernible] backlog how would you compare them to the bidding environment of the quarter itself.
Vishal we got probably half of that question.
So let me try and see if I can maybe answer the first part of that.
So if you look at and I think I maybe I've said this earlier when we look at our backlog today well firstly our Company we're in a slightly different cycle probably from most other companies because we came in through this turnaround.
But if you look at where we are today in terms of our customer base a large of our customer base is dependent on the national oil companies Aramco Petrobras to name two.
So obviously the cycle of our customers the spend on our CapEx is were well positioned for some of that.
I didnt pick up we only picked up maybe about a half or third of your questions.
I dont know if you want to try and repeat that question.
The other part of the question was around the profitability of some of the projects the backlog the option that youre looking at the bidding environment different from what youve seen in the past? The bid environment that question is a fairly complicated question because it depends on which are and obviously which geographical location.
As I said earlier and lot of the areas one of the things that were trying to change in the organization by changing our culture and how we build profitable backlog is we look at how we will bid these projects in the future.
So what are the differentiators in McDermott? And that's something which I'm working with the team today.
So thats were not going to just bid everything.
Weve got to bid things where we do have something that separates us for the competition.
So things like Saudization [ph] and in Saudi where we're working with Aramco.
Using your -- we've got a great presence and I've said before our yard in Altamira for me is a big differentiator and we will continue to work with PEMEX of how we maximize that facility.
So where we have local content I believe we have a big differentiator and obviously the situation that we have to deal with our consortium and our presence in Indonesia that allows us to participate in this GG tender.
So its all we have in the team focusing a little bit different which is all about change in the culture within the company.
And your next question comes from the line of Will Gabrielski with Stephens.
Please proceed.
Perry can you just repeat what you said about interest expenses.
I want to make sure I heard you correctly?  So I think if it Stephen as three elements.
Interest expense there is the cash interest cost that on average is about $60 million a year there is an amortization of the new deferred loan cost which is an additional $13 million a year and then reduce that by approximately $21 million of capitalized interest and of course that number will vary depending on our CapEx programs over the year and that will get you down to about 20 -- I am sorry $52 million of net interest expense around through the P&amp;L on annualized basis.
In the second half of the year can you talk about revenue pick up by segment to get your full year numbers just because Q2 was so far below I think really sequentially what I was expecting but it doesnt look anything shifted around in terms of total burn-off for the rest of the year exiting Q1? I meant by geography.
If I said segment sorry.
No I get it.
Its difficult for me to give you the guidance by geography.
Obviously we are not giving it in total other than what you can see in the Q in terms of the burn off of the backlog for the rest of this year.
So I think thats probably about as specific.
I wouldnt break it down it by geography more than that.
One more clarification.
Did you say Gendalo slipped out of the five-quarter window? No we did not.
I apologize if we were not clear.
Its in our bids outstanding whereas it was in targets last quarter.
But its not outside the five-quarter period.
And then just I guess maybe just you if you talk about the last 12 months of industry activity from each one of your seats David; I'm just wondering how you would define the competitive landscape today versus 12 months ago even before you are McDermott.
It just seems like there is definitely some competitive language out there right now from some of your peers and I'm wondering how you would describe where you fit into that?  Yes as I think I said earlier we are probably in a different cycle from everyone else because we're coming through at turnaround.
I would say today that depending on the customer grid whether its the IOCs or the majors or the NOCs that competitive landscape is changing a lot.
The competitive landscape changes based on geography.
As I said our focus is well how can we differentiate ourselves from the competition in terms of things such as capabilities technology local content.
So we're refocusing through our culture change at McDermott how we bid work in the future.
Yes there is a lot of press out there to say that yes the majors are slowing down on their CapEx programs but if you look at our backlog a lot of our backlog actually relates to the work that we're doing with NOCs.
But as I said we're in the different cycle.
We're just building our organization coming through this turnaround.
So its a bit different from us compared to our competitors today.
And you next question comes from the line of Marty Malloy with Johnson Rice.
Please proceed.
Could you maybe talk about market position in the Middle East and relationship with Saudi Aramco and perhaps steps youve taken to strengthen that relationship and how thats going? Yes I think that Marty thats a really good point because weve talked about this in the past.
So I think today what I would say is that we have made significant strides in terms of our relationship with Aramco.
We have changed some of the team how we interface with Aramco.
Senior level has changed were now meeting with the customer at an executive level on a monthly basis.
We have no cut off in a lot of the change orders and payments.
We're having good dialog with Aramco in terms of Saudization and its a relationship that I feel that we are now getting back on track and thats probably a reflection of maybe -- a lot of that change in the culture that weve had and also as we look to improve our execution.
So we look forward to longer term in continued relationship with Aramco.
And then when -- with your yard in Altamira being close to the yard to Keppel that building can you talk about maybe potential opportunities to work with them in that area?  [Audio Gap] also access to the deep-water market in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
And your next question comes from the line of John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Please proceed.
A couple of follow-up things.
First of all did you have significant bid preparation costs in the quarter with the jump in bids outstanding? I wouldnt say incrementally in this quarter no John.
We have been working on -- the larger bids take quite a number of periods to put together.
I would say in the last year or so yes but tendering costs are higher particularly on these kind of larger bids that you will see in that revenue pipeline on our Web site.
But this quarter compared to prior I would not say significantly more.
I would also just maybe have you think about that in terms of the changing culture because we have brought in so many people into the organization particularly as we bid subsea jobs and we have the additional talent in the subsea organization that we havent had before.
For example in the Americas group we have an individual that's joined the Company in the last six months that is leading that and his experience particularly in the subsea market and this geographic markets specifically allows us to get at these bids very quickly and directly.
So there is not necessarily a correlation between the bids outstanding and the big costs.
Obviously theyre expensive to bid but the addition of the people as part of our changing culture has mitigated that to some extent.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then Perry in terms of the restructuring costs what's left there? Its interesting and kind of frustrating for me as a CPA particularly but we will continue to expanse a portion of our lease costs in Morgan City throughout the remainder of the lease term.
Unfortunately GAAP no longer allows us to accrue all of that up front.
So we have some of that cost.
We have some kind of relocation transition cost to go and certain advisor costs to go.
So youll notice in table in the 10-Q we have updated the remaining cost and brought down the forecast of the remaining cost from what we have disclosed in the prior quarters.
We think we have made excellent progress as we've been doing this turnaround and focusing on improving the execution of the jobs and completing that turnaround and those restructuring cost within the previous budget.
But we do have some cost to go.
Okay.
I'll take a look at that.
And then just lastly I know similar questions on the revenue outlook but at $750 million roughly a quarter yet to burn in your backlog can you tell us is that relatively smooth in the second half or does it build substantially into the end of the year? In your backlog? John to make this clear youre asking on revenue recognition or booking? Im sorry on revenue.
Yes I wouldn't give you guidance to expect it higher one quarter versus the other.
Doesn't mean it will necessarily be smooth I wouldnt use that word but I think the activity level which is whats driving our revenues is fairly consistent over the last half the year.
And your next question comes from the line of Robert Norfleet with Alembic Global Advisors.
Please proceed.
This is actually Nick Chen for Rob Norfleet today.
We were wondering looking back at Altamira can you give us an update in terms of where you are from having the facility fully functional as it relates to expansion activities? And additionally in terms of integrating any additional Morgan City assets into the yard? Thanks Nick a couple of things there.
We have already shifted the equipment out of Morgan City to Altamira.
That is expected to go to Altamira.
So there is no change in that regard.
I would point out as part of the overall improved execution that our Altamira safety record has been outstanding particularly in the last quarter and that's a direct result of the cultural change that were driving and the shift of resources that we spoke around in the past in terms of two things.
One is the individual we put in charge of the global quality health and safety and environment function.
Its helping to drive that change.
As well as globalizing our fabrication standards.
And we have an individual that has taken this role on from our Middle East organization and has taken this on a global basis.
And thirdly the third individual that's had an impact there is the gentleman that previously ran our Batam Indonesia fabrication yard has relocated to run our Americas fabrication which is principally Altamiras.
So you know the cultural change in terms of shifting people where they can have more global impact and specifically impact on Altamira yard has weve really benefitted from in terms of getting our arms around the job that we mentioned earlier as well as the safety performance.
And thats part of breaking down silos in the cultural change.
Now one other aspect of your question was I think related to the numbers in terms of where we are.
We spent about a $150 million on that yard so far and we're making good progress in ramping up its capacity.
Obviously now it can perform well on producing decks and jackets.
We would -- as we move forward we could see ourselves investing further in that yard and that will be market dependent and it will tie right back to what David said earlier about booking profitable work with PEMEX in terms of taking advantage of our local content that we already have that others do not have to get at least our share if not a better share of the off shore increased work that PEMEX is going to put out.
Operator if we could weve got time for one more question please.
And your next question comes from the line of Adam Thalhimer with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Please proceed.
I wanted to ask one more question about revenue if I could.
Because in the quarter revenue came in a lot lower but margins were a lot better.
And I'm just curious if thats generally the expectation for the back half of the year or if as John alluded to they are some projects that are starting up.
Well let me just first of all address looking back before we talk about the quarter.
In terms of the last quarter as we mentioned there were several closeouts and resolutions of some previously unapproved revenue with customers and we made excellent progress because of the comments that David mentioned in terms of approving customer relationships.
And so those amounts fell through to the bottom line if you will without significantly impacting revenue or certainly not impacting revenue in proportion to kind of a typical margin that you might expect.
Now as move forward to the back half of the year as I mentioned earlier we see similar opportunities to further complete and finalize the negotiations in the close out on some of those legacy projects which could likewise contribute disproportionately to the bottom line.
So as in the past in our business the margin is not necessarily proportional to the top line.
But then on the top line are there projects that are starting up in the back half of the year.
We have -- and I think the most significant one weve referenced is our largest project in backlog the Ichthys project for which we expect to begin the offshore campaign in the early of the fourth quarter.
So thats -- and then we have activity progressing on most of our backlog throughout the third quarter and fourth quarter.
And with that I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Dickson for closing remarks.
Thank you.
And thank you again everyone for participating today.
As I said I'm pleased by our progress today of our turnaround which remains on track.
We are improving our execution while building a new McDermott culture and we see exciting opportunities to build profitable backlog in the coming quarters.
We look forward to seeing many of you at the upcoming investor conferences and we hope you would join us for our next conference call which is scheduled for Wednesday November 5th.
Operator this concludes our call.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to McDermott International's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] I would now like to turn the call over to Steven Oldham McDermott's Vice President Treasurer and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you and good afternoon.
I'd like to remind you that we are recording this call and that a replay will be available on our website where you can also find our third quarter 2014 results press release and the Form 10-Q that we filed today.
We've also posted our presentation that will be available for a limited time on the Investor Relations section of our website that contains supplemental information on our operations and business outlook.
Additionally our comments today will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks contingencies and uncertainties and reflect management's view as of November 5 2014.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC which are available on our website including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 and subsequent quarterly reports which provide a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
And please note that except to the extent required by applicable law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
Now I'll turn the call over to David Dickson McDermott's President and Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Thank you Steve and good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
I'm pleased to report that we continue to make good progress on the turnaround of McDermott and we're beginning to see that through our improved financial results.
It's fair to say that we've been able to get our operations under control and we believe that we have been able to meaningfully reduce operational volatility at the company.
At this point we have cemented many of the organizational structure changes and integrated key personnel that are critical to identifying and managing inherent risks in the industry.
I'll start this afternoon's call by highlighting a few of the operational highlights for the third quarter.
In March of this year we announced a transportation and installation contract for Brunei Shell Petroleum.
This contract marked our return to Brunei for the first time in more than 20 years.
The people at McDermott have been working hard to establish and reestablish strong relationships with our customers.
And today we have a growing relationship with Brunei Shell.
Just as important McDermott delivered for our client on that project with outstanding execution.
We planned appropriately had efficient and reliable offshore operations and an excellent safety performance.
We delivered the fill and store project with the quality that the McDermott brand represents with timely completion and handover to the client.
Overall the project was a technical commercial and financial success story.
In the third quarter we completed the high-profile Chevron-operated Jack St.
Malo project in roughly 7 000 feet of water.
It is one of the largest ongoing field developments in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
It involved the installation of complex umbilical systems and eventually tie-in of all the jumper spills which could cut wellheads and ultimately into the pipeline system which goes to the floating facility.
It is a significant technical achievement for McDermott and most importantly we believe we have a very satisfied customer.
I'm also pleased to report that we have reached a significant derisking milestone on the INPEX-operated Ichthys project the industry's largest subsea contract at its time of award.
Since awarded in January 2012 McDermott has completed the subsea engineering successfully managed suppliers on a large and complex procurement program and are fabricating hundreds of complex subsea structures eventually totaling over 28 000 tons of them in-house at our Batam Island fabrication yard.
We've recently completed a significant milestone the load-out of the foundation of the 9 400-ton riser support structure and commenced a marine campaign.
Heerema's Aegir vessel is on-site and have commenced the installation of the pipelines.
Today the Aegir commenced the operation of installing the riser support structure foundation.
It is in the water and ready to be positioned into its final location.
As a reference point for the whole field development layout the riser support structure was needed to be installed at the start of the campaign ahead of the cyclone season in Australia.
We expect to have McDermott vessels at the Ichthys field in 2015.
Our recently christened construction support vessel 108 is expected to be the first McDermott vessel on-site to provide marine construction support early next year.
As part of a changeover our customer has directed us to resequence some of our installation activities but we do not expect changes to our final completion date.
In summary we are making good progress and continue to believe that we will deliver the project successfully and profitably.
I'm also pleased to introduce a new member of our management team Stuart Spence our new Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Prior to joining McDermott in August Stuart was Vice President of Artificial Lift for Halliburton and has extensive operational and finance experience within the energy industry which includes fixed-price EPC experience.
I believe Stuart is a strong addition to the team as we build a tighter integration between finance operations and our strategy.
I will now turn the call over to Stuart to discuss our third quarter financial results.
After which I'll return and speak about our progress on booking profitable backlog.
Thanks David.
Good afternoon.
First let me state I'm very glad to be here.
And after 2 busy months on the job I can say that what attracted me to McDermott being the strength of the brand and the turnaround opportunity to lead the company back to profitability are both still very much intact.
I'm impressed by the depth of the McDermott organization and the customer-driven opportunities in the market yet also keenly aware of how much we still need to do.
With respect to the third quarter we progressed on our turnaround efforts in a number of important areas.
And overall we are seeing more stable execution outcomes.
Revenues for the quarter were $415 million down $61 million or 13% over the sequential quarter.
The Ichthys project revenue increased during the period but we had reduced activity in the Middle East region as we faced delayed offshore work awaiting access to customer sites and weather-related downtime.
As a result from our current backlog we expect to recognize more than $700 million in revenue in the fourth quarter 2014 and $2.8 billion in revenue next year.
The fourth quarter 2014 revenue expectation is heavily dependent on Heerema's installation progress on Ichthys.
The third quarter operating loss totaled $14 million and included gains on asset sales of $5 million and restructuring charges of approximately the same amount.
Following the completion of a subsea project in the Gulf of Mexico we are moving forward with vacating the marine base at the Morgan City yard.
This was the last operating section of the facility and we expect to idle the yard in the fourth quarter.
We made progress in the execution of our legacy projects.
In addition to operational improvements our commercial teams continue to settle change orders and to negotiate project closeouts with our customers.
Offsetting improvements in the quarter was deterioration on the PB-Litoral project for PEMEX which was already in a loss position as we increased the estimate of the cost to complete the project by $11 million due to a revised fabrication execution plan.
Taken as a whole there was no deterioration in our legacy loss project portfolio during the quarter which was the third quarter of achieving such a result.
Our subsea vessel utilization increased from the second quarter due to the Chevron Jack and St.
Malo project marine operations and the charter of the Lay Vessel 105 in Brazil.
Offshore vessel utilization decreased from the second quarter as several transportation and installation projects in Asia were completed early in the third quarter.
Fabrication throughput increased in the third quarter compared to the sequential quarter as activity increased on the Ichthys project and PEMEX PB-Litoral project.
Unabsorbed direct operating expenses totaled $9 million this quarter versus $22 million in the second quarter reflecting the overall increased utilization.
Detailed metrics on our asset utilization are included in the presentation provided in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Now that we have integrated the changes to our organization and regional management structure we are embarking on a planned cost reduction exercise to improve our profitability and flexibility.
We have assigned a team of management supported by external experts to focus on bringing a step change in our overall cost structure and address our underabsorbed fixed costs.
Importantly we also expect to maintain the revenue potential and capacity potential of the company.
By looking internally to generate improved margins and to position McDermott to be a more flexible and responsive organization we are basing the program on an assumed level of work and expect to maintain the ability to flex program as needed to match the level of backlog and cost of demand for each region.
We are in the planning stage of this initiative.
We expect to finalize an execution plan by year-end and expect impact in 2015.
We will discuss our McDermott profitability initiative in greater detail on our next earnings call.
Overall a large portion of our backlog contains low gross margin projects.
As previously indicated until we book new profitable backlog our legacy projects will continue to weigh on our results.
In the fourth quarter and consistent with recent periods we expect another quarter of less volatile operations performance with sequential improvement in project execution and customer negotiations.
Net interest expense during the quarter totaled $12 million.
This includes $19 million of gross interest expense and the capitalization of $7 million of interest to our vessels under construction.
In the fourth quarter we expect roughly the same gross amounts and $9 million of capitalized interest for a net interest expense of approximately $10 million.
In 2015 we expect the CSV 108 will be placed into service and mobilized to Australia leaving only the DLV2000 to drive capitalized interest.
We expect gross interest expense of $73 million and capitalized interest of $28 million and net interest expense of $45 million for next year.
Our basic and diluted share count remains flat from last quarter due to the anti-dilutive effect of the TEU shares on reported loss.
Depending on the stock price we could include an additional 33 million to 41 million shares.
Now turning to order intake.
We reported a backlog of approximately $4 billion of which 39% related to our offshore operations and 61% related to our subsea operations.
Bookings in the third quarter totaled $330 million driven primarily by change orders on existing projects.
On our last call the company discussed its aspirations to maintain its backlog position at the end of the fourth quarter on a year-over-year basis.
We believe that the opportunity set for customer projects and potential contract awards remains robust.
While the opportunity pipeline remains and we believe that we are competitively positioned the timing of the awards is customer-driven.
Our bids and change orders outstanding at quarter end were $10.5 billion compared to $8.4 billion at the end of the second quarter 2014.
Of these amounts approximately 80% of our outstanding bids and change orders relate to our offshore operations.
Both the current quarter and the previous periods' bid slate include a Chevron offshore project for 2 floating production units in Indonesia.
Our bid remains valid although the program plan is undergoing schedule change and the outlook is uncertain.
David will discuss this prospect further later in the call.
The increase in bids outstanding was a result of more than $3.2 billion in projects bid during the third quarter with few losses to competition.
More than 88% of our bids from the end of the second quarter remained outstanding at quarter end.
Our list of target projects totaled $12.5 billion as of September 30 2014.
As a reminder targets are those projects that we intend to bid and we expect to be awarded in the marketplace in the next 5 quarters.
Again approximately 80% of the value of our target projects relate to our offshore operations.
As of September 30 2014 the combination of our backlog bids and change orders outstanding and target projects our revenue pipeline totaled $26.9 billion up from $22.3 billion in the sequential quarter.
We have provided additional information on our potential revenue pipeline in the presentation on our website.
Recent bidding activity remains active as customers continue to advance their projects.
Since the end of the third quarter we have bid over $500 million in projects in 5 different countries.
Moving to the balance sheet.
At September 30 2014 we reported $886 million in cash restricted cash and investments a reduction in total cash from the second quarter of $72 million driven by $62 million in capital expenditures and $4 million in debt amortization on our tangible equity units and term loan.
Restricted cash increased this quarter as we utilized a portion of our cash to collateralize letters of credit which is currently more cost-effective than placing them under our revolving LC facility.
Operating cash flow decelerated during the quarter from $70 million outflow in the second quarter to $19 million in the third quarter as we continued our focus on working capital management.
We have not had a structural change in our contracting terms and conditions during the quarter related to working capital.
The $62 million of capital expenditures during the third quarter included $44 million related to payments for the shipyard delivery of the construction support vessel or CSV 108 and ongoing costs to construct the DLV2000 vessel.
The remaining amounts were driven primarily by various project-related requirements.
We estimate $335 million to $350 million remains left to spend on these 2 vessels and related equipment with approximately $100 million expected to be spent in the fourth quarter.
The fourth quarter 2014 spend is expected to be higher than we expected earlier in the year and is the result of an expected shipyard milestone completion a month earlier than originally forecast.
Overall the cost of the 2 vessels remains on time and budget.
We anticipate spending approximately $15 million to complete commitments on the other project-related items.
For 2015 we expect capital expenditures to complete the construction of the DLV2000 of approximately $235 million to $250 million.
Through our disciplined approach we expect to spend approximately $25 million to $50 million during the year on other maintenance and project-related expenditures a reduction from our prior expectations while maintaining the capabilities and reliability of our assets.
In addition as planned we are exercising our option to purchase 50% of our joint venture and all of our partner's equity in the North Ocean 102.
The transaction is expected to close in the fourth quarter for approximately $33 million of cash consideration.
Since we consolidate the joint venture we expect the buy out -- we expect the effect of the buyout to decrease the amount of our net income attributable to noncontrolling interests by a nominal amount in future quarters.
The disposal of our older and underutilized assets continues.
In the third quarter we sold the DB16 and we added thruster equipment to assets that we are now holding for sale.
To summarize we continue our journey and build on the steady improvement and execution while positioning ourselves for our share of the work that our customers are planning to award over the coming months.
During this call we presented you with more insight to our financial expectations.
And on our fourth quarter conference call we anticipate providing additional insight to our investors following the conclusion of our budgeting process and profitability improvement initiative planning.
Now I would like to turn the call back over to David.
Thank you Stuart.
As I mentioned earlier we made significant progress in the first 3 quarters of the year and we believe that our turnaround remains on track.
As we head toward the end of a significant year in the turnaround of McDermott we are focusing on continual improvement of our operations building profitable backlog and maintaining the flexibility to respond to customer demand and schedules.
Earlier in the call I spoke about our success on the Jack St.
Malo project and our good progress on the Ichthys project.
These are -- there are a few legacy projects that still remain most notably the PB-Litoral project in Mexico and we continue to address the challenges associated with this project.
This project still has approximately 1 year until our expected completion and we plan to continue our engagement with our client PEMEX to prevent further deterioration and seek improvement through a closer commercial dialogue.
Since the beginning of the year we have been able to reduce the number of loss projects in our backlog from 9 to 4 and we grow increasingly confident in our belief that the loss projects as a group will not deteriorate.
With our new organizational structure in place we'll continue -- we continue to build and add to our team to strengthen areas that need improvement.
As Stuart mentioned we'll also be working to make sure our organization is as lean efficient and flexible as possible with our McDermott profitability initiative.
We look forward to sharing details about that initiative on our next earnings call.
In terms of building profitable backlog oil prices have weakened considerably recently.
This has been a topic of concern for energy companies and investors alike.
Clearly this is leading to uncertainty in capital spending and timing of project sanctioning by our customers.
However I believe that with the diversity of our customers both in terms of national oil companies and international oil companies and geographic presence McDermott has the existing backlog and financial flexibility to withstand the volatility that is inherent in the energy industry.
As we look to our geographical markets we see some challenges ahead but also see many opportunities.
In the North Sea a new area for McDermott the market remains soft in both the U.K.
and Norwegian sectors.
However prospects for Africa remain robust and present an opportunity for McDermott.
In the Americas we continue to strengthen our relationship with PEMEX and look to improve our competitive position within the country by taking advantage of the proposed local content requirements.
Bidding activity with PEMEX is active and we look to build backlog in Mexico.
The Middle East a market dominated by national oil companies is our most robust region and bidding activity is at a high level.
Our customers in particular Saudi Aramco continue to invest in both greenfield and brownfield projects which are particularly well-suited for McDermott's capabilities.
Over the long term we have significant capital investment plans which are increasingly offshore.
We are also seeing an increase in activity in the UAE and in Qatar.
In Asia while we see a good level of bidding activity we've seen a number of administrative or political delays on some of the larger projects.
The Gendalo-Gehem development in Indonesia is an example of such.
We were selected by Chevron on this multi-billion offshore project in June and while we still have a valid bid outstanding most sources suggest a delay until 2015.
These types of delays are out of our control and we're doing the best we can to make sure that we have the flexibility to scale our business up or down quickly to accommodate changes to a customer demand or schedules.
We are in the depths of McDermott's turnaround and I believe we have the components necessary to make it a success.
We will continue focusing on improving our execution building profitable backlog and enhancing our flexibility to respond to a significant market opportunity.
Now with that I would like to open the line to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Research Division</strong> Good to see the improving gross margins.
I guess first question clearly you're making some improvements in terms of execution.
I hate to nitpick but I guess first question is really in regards to the Middle East.
We are continuing to see a lot of noise over there in terms of execution and I would love to get some insight and color into really the improvements there going forward that make you comfortable around the execution issues on legacy projects improving.
And then with PB-Litoral earlier on you had mentioned that probably around the fall time frame you'd have a good idea of the benchmarks and standardization both through migrating some of your senior folks over there.
So I would love to get a sense why there's still a bit of sort of hesitancy around that area.
So I'll begin there and then I have a follow-up.
Okay Tahira.
Let me start firstly with Middle East.
So as you know and I've been saying this for a while is that one of the things that we have to work on in the Middle East is our relationship with the customer and getting closer to the customer understanding his needs.
A lot of the changes that have occurred have really been at the request of the customer as we look to resequence some of the activities offshore.
So in the Middle East we've worked on improving our relationship with the customer.
We've also made over the last 6 months some changes in our leadership and some of our team and starting to see some of the improvements or some of the effects of those improvements.
I feel that we have made significant advances with our relationship with Aramco and I look forward to that growing and getting stronger as we move forward.
On PB-Litoral what I would say is that -- and you're correct I said I would come back and address it in the fall.
So what we've been able to do is move people have other people within McDermott organization who have been in other parts get involved with the project.
We have added to the team.
We brought some people in to work on the team.
And that project is now essentially complete from an engineering perspective and procurement.
What we did was we rebaselined the project in terms of productivity because we're now really into the depths of the fabrication.
And the deterioration we're seeing in the quarter reflects the new productivity factors which I'm pleased to say that over the last 3 or 4 weeks as we look at our weekly progresses that we've been able to hit those productivity factors.
So starting to get a lot more confidence than we were getting within this project.
Research Division</strong> Awesome.
And I guess the next question is just on your announcement around the cost initiative in terms of really looking at a more flexible fixed cost structure.
Any -- I know it's too early and you're going to be finalizing the plan a little later on but any color on how material this could be as you look into the 2015 time frame plus would be helpful.
Okay.
So let me start with that and I'll let Stuart say a few words.
So in the 1 year that I've been here obviously we've gone through a planned process of how we address the issues and obviously a lot of my focus has been on the execution side.
We also had the refinance and obviously we're looking at how we build our backlog moving forward.
One of the things that I did want to get into this year obviously was looking at our fixed cost structure and obviously a look at how benchmarks against our peers in the factor that we are.
Stuart coming on board was the right time to really get that kicked off.
Stuart has a lot of knowledge and experience in this area.
So as you think about our turnaround plan and the various milestones that we've hit is that now was the right time to kick this initiative off.
And I'll hand it over to Stuart.
Thanks David.
Yes the initiative is just in the very early stages.
We have mobilized both our internal management team and external consulting help just in the last 3 weeks.
So we're going through a course of baselining the organization looking at all of the improvements that we can make and we will come up with a plan to endorse by year-end.
We are targeting all of the fixed costs base of the company but we're also looking at a lot of the variable costs of the company as well with an ambition of making McDermott as David has said a leaner more efficient more flexible organization.
Our next question comes from Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So David your potential revenue pipeline is up to $26.9 billion as you said up from $22 billion last quarter.
But how much of this is McDermott just trying to cast a wider net versus high-quality prospects coming into the fold? I guess what's difficult is that the potential revenue pipeline has continued to improve and yet we haven't really seen the results in bookings.
And I know we're cognizant that you guys don't control the schedule but maybe you could talk about what you view as high-quality prospects versus how much is it that you guys are just being more aggressive in bidding.
I think Andy if you look at what we talked about let me address it in a couple of ways.
In terms of casting a wider net if you listened to what Stuart was saying is that a lot of our revenue pipeline is in the offshore business which I would say is the traditional.
I think we quoted something like 80% of our prospects.
So a lot of that is not casting in terms of the wider net.
We have had obviously projects which we're bidding on in the subsea business which maybe a year or so ago we wouldn't have been bidding on that.
So that obviously reflects some sort of increase.
The other point to highlight again which Stuart commented on is that this pipeline is increasing and as we quoted something like 88% of the bids outstanding we had in Q2 are still outstanding in Q3.
And there's not any -- I can't give any specific reason for that.
There's a multitude of reasons whether customers are extending validity [ph] customers are changing some of the scopes customers are adding addendum.
So it is very difficult to say why that is and that's why the timing at this moment is difficult to predict.
Research Division</strong> One thing -- one follow-up there David.
You've been meeting with your top customers since you basically started.
At some point you get -- they get used to you you get used to them and that probably helps with getting these projects across the finish line.
Do you feel like you're getting closer to where just that sort of relationship base will help you get some of these projects forward? I think we have.
I think where we've gone in the last 12 months I think we've made significant progress but relationships are not just based on one meeting.
It takes regular meetings and it takes all that building relationships and in some cases looking to spend more time with those customers.
So I think we've made a lot of progress in that respect Andy.
And I think the way that we're structured and structured our strategic relationships organization I think we touched on it maybe the last call that as part of the reorganization we now have a team which is really focused on it -- which is really focusing on that area in terms -- just brings a new focus to the company on how we meet with a customer how often we meet with a customer and really what is in the agenda that we meet that we talk about when we meet.
So I think that we have made a lot of progress but it takes a bit of time.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then Stuart I know you've only been in the seat for a couple of months but you give a lot of guidance around cash flow and you're doing a good job of lowering your maintenance CapEx.
But obviously the spending on the DLV2000 is still quite high going forward.
Is there anything you could do to get either that spending down maybe delay it a bit or get your maintenance CapEx down further? And I'd ask the same question about working capital.
Again you're doing a good job there but what more can you do if anything? On specifically the DLV2000 we conducted a review of the CapEx buildout in the last 2 months.
So we have taken down the total cost marginally on that build but what remains is basically the final specification for the vessel that we think will make it a differentiating asset in the marketplace in 2016.
We have taken down some of our maintenance and project-related CapEx and we will be setting a very high hurdle for any of that projected spend to go ahead.
So it's a range Andy but we will be reviewing it every quarter with a view to making it lower.
Research Division</strong> And on the working capital side anything more that you think -- any low-hanging fruit there Stuart that you see? Yes.
So we've got -- we do have some initiatives ongoing around the working capital.
We are -- we're gaining more insight and oversight on working capital.
Some of it relates to the issues that David refers to around customer relationships and how we interface and work with our customer to provide them with the adequate documentation explanation and follow-through for them to get the development approvals in place to pay our receivables.
So we will be working harder on that front to try and generate a better result in the next few quarters.
Our next question comes from Steven Fisher with UBS.
Research Division</strong> You guys mentioned some of the oil price uncertainty but where within your $12.5 million of targets would you say there's more and less susceptibility of slippage due to lower oil prices? Very -- Steve very early to say but I mean obviously clearly what we're seeing which is in the public domain you see a bit of softening as I said earlier in places like North Sea and Norway.
That would be the main area.
But again we haven't -- that was a new strategic area for us when we set up a year ago.
But I would say at this stage -- as I said we have a large diversification between national oil companies the major independents the independents but also the -- we have quite a wide geographical diversification.
So it's difficult to pinpoint at this early stage where these -- where this is going to impact our business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I know you have some EBITDA covenants in your debt agreements.
Can you just give us a sense of the confidence you have in being able to hit those targets? What do you think really has to happen to hit those incrementally in terms of booking? And are you at the point where you kind of have to think about contingency plans or you have pretty good confidence in being able to hit those? Yes I can state for the third quarter we are fully compliant with our debt covenants.
As we look to finalize our 2015 budget process obviously a large part of that is ensuring that we will be fully compliant with our debt covenants throughout 2015.
And today as we look forward we have a high level of confidence in meeting those targets and we are not actively engaging in contingent planning with our banks around those covenants.
Our next question comes from Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
L.L.C.
Research Division</strong> My question has been answered.
Our next question comes from Blake Hutchinson with Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> First of all David just wanted to get a -- you'd mentioned the resequencing on Ichthys and -- in terms of your installation phase.
Can you tell us where -- what state the 108 is in today and kind of the time window and how close that might be -- any reoutfitting that needs to go on specifically for the project and just kind of confidence level in having that ready to go early in '15? Yes in terms of 108 what I said earlier is that we're on schedule.
The vessel has already been christened.
It's having a crane installed as we speak in Norway.
So she is on schedule.
So we don't have any concerns from our side in terms of that vessel getting to Australia on time to continue the work on Ichthys.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just can you help us -- as a lot of what has been added to backlog is more or less your change orders rather than new orders when you go through the change order process is the pricing in that rigidly tied to original contract? Or can we view that more as new backlog that you might have some influence over the margins that would result out of that backlog? Probably a combination.
So some of it is extending some work which is obviously in the contract which is seen as options.
Obviously we have rates in our contract for any additional work.
But then we have some other change orders which obviously are not within the existing confines of the contract which will be priced on a different basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So net-net probably a little bit of a potential for uplift there? Potentially yes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a clarification on -- I guess there's legacy loss contracts and then there's legacy-legacy contracts.
As you've pointed out SeCaP Papa Terra the Caspian project and Jack St.
Malo are all those still -- do all those still have potential to be additive or we have kind of officially officially closed out some of those contracts at this point? We -- in some of them we are still doing final closure with the customer.
But in terms of that closure I don't see any of it having any material impact.
We really are down to the last few items.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one quick one if I may.
Is there anything in your bids outstanding derived from the North Sea today? I would have to come back to you on that.
I don't think so.
There's nothing major in there today.
Our next question comes from Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
LLC</strong> Stuart actually can I just press a little bit harder on the EBITDA question that was asked earlier? So just going through the covenants and the requirements that are laid out I guess it's a little bit hard to do the calculation and triangulate where it is exactly but it does seem to be where you're eating into a $40 million contingency that has been allocated kind of beyond the EBITDA requirements that you need to hit.
Can you just tell us actually where you stand on the EBITDA generation or the cumulative year-to-date and how much of that $40 million cushion you have eroded already? Just so we can maybe gauge it and have more comfort that as you deliver results that we're not going to have to be dealing with that.
Yes sure.
So in the quarter we had planned to use a small element of that EBITDA cushion and we utilized a small element.
That still leaves the vast majority of the cushion available.
And in our current planning and looking going forward at the next few quarters we do not expect at this time to utilize any more of that cushion.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And just touching -- I know you don't want to give too much on 2015 but do you anticipate what the revenue you have in the backlog today and the volumes you do have still set to burn can you be profitable on that or it will require a lot more volume to come in the door over the next couple of quarters to be profitable in '15? That's a little bit too early for us at the moment.
Obviously we do have a very detailed roll-off of our current backlog with a certain margin expectation and we are sequencing in the potential new awards going forward which would come out of our substantial revenue pipeline.
So I think we would ultimately defer on that question until the next quarter's earnings call when we're going to give more insight to our financial projections.
LLC</strong> Sure that's fair.
If I could sneak one last in.
Maybe just talk about the bidding how the pricing on those projects are and just with the recent downdraft in oil prices has that triggered some more competitive bids in the market? Any color on that would be helpful.
I would say too early to say from our side.
What I can confirm is we haven't changed our approach or our process to bidding.
And we're obviously -- the market is different no matter -- or wherever we go whether it's geography or which customer.
So -- but from our side we haven't changed our philosophy or our process.
Our next question comes from Rob Norfleet with Alembic Global Advisors.
I just wanted to expand a little bit on the bidding question if you don't mind.
With the new bidding discipline that you've kind of enacted within the company have you seen much of a change in terms of McDermott's hit rate? I know historically it had been in 25% 30% -- in that ballpark.
I mean has that number variated much from those ranges given how you're now bidding on projects? Rob it would be difficult to comment on that I think.
What we said is that if you look at the bids outstanding that we have from Q2 to where we are in Q3 is that 88% of those bids are still outstanding.
So we don't really have a metric yet.
As I said these things are more driven by our customers' time.
And I mean once we start to see successes then we'll be able to look at a hit rate but at this time we just don't have enough information.
Okay that's fair.
And just quickly in terms of Altamira can you just give us a little bit of an overview of where we are there just in terms of further building out the facility how much additional capital we need and kind of what utilization rates in that facility you're currently running at? I will comment on -- I mean this facility as it stands at the moment is more than capable to execute the backlog that we have today and the bidding work that we have ongoing.
So we don't have any plans for any major expansions to the facility at this time.
I can't really quote on utilization.
I just don't have that data.
Okay.
And lastly just I know you all addressed this but on the DLV2000 in terms of the CapEx that's scheduled in next year I mean hypothetically again let's just assume a somewhat Draconian situation.
I mean what are your options there if you did decide to preserve capital to either delay that vessel -- I just want to understand what you could do in kind of worst-case scenario to not have to spend $230 million to $250 million? Well I think where we are with the DLV2000 is that we're fairly far advanced through the build.
You heard Stuart say that we're on track in that vessel to be ready and launch and to go to work towards the end of next year into early '16.
It also is an important asset as we look to the future of our company.
So at the moment our more focus is looking at the market and the prospects and the opportunities for this vessel.
So that's where we are at the moment as a company.
We have no further questions.
I will now turn the call back over to Steve Oldham for any closing remarks.
Please proceed.
Well thank you again for participating today.
We look forward to seeing many of you at our upcoming investor conferences.
And we hope you'll join us at our next conference call scheduled for March 2 2015.
This concludes today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to McDermott International's Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the company's prepared remarks we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Darcey Matthews with McDermott's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Vitalie and good afternoon everyone.
I would like to remind you that today we are recording this call and a replay will be available on our website where you could also find our fourth quarter and full year 2014 results press release and the Form 10-K that we filed today.
We also posted a presentation that will be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Additionally our comments today will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks contingencies and uncertainties and reflects management's view as of March 2 2015.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC which are available on our website including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 which provide a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
Please note that except to the extent that is required by applicable law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
I will now turn the call over to David Dickson McDermott's President and Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Thank you Darcey and good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
From our results today you can see that we continue to make significant progress on our turnaround through improved execution our change in culture and a stronger financial foundation.
Our focus on customer relationships is beginning to pay off in the form of new awards including a recent award with Saudi Aramco for the Marjan field.
Well this is a project that was pushed to the right from last year to this year we've been working to align with the Aramco's needs through increased customer interaction minimizing impact to their production and continuing to provide support for their local economy their engineering center in Saudi Arabia.
This field EPCI project relates to subsequent development work to be done on an already developed reservoir and is what we term brownfield work and fits squarely with our integrated multidiscipline capabilities.
Now I'd like to take a step back to acknowledge that 2014 was a major turning point for the company.
I would like to remind you of the efforts we made on refinancing the company changing our organizational structure improving project execution and positioning ourselves to win new work.
With respect to our balance sheet early last year we raised more than $1 billion to refinance our company and improve our financial footing.
Our increased focus on cash management has demonstrated results over the course of the year.
Last year I put in place an organizational structure that puts a focus on our customers and our end-markets and removes various silos in the organization in order to leverage our global engineering procurement construction and installation resources.
We have put in place a structure that we believe can fully take advantage of our economies of scale and best practices for the greater good of the company.
In addition we launched our McDermott profitability initiative which we are now implementing.
Stuart will provide more details on this initiative later in the call.
We have a more customer-centric organization today that focuses on the needs and priorities of our customers.
I have personally traveled the globe on numerous occasions since I joined the McDermott management team to meet with our customers and understand the changing business landscape and some of others in our organization.
We are committed to supporting customers in meeting their broader goals whether managing costs minimizing production downtime or developing their local economies.
Of paramount importance to our future is project execution.
We've come a long way since this time last year and have completed a number of challenging first of a kind projects from the first rigid pipe-in-pipe installation project offshore Malaysia to the first tension leg platform offshore Brazil.
Let me give an update across our areas of operations.
In our Asia-Pacific segment our Ichthys project remains profitable and on schedule.
In November we hit a key milestone on our project with the installation of the riser support structure.
Our customer acknowledges our progress and we remain on track for the delivery of the remaining load-outs of fabricated components.
The Construction Support Vessel 108 was delivered to operations in February within budget and it is in Batam preparing for mobilization for its work scope on the Ichthys project as scheduled.
We've also made solid progress on our projects in the Middle East segment through working with our customers to address many of the previously discussed commercial issues.
In the Americas segment the PB-Litoral-A project in Mexico has progressed as planned.
We're seeing improvement in our levels of productivity at Altamira yard.
And we will keep focused on executing the remaining scope to our current cost estimate.
Furthermore our project team has developed some innovative solutions that have provided cost and time savings on the project.
We believe that we have this project on a good path and expect to complete it this year.
As we remain focused on continuous improvement in project execution we are also pursuing new business opportunities.
I believe we have the proper talent in the organization to be a leader in the industry and believe our customers are taking notice of our improvements in capability and performance.
Some of the early signs are encouraging.
We were successfully awarded a series of new contracts that are directly reflective of our efforts.
In the fourth quarter we were awarded a large three year brownfield pipeline installation contract for Brunei Shell Petroleum of which the first year or the 2015's work will be included in our 2014 year-end backlog.
We have also been awarded several contracts this year.
In Americas we were recently awarded a contract from PEMEX for shallow water transportation and installation of a jacket for the greenfield Ayatsil-A development.
This comes after the successful completion of an EPCI project for the Ayatsil-B development in 2014.
At the start of today's call I mentioned our recent brownfield EPCI award with Saudi Aramco where we refocused our efforts to continue to rebuild our client relationship.
We were also awarded a shallow water gas EPCI project for Qatar Petroleum for the North Field which marks one of the first projects awarded in Qatar in the past few years.
We expect that this is a part of the next wave of developments necessary to supply the feedstock for Qatar's major gas facilities.
As with all others in our industry we are currently focused on the macro environment and what it means to our clients.
Many exploration and production companies have announced plans to reduce their capital expenditures.
Our position in the E&amp;P CapEx cycle is generally late and typically represents a final significant capital expenditure before our customers see cash flow.
For those developments that are already sanctioned we expect many will continue to be bid and awarded.
There is a potential for some marginal projects at early stages to be delayed deferred or canceled.
As you look at our bids outstanding and targeted projects at December 31 2014 we believe that we are well positioned in many markets that we expect will have ongoing capital projects.
Additionally we believe we are more competitive today than we were last year from our improved execution and bidding processes.
Currently we see more opportunities in our offshore market than our subsea market.
So we expect to continue to focus on our traditional area of excellence offshore EPCI projects.
We expect the Middle East segment to be the greatest contributor to near-term order intake.
McDermott has significant opportunities with national oil companies which we believe are more likely to continue with field development projects in today's market.
As demonstrated by our most recent awards with Brunei Shell and Saudi Aramco there is a significant opportunity for brownfield projects.
Most of the projects we have bid on or are targeting our turn-key projects that use all parts of our integrated EPCI offering.
These fit with McDermott's strengths which is why we believe our capabilities place us amongst the best positioned in the industry for this macroeconomic environment.
We're off to a good start in 2015 with the two new awards we announced today.
While this is positive we're not taking our foot off the gas and will continue focus on those projects where McDermott has a differentiating capability.
With that I would like to turn over the call to Stuart Spence our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for a review of our financials.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</strong> Thanks David and good afternoon everyone.
Today I'm going to cover our fourth quarter and full-year financial results.
Then I will discuss our CapEx spend followed by our backlog and current bid pipeline then provide some more detailed information on the cost saving initiatives we mentioned during last quarter's conference call.
Finally I will discuss our guidance for full-year 2015 based on the current market conditions.
Starting with the fourth quarter as David mentioned we progressed on our turnaround efforts in a number of important areas.
And overall we are seeing more stable execution outcomes and initial success in order intake.
Revenue for the fourth quarter was $806 million up $392 million or 95% over the sequential quarter and up $289 million from Q4 2013 revenues of $517 million.
Key drivers for the period were the start of the marine campaign at our large Ichthys project in Australia and the progress made on projects.
Installation progress at Ichthys continues to move forward with project completion expected on schedule.
Operating income totaled $25.9 million during the quarter and included $1.7 million of asset impairment and $6 million of restructuring expenses.
Our loss project portfolio contributed positively to gross profit during both the fourth quarter and for the full year 2014.
These are further signs that the corporate focus on bidding and execution during the past year is starting to make an impact.
Cash flow from operations was $119 million for the fourth quarter driven primarily by improvements in collections and achieving milestones on existing projects offset by decreases in accounts payable.
For the full year the company reported revenues of $2.3 billion compared to $2.7 billion for 2013.
The year-over-year decline was driven primarily by the completion of some larger projects during 2013 in the Middle East.
Our operating income for the year was $8.6 million in 2014 including $46.2 million of gains on asset sales and $18 million on restructuring expenses.
This compares to an operating loss for 2013 of $457 million which included $84.5 million of asset impairment and $35.7 million of restructuring expenses.
Cash flow from operations for 2014 was $7 million compared to a net use of cash of $256 million for the full year 2013 as we resolved many previously outstanding commercial issues with customers.
Net interest expense during the fourth quarter totaled $10.3 million.
This includes $19 million of gross interest expense and the capitalization of $8.3 million of interest to our vessels under construction.
As previously mentioned the CSV 108 will be placed into service shortly and will be mobilized to the Ichthys project in Australia.
As a result only the DLV2000 will drive capitalized interest during 2015.
Net interest expense during the full year 2014 totaled $61 million.
This includes $85 million of gross interest expense from the capitalization of $24 million of interest for our two vessels under construction during 2014.
We calculate asset utilization and days for our vessels and man hours for our fabrication yards against the time in which it takes the company to allocate all direct operating expenses across our projects.
Our subsea vessel utilization increased from 56% in the third quarter to 98% in the fourth quarter due to the charters of the North Ocean 102 and Lay Vessel 105 in Brazil.
Overall the subsea fleet had a utilization rate in 2014 of 75% compared to 77% utilization in 2013.
Offshore vessel utilization increased substantially in the fourth quarter from the third quarter as we had installation activity in all three of our financial reporting segments.
For the full-year 2014 overall utilization of the offshore vessels was 86% compared to 70% for the full-year 2013.
Fabrication throughput decreased in the fourth quarter compared to the sequential quarter a significant work was completed in the early part of the fourth quarter 2014 and various Middle East projects moved to the installation phase.
However year-over-year fabrication throughput increased from 71% in 2013 to 80% for 2014.
Unobserved direct operating expenses totaled $15 million in the fourth quarter versus $9 million in the third quarter.
Despite the overall increased utilization as our more expensive assets were less utilized.
Detailed metrics on our asset utilization are included in the presentation provided in the Investor Relations section of our website.
Unobserved direct operating costs were $40 million in 2014.
As a result of the positive net income during the fourth quarter our basic and diluted share counts increased to reflect the tangible equity units or TEUs dilution.
Weighted average common shares outstanding were approximately $284 million which included the potential issuance of $41 million shares related to the TEUs.
Fourth quarter net income was $8.2 million or $0.03 per fully diluted share.
Depending on the stock price at the end of each period and our net income or loss we have the potential to include an additional 33 million shares to 41 million shares to our basic and diluted share count numbers.
The net loss for the full year 2014 was $76 million or $0.32 per fully diluted share.
As the full-year 2014 ended in a net loss position there was no additional dilution on the annualized basis from the TEUs.
Moving to the balance sheet.
At December 31 2014 we reported $853 million in cash and restricted cash a reduction in total cash from the third quarter of approximately $30 million driven primarily by $119 million of cash flow from operations offset by $105 million capital expenditures a $33 million outflow due to a acquisition of our non-controlling interest of the North Ocean 102 joint venture and $9 million in debt repayment.
Restricted cash decreased this quarter as we utilized the lower portion of our cash to collateralize letters of credit.
We have not had a structural change in our contracting terms and conditions during the quarter related to working capital.
Letters of credit issued under our LC facility totaled $196 million and cash collateralize letters of credit totaled $89 million at year-end 2014.
In addition as mentioned earlier we exercised our option to purchase 50% of our joint venture and all of our partners' equity in the North Ocean 102.
The transaction closed in the fourth quarter for approximately $33 million of cash consideration.
Since we consolidated the joint venture we expect the effect of the buyout will decrease the amount of our net income attributable to non-controlling interest by a normal amount in the future quarters.
The $96 million of capital expenditures which excludes $8.3 million of capitalized interest during the fourth quarter included $83 million of costs for the shipyard delivery of the Construction Support Vessel or CSV 108 and ongoing costs to construct the DLV2000 vessel.
The remaining amounts were driven primarily by various project-related occurrence (20:20).
The fourth quarter 2014 spend was higher than we expected earlier in 2014 as a result of a shipyard milestone completion a month earlier than originally forecast.
During the full year 2014 we spent $208 million on these two vessels excluding capitalized interest.
Now turning to order intake.
We reported a backlog of approximately $3.6 billion at year-end of which 43% related to our offshore operations and 57% related to our subsea operations.
Bookings in the fourth quarter totaled $428 million driven primarily by a new order from Brunei Shell Petroleum and change orders on existing projects.
Our bids and change orders outstanding at year-end were $8.6 billion compared to $10.5 billion at the end of the third quarter 2014.
Of these amounts approximately 69% of our outstanding bids and change orders relate to our offshore operations.
Please note that the Chevron Gendalo-Gehem project has shifted from bids outstanding to target projects due to the customer's decision to re-tender the project.
A list of target projects totaled $17.6 billion as of December 31 2014.
As a reminder targets are those projects that we intend to bid on and we expect will be awarded to us or a competitor in the next five quarters.
Again approximately 83% of the value of our target projects relate to our offshore operations.
As of December 31 2014 the combination of our backlog bids and change orders outstanding and target projects our potential revenue pipeline totaled $29.8 billion up from $26.9 billion in the sequential quarter.
We have provided additional information on the breakdown by project type region and work scope of these various items in the presentation on our website.
As I mentioned during our third quarter call at the end of 2014 we embarked on a planned cost reduction exercise to improve our profitability and flexibility.
The objective of the exercise was to bring a change to our overall cost structure and address our fixed costs while still maintaining the revenue and capacity potential of the company.
There is now a formulized plan in place called the McDermott profitability initiative otherwise known internally as MPI.
The three components of the plan include increased organizational efficiency through the rationalization of resources across the company.
The centralization of front and back office functions and operational cost initiatives that leverage McDermott's global scale and allow for the outsourcing of non-core activities.
As part of this initiative we anticipate up to 10% reduction in the overall salaried workforce by the end of 2015.
As a result the company anticipates annual cash savings in 2015 of approximately $50 million before restructuring costs of $25 million to $35 million during this year.
Starting in 2016 we expect an annualized cash saving of $100 million going forward.
Before I comment on 2015 guidance I just want to remind everyone on the call about the disclosure Darcey provided at the start of the call regarding forward-looking statements.
That disclaimer applies to all forward-looking statements David and I have already provided on this call and certainly applies to our statements regarding guidance.
For the year 2015 the company expects revenues to be in the range of $3.3 billion to $3.6 billion and operating income to be in the range of $25 million to $50 million which includes the expected restructuring costs and expected savings from our cost reduction plan.
We also expect the operating income to be slightly loaded towards the back end of the year due to some seasonality in the first quarter.
For the full year 2015 we expect gross interest expense of $72 million and capitalized interest of approximately $25 million and net interest expense of $45 million.
Of the expected $72 million in gross interest expense we expect $60 million of that to be in cash and the other $12 million to be amortization.
We also expect our taxes to be in the range of $35 million to $45 million for 2015.
With the CSV 108 recently completed our remaining capital expenditures to complete the vessels during 2015 are expected to be $254 million consistent with what we have previously guided the markets.
We expect to spend an additional $20 million to $40 million during the year on the other remaining maintenance and project-related expenditures while maintaining the capabilities and reliability of our assets.
The run rate for maintenance and other project-related expenditures should be sustainable going forward for the next couple of years.
In addition to those figures we expect approximately $25 million of capitalized interest to be reported as capital expenditures in 2015.
Also we expect to have approximately $600 million to $650 million of cash and restricted cash and $865 million in debt at the end of 2015 assuming contracting terms and the industry norms on working capital remain stable.
Consistent with recent periods we expect stable operational performance throughout the year.
We also are continuing on our commitment to preserve our liquidity positioning through strong working capital management and the cost savings anticipated in our internal MPI plan.
Now I would like to turn the call back over to David.
Thank you Stuart.
As I mentioned earlier we made significant progress on our turnaround in 2014 and we believe we are aggressively working to continue those efforts to ensure the short- and the medium-term success of the company.
In addition I also believe that we must continue to develop McDermott's brand and technical capabilities to put us in a position of strength for the long term.
We recently announced new partnerships with two industry leaders that support our efforts to augment McDermott's client offerings one in early stage of projects and one for the large complex deepwater EPCI field developments.
In January we announced a venture between McDermott and GE Oil &amp; Gas using the name io oil &amp; gas consulting.
The objective of the venture is to participate in the front end of projects by providing consulting services to customers on concept selection and pre-FEED work.
What differentiates this from any of the consultancies in the market today is that io has access to resources at McDermott and GE Oil &amp; Gas which will provide realistic perspectives on constructability of designs schedule estimates and cost estimates.
When customers consult with io they can expect to receive advice that maximizes the efficiency of construction and installation while supporting their technical needs resulting in a lower and more predictable cost and schedule.
It is a win-win for our customers and for McDermott as when our customers have greater cost and schedule certainty we expect fewer delays in the final investment decision and EPCI contracting process.
In February we announced a new strategic marketing alliance with Petrofac for large EPCI SURF projects.
This agreement allows us to combine McDermott's well-established track record of delivering large EPCI SURF projects and our subsea engineering fabrication and installation capabilities with Petrofac's top tier JSD 6000 vessel which is scheduled to be commissioned in 2017.
The JSD 6000 will be a world-class industry-leading vessel with capabilities that will be able to compete on the most technically challenging deepwater projects.
It will be an ultra-heavy lift S-Lay and J-Lay vessel and will be able to efficiently lay large diameter pipe in ultra-deepwaters.
We believe that together we can be one of very few alliances that can address the largest and most complex ultra-deepwater subsea developments.
In many ways we expect that 2015 will be like 2014 a year of stability and transition.
We expect our operations to continue to improve but face the ongoing challenges of a lower oil price environment.
To help us deliver on this commitment with the current industry headwinds we will be proactively managing our cost structure and scaling our business to match our customer demand.
In addition we will continue to improve our relationships with our customers and leverage new and existing partnerships to develop a stronger set of solutions for our clients.
While it will take time and effort as we emerge from this turnaround I hope you share the same excitement as I do about the future of McDermott.
With that I would now like to open up the line for questions.
Our first question comes from the line of Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you and congratulations nice quarter folks.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
David I guess the first question I have is if I look at your operating income outlook for 2015 and really compare it to the fourth quarter which is pretty strong seems to be at a lighter clip on a quarterly basis.
Would you talk a bit about your utilization aspects and mix for the year as we go through the year? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes Tahira this is Stuart.
Just looking at 2015 we do expect some seasonality in the first quarter mainly coming from our Middle East and Asia segment.
And then also just looking at the work programs on various assets throughout the balance of the year there may be some small areas of underutilization as assets transit between contracts.
So it may be slightly higher than 2014.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it okay.
Thanks.
And Stuart I guess the second question is also aimed at you and spares David and that's to do with the free cash flow.
If I really look at your cash outlook for the end of the year back out CapEx and the interest expense on a cash basis it seems like you're expecting some free cash flow coming through the year.
We'd love to get a sense from you when we should at least expect an inflection in your free cash flow in 2015? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So Tahira as you quite rightly say our cash flow excluding our CapEx should be positive in 2015 albeit with still the heavy investment we have to complete the vessels we won't achieve overall cash positive until later in 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Good evening and congrats on a nice improvement on your results.
I guess just two questions just because I don't think the K is out yet.
So we don't really have a sense of what the profitability was by segment or revenues were by segment.
But I mean you showed nice progress was there anything unusual outside of what you talked about in the quarter I mean you talked about the restructuring charge the minor restructuring were there any like gains or project closeout that helps inflate profit? And I guess my second question is how do you think about profitability by segment.
Probably an unfair question but are there certain geographies you're making more progress on versus not.
I guess that would be helpful with regards to 2015.
Thanks.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Yeah.
So just on the profitability by segment when you see the K you will notice that we were profitable for the quarter in both our Asia and Middle East segments and certainly unprofitable in our Americas segment.
Looking forward  well staying on the fourth quarter really a kind of an operational result in the fourth quarter.
No real dominance of project closeouts or negotiation numbers a real operationally driven number for the fourth quarter.
Looking forward to 2015 we would still expect a slightly higher profitability in our subsea segment over our offshore segment which is in-line with our historical trends.
Okay.
But any material change in profitability by geography? I'm assuming that's how you will continue to report things.
Do we still assume Asia-Pac and Middle East have better profits I mean relative to the Americas.
Just trying to get a sense of where profitability is being driven by for 2015? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So if you look at our Asia segment still being driven predominantly by our Ichthys project.
Yeah.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Which remains both profitable and on time.
Our Middle East segment we have worked through a significant number of operational issues in 2014 and we would expect and hope that it remains profitable in 2015.
And our Americas segment we still work through business development expense for expanding that marketplace.
And we're working hard at cost structuring and other items to return it to profitability but we expect it would still be the lowest return of the three segments in 2015.
All right great.
Congrats.
I'll get back in queue.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Good afternoon guys.
Nice quarter.
Good afternoon Andy.
Inc.</span></strong> David so while your bids didn't change whereas outstandings decreased because of Gendalo-Gehem your targets and your potential revenue pipeline increased obviously some movement from Gendalo.
But how should we think about order intake each quarter in the current environment? I know you're going to have a good Q1 with the announcements today and I know you're not going to tell me a certain number.
I know it's lumpy but should we be thinking that you'd stabilize back to just sort of what the old McDermott was doing maybe $500 million to $1 billion in orders each quarter even with oil prices being low is that how we should think about it or is it going to be a more challenged than that? I think Andy first to get back to the start of the question.
I think if anything that we would take from this is that as I said during the call is that I think we'll start to see a little bit of the fruits from the work and develop some stronger relationships with our customers and how we look at our bidding processes plus some of the talent that we've added to the organization.
I think in this current macroeconomic environment I think the volatility will remain.
It's difficult to predict from quarter-to-quarter how things will go.
Our bidding activity still remains robust and at a reasonable level similar to that of last year but predictability of when customers will precede and sanction projects is very difficult to make any statement in this current environment.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just to be clear David because we don't have the 10-K.
When you  the $3.3 million to $3.6 million in revenue was higher than I saw it.
How much do you need to still book work or significant work in 2015 to sort of beat that (38:42) level or is that just excess ramping up pretty significantly with the couple of the awards that you won here recently? I'll pass that over to Stuart to answer them.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
Andy when you see the K you will see that of the $3.6 billion in backlog we ended 2014 with we expect to roll off $3 billion in 2015 so it would obviously leave us $300 million to $600 million in revenues to achieve to meet our overall guidance for the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay that's helpful.
And David if I could ask you one more on the CSV 108.
Maybe you could give us a little more color on that particular boat and its role on Ichthys in 2015.
I think in the past we've seen some startup issues from McDermott from time to time when McDermott rolls out a new vessel.
So maybe you can just talk about your preparation for the CSV 108 coming out and working on Ichthys? Well.
At this time Andy we don't have any concerns.
This vessel originally was going to have a rigid pipelay system on it which we changed that strategy well over a year ago.
So a lot of the equipment  a lot of the startup issues that's happened on McDermott vessels before have been primarily related to what you would say is a deck equipment.
So we don't have a lot of that on this a lot of the work that the 108 will do is very fairly standard a lot of it is lifting stone some spill pieces some subsea structures.
So it's more about lifting and a lot of that of ROV support driverless connection.
So the nature of the activity is somewhat different from something compared to maybe Siakap project which was a couple years ago.
Inc.</span></strong> Great that's helpful.
Thanks guys.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
Please proceed.
Great thanks.
Good afternoon.
David could you maybe characterize the flow of business in the Middle East in 2014 and how you expect that to trend in 2015 it's sort of hard to tell you how much of last year's sluggishness was your relationship rebuilding versus refocusing your bidding processes versus just the customers not making decisions in the overall market? Okay.
I mean I think the first thing to highlight is the fact that Saudi Aramco of which we have a long-term agreement did not award any contracts during 2014.
And primarily mainly as a result of Aramco executing quite a large backlog of projects which obviously we are part of that sort of our SURF and io projects and our other jacket projects we have with them.
So I think there was a large element of that.
Secondly I think that we have worked  we have worked hard to work a lot closer towards Aramco to fully understand their needs.
I touched on the call is how do we work closer with Aramco to help them execute some of these projects.
And in particular with most of them being brownfield activity which requires some element of production downtime et cetera.
So I think some of it is or most of it really is Aramco getting their projects in a row to release and let them.
And we announced obviously today the success on Marjan and hopefully we will see some more activity as we go into 2015.
Thanks.
And then how should we think about what this cost restructuring does to your breakeven and normalized margin targets? If I add the $100 million of the savings and the restructuring costs to your 2015 profit target it would give me around a 5% margin on your 2015 level of revenue.
So I'm just kind of wondering if that's the way we should start to think about sort of the normalized level for 2016 and maybe beyond if you're going to be in that sort of $3 billion to $4 billion of revenue range.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes.
The 2015 savings from MPI are already kind of baked into our guidance and the way you're thinking about kind of looking at 2016 and overlaying it to 2015 is the right way to look at it.
I think another important part of overall profitability will generally be the macro environment as we look at competitive pressures in each of our markets in 2015.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
On the projects that you're looking to bid on in the Middle East or have bids outstanding can you maybe talk some more about your confidence in those projects moving forward? Is there a good portion of that that's brownfield or are they projects that are related to natural gas for the country's internal usage or to facilities onshore that are already built? And also the next LTA.
Can you talk about the status of that and where we are there? Okay.
So on Middle East if we look at Middle East and the various countries.
So we have bidding activity ongoing with  obviously with Aramco on what is a lot of brownfield activities some of it is greenfield but a significant element is brownfield.
We announced the award in Qatar.
We have seen an increased activity of bidding activity in Qatar and a lot of that relates to the next wave of gas developments and things in Qatar have been quiet for a period of time.
We also see bidding activity ongoing in the UAE with ADNOC ADMA which the work we're bidding there is primarily again brownfield.
So with a lot of the brownfield projects we see these moving ahead.
There are some other opportunities that are coming up but those are mainly with our national oil companies.
With regards to the LTA with Aramco I can confirm that we're currently bidding both on the existing LTA which has been with us for the last six or seven years and we have recently just submitted our bid for the new LTA which the customer is currently evaluating.
Okay.
And then with regards to the CapEx on the DLV 2000 will you be done with your CapEx on that vessel this year or will there still be some payments that will be due in 2016? We expect the vast majority of that CapEx to be complete this year.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Two things.
First can you say how much of your backlog I know it's coming (46:22) is in the loss position at this point? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Of the $3.6 billion there is approximately $400 million that is in a loss position and that $400 million is due to roll off $260 million in 2015 and $140 million in  sorry $260 million in 2015 and $140 million in 2016.
Right.
Thank you for that.
And then just in  I guess for David in terms of the bidding environment as we're getting into hopefully more stable oil prices at these levels can you talk a little bit about what your sense is of competitive reaction especially on bidding practices because I assume most of the work that you were recently awarded was bid a while ago.
And any sense there? Well.
I don't like to talk about what our competitor's doing.
What I can say is that in the current bidding environment our focus is really in areas where we think we have some differentiating capability.
So that's why we talk a lot about Middle East we talk about brownfield we talk about national oil companies.
It is where historically McDermott has been extremely successful and it is where we have the right people the right fabrication assets and the right installation assets to deliver.
At the same time we've got a large focus in Mexico we had an award earlier in the year.
We continue to develop a very strong relationship with PEMEX and we continue to develop our yard in Altamira which I was fortunate to visit last week which is a first-class facility and one which is going to be very competitive not only in the market in Mexico but in the international market.
So our focus is where we can differentiate ourselves in the areas where we feel we can compete.
Okay fair enough.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Adam Thalhimer McDermott (sic) [BB&amp;T Capital Markets].
Please proceed.
Hi good afternoon guys congratulations.
Thanks.
I wanted to follow-up on John's question.
Obviously with -and you mentioned with oil prices coming down obviously harder to know when customers are going to move forward on projects.
But what's your sense David for where the oil price needs to be for things to feel a little better? Well Adam firstly I am obviously not qualified to talk about oil price and obviously our customers are more focused on that.
As I said early in the last question our primary focus is where we feel that we can offer something to our customers that gives us in a competitive position.
We also talk quite frequently about our relationship that we have with the national oil companies in particular areas which are known to produce barrels of oil slightly less than some other parts of the world.
So that's where we have a lot of our focus and we'll continue there but it's certainly not for me to comment on oil price.
Okay.
And then on the cost cutting initiatives how much of that comes out of the SG&amp;A line? Stuart you want to? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes.
The imitative is focused at all areas of cost within the company.
And there's a relatively small number coming out of SG&amp;A in 2015 with a high percentage in 2016.
But the majority of the saving in 2015 is coming from operating expense.
Okay.
And then lastly just Stuart can you repeat what you've said on the  on your expectations for the tax provision in 2015? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes.
We estimated between I think $35 million and $45 million of tax expense in 2015.
Okay.
What percentage of tax rate is that? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> The McDermott incurs a blend of corporation tax and also withholding tax and given our overall inverted structure and so we are at a higher level of profitability our effective tax rate we think is not reflective of our structure.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
That concludes our Q&amp;A.
We will now turn the call back over to Ms.
Darcey Matthews for closing remarks.
Please proceed.
Thank you Vitalie.
Thank you for participating today.
We look forward to seeing many of you at our upcoming investor conferences including the UBS One-on-One Engineering &amp; Construction Conference in New York on March 12 2015 the Howard Weil Energy Conference in New Orleans on March 24 and the BB&amp;T Commercial and Industrial's Conference in Florida on March 19.
We also hope you'll join us for our first quarter call 2015 on May 11 of this year.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great day.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and thank you for standing by.
Welcome to McDermott International's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the company's prepared remarks we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Darcey Matthews McDermott's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Jasmine and good afternoon everyone.
I would like to remind you that we are recording this call and a replay will be available on our website where you can also find our first quarter 2015 results press release and the Form 10-Q that we filed today.
We've also posted a supplemental slide presentation that will be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Additionally our comments today will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks contingencies and uncertainties and reflects management's view as of today.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC which are available on our website including our Form 10-Q for the quarter ending March 31 2015 which provide a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
And please note that to the  except to the extent required by applicable law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement.
I will now turn the call over to David Dickson McDermott's President and Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Thank you Darcey and good afternoon and thank you everyone for joining us today.
During the first quarter of 2015 McDermott was awarded more new business than an entirety of 2014.
Despite a challenging macro environment we received several important contracts for our Middle East region a core strength for the company for more than 40 years as well as new awards in our newly defined areas of Americas Europe and Africa.
Our renewed focus on customer relationships is yielding results.
Some of our new awards include the following; in February we received our first contract in over 12 months from Saudi Aramco for the power supply system at the Marjan Field.
This EPCI project utilizes the full scope of McDermott's drastically integrated organization from engineering and procurement through to the fabrication and installation.
The work will be executed over a several year period in an already developed field and this what we term brownfield work.
Brownfield refers to the enhancement addition to and maintenance of producing fields and fits directly with McDermott's integrated capabilities.
Our ability to align our organization with Aramco's business objectives to their engineering center in Saudi Arabia has been an important component to McDermott being selected for this new award.
We believe it is also a direct reflection of the ongoing improvement of our relationship with Saudi Aramco.
Elsewhere in this region we received an award from Qatar Petroleum for a shallow water gas EPCI project in their Northfield which marks one of the first projects awarded by QP in the past several years.
We expect that this award is part of the next wave of developments planned in the region.
We were actively involved during the country's last infrastructure build up and we believe there should be additional opportunities to build a new work in this region.
Additionally we received an important EPCI contract amendment from the Al-Khafji Joint Operations Organization KJO for the Hout Field in the divided zone offshore Kuwait and Saudi Arabia.
This new contract amendment reflects the work McDermott has done over the past year to refocus its efforts on our customers and their objectives.
We were originally awarded the contract for the Hout project in 2012.
By taking a collaborative approach we were able to realign ourselves with KJO and their plans for the field.
This award is a strong example of a customer success story and we are pleased to be working in the Hout Field.
Our new award includes one new platform and two bridges with a total weight of approximately 3 300 tons including significant modifications at the existing complex using the McDermott Saudi-based engineering teams our fabrication yard in Jebel Ali and our global fleet for the installation.
Our ability to control and execute on all aspects of the brownfield work from concept engineering through to the final installation was vital to receiving this award.
In our new Americas Europe and Africa area we were awarded a greenfield SURF project in Brazil from QGEP a new customer for our company.
This one shows the benefit of our relationship with GE oil and gas as we partner together effectively to provide our client with a strong technical solution.
The award of this contract highlights the company's strengthening position in the Brazilian market.
Following the successful completion of work for Chevron last fall in the Gulf of Mexico we were recently awarded a new contract in the Jack &amp; St.
Malo Field.
Last year we completed the transportation and installation of some of the industry's largest and most complex umbilical systems in 7 200 feet of water.
Our proven track record of safely installing subsea facilities in challenging deepwater environment was instrumental and McDermott being awarded this new opportunity.
Although McDermott has been able to win new business we remain aware of the global macro oil price environment and the challenges faced by our customers.
We are seeing future projects being differed as our customers evaluate their cash flow and project economics.
As a result we are actively engaging in detailed conversations with our clients to confirm their project scopes timing and objectives to ensure our solutions remain competitive.
This collaboration is critical to ensuring that we provide clients with cost-efficient and technically strong solutions by leveraging McDermott's vertical integration capabilities.
We are focused on the execution quality in our fabrication yards and up-time on our vessels for full utilization of our assets.
We believe the risk associated with our legacy loss projects are contained and believe the risks to further deterioration in our portfolio projects have been mitigated.
Overall the project improvements are also a direct reflection of the active and ongoing dialogue with our customers.
In many instances we are able to negotiate change orders and successfully close our projects more effectively.
Now I'll provide a quick update on some of our areas of operations for our existing projects.
In our Americas Europe and Africa area the PB-Litoral-A project in Mexico continues to progress on track.
The project execution is proceeding well and we believe the risks associated with any further slippage continue to be contained.
Supporting the execution of this project we are seeking productivity improvements at the Altamira yard where we remain focused on executing the outstanding scope to our current cost estimate.
We expect the structure to be completed for sale away during the third quarter of this year.
Also in the first quarter the yard successfully completed its first export contract of a seven-storied living quarter structure for a project in West Africa Offshore-Angola.
In our Middle East area as we exit the first quarter high-wind season our vessels are working and the fabrication yards are busy.
We are executing on existing projects for Saudi Aramco and ADMA in addition to the new awards in the region.
The area also completed 20 million man-hours without experiencing a loss time into them.
In our Asia area at our Ichthys project 70% of the approximately 27 000 tons of structures have been completed and the project has completed 10 million man-hours without a lost time incident.
There were delays during the quarter for weather and productivity from our third-party contractor which pushed out some of the revenue we expected to recognize during the first quarter.
Stuart will provide some additional color on the revenue later on.
The Construction Support Vessel 108 was delivered to operations in February within budget and is in Batam preparing for mobilization for its work scope on the Ichthys project currently planned to commence in the second quarter.
A core component to executing projects successfully is health and safety.
At McDermott we have a strong culture of HSE and one of the leaders in the EPCI sectors as well as in oil and gas industry.
With over 25 years of experience in the industry I am extremely proud of the health and safety focus at McDermott.
The attention given to this critical aspect of our business is evidenced by the overall safety and health record of our company globally.
On our vessels and in our fabrication yards we have industry-leading results for HSE as evidenced by the millions of man hours without a lost time incident that I referenced a moment ago.
As you look at our bids outstanding and targeted projects at March 31 2015 we believe we are well-positioned in the markets where we expect there to be ongoing capital projects.
We continue to see more near-term opportunities in our offshore markets than our subsea markets.
We expect that the Middle East area will remain the more stable and provide the greatest opportunity for new projects over the next several quarters.
McDermott continues to have significant opportunities with national oil companies as evidenced by some of our new project awards in 2015.
We believe that the NOCs are more likely to continue with few development projects in today's market given the greater resilience to commodity prices and the amount of brownfield work that needs to be performed.
A strategic point to remember about McDermott is where we participate in a project's lifecycle.
Our EPCI services are the final component of a field's development before new oil or gas production.
By the time McDermott is engaged clients have already invested a significant amount in the development of their field.
With that I would like to turn over the call to Stuart Spence our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for a review of our financials.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</strong> Thanks David and good afternoon everyone.
Today I'm going to cover our first quarter financial results and review the new segment reporting that McDermott has initiated.
Then I will discuss the timing of our CapEx spend this year followed by our backlog and current bid pipeline and then provide an update on our cost saving initiatives.
Revenues for the first quarter were $551 million down $255 million or 32% over the sequential quarter and down $53 million from Q1 2014 revenues of $604 million.
The key drivers impacting the current quarter were weather seasonality and third-party performance delays on the marine campaign at our large Ichthys project as well as customer initiated changes at several of our Middle East brownfield projects.
In particular weather and productivity delays at Ichthys slowed the recognition of revenue by approximately $180 million during the quarter.
As a reminder our major subcontractor Ichthys is the main driver of progress revenue recognition this year and is on an identifiable lump-sum fixed-price work scope.
As a result of the delay in recognizing some of the Ichthys revenues gross profit margins of approximately 14% for the period were higher than we have been running over the past few quarters reflecting a larger contribution from projects with higher margins an ongoing focus on project cost management and continued demonstration of improved customer relations with project amendments and close out negotiations.
Operating income totaled $6.6 million during the quarter and included $10.4 million of restructuring expenses.
Our loss project portfolio continued to contribute positively to gross profit during the first quarter by approximately $24 million.
The PB-Litoral project is on track and has seen no further cost slippages over the past several quarters.
The contract amendment from KGO for the Hout Field contributed significantly during the quarter and we negotiated the final close-out of a project in Mexico that was completed in the second quarter of 2014.
Cash flow from operations was a use of $18.5 million for the first quarter driven primarily by changes to working capital.
Net interest expense during the first quarter totaled $12.4 million; this includes $18.7 million of gross interest expense and the capitalization of $6.3 million of interest to our vessels under construction.
As previously mentioned the CSV 108 has now been placed into service and is awaiting mobilization to the Ichthys Project at the end of Q2.
As a result only the DLV 2000 will drive capitalized interest for the remainder of 2015.
Unabsorbed direct operating expenses totaled $17.2 million in the first quarter versus $15 million in the fourth quarter of last year.
Detailed metrics on our asset utilization are included in the presentation provided in the Investor Relations section of our website.
We measure asset utilization in actual days for our vessels and man hours for our fabrication yards as a percentage of the standard which is set at the beginning of the year.
As mentioned during our Q4 call our asset utilization during the first quarter was at risk of seasonality.
At our fabrication yards utilization of the Batam yard is lower due to the completion of 70% of the structures for the Ichthys campaign.
The offshore fleet utilization was impacted by two factors during the quarter.
The first factor was weather seasonality in our Middle East region where high-winds are prevalent during the early months of the year and second by customer initiated changes to projects causing downtime.
Our subsea vessel utilization decreased from 98% in the fourth quarter to 81% in the first quarter as we added the CSV 108 offshore vessel to the fleet.
First quarter net income was a loss of $14.5 million or $0.06 per fully diluted share.
Net of restructuring charges the first quarter loss would have been reduced by $10.4 million or $0.04 per fully diluted share.
Depending on the stock price at the end of each period and our net income or loss we have the potential to include an additional 33 million shares to 41 million shares to our diluted share count numbers for our tangible equity units or TEUs.
For the first quarter the TEUs dilution was not included in the outstanding share count calculation because the shares were anti-dilutive.
Moving to the balance sheet at March 31 2015 we reported $800 million in cash and restricted cash a reduction in total cash from the fourth quarter of approximately $53 million.
Restricted cash increased this quarter as we utilized a higher portion of our cash to collateralize letters of credit.
We have not had a structural change in our contracting terms and conditions during the quarter related to working capital.
Letters of credit issued under our LC facility totaled $201.4 million and cash collateralized letters of credit totaled $111.8 million at quarter end.
At the beginning of January we changed our segment reporting areas to align our resources and available capacity to better support our customers by changing responsibility for the region's decision-making.
Previously the North Sea in Africa had been aggregated into our Middle East reporting segment.
This North Sea and Africa geography is now being combined with our Americas area to form the Americas Europe and Africa reporting segment.
As it relates to our previous filings all prior periods in the MD&amp;A section have been misstated to conform to the new segments.
Overall the 2013 and 2014 segment changes were not material and the details on the revenue and operating income impact can be found in our supplemental slide deck.
Capital expenditures for the first quarter were $24 million which include $6.3 million of capitalized interest.
During the fourth quarter conference call we provided 2015 CapEx guidance of $275 million to $295 million which was comprised of the remaining CapEx expected on our two vessels the DLV 2000 and the CSV 108 as well as maintenance and project CapEx of $20 million to $40 million per year.
However the timing on delivery of the DLV 2000 is expected to move to later in the fourth quarter of 2015.
We also expect a small portion of the DLV 2000 CapEx to move into early 2016 to cover sea trials and other commissioning activities.
As a result we expect the CapEx spend for the year to be on the lower end of our Q4 call guidance.
With the CSV 108 recently completed our remaining capital expenditures to complete the vessels during 2015 are expected to be $216 million.
The run rate for maintenance on other project-related expenditures should be in the range of $20 million to $40 million which we view as sustainable in the short term.
In addition to those figures we expect approximately $25 million of capitalized interest be reported as capital expenditures in 2015.
Now turning to order intake.
We reported a backlog of approximately $3.7 billion at quarter-end which is evenly split between our offshore and subsea operations.
Bookings in the first quarter totaled $698 million driven by new orders from Saudi Aramco Qatar Petroleum Chevron and QGEP and change orders on existing projects.
Our bids and change orders outstanding at quarter-end were $8.8 billion compared to $8.6 billion at the end of the fourth quarter 2014.
Of these amounts approximately 92% of our outstanding bids and change orders relate to our offshore operations.
Our list of target projects totaled $16.8 billion as of March 31 2015.
As a reminder targets are those projects that we intend to bid on and we expect will be awarded to us or a competitor in the next five quarters.
Approximately 64% of the value of our target projects relate to offshore operations.
As of the end of the quarter the combination of our backlog bids and change orders outstanding and target projects our potential revenue pipeline totaled $29.3 billion down slightly from $29.8 billion in the sequential quarter.
We have provided additional information on the break down by project type region and work scope of those various items in our supplemental slide presentation on our website.
As I discussed earlier the move of Europe and Africa to the Americas segment has also changed the alignment of opportunities and our bids outstanding and target project breakdown approximately $4 billion of bids outstanding in targets moved from the Middle East area to the Americas area as part of the realignment.
In addition we saw several new opportunities by independents of the coast of Africa added to the Americas Europe and Africa pipeline.
In addition the roll up of backlog in 2016 increased from $500 million to $1.2 billion as a result of the new awards the company won during the first quarter of 2015 which are expected to be completed within two years as well as the work slippage at the Ichthys project.
As discussed during the 4Q call we embarked on a planned cost reduction exercise to improve our profitability and flexibility.
The objective of the exercise was to bring a change to the overall cost structure and address our fixed costs while still maintaining the revenue and capacity potential of the company.
Since the beginning of the McDermott profitability initiative and as a result of increased organization efficiencies we have reduced our employee head count by approximately 475 positions.
The expected 2015 cash savings from this reduction is $27.6 million and will be primarily be reflected in our operating expense line.
As mentioned earlier our restructuring charges for the first quarter were $10.4 million including the decision to decommission one of our oldest vessels the DB 101 which was part of the previous guidance given for the year of $25 million to $35 million.
We are in the process of implementing further initiatives on centralization and operational costs.
In addition to the profitability initiatives we also released an additional 1 200 positions as a result of the company's regular work activity and the sequencing of projects primarily related to craft labor and our fabrication yards.
Now I would like to turn the call back over to David for closing remarks.
Thank you Stuart.
I've spent a lot of time this afternoon discussing the new awards and the execution of our existing projects all of which are key aspects of our organization's near term focus.
However we also need to build for the future and during the first quarter we kicked off two new initiatives a new consulting group called io with GE oil &amp; gas as well as our new strategic marketing alliance with Petrofac.
Both ventures are progressing well and we look forward to providing additional updates as the year progresses.
We're off to a positive start in 2015 with a multiple new project awards in our AEA and MEA regions.
The work the organization has done over the past year to strengthen this relationships with clients is generating results.
We see the impact not only with our new awards but also in the quality of the dialogue we are having with customers in the current macro commodity environment.
We remain committed to ensuring the successful execution of our existing backlog in a safe and efficient manner where we actively manage our cost and liquidity.
And we remain strongly focused on breaking new awards to support our organization in the coming years.
With that I would now like to open up the line for questions.
And our first question comes from Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi David and team.
Hi Tahira.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Hi there.
Inc.</span></strong> I guess first question is David on your comment around some deferrals and push outs.
Are these becoming more intense or do you think they are stabilizing to some extent? I think we still have some way to go Tahira.
I still think we have a lagging effect and I would expect that we will be in dialogue with customers on deferral of projects as we see some more stability on oil price plus you know our customers have come back to take a revised look at some of these developments based on the impact that we're starting to see on the supply chain.
So that's not only the services that we provide but the services obviously that our subcontractors and suppliers provide.
So I think this is going to be with us for the next one quarter or two quarters and obviously mainly subject to what happens in the oil price environment.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it okay.
And I guess on that note David I know that one of your larger peers has announced an alliance as well to really look at taking cost supplies out I know you are trying to be innovative as well.
Do you see this bid list you have in essence getting sort of downsized not because activity levels are going down but because you will see a bit of positive deflation in terms of project scope? Well I think what we've said today is that our list of projects whether it's bids outstanding or targets we can see over the next four  five quarters has remained basically flat.
So from that aspect we see it consistent.
But I think obviously compared to some of our peers I think the important thing to highlight is that a large piece of that is in our what I always refer to is our traditional offshore business.
So this is areas where the extraction of a bottle of oil is cheaper than some other places.
So obviously we quote places like Middle East and also some places in Asia.
So we see continuing activity obviously subsea which comes at a higher cost in certain parts and certain regions of the world is a bit more challenged today and obviously it's going to take a little bit more time whether it is through technology or working through the supply chain for some of these projects to get back on line.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you David and I'll hop back in the queue.
Okay.
And our next question comes from the line of Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Please proceed.
Hi good evening and congratulations on a nice quarter here.
I guess just two questions.
One just to clarify with related to Ichthys and then a second one just on guidance.
First with regards to Ichthys you talked about the weather  the issue with the subcontractor.
How does that impact  I guess what was the hit in the quarter how does that impact the cost and schedule of the project and is there any risk to you associated with that.
Just to be clear it doesn't sound like it but I just want to make sure? And then I guess also I'm just struck with the delays that we had and with the issues with Ichthys this quarter you still  operating income was still $6.6 million Asia was unprofitable.
I'm assuming if you make adjustments to Q1 run rate is much better than your $25 million to $50 million of implied operating income guidance for 2015.
And I think last quarter you said operating income should accelerate as we  or should be higher in the back half of the year.
So I'm just trying to  your guidance looks beatable to achievable.
Is there anything I'm missing with regards to any seasonality factors in the next three quarters that I should be aware of or you just don't want to declare victory yet it's too early? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Jamie it's Stuart I'll take this question...
Sorry there is a lot of a questions in there but...
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> That's okay.
So just first on Ichthys.
The combination of weather and productivity impacted our Q1 revenues by approximately $180 million.
Okay.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> So it was a significant kind of drop in revenue for us.
That was all related to the weather and performance on our subcontractor.
And any cost associated with that remains with our subcontractor because they're on an identifiable fixed price lump sum piece of the contract.
Okay.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> So it was just a timing issue in the recognition for McDermott.
Okay.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> However that has moved the project schedule obviously slightly to the right and that has knocked over some revenue recognition into 2016 for us.
Okay.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> As we look at the operating income performance for the quarter obviously we had less contribution from Ichthys which comes at a lower margin and we did have some significant movement around project cost forecasts and certain close out negotiations with certain customers on contracts that allowed us to generate more gross profit than we've seen historically over the past 12 months.
As we move forward into the balance of 2015 obviously subject to forward-looking statements as Darcey said at the outset of the call we still see we have a lot of revenue to generate from our backlog and new prospective work.
And the Ichthys contribution is going to be significantly higher than we've seen in the first quarter.
So therefore that mix effect is what will kind of suppress the forward margins versus what we've seen in Q1.
Okay but operating income should still ramp towards  be higher in the back half of the year in total similar to what you said last quarter? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes in dollar terms yes.
Okay in dollar terms.
All right thanks I'll get back in queue.
And our next question comes from the line of Scott Levine with Imperial Capital.
Please proceed.
Hey good morning or good afternoon guys sorry.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Good afternoon.
Hey Scott.
I was just curious about the margin profile of the work that you're booking here the tilt during the quarter to more of the traditional offshore brownfield oriented work.
But can you discuss how that might compare to the work that's in your backlog and/or that type of work that's in your backlog and maybe if you could elaborate on the types of trends you're seeing with contract pricing and any customers looking for call it more attractive terms from their point or are you seeing additional pricing pressure in bidding for the jobs that you've won in the quarter? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> So Scott if I can just take the Q1 aspect of your question there.
We did see that the bookings we made in the first quarter were at a higher gross profit margin than we currently have in our backlog relating to our projects.
That is based on competitive differentiators that we have both on capabilities and our customer relationships.
And then for the forward piece I'd hand over to David.
Yeah so Scott as we look forward I mean clearly there is going to be pricing pressure in the market just as the workload overall from the whole macro environment reduces.
And there are pockets where we have tested the market and seen some pricing which is not where we want to be as a company but we will look to those areas.
Our focus is what we said earlier and that is we want to compete in the environments where either our vertical integration or our local presence makes a difference and that's been the result of the awards that we announced in Q1 whereby those two items local presence vertical integration and plus a third point that we've changed over the last year and that's our relationship with certain customers and that we've really strengthened in the area.
And that's allowed us to work closer with customers to make projects go ahead.
And I think the KJO Hout project is an example of that where this project had been certainly essentially in a hold period for about one year but we're able to get with the customer get the relationship back on track.
And as a result the existing project is now moving forward and with that we've added quite a significant scope.
So we are constantly monitoring each area we're monitoring what's happening in pricing and we're also working internally throughout MPI to look at how we can improve our competitive position but also working in a collaborative approach with our supply chain to see how that with our main subcontractors and suppliers that would allow us to be more competitive.
Got it.
Thank you.
And as a follow up with regard to the cost reduction program should we think of the targets that you've laid out as being reflective of an evaluation process that's now complete and a market environment where you feel like you have a good handle on things or is it still a situation where you're evaluating the environment there is potential for additional savings and/or changes with regard to this business improvement process? It's still kind of a fluid type situation or is it a situation where you've effectively completed the process and laid out the savings target to the Street (38:30)? Sure.
For our McDermott profitability initiative we set our plans and our targets assuming a certain amount of backlog for 2015.
So we are embarking on those plans at the moment and some examples we've just highlighted for you.
In the event that the company doesn't secure some of its targeted backlog levels then we have the ability to change our plans and change our targets when it comes to the profitability initiative.
Great.
Thanks David.
And your next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Hey.
I just want to inquire a little bit about the opportunities that you're seeing in the Middle East with the NOCs and particularly offshore Saudi Arabia and Qatar and maybe you could give us a little more color in terms of the outlook there next couple of years compared to maybe the previous 18 months.
And there's been some press reports recently about the LTA award coming rather soon.
Yeah Marty.
I've just returned from a two week trip in the Middle East and as you know it's a core part of our business and was able to spend time with just about every CEO in all those countries.
The spend by our customers in that area would appear to be robust you saw as well as Aramco being fairly consistent on their message in terms of their investment we saw ADNOC announce some significant investments some two weeks or three weeks ago.
And also we mentioned earlier we're now starting to see the next wave of projects in Qatar.
So from that aspect it's an area where we see good opportunity.
It is also an area where we feel we have some competitive strengths.
We've been there a long time.
We have a very efficient yard and we have a fleet which is present there and in particularly in Saudi we also have some local presence.
So certainly it's an area which has got significant amount of focus and obviously we're very active today on bidding a lot of projects in all those GCC countries.
Okay.
And Altamira could you maybe talk about the productivity improvements that you're seeing there and now with the free trade agreement  or free trade zone status opportunities there and customer acceptance of the yard? Yes I've been fairly consistent on this.
When I look at Altamira from where we were 12 months ago I've been highlighting the HSE performance and one of the areas of significant improvement has been at that yard.
That's also reflected in our productivity which is now also reflected in what we have said today we believe no further deterioration on the PB Litoral.
In the business by our customers and potential customers the yard there is impressive as I said before.
It's near  and the layout the equipment has certainly got an attraction to our international customers.
We completed our first export project for a project in West Africa which was very successful.
So it's now starting to gain some momentum.
However we do need obviously the business from Pemex as well as international activities.
And obviously we're motoring and watching the situation with the Pemex and Mexican energy reform as that will be an important part of the long-term future of Altamira.
Certainly it is an important asset for McDermott moving forward.
Thank you.
And our question comes from the line of Blake Hutchinson with Howard Weil.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Good afternoon.
Hey Blake.
Inc.</span></strong> Just trying to understand the relationship or potential relationship here between some of the delays in larger projects and what we see from a cash flow perspective? I guess the start-ups of some new projects and potential milestone payments perhaps under large projects such as Ichthys could have a potential effect.
Is that the case that we would actually expect to see the cash flow numbers improve over the years as that contract unfolds or really just kind of reading too much into 1Q? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes.
This is Stuart Blake.
The cash profile of each of our projects is somewhat unique and can go through various phases of cash positive neutral or negative.
In terms of the Ichthys project our funding currently is in advance of our expenses and as we see the project evolve over the balance of this year currently we don't see any material change to our overall cash projections for the yearend.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then I guess I was trying to understand from your commentary it would sound as if the KJO was actually recorded as a change order rather than a newer order flow? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> That is correct.
Yes.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
And then just finally I wanted to just chat a bit about your commentary around the positions that have been released at the yard level and the sequencing of projects.
I guess trying to take your commentary and look at the asset utilization summary and your standard hours have actually gone up here.
I guess are you saying here with your sequencing commentary that you actually think the standard hours remain the same but you can do less with more and at the same time you've attacked what would by my math would be a big portion of that absorption dollar issue? Yes within our fabrication yards we are trying to tie more accurately our billable cost to our workload.
So over the quarter as certain activities and certain projects were completed within the yard or left the yard as was the example in Altamira then we very quickly addressed our variable cost structure which is our craft labor within the yard.
So we see this as a normal mode of business going forward.
And we expect to see increases and decreases in our craft levels just depending on the various sequencing of our projects in their lifecycle.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks.
I'll turn it back.
And our next question comes from the line of Robert Norfleet with Alembic Global Advisors.
Please proceed.
Good afternoon.
This is actually Nick Chen for Rob this afternoon.
Thanks for talking our question.
I was hoping you guys could talk a little bit more about the competitive bidding environment? And just if you're still seeing a rational bidding coming out of the Asia region and that's why you aren't penetrating the market as well? Yes I mean obviously we're in a different environment in probably what has happened over the last six months.
And so with that every time we look at a prospect we've got to look at what I've said earlier is where we can offer some difference or where we can be more competitive.
Important thing is not to waste our dollars chasing work which the environment is over competitive.
We also look at the number of competitors.
And so that has now been part of a lot of our decision making at the start of our bidding process before we waste time effort and dollars.
But certainly there are parts of the world where the market has become very competitive and you quoted Asia which is certainly a case and in particular India where a lot of these bids and the results are in the public domain and we're seeing some large delta in the numbers between the lowest bidder and the highest bidder.
But in other areas we're seeing more disciplined bidding where we see our major competitors and we see that in areas such as Middle East and in places such as Europe and Africa and Americas.
Okay great.
And then you've already touched on it a little bit but I was hoping we could get into more detail about the PB Litoral project and just loss projects in general.
I realize that most of the stuff remains on track to your previous guidance.
I was wondering if any of them had turned accretive or if there is any changes in that area that we should know about? Overall our loss project portfolio was accretive to earnings in the first quarter by some $24 million.
That was a combination of normal execution negotiating change orders and negotiating close-outs as well as a large contract amendment on KJO Hout.
Overall as we look forward we would hope that we could continue that execution profile and continue to recover some of the loss positions on those contracts.
That's great.
Thanks so much guys.
I'll hop back into the queue.
And our next question comes from the line of John Rogers with D.A.
Davidson.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Just following up on those change order recoveries that you mentioned.
Can you give us a sense of  I know you probably don't want to talk about specific projects but what potentially is out there and the schedule for this year on what we might see settled and I'm assuming none of that's included in your guidance? So John a normal part of our business is changes in scope and then discussion with the customer.
Depending on where the negotiation with the customer stands and the documentation that we have we either take the cost without revenue or we take the cost with revenue or ultimately we take the profit with the revenue.
So depending on how negotiations are going will depend on how we want to book our revenue.
I don't really want to provide any future guidance on the level of success that we may or may not have with certain projects as regards to certain negotiations.
Okay understood.
But in terms of the $24 million relative to the portion of the projects that are in a loss position is it the same relative exposure or can you give us any help there or any color? Yes.
I think if were to give you some more color then I think we would be giving you specifics on projects.
I will say that we continue to actively work to execute the remaining portfolio of loss projects and we have five currently today four of which is in backlog and one is which has essentially finished.
We are actively working to execute that portfolio and engage with the customer to recover cost.
But I wouldn't want to give any guidance specifically.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes.
and John if I could add to that...
Please.
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> ...is that what I would say is over the last 12 months is that McDermott has generally moved into a different space in terms of its discussions with its customer in that we are developing our relationships which is then resulting in more dialog and in a better let's say negotiating environment.
And I think that hopefully that will continue.
As I said we continue to develop our relationships with our customers.
Okay fair enough.
Appreciate the color.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of George O'Leary with Tudor Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Please proceed.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good afternoon guys.
Hi George.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Just wanted to touch on one of the points you made earlier around standardization.
As you guys work alongside GE on this consulting endeavor do you really need your customers to work together as well? I mean it seems like standardization is going to play a big role in reducing costs.
You can have one standardized solution for one customer and another for another customer.
It really needs to be a more pervasive endeavor.
And so does that mean this is maybe a longer-duration effort that we don't see the fruits of for a numbers of years or just curious how you're thinking about that? George there are many ways to look at it.
I think as we move into the io is that we anticipate that over the next year we will see some early benefits.
We are in dialog with customers when you talk about standardization but we're also in dialog with customers and we are replying some of the areas looking at specification some customer requirements.
So we're embarking on dialog with our customers in those areas.
So when I look at io I look at it both from near-term as well as long-term but certainly a lot of dialog going on with our customers in particular I think it's important to highlight here with io that between McDermott and GE's offering to the market is very wide and we can address everything from the well all the way through the whole production facility.
So it's not all about subsea.
It's all about offshore production facility.
So we've had a lot of early engagement with customers who are very interested on this whole model.
And we think it should  also believe it's going to bear some fruit over this next period.
Sure.
That's helpful color.
And then maybe just one more for me.
You mentioned subsea in your answer.
As you look out at your targeted projects and bids outstanding $6.8 billion in subsea is there any potential for any large awards on the subsea front to hit in 2015 or given we've already seen one large award on that front this year does it feel like most of those opportunities are 2016 plus for you guys? I think  it means what you describe by major and large I think we'll see some subsea awards during 2015.
There are some large projects out there that we're working on which in terms of schedule we would anticipate that maybe during 2015 the contractor could be selected but the customer's final investment decision may move into 2016.
All right.
Thanks.
The rest of my questions were knocked out earlier.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research.
Please proceed.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Hey Brian.
Hey Brian.
Hey.
Just coming back to the restructuring maybe just a point of clarification.
So the 1 200 positions that were released that was noted in the press release and in the commentary is that expected to result in additional savings or is that simply sustain the current level of operating performance or margin within the current portfolio? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Hi Brian.
It's Stuart.
Those 1 200 positions would just kind of maintain the current profitability levels within the current portfolio.
They were not really associated with our McDermott profitability initiative.
That was around the 475 heads that was really around the efficiencies of the organization.
Okay understood.
And separately with the state of the Asian region obviously more competitive as you mentioned.
It seems that volume is fairly light.
Are there potentially additional plans to sustain the level of profitability there if you're anticipating  or if you are anticipating a potential cost issue from an overhead absorption perspective? Brian I'll let Stuart take the second part.
But whilst we look at our Asia business I think we also  it's worth bearing in mind is that the two large projects we have ongoing in Asia one which is BSP Brunei Shell is a three-year long project.
We still have to wait for the customer to commit to years two and then he then comments to year three during year two.
But also bear in mind that Ichthys still has a significant ways to go is that  that is obviously not tomorrow's problem and that we've still got a large amount of backlog to execute over the next year or so.
And I'll pass it over to Stuart to maybe get some more...
Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Thanks David.
Yes.
So for MPI at the moment Brian it's based around a certain anticipated level of activity.
If a geographic area in this case Asia falls short of the activity that we would foresee then yes we would start to look at additional plans.
In general within McDermott we look at various cost scenarios giving certain contract awards or not awards so we're always looking at various ways that we can manage our cost base to the activity that we're going to see.
If I could sneak just one last in.
I just noticed your contracts in progress account which I assume is effectively unbilled receivables just ticked up in the quarter.
You had been on a nice downtrend in the second half of the year.
Does that uptick in Q1 just simply reflect the natural ebb and flows of the projects you're executing or are you seeing some hold-up in transitioning some unbilled receivables into billed receivables and eventually collections? Is there anything to be concerned about on that front? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> No.
That account you're looking at on the balance sheet is just part of the normal ebb and flow on various progress dates within certain contracts that have certain milestone billings.
So just a normal working capital quarter for us.
Got it.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Tahira Afzal with KeyBanc.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi folks.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Just had one last question on Ichthys.
Do you folks have to incur liquidation damages if you do deliver the project off schedule? Well Tahira I mean there is LDs on this contract definitely yes.
Is that a cause for concern today? No we've had some slippage with our subcontractor but as I said the project's got a long way to go and we're certainly not in that space at this time and this project goes all the way through 2016 into early 2017.
So we'll watch it carefully but at this time it is not a focus or a concern.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thank you folks.
And our next question comes from the line of Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Please proceed.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi this is Chad on for Vishal.
Most of my questions have been answered but just one quick one on backlog.
So against the backdrop of your comments about seeing push outs what's your conviction level about being able to grow backlog exiting 2015? Well I think there's  Chad there are opportunities out there.
I mean what we've done on Q1 is maintained a flat position on our backlog.
Obviously we're in a different macro environment from 12 months ago.
So obviously it's got a lot of our focus and is our primary focus of today.
Our level of opportunities in terms of bids outstanding and the whole pipeline of bids remains flat.
So we continue on that path.
Obviously we're not in control of when our customers award contracts.
So you could expect there could be some volatility between quarters but it's obviously our main focus as we move forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And just a question on the Americas region.
So how should we think about the evolution of profit margin and the ability to return to positive levels? How much is internal and how much is required to or based on winning awards? Chief Financial &amp; Accounting Officer</span></strong> Yes Chad this is Stuart.
I think the Americas region obviously now consists of three primary markets which is the Americas which is Gulf of Mexico Brazil and then Africa and Europe.
So each has a different mix of short lead time projects which is typical in the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico.
The much longer-term projects that we're seeing in Africa and the North Sea.
That area needs to win work in 2015 to continue on its path that you see in Q1.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And there are no further questions at this time.
I would like to turn the call back over to Darcey Matthews for closing remarks.
Thank you Jasmine.
And thank you everyone for participating today.
We look forward to seeing many of you at some of the upcoming investor conferences we're going to be attending including the Morgan Stanley Conference tomorrow in Houston; The Johnson Rice One-on-One Engineering &amp; Construction Conference in Chicago on May 27; The Deutsche Bank Conference in Chicago on June 3; and then finally the Credit Suisse Conference in New York on 4.
We hope you'll also join us for our second quarter 2015 conference call scheduled for August 10 of this year.
Again thank you for your time and operator this concludes our call.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect and you all have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to McDermott International's Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the company's prepared remarks we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Darcey Matthews McDermott's Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Tia and good afternoon everyone.
I would like to remind you that we're recording this call and a replay will be available on our website where you can also find our second quarter 2015 results press release and the Form 10-Q that we filed today.
We have also posted a presentation of supplemental financial information that will be available on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Additionally our comments today will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks contingencies and uncertainties and reflect management's view as of today August 10 2015.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC which are available on our website including our Form 10-Q for the quarter ending June 30 which provide some discussion of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
I will now turn the call over to David Dickson McDermott's President and Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Thank you Darcey.
Good afternoon and thank you everyone for joining us today.
As you can see by our results today McDermott reported its strongest quarter of the past year-and-a-half.
We were awarded two new sizable and one large award during the period and most importantly we were once again selected by Saudi Aramco to participate in their new long-term agreement.
This was a significant achievement for McDermott and ensures that we will have the opportunity to bid on future Saudi Aramco greenfield and brownfield projects through 2021.
Execution on our existing portfolio of projects was positive and for the third consecutive quarter our legacy loss projects are under control.
We had positive financial results with revenues gross profit and operating income up for the quarter across all of our business areas.
Year-over-year our numbers have also improved as we moved out of our turnaround phase in 2014 and back into more normal business cycle with our industry peers.
While we see continued pressure on commodity prices that impact our of clients' longer-term capital expenditures our core markets continue to provide opportunities.
Although the market dynamics have not changed substantially over the past two quarters there are strong market indications that the timing of this cycle will be longer than originally anticipated.
However with more than 90% of McDermott's existing projects and target opportunities outside of the U.S.
we believe that we are well positioned in the areas of the world where customers will commit capital on new projects or continue the development of existing fields.
In particular in our Middle East area we continue to see projects progress into final investment decision or FID.
Saudi Aramco has been very public about maintaining its current production and market share levels.
Qatar is beginning its next wave of infrastructure build-out to support its gas fields and LNG facilities with both Qatar Petroleum and Ras Gas proceeding with new projects in country.
As you may remember we announced contracts from both of these companies earlier this year.
In addition ADNOC the national oil company of UAE as announced anticipated spending of $25 billion over the next five years in their offshore fields to increase production.
Like the other companies in the region McDermott has a robust history of successfully executing projects in the UAE.
So relative to where we anticipate the near-term capital spend to occur we have a history of project engagements and execution local content capabilities and the appropriate fleet to support the required regional activity.
Now I'd like to provide an overview of some of our key new awards during the quarter.
In June McDermott announced that it was selected for Saudi Aramco's new long-term agreement or LTA.
We have extensive history of over 45 years working effectively with Saudi Aramco.
Through a combination of our Dubai-based capabilities and our engineering center and fabrication yard in Saudi Arabia we are able to align our organization with Saudi Aramco's In-Kingdom growth and local content objectives.
While a few project awards remain outstanding under the original LTA the new LTA establishes the terms and conditions by which McDermott will bid on future EPCI opportunities for at least the next six years.
Bidding activity with Saudi Aramco under the newly awarded LTA remains high.
In May we announced our second contract of the year from Saudi Aramco for 12 jackets of varying tonnage to be installed in the offshore oil and gas fields of Saudi Arabia.
This EPCI award utilizes the full scope of McDermott's vertically integrated business from engineering and procurement through to the fabrication and installation.
The work is expected to be executed through the beginning of 2016 in already developed fields and is what we term brownfield work.
Brownfield refers to the enhancement addition to and maintenance of existing producing fields.
The oil and gas fields offshore Saudi Arabia are comprised of complicated interconnected structures.
Our knowledge of these fields and our ability to execute the work without impacting or disturbing existing production was a key reason we believe for McDermott's selection for the award.
In our Americas Europe and Africa area we received two new awards during the second quarter.
The first was from PEMEX for full-scope EPCI work and pre-commissioning of the Ayatsil-C replacement jacket along with the installation of the associated deck.
This is the fourth contract McDermott has received for the Ayatsil field and follows the successful delivery of the Ayatsil-B drilling platform in 2014 and installation of the Ayatsil-A offshore jacket deck and piles earlier this year.
Our vertically integrated EPCI approach in Mexico allows McDermott to provide PEMEX with a faster delivery timeframe and a cost-effective solution.
We will use our in-house engineering and procurement experts along with our Altamira fabrication yard located in Mexico to fabricate the approximately 14 800 ton structure.
Our Intermac 600 transportation and launch barge and heavy-lift DB50 vessel are scheduled to complete the installation.
This is an excellent example of McDermott's ability to take an offshore project from design to completion.
With our state-of-the-art Altamira yard and our ability to support future local content requirements we believe we are well positioned to capitalize the ongoing development in Mexico.
We remain positive on the longer-term market outlook in Mexico as the country continues to work with the international energy industry to develop its resources.
The second award in our AEA area was from LLOG Exploration Offshore in support of their Otis development located in the Gulf of Mexico.
McDermott is providing project management along with engineering fabrication and installation of a 14-mile-long insulated rigid flowline.
Our Houston office will perform the overall project management and engineering.
The rigid flowline is scheduled to be assembled and fabricated at our new spoolbase facility in Gulfport Mississippi.
This is our first contract award for rigid reel-lay in the area since the delivery of the North Ocean 105 and supports the development of our new Gulfport marine facility and spoolbase.
We have enhanced our expertise in rigid pipelay and spoolbase operations by adding experienced talent and expect to be producing pipe at the facility in the fourth quarter.
This award and our new spoolbase are an integral step in establishing our entry into the subsea tieback market in Gulf of Mexico.
In addition to the new awards we received during the quarter McDermott in partnership with GE Oil &amp; Gas was selected was one of two finalists for the front-end engineering and design contracts for the Fortuna FLNG project.
This is Ophir's energy project in Equatorial New Guinea and the FEED work is the first step in derisking the total project as it moves toward a final investment decision which is expected in 2016.
During the FEED process GE and McDermott will be working to determine and detail an overall subsea solution for the development.
We continue to strengthen our relationship with GE and the Ophir project is another notable example of how supporting our customers earlier on in a field's development cycle provides better cost understanding and scheduling certainty.
As I mentioned at the beginning of my remarks we have had a strong quarter of project performance in all other areas.
In Asia our Ichthys project continues to profitable and on schedule.
We saw improved execution on the marine campaign from our third-party subcontractor during the period.
McDermott's Construction Support Vessel 108 arrived infield at the end of June and subsequently commenced a 400-day plus-marine program hooking up flowlines umbilicals and installing other subsea structures.
On the fabrication side our yard in Batam has completed 80% of the approximately 27 000 tons of structures commissioned for the project.
The engineering scope has been finished as has 80% of the supply chain and procurement activities.
In our Middle East Area we had a strong execution from three of our larger projects in the region.
In particular I want to highlight McDermott's activities on one of these projects and the importance of working collaboratively with customers particularly within the current macro commodity price environment.
Earlier in the year Saudi Aramco asked us to significantly accelerate a field's project timeline to allow earlier gas production.
Through detailed coordination planning expertise and our ability to execute all aspects of the EPCI process we were able to meet their project goals.
The actual implementation speaks directly to the strength of McDermott's business model.
Another example of collaborative partnering during the quarter was the recent work performed by the DB50 in the Gulf of Mexico to support Heerema's activities for Anadarko's Heidelberg Spar installation.
The hull for this spar had arrived infield and required positioning and securing to the seabed floor.
At the request of both companies McDermott provided the needed engineering support and offshore solution to keep the project on schedule.
The work completed by DB50 also highlights the versatility of McDermott's asset base.
Over the past eight months DB50 executed heavy lifts such as the Megalodon 3 300 ton jacket and the 2 100 ton topsides as well as assisting customers such as Enbridge Power Generation with smaller module lifts at approximately 300 tons.
The vessel has also installed a modularized drilling rig in Mexico on behalf of DrillMec.
More recently the DB50 safely completed Phase I of the Exxon Julia subsea scope by installing suction piles and subsea manifold.
Having a versatile fleet supported by an integrated organization that works collaboratively with customers to provide the right solution is a valuable asset in today's markets.
Before I turn the call over to Stuart Spence our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for a review of our financials I would like to spotlight an important milestone for McDermott concerning health and safety.
Not only are high-quality safety standards critical for our employees and the environments we operate in they're also strong indication of how an organization is managing the execution and quality of its projects.
In the second quarter we exceeded a key milestone of one year without a lost time incident in all of McDermott's global operations.
With over 11 000 employees around the world engaged in a variety of roles from land to sea a culture of workplace safety is crucial for our people customers and local business communities.
I'm very proud of the focus our organization has placed on health and safety and for achieving the excellent result.
In addition to our global achievements our Altamira yard  fabrication yard reached seven million man-hours without a lost-time injury and our yard in Batam received two significant awards during the quarter.
The first recognition was from Chevron Australia for outstanding environmental control on the Gorgon project for Western Australia and the second was received in Indonesia from the Workers Social Security Management Agency for our commitment to the health and safety of our employees at our Batam yard.
And now I will turn the call over to Stuart.
Thanks David and good afternoon everyone.
Today I'm going to cover our second quarter financial results and the timing of our CapEx spend this year.
Then I will discuss our backlog and current bid pipeline and provide an update on our cost saving initiatives.
Finally I will conclude with a discussion of our updated guidance for the remainder of 2015.
Revenues for the second quarter were $1.047 billion up $496 million over the sequential quarter and up $571 million from Q2 2014 revenues of $476 million.
The key factors affecting the current quarter were strong revenue recognition on several projects in our Asian and Middle East areas.
In Asia at Ichthys we saw increased productivity from our major subcontractor on the marine campaign and further pipeline installation progress at our BSP project.
As a reminder our subcontractor Ichthys is the main driver of revenue recognition progress this year and is on an identifiable lump sum fixed-price work scope.
In addition we had a strong quarter for revenue recognition from three of our larger projects in the Middle East that David mentioned earlier.
We had increased progress from a subcontractor on one project along with schedule advancements and increased activities at two other projects in the area.
Operating income totaled $41.6 million during the quarter and included $15.4 million of restructuring expenses and $8.7 million of one-time losses on the impairment and disposal of assets.
Operating income for the second quarter was positively impacted by revenue improvements a closeout item in our Papa Terra project in Brazil and higher marine utilization during the quarter.
Year-over-year operating income was markedly improved as the Q2 2014 figures included $45.7 million of gains on the disposal of assets and impairments.
Without those gains the operating income for the second quarter of 2014 would have been negative.
Cash flow from operations was a use of $7.6 million for the second quarter driven primarily by changes to working capital.
Net interest expense during the second quarter totaled $13 million.
This includes $18.4 million of gross interest expense capitalization of $5.2 million of interest for our remaining vessel under construction the DLV 2000 and $0.2 million of interest income.
Our other vessel that was previously under construction the CSV 108 mobilized to the Ichthys project at the end of Q2.
Over-recovery of direct operating expenses resulted in an overall credit of $1.9 million in the second quarter as we saw improved performance from our offshore marine fleet compared to the under-absorbed costs of $17.2 million in the first quarter of the year.
Detailed metrics on our asset utilizations are included in the presentation provided in the Investor Relations section of our website.
As a reminder we measure asset utilization and actual days for our vessels and man-hours for our fabrication yards each as a percentage of the standard which is set at the beginning of the year.
At our fabrication yards utilization at the Batam yard continues to scale down as we move toward the completion of the structures for the Ichthys campaign.
Utilization at our Altamira yard was also lower primarily due to the completion of the Mafumeira project in the first quarter of the year.
With improved weather the offshore fleet utilization increased from 67% in the first quarter to 124% in the second quarter as all offshore fleet vessels were active during the period.
Our subsea vessel utilization decreased from 81% in the first quarter to 77% in the second quarter as the CSV 108 was on standby to mobilize the Ichthys and the North Ocean 105 came off charter in Brazil.
Second quarter net income was $11.5 million or $0.04 per fully diluted share.
Net of restructuring charges and one-time losses on the impairment and disposal of assets the second quarter net income would have improved by $24.1 million or $0.08 per fully diluted share.
Depending on the stock price at the end of each period and our net income or loss we have the potential to include an additional 33 million to 41 million shares to our diluted share count numbers for our tangible equity units or TEUs.
With a positive net income in the second quarter the dilution for the TEUs was included in our fully diluted share count adding an additional 40.9 million shares.
Moving to the balance sheet at the end of June we reported $771 million in cash unrestricted cash a reduction in total cash from the first quarter of approximately $29 million.
Letters of credit issued under our LC facility totaled $208 million and cash collateralized letters of credit totaled $117 million at quarter end.
Capital expenditures for the second quarter were $24 million which includes $5.2 million of capitalized interest.
The key driver of our CapEx spend for 2015 is the timing of the delivery of our flagship vessel the DLV 2000.
Because of construction delays delivery of the vessel is now expected to be in the first quarter of 2016.
Correspondingly CapEx for 2015 is now expected to be in the range of $130 million to $140 million for the year including maintenance and project CapEx of $30 million to $40 million.
In addition to those figures we expect approximately $23 million of capitalized interest to be reported as capital expenditures in 2015.
Now turning to order intake.
We reported a backlog of approximately $3.1 billion at quarter end slightly weighted toward our offshore operations as the subsea work at Ichthys continues to progress to completion.
Bookings in the second quarter totaled $429 million driven by new orders from Saudi Aramco PEMEX and LLOG as well as change orders on existing projects.
New awards represented $295 million and change orders represented $134 million of our order intake for the quarter.
The continuing importance of change orders to our business remains positively impacting our revenues and the gross margins on a quarter-by-quarter basis.
From the first quarter to the second quarter of this year the amount of unapproved change orders in backlog declined over $35 million.
The timing of new order intake however remains volatile as our customers continue to evaluate their project economics in today's low commodity price environment.
Our bids and change orders outstanding at quarter-end were $7.5 billion compared to $8.8 billion at the end of the first quarter.
Of these amounts approximately 72% of our expanding bids and change orders relates to our offshore operations.
The reduction of $1.3 billion was primarily driven by the receipt of new awards and the loss of several bids in India.
Our list of target projects totaled $13.5 billion as of the end of June with the major change from the prior quarter coming from Chevron's Gendalo-Gehem project moving past the five quarters that are represented in our target pipeline.
As a reminder targets are both projects that we intend to bid and we expect will be awarded to McDermott or a competitor in the next five quarters.
McDermott remains disciplined in our bidding for new awards.
Our bids and target pipeline consists of those opportunities where we firmly believe that we have a convincing competitive differentiator through our assets local content or integrated EPCI solutions.
Similar to our bids and change orders outstanding approximately 73% of the value of our target projects relate to our offshore operations.
There has been no further deterioration over the past several quarters of our portfolio of legacy loss-making projects and we continue to actively manage the downside risk of the portfolio.
In particular PB-Litoral is nearing completion with preparations well underway for the conclusion of the construction offshore installation hookup and commissioning.
At the end of the quarter the combination of our backlog bids and change orders outstanding and target projects our potential revenue pipeline totaled $24.1 billion down from $29.2 billion in the sequential quarter.
The decline quarter-over-quarter was driven primarily by the shift out of the pipeline of Gendalo-Gehem and the missed awards in India as previously mentioned.
We have provided additional information on the breakdown of our revenue pipeline by project type area work scope and other defining characteristics in our supplemental slide presentation on our website.
Our 2016 backlog of work increased $300 million from $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion as a result of new awards the company won during the second quarter of 2015 which are expected to be completed over the next two years.
Of the 2016 backlog approximately $165 million represents legacy loss-making projects that we expect to roll off at zero gross margin during the year.
Our current cost reduction initiative to improve our profitability and flexibility continues.
The objective of the exercise was to bring a change to our overall cost structure and address our fixed costs while maintaining the revenue and capacity potential of the company.
We continue to progress towards our target of an expected $50 million of annual cash savings for 2015.
In the first quarter we realized the majority of the rightsizing of the organization.
During the second quarter we have focused our efforts on centralizing several of the company's support functions and launching supplier cost reduction initiatives primarily in our marine and supply chain functions.
In general these initiatives are about leveraging McDermott's global purchasing power while positioning the organization to move more costs from fixed to variable thereby allowing the organization to scale up or down with business demand.
Our restructuring charges for the second quarter were $15.4 million and the one-time losses on the impairment and disposal of assets was $8.7 million.
Finally I would like to discuss our revised guidance for the full-year 2015.
Before I comment on the revised guidance I would like to remind everyone on the call about the disclaimer Darcey provided at the outset of the call regarding forward-looking statements.
That disclaimer applies to all of the forward-looking statements David and I have already provided and certainly applies to our statements about guidance.
The revised guidance does not include amounts for unplanned and unreserved contingencies.
As you saw in our press release which is more fully detailed in our supplemental slide deck we have revised our expected revenue range downward $300 million for the full year due to first quarter delays of Ichthys revenue recognition which will shift into 2016 and customer-initiated project schedule changes primarily in our Middle East business.
Positively our guidance range on expected operating income has increased $20 million at the higher end as we see improved execution on our projects and the impact of our focus on cost management yielding results.
As mentioned earlier the timing shift of the delivery of the DLV 2000 the largest driver for CapEx during the year means we anticipate a substantially lower CapEx spend for 2015.
We now expect our 2015 CapEx to be in the range of $100 million to $140 million excluding capitalized interest of which $30 million to $40 million represents maintenance and project CapEx for the year.
Capitalized interest is now revised to an expected $23 million for the full year.
Due primarily to the timing changes of our CapEx spend we expect our 2015 cash and restricted cash number to be in the range of $700 million to $750 million.
We have also revised our expected restructuring cost range upwards $15 million to reflect additional severance costs external consulting support and the final costs related to the decommissioning of the DB101.
With our updated guidance for the second half of 2015 we still expect to fully comply with all of the covenants on our debt.
Now I would like to turn the call back over to David for some closing remarks.
Thank you Stuart.
We've spent a lot of time over the past year talking about our relationships with customers and the importance of developing and maintaining those relationships.
The work that our organization has done over the past year and a half is even more relevant today.
The commodity macro environment is limiting our customers' CapEx spend forcing clients to reprioritize their project portfolios and is compelling all participants in the energy value chain to examine every level of costs.
McDermott's increased engagement with our customers is essential to ensuring we have the right solutions which can be executed in a timely manner at an optimal price.
Our advancements in this area directly reflect on the progress made by the company in project execution and financial performance.
To help our customers address their project priorities we continue to strengthen our collaboration with our partners like GE Oil &amp; Gas and Petrofac to provide the right technical and cost solutions to the customers' project challenges.
Our ability to be flexible and adjust to compressed timelines as demonstrated for Saudi Aramco's gas field project are critical to staying competitive in the current business environment.
Our quick response and support of Anadarko and Heerema's Gulf of Mexico activities highlights one of our core business spends working collaboratively with both peers and customers to solve customer project requirements.
As we look toward the second half of the year we remain confident in the steps we have taken to ensure McDermott's sustainability.
We intend to continually and actively manage our liquidity and costs as we remain focused on securing new work through collaborative involvement with our customers.
Moreover our organization is well positioned with the customers in the global regions where we anticipate capital spend to occur in the near term.
With that I would now like to open up the line for questions.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from the line of Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
Hi.
Good evening.
And nice quarter.
I guess the first question I guess relates to guidance.
I appreciate that you increased your operating income guidance.
However just the implied math for the back half of the year implies you're not earning much profit in the back half of the year.
You're more comparable to first-quarter levels.
I'm just trying to understand what would be the drivers behind the drop-off in operating income in the back half of the year given the problem projects seem to be okay or manageable.
You're making headway on the cost cutting side.
Is it a mix issue? The revenue decline isn't big enough in my opinion so just trying to get a feel for that.
And then I guess my second question relates to if we look at 2016 and what you have for backlog today you have like $1.45 billion.
As you look into 2016 can you talk about the prospects or how you think you'll end on backlog or the visibility into 2016 as we exit the year because it would imply if we can't improve much from here you're going to have to do more on the cost cutting side.
Thanks.
Thanks Jamie.
This is Stuart.
I'll take the first part of your question around the second half of this year.
One of the key drivers to the somewhat lower profitability implied in the second half is the under-absorption of our fixed costs as we look at the various work programs and schedules we have and the assets that utilization does not utilize.
And as we progress into the fourth quarter we also have the potential of quite a lot of seasonality impact in our offshore and subsea fleet.
So that's what's driving the lower implied profitability in the second half.
And I'm sorry can you just remind me in terms of the cost savings what you guys have gotten to-date versus what your expectation is in the back half just so I know where we are? Yeah at the end of the first quarter we estimated that we were on about $27 million of annualized savings for 2015.
At the end of the second quarter we're up to $35 million estimated annual savings.
Okay.
Great.
Okay.
And Jamie I'll take the second question.
Obviously as we've said before as we think we've gone through the story obviously a lot of our focus was based on execution as we went through the turnaround last year.
And also a lot of the focus this year is that we build backlog and we've talked before about how we bid the processes and systems that were put in place.
Today the challenge that we have is the predictability of when customers obviously are going to make decisions or FID on certain projects.
And so there's a lot of volatility around the timing of that.
What I would say though what I said during the call earlier in the call is that our bidding activity remains high and in particular in the Middle East.
So we've got obviously we know we've got still a ways to go but I would say that today we see a lot of opportunities and a lot of prospects that we certainly will be competing in the bidding phase.
Okay.
And then sorry one last  the part that you have in your guidance now does not include amounts for unplanned or unreserved contingencies.
I think that's new.
Are you trying to send a message? I just I'm sorry I'm trying to understand what message you're trying to send there.
And then I'll hop back in queue.
Hi Jamie.
It's Stuart.
Yes we'd just refer you back to our 10-Q and our updates on litigation in the quarter.
Okay.
I'll check that out.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Tahira Afzal from KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Congrats folks on a strong execution quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> First question is really in regards to that FID outlook and the anticipation of it.
Clearly you guys have shown you can execute.
And in that reference would love to get a little more color on your bid pipeline in terms of the economics of those projects.
It seems a lot of the projects are still on the oil side yet of course you seem to be more on the shallow water side there.
So I would assume if you look at the breakeven point would you say those projects are potentially looking economical at $60 oil or below? Or  would love to get a sense of any color you can provide there.
So Tahira that was many questions in one question.
Inc.</span></strong> I'm sorry.
I'll see if I can try and answer it.
So if you look at our the supplemental deck we always talk about the split between customers between the nature of projects.
What we see is in the areas of the more shallow waters again talking about places like Middle East Mexico and parts of Asia I think that the economics would indicate that those projects are viable today at current commodity prices.
I would say that in the case of particularly with Saudi Aramco is that bidding activity as I said earlier remains high.
And we've just gone through the process of  gone through for the award of the LTA agreement.
Obviously there hasn't been any awards of any projects against that.
And that's where we do see quite a lot of bids ongoing.
So as Aramco have gone through their process and that's just been completed back at the end of Q2 is that we would expect to see Aramco start to release some projects over these next couple of quarters which we are competing against with the three other LTA contenders.
So we see activities good activities for us in Mexico.
You saw again we had another award with PEMEX and we see obviously shallow water opportunities in Asia.
Obviously in some of the deep water we see some of that taking a bit longer particularly on the large new developments.
But what we see for example in deep water Gulf of Mexico we still see the movement of subsea tiebacks which is all about enhancing the existing facilities.
So although we're seeing some slowness on new large field deep-water developments I think we're seeing good activity on subsea tiebacks.
And a result of that we were awarded our first subsea project rigid reel project in the Gulf of Mexico which is obviously a market entry for us.
Does that kind of help answer some of that question? Inc.</span></strong> Yeah definitely it does help.
And it seems like some of the Petrobras projects even though they're deep water seem to be economical at $60 or below David.
Yeah that would seem to be the case.
If you look at what's happening (42:18).
Obviously Petrobras are working through a few other issues at the moment and obviously came out more just recently with their new business plan.
So we're waiting to see the timing of new bids that will come from that area.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And a follow-up for that David if you look at the competitive side you mentioned some bid losses in India.
And recently it seems like one of your larger players is also potentially preparing to get a little more aggressive on pricing.
Any thoughts on how you're thinking about the competitive landscape going forward? Well I think the challenges that we've had in India is a different group of competitors than what we're looking at  the bids are ongoing on the East Coast of India which are more around the deep water.
So there's different groups of competitors.
From our side again our big focus over this last year has been all about our own internal processes on how we bid.
And as we've talked about a lot about our NPI process to make sure that we have a fixed cost structure which is competitive in each of the areas that we're working.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you folks and congrats on the quarter again.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Vishal Shah.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi this is Chad on the line for Vishal.
I would like to go back to your profitability in the second quarter and I apologize if this was covered already in the comments.
But it seemed to be a little better than expected and I was hoping you could separate how much of the improvement came from closeouts versus actual improvements in operating efficiency.
Hi Chad.
This is Stuart.
If you look in our Q we disclosed the value of the closeout we had in Brazil it was slightly over $10 million.
And outside of that one item the rest of the result was driven by essentially project execution in the quarter.
So a very successful recurring quarter for us in part driven by the over-recovery of our fixed cost base driven by our offshore marine fleet that was very active during the quarter.
And there's some more detail on those statistics in our supplemental deck.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
And then we all know that oil prices are  or low oil prices are pushing out a lot of the award decisions and there's really not much you can do about that.
But I'm just trying to better understand just the underlying fundamentals of the company.
So I'd be curious to hear your view on how your win rates evolved in this environment and then how it compares to the year past.
Well I think it's difficult to make any comment.
Historically prior to what's happened the last couple of years McDermott would say they had a win rate of roughly 25%.
Statistically we are looking at that today and we are pulling data together to see what our real performance is and maybe we will look at that and talk about it in future quarters but today we just have insufficient data.
So it's very difficult to say what the win rate is.
Clearly as I said earlier the environment is challenging and I think what's more challenging is the volatility around timing of awards.
Clearly we've seen it is where oil production is economical and I've touched on before Middle East Mexico those two areas some parts of Asia we see projects continue there but it's the predictability of the timing which is a challenge today.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
And if I can just squeeze one more in.
So to reach your guidance your revenue guidance of $3 billion to $3.3 billion you'll need to recognize about $1.4 billion-$1.7 billion of revenues in the second half of the year.
So I was just curious how much will come from backlog in hand versus what you need to go out and win in the market? Chad this is Stuart.
If you look in our Q we disclosed the backlog roll-off and you'll see for the second half of 2015 we estimate rolling off $1.431 billion.
So the majority of our second half revenue to meet guidance would come from a backlog roll-off.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Steven Fisher from UBS Securities.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
Hi Steven.
In light of these broad profitability initiatives that you're undertaking what kind of revenue range are you thinking about for ongoing breakeven levels at this point? Do you think the $2 billion to $3 billion revenue range is reasonable for achieving profitability? And I know there's different types of projects that would be in there but I mean is that a reasonable range? Stephen this is Stuart.
Yes that's a reasonable range.
Okay.
And just kind of curious I know you've got about $159 million of unapproved change orders.
Any sense of the timing of resolution of these? I'm just curious what the pipeline of potential additional profit recovery or enhancement opportunities looks like? Yes Steven it's Stuart again.
Our unapproved change orders of $159 million is comprised of various amounts with national oil companies and international oil companies.
The approval processes are uniquely different between our two customer bases: national oil companies take a very long and methodical and administrative process to the resolution of change orders; and international oil companies whereas they're very methodical and very structured are somewhat faster to resolve issues.
So we see a kind of a blend of anywhere from six months to 18 months to resolve those currently outstanding change orders.
Okay.
And then lastly at the broadest level how has the expected profitability of the Ichthys project changed since the beginning of the year? From the beginning of the year the Ichthys profitability has remained flat as we have executed we have controlled our cost base.
We continue to work with the customer on any scope changes and our profitability expectation as a percentage of revenue remains unchanged.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Scott Levine of Imperial Capital.
Your line is open.
Hey.
Good afternoon guys.
Good afternoon.
So question just really on this second dip in oil prices and maybe over the  just focusing on the last couple months have you seen a dramatic change in the behavior of the customers and just the general bid market environment relative to even three months to six months ago? And/or has there been a dramatic change in behavior on the part of the international oil companies wanting this to move forward as opposed to the national oil companies at this point in time? Scott this is David Dickson.
I think that people are talking about this second dip in oil price and I think what we would say is we haven't seen any change in any behaviors from one of our customers as we get into this.
What we see is a second dip which obviously has only occurred in the last few weeks and so the time span is very short.
I would say that the behaviors in the market with our customers and competitors has been fairly consistent probably over the last one or two quarters.
So there's nothing  has significantly changed.
Okay.
A follow-up  regarding the $300 million in revenue that is coming down for 2015 is all that effectively Ichthys and/or being pushed into 2016 or is there more to it than that? This is Stuart.
A large part of the drop in revenue was related to Ichthys and it's being rolled into 2016.
So that's included in the $300 million in backlog booked for 2016 that I think you said went from $1.2 billion to $1.5 billion correct? No.
That $300 million was really as a result of the new awards in the quarter.
The Ichthys project we were hoping to recover the revenue loss in Q1 later on in 2015 but we've only just concluded that we can't.
Got it.
One last one then on the cost savings program.
Should we think about there being  that program effectively being complete or is this a fluid situation? Do you see the potential if things deteriorate relative to your expectations for there to be meaningful upside or however you want to define that? Or how should we generally think about your cost savings initiatives at this point in time? This is Stuart again.
Our McDermott Profitability Initiative has a defined end in the fourth quarter of 2015.
That's when we will have concluded the implementation of the vast majority of the initiatives.
That completion is based around a set activity level that we would hope to achieve in 2016.
If we see that that activity level is materially different from what we expect then we would assess new cost saving initiatives in addition to the current program.
So likely no update on that front really until the end of the year? That is a fair assumption yes.
Great.
Thanks.
Appreciate it.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy from Johnson Rice.
Your line is open.
...on the quarter.
I was wondering if you could maybe talk a little bit more about the dynamics in the Middle East.
And if you look at the bids outstanding and target projects the majority seem to be NOCs and brownfield.
And particularly with respect to Qatar and Saudi Aramco and the fact that you all did the original work on a lot of those fields can you maybe talk about how that plays into the bidding process and looking out over the next couple of years the opportunities off of Qatar? Yeah so Marty so a lot of the stuff obviously we're bidding under the new LTA projects which obviously McDermott has shown over the years to be very strong that some of the capabilities of brownfield obviously working with Aramco as a customer which as you know we've worked hard over the last year or so to really build the relationship.
As well as that we have seen increased activity in bids for Qatar with both QPN and Ras Gas and on the face of it looks like those projects will proceed and awards may be in the next one or two quarters to whoever the successful bidder is.
So I think as a company we are well positioned in terms of our experience.
What's important today is that we focus on our fixed cost structure and ensure that we provide a good expectation and cost competitive bid as we compete in the market.
But we've been there for a long time we do have all the relevant experience we do have all the relevant skill sets and all the relevant assets.
So obviously we're well positioned but obviously we're in this competitive environment.
Okay.
And it appears as though the productivity and execution has improved significantly at Altamira the last couple quarters.
Can you talk about progressing towards the ability to bid on work outside of Mexico the free trade agreement status and customer acceptance of that yard? Yeah so as you know we've talked about this before the ambition is to take the yard to deliver more on international projects and earlier in the year we completed a successful project for Chevron in a development called Mafumeira which is in Angola.
So that's a reflection that the yard can compete and deliver on international projects.
What we saw as we saw round one of the Mexican government in the new offshore blocks is we did see an uptake in inquiries from international customers to understand more about the capabilities of the yard and the performance of the yard.
So I think I've said before longer term we feel positive about the capability of the yard and the ability of that yard not to just compete in these future developments in Mexico but also to compete in other parts of the world whether it's U.S.
Gulf of Mexico or West Africa.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of John Rogers from D.
A.
Davidson.
Your line is open.
Hi good afternoon.
I just want to follow up a little bit.
I guess David as you look at the change in the oil prices  and I know you said that you haven't seen any impact over the last couple of quarters  but are you preparing for a further decline in CapEx or more aggressive competition? I think we're always preparing for that.
I mean as Stuart talked about our MPI initiative was all about getting a fixed cost structure that made us competitive.
And also we're constantly monitoring our customers' spend plans.
But if you look at also a lot of the projects that we're bidding today and that's why we put this information in the supplemental deck is that you see today more of our bids are actually related to brownfield activity than our greenfield activity.
And also a lot of what we're bidding today is actually with  the majority is with the national oil companies.
And so in those markets we see activity we talk about Aramco is all about market share.
We talked about Qatar which is all about enhancing existing facilities.
So in those areas we see obviously activity.
The areas that we have seen a reduction in activity of bidding activity and that's consistent with their messages is with the super majors and again as highlighted on our supplemental deck.
So we're not seeing a lot of bid activity from the super majors particularly in the areas where we compete or where our assets are positioned.
But I think going back to the comment I mean we have seen  I think what I've said I haven't seen a major impact in the last weeks as the oil price has moved I mean obviously there's been an impact from the start of the year to where we are today and that we are in a more competitive environment.
Okay.
And do you expect any changes in capacity in this market right away? Or will that take some time? When you refer to capacity I'm assuming you're talking about new assets et cetera? Yeah.
From that perspective obviously we're seeing our peers reduce the size of fleet.
We're not at that stage yet.
We don't have the fleet of 30 to 40 vessels.
We have a fleet today which is just north of 10.
And as you've heard from the call our utilization on those assets has been fairly robust through the second quarter.
So we're not at that stage yet and I think I said before we don't have as many mouths to feed when it comes to keeping our fleet utilized.
So we are very much focused on our fleet our capability and obviously maintaining good utilization levels for those assets.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Andrew Casella from Imperial Capital.
Your line is open.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Just some housekeeping items.
When we look at the first-half working capital numbers I think they'll end up being a use of about $120 million.
How should we think about that for the rest of the year? And what are you assuming in your cash flow guidance for that figure? Andrew this is Stuart.
As we look at working capital for the second quarter I think we're looking at it to be slightly flat with the first half in terms of level if not in a slightly improved position but it will depend on the timing of awards and other milestones that we reach in the contract.
So then for the full year would you expect it to be a use of about say for example $100 million? Is that fair? Yes.
That's a fair assumption.
Okay got it.
And as you guys clearly you want to be in a solid liquidity position and conserve capital but as you look to the marketplace and see some disconnect in your securities what's the management team's appetite for potential bond buybacks or going after the amortizing notes? Just curious what your thoughts are there.
This is Stuart.
For a bond buyback we are limited in our credit agreements for up to $50 million of a bond buyback.
Today our focus is on conserving liquidity as we look to manage our way through this lower for longer cycle of oil prices.
And that is the current approach that we're taking.
Great.
That's all I had.
I'll get back in the queue.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Brian Konigsberg from Vertical Research Partners.
Your line is open.
Good afternoon.
Hey I apologize if you talked about this or answered this already but on restructuring the costs are going up for the year.
Why  is there potential that the savings associated with the increased costs could accrue this year or into 2016? Or are there not going to be any additional savings expected? Brian today as we look at the outlook for savings we are kind of reaffirming our original position of $50 million in year savings.
The increase in cost is just reflective of fine-tuning our estimates around some severance in terms of cost on some numbers and the final decommissioning costs around our DB101 vessel.
Got you.
And maybe just secondly on the Middle East project pipeline so you talked about Qatar and potential opportunity for booking projects there.
But on Aramco with the new LTA agreement do you expect you're going to have a meaningful opportunity to book awards through year-end? And there was one in particular I think that was talked about that could be in excess of $1 billion.
What are your thoughts about that coming to market in the second half? Well I think if you listen to what Aramco have said publicly is that the process was to go through the LTA and select more than the number of previous LTA participants which was two which was us and Star.
If you look at the level of bidding activity for Aramco I would say it is at the highest level since I've been with McDermott and all indications from them is that they have a number of projects which they would like to release over this next couple of quarters.
And a lot of it does relate to brownfield activity so that would also be an indication that they want to proceed.
And there hasn't been a lot of projects released from Aramco certainly in the time that I've been with McDermott which is also getting close on two years.
So all indications would say that there are several projects there is a backlog of projects or bids now building up that you would expect Aramco to release at some point.
And just a comment on either that one project that had been in some of the industry discussions or the rags talking about being the size of major or mega would you anticipate that would potentially be part of the mix in the second half? Yeah.
So Brian you know we wouldn't comment on any specific bid and obviously we don't comment on any rumors with the rags.
Had to try.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Adam Thalhimer from BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hi.
Good afternoon.
Hi Adam.
Good afternoon.
Can you give a little more color on the margins for the back half of the year? I think Jamie asked that question.
Can you just repeat why that's down a little bit versus the first half? Yeah Adam this is Stuart.
The back half of the year is impacted by the potential under-recovery of our fixed cost structure just as we look at the sequence of projects and the assets they will utilize and additionally the potential for weather to impact our marine utilization.
The under-absorption of fixed costs is what's dragging down the margins in the second half.
Okay.
And then can you provide any color on the loss from JVs going forward? Yeah sure.
So we have a number of joint ventures within McDermott.
They face the same market forces as the rest of the company.
We have been working extensively with all of our JV partners over the last two quarters to improve both the marketing opportunities and execution for those joint ventures.
So we would hope that as we progress over the next few quarters that those results would start to improve.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Robert Connors from Stifel.
Your line is open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> The number of bids in the less than $50 million size have been increasing over the past year year and a half.
Just wonder how much a factor of that is driven by more cost pressures versus the shift towards brownfield-type work.
I don't think there's any direct correlation to that increase.
I think also what you have in there is we are now bidding actively in the subsea tieback market where typically a lot of those projects fall into that category.
So there's an element of that.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then I don't know if this was asked earlier but the CapEx was cut pretty drastically.
Just wondering if all of that was related to the DLV where it will be made up in the first quarter of 2016.
And on top of that how long do you think you guys can maintain the maintenance type CapEx levels at these such low levels versus history? Robert this is Stuart.
The drop in CapEx in 2015 is attributable to the DLV 2000 delay in construction.
So it's going to move all to the first quarter of 2016.
Today when we look at capital expenditure we set a very high hurdle rate and we also want to link any capital to a project that's just been awarded.
So we'll continue that approach as we move forward and we will continue to look to conserve cash as we manage our way through this lower for longer cycle.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our last question comes from the line of Tahira Afzal from KeyBanc.
Your line is open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi folks.
Sorry but just one last question.
In your supplemental information you've given a breakdown of your key projects and how they flow through 2016.
And it really suggests that in Asia-Pacific maybe apart from Ichthys there's very little ammo as of right now in terms of backlog.
So can you tell me how you're planning your resources in the area? Are you going to be moving some ships around to really account for that? And how we should think about the utilization as a consequence in Batam as well.
I think Tahira in Asia today obviously Ichthys is taking a large amount of resource.
Obviously the 108 is working on there as well as obviously a lot of personnel and Batam support.
But also remember we have the BSP contract which is essentially DB-30 plus one of our diving vessels the Emerald Sea.
And that's part of a longer-term agreement that we signed back last year which should be in the first year.
So we see obviously activity there to keep both those free-floating assets but also part of the yard busy moving forward.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much folks.
Thank you.
And I am showing no more questions in the queue.
I would like to turn the call back over to Darcey Matthews.
Thank you.
Thank you everyone for participating today.
We are actually going to be participating in several industry conferences.
We're going to be at the Pareto Conference in Norway on September 2 the Vertical Research Conference on the 9th in Connecticut the D.A.
Davidson Conference in San Francisco on the 10th and the Imperial Capital Conference in New York on the 17th of September.
We also hope that you will join us for our third quarter conference call which is currently scheduled for November 9 2015.
And then finally McDermott will be hosting an Investor Day in New York on November 17 the week after our third quarter earnings release.
A save the date invitation will be sent around shortly with more details and we hope to see you there or at one of our upcoming conferences over the next several months.
Again thank you for joining us today.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this does conclude the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to McDermott Third Quarter Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will follow at that time.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Darcey Matthews Vice President of Investor Relations.
You may begin.
Great.
Thank you Sonja and good afternoon everyone.
I would like to remind you that we are recording this call and that a replay will be available on our website where you can also find our third quarter 2015 results press release and the Form 10-Q we also filed today.
Also on the website is a presentation of our supplemental financial information that you can find in the Investor Relations section.
Additionally our comments today will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks contingencies and uncertainties and reflect management's views as of today November 9 2015.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC which are available on our website including our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30 2015 which provide a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
I will now turn the call over to David Dickson McDermott's President and Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Thank you Darcey and good afternoon.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
As you can see by our results McDermott reported another strong quarter of new awards and again demonstrated improved project execution.
Key to building our backlog were the new contract awards we received in our Middle East area including a lump-sum award in Saudi Arabia and awards with two repeat customers in Qatar.
New work won for the quarter totaled over $2.1 billion and represented one of the company's strongest periods over the past several years.
This quarter also represents the first time since the first quarter of 2012 that McDermott has substantially increased its backlog which is now over $4.4 billion as we head into the fourth quarter.
These awards and our ability to build backlog in a challenging macro environment are clear indications that the work the company has done on improving execution and enhanced customer engagement are continuing to generate tangible results.
As you'll remember in June McDermott was chosen by Saudi Aramco to by a participant in their new long-term agreement.
In September McDermott was awarded the first contract under the new framework agreement the largest contract in the history of our Middle East business.
The lump-sum award is a full-scale EPCI project covering jackets deck pipelines and other works in four fields offshore Saudi Arabia and is expected to utilize our specialized shallow-water installation fleet and fabrication yards in Dammam and Jebel Ali.
Work has already commenced on the project and is due to be completed in the second quarter of 2018.
In addition to this lump-sum award our Middle East area was also awarded two projects related to offshore fields in Qatar.
The first award was for a sizable brownfield contract by Qatar Petroleum for the EPCI of four well head jackets in the Bul-Hanine field.
The second award which we announced today relates to a large brownfield contract for RasGas for the EPCI of a pipeline project consisting of 74 miles of six-inch and eight-inch pipeline and topside modifications.
These awards reflect McDermott's ability to meet our customer's critical production and project requirements in conjunction with our unique brownfield capabilities.
Each of these new projects represents the second award from RasGas and Qatar Petroleum that McDermott has received during 2015.
The project execution of the two Qatar contracts is expected to continue through third quarter of 2017.
These three awards in addition to the other new work that the company has been awarded in 2015 add meaningfully to building our backlog for 2016 and 2017.
Now I'd like to provide an update on the execution of some of our key projects.
At our Altamira fabrication yard in Mexico the work on a 7 200 ton PB Litoral deck was completed and loaded out on schedule at the end of the quarter.
Offshore installation of the jacket and tripod structures was also finished in late September.
The deck float-over installation was completed in early October with the final hook-up commissioning and start-up now expected to be finalized during the first quarter of 2016.
We have worked extremely hard and implemented a variety of changes to ensure this project is executed to McDermott's global quality and safety standards.
And the PB Litoral project team has done just that achieving 2.9 million man hours without a lost time injury and meeting the September load-out date that was set over a year ago.
We are pleased to work with and be a strong partner to PEMEX as they and the country move forward with their plans for oil reform in the region.
We believe McDermott with our Altamira yard is well positioned to support the country in its local content requirements and we remain positive on the long-term market outlook in Mexico.
In Asia our Ichthys project continues to be on schedule achieving all of its milestones during the quarter.
We saw timely execution on the marine campaign from our third party subcontractor during the period.
McDermott's construction support vessel 108 arrived in the field at the end of June and successfully completed its first campaign for the project and is expected to back in the field in December.
On the fabrication side our yard in Batam has completed 90% of the approximately 27 000 tons of structures commissioned for the project.
In addition all of the in-line structures required for pipelay at Ichthys have also been completed.
The engineering scope has been finished as had 80% of the procurement activities.
In addition the Project HSE performance remains strong achieving a milestone of over 14 million man hours without a lost time injury.
As we have mentioned in previous calls the national oil companies in particular our customer base in the Middle East continue to be public about maintaining their production levels and corresponding OPEC market share.
A majority of this work is in existing fields and is what we term as brownfield the enhancement modernization or improvement of existing fields.
In today's lower commodity price environment brownfield work represents one of the lowest cost ways to produce a new barrel of oil or cubic meter of gas.
So as we evaluate our pipeline of potential projects that we anticipate moving forward to final investment decision over the next 6 to 12 months we anticipate a majority of these projects will be in the Middle East and brownfield in nature.
In the Middle East area the company also has a long history of project execution and firsts in addition to local content capabilities and the appropriate fleet to support the required regional activity.
So relative to where we anticipate the near-term capital spend to occur we believe McDermott remains uniquely positioned to provide our clients with the right EPCI solution.
Offsetting the near term opportunities we see in our core Middle East area the overall macro commodity price environment continues to impact our broader client base.
The current market outlook indicates that the commodity price levels through this cycle will remain at lower levels for longer than originally anticipated resulting in even greater uncertainty about the timing of future projects.
With capital plans for 2016 being finalized customers continue to recycle reprioritize and defer work as they evaluate project economics.
Key for our customers to moving forward in this macro scenario is a combination of a new solution to drive down costs combined with increased confidence in project schedule and delivery.
McDermott and its joint venture company io consulting remain focused on working with clients to find the right solution that can be executed turned on schedule at a price that works in today's commodity price environment.
Before I turn the call over to Stuart Spence our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for a review of our financials I would like to highlight some of the additional health and safety milestones our people and our assets achieved during the quarter.
While I have already mentioned a couple in my project updates it is important to stress that health and safety is an ongoing focus for our company worldwide.
High quality safety standards are critical for our employees our customers and for the environments in which we operate.
Additionally I believe that a strong HSE performance is also a direct indication of how an organization is managing the execution and quality of its projects.
In our Middle East area our marine operations achieved a number of major safety milestones with one of the company's key vessels the DB27 achieving 12 million man-hours lost time injury free.
This is an important but often overlooked aspect of our industry.
McDermott is committed to making health and safety a priority for our people clients and local business communities and keeping our shareholders up-to-date on our continued execution success.
And now I will turn the call over to Stuart.
Thanks David and good afternoon everyone.
Today I'm going to cover our third quarter financial results and the timing of our CapEx spend this year.
Then I will discuss our backlog and current bid pipeline.
Finally I will conclude with an update on our cost saving initiatives and guidance.
Before I get started today I wanted to mention our new reporting measures.
Going forward in addition to our GAAP reporting we'll also report certain of our adjusted financials net of one-time items to provide a clearer understanding of the underlying performance and drivers of our business.
To support our new reporting structure I would like to draw your attention to a press release and supplemental slide deck that detail the reconciliation of the GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures.
Revenues for the third quarter were $805.9 million up $391 million from Q3 2014 revenues of $414.6 million and down $241 million from the extremely strong second quarter of 2015.
The key projects driving revenue were in our Asia and Middle East areas as well as the progress made on PB Litoral in Mexico.
In Asia at Ichthys we saw steady productivity from our major subcontractor on the marine campaign.
We also saw our vessel the CSV 108 in field successfully executing its first job.
For 2015 our subcontractor at Ichthys is the main driver of revenue recognition progress and is on an identifiable lump-sum fixed price work scope.
Also in our Asia area the DB30 and Emerald Sea completed the installation of approximately four miles of corrosion resistant alloy pipe link 16 miles of carbon steel pipe link and three miles of umbilical installation at our BSP project.
Pre-commissioning and tie-in activities also commenced in the field during the quarter.
In addition we had a strong quarter for revenue recognition from three of our larger projects in the Middle East including a cable-lay project and operational improvements in Saudi Arabia.
Adjusted operating income totaled $52.5 million during the quarter.
Excluding $6.3 million of restructuring expenses and $16.7 million for the settlement of the outstanding legal claims on the AT1 dispute referenced in the last 10-Q.
Operating income for the third quarter also was positively impacted by loss recovery in the PB Litoral project with a confirmed contract extension as well as the successful negotiation and conclusion of certain weather related change orders in the Middle East and marine utilization during the quarter.
Cash provided by operating activities in the third quarter was $20.7 million compared to a use of cash $7.5 million for the second quarter of 2015 and a use of cash of $19.4 million in the prior year comparable quarter.
The improvement in the third quarter cash is mainly attributable to the final settlement and related collections on the Papa Terra project a project in the AEA segment which was completed in the second quarter of 2014.
Net interest expense during the third quarter totaled $13 million.
This included $18.6 million of gross interest expense capitalization of $5.4 million of interest for our remaining vessel under construction the DLV2000 and $0.2 million of interest income.
Unabsorbed direct operating expenses totaled $4.6 million versus over absorbed direct operating expenses of $1.9 million during the second quarter.
Detailed metrics on our asset utilization are included in the presentation provided in the Investor Relations section of our website.
As a reminder we measure asset utilization in actual days for our vessels and man hours for our fabrication yards each has a percentage of the standard which is set at the beginning of the year.
At our fabrication yards utilization in the Altamira yard declined over the quarter with the completion and sail-away of the PB Litoral deck.
The offshore fleet utilization had its second quarter in a row of over recovery at 118%.
As a majority of the offshore vessel fleet was active during the period.
Our subsea vessel utilization remained stable quarter-over-quarter with only the North Ocean 105 inactive during the quarter.
Going forward utilization for the remainder of the year is expected to decrease as the Marine fleet enters the cyclone weather season in Asia beginning of the high wind season in the Middle East as well as the North Ocean 105 waiting to commence the LLOG Otis campaign which starts early next year.
At the Altamira fabrication yard following the sail-away of the PB Litoral structures new project work is not scheduled to begin for the PEMEX Ayatsil-C jacket until the first quarter of 2016.
Third quarter net income was $3.7 million or $0.01 per fully diluted share and adjusted net income was $26.7 million or $0.09 per fully diluted share excluding restructuring charges and one-time charges related to the legal settlement.
In the prior year the third quarter net loss was $30.3 million or $0.13 per fully diluted share loss and the adjusted net loss was $25.5 million or $0.11 per fully diluted share excluding restructuring charges.
Depending on the stock price at the end of each period and our net income or loss we have the potential to include an additional 33 million to 41 million shares to our diluted share count numbers related to our tangible equity unit or TEUs.
With the positive net income in the third quarter the dilution for the TEUs was included in our fully diluted share count adding an additional 41 million shares.
Moving to the balance sheet at the end of September we reported $767 million in cash and restricted cash a slight decline of approximately $4 million from the total cash balance in the second quarter.
Letters of credit issued under our LC facility totaled $320 million and cash collateralized letters of credit totaled $115 million at quarter end.
In October we increased commitments under our letter of credit facility by an additional $120 million increasing the capacity to $520 million.
This was our first venture back into the capital markets since April of 2014 and we were very pleased to have the support of our key banks as well as one new entrant into the facility.
The additional capacity will support McDermott's future bidding as we continue to focus on building backlog.
Capital expenditures for the third quarter were $18 million which includes $5.4 million of capitalized interest.
The key driver of our CapEx spend for 2015 is the timing of the delivery of our flagship vessel the DLV2000.
During the second quarter of 2015 the delivery of the vessel moved from the fourth quarter of 2015 to the first quarter of 2016.
This quarter the timing of several DLV2000 payments including $22 million of planned 2015 CapEx spend also shifted into the first quarter of 2016 bringing the total DLV CapEx spend expected next year to approximately $180 million.
In addition to the shift in CapEx in the DLV2000 there has also been $13 million of cost savings on the vessel bringing the total expected spend on the vessel to approximately $432 million excluding capitalized interest.
As a result full year 2015 CapEx is expected to be in the range of $90 million to $100 million for the year including maintenance and project CapEx of $30 million to $40 million.
In addition to those figures we expect approximately $22.6 million of capitalized interest to be reported as capital expenditures in 2015.
Also during the quarter we sanctioned the purchase of a vertical lay system for the CSV 108 for approximately $26 million.
We anticipate spending $5 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 and the remainder in 2016.
The additional spend for the new system has an expected payback of one year as we are able to utilize the CSV 108 in another phase of the Ichthys project thereby displacing the planned sub-contracting to a third-party vessel.
The additional spend for the lay system is included in the full-year CapEx guidance of $90 million to $100 million that I mentioned earlier.
Now turning to order intake.
We reported a backlog of approximately $4.4 billion at quarter end becoming more weighted toward our offshore operations as the subsea work at Ichthys progresses and we continue to add shallow water brownfield work in the Middle East.
The current split of our third quarter backlog is 73% offshore and 27% subsea.
Bookings in the third quarter totaled $2.1 billion driven by the lump-sum award for Saudi Aramco two awards in Qatar as well as the $110 million of change orders on existing projects bringing the year-to-date change orders to $451 million representing 13% of the 2015 opening backlog.
Of the $4.4 billion of backlog $665 million is due to roll off in Q4 2015 $2.4 billion in 2016 $1 billion in 2017 and $400 million in 2018.
Our legacy loss project portfolio remains at three active projects representing a backlog of $317 million of which $93 million is scheduled to roll off in Q4 2015 $194 million is scheduled to roll off in 2016 and $30 million in 2017.
We continue to aggressively manage the downside risk of the portfolio.
As discussed earlier we saw the scheduled completion of the fabrication work on the PB Litoral structure one of the three active projects in a loss position with the completion of the commissioning now expected to be finished in the first quarter of 2016.
Our bids and change orders are standing at quarter end with $2.6 billion compared to $7.5 billion at the end of the second quarter.
Of these amounts approximately 50% of our outstanding bids and change orders relate to offshore operations.
The reduction of approximately $5 billion was driven primarily by the receipt of $2 billion of new awards as well as the selection of our competitors on several major projects in the company's business development areas in the North Sea and Africa.
Our list of target projects totaled $16.6 billion as of the end of September increasing $3.1 billion with the addition of several major projects anticipated to be bid in the Middle East area over the next five quarters.
We remain pricing disciplined in our bidding for new awards and as a reminder targets for those projects that we intend to bid on and we expect will be awarded to McDermott or competitor in the next five quarters.
McDermott's bids and target pipeline consists of those opportunities where we firmly believe that we have a convincing competitive position through our assets local content or integrated EPCI solution.
Approximately 63% of the value of our target projects relates to our offshore operations.
As of the end of the quarter the combination of our backlog bids and change orders outstanding and target projects our potential revenue pipeline totaled $23.6 billion down slightly from the sequential quarter.
We have provided additional information on the breakdown of our revenue pipeline by project type area work scope and other defining characteristics in our supplemental slide presentation located on the Investor Relations section of our website.
Moving on to our McDermott profitability initiative we now expect to exceed the originally anticipated $50 million of in-year cash savings and generate over $100 million in 2015 excluding restructuring charges.
The company has been able to implement the changes necessary to the overall cost structure and address both our fixed and variable costs while still maintaining the revenue and capacity potential of the company.
Key to exceeding our original target has been the continued right-sizing of the organization quicker returns on the centralization of functions our strategic sourcing initiatives hybrid crewing initiatives and other general policy changes the company has implemented.
Specifically during the quarter we rolled out a hybrid crewing model in which McDermott outsourced the non-technical marine crews on the majority of our vessel fleet.
We also began the process of relocating our Canadian marine fleet office to Houston from Halifax and transferring the marine crews to international contracts based out of Dubai.
Additionally the company made the decision to relocate our Asia headquarters from Singapore to Kuala Lumpur to take advantage of more favorable cost structure and to create a greater in country presence in Malaysia for some of our key customers.
This move is expected to be completed during the first half of 2016.
Several frame agreements were also negotiated with suppliers to leverage the company's global purchasing power.
In addition to the 2015 in-year cash savings McDermott expects to generate an additional $50 million of annualized savings in 2016.
Our restructuring charges for the third quarter were $6.3 million.
In 2014 the McDermott's leadership made the critical business decision ahead of the current macro environment to restructure our organization and we believe that decision has positioned McDermott well to manage through the current cycle and ensure the company remains competitive.
Finally we've previously provided 2015 guidance on our August 8 earnings conference call and in our accompanying supplemental slide deck.
Other than the year-end 2015 cap spend which I've previously mentioned during the call and which subsequently increases our 2015 year-end cash numbers to $760 million to $780 million the 2015 guidance given in connection with our second quarter call remains unchanged.
Now I would like to turn the call back over to David for some closing remarks.
Thank you Stuart.
As I've said at the start of the call it was a strong quarter for McDermott in terms of winning new awards and executing on our existing portfolio of projects.
Our active engagement with our customers and our growing reputation continues to generate new awards and more importantly repeat work from our existing clients.
We have been able to significantly add to our 2016 backlog this quarter as well as start to build the foundation for the subsequent years.
Internally we are actively managing our liquidity and costs our MPI program has been a success generating more than double our anticipated in-year cash savings for 2015.
By combining right-sizing centralization and a series of cost saving initiatives we believe we have established a solid foundation from which McDermott can manage its business and compete successfully in the current environment.
With that I would now like to open up the line for questions.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from Steven Fisher of UBS.
Your line is now open.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
I wonder Stuart maybe if you could just remind us what you're using for the year-to-date that compares to the $50 million to $70 million of full year operating income.
It seems like with the strong performance that you had there in the quarter and year-to-date you're pulling some losses in the fourth quarter.
So I just want to confirm that I have those numbers right and to understand the dynamics a bit  I know you mentioned utilization slowing in the fourth quarter.
Yeah that's correct Steven.
We're using the GAAP measure or the unadjusted operating income as we give guidance.
So it doesn't include the add-backs that we mentioned during the quarter.
And because of that the fourth quarter we're looking at a loss position given the utilization profile of some of the fixed assets.
Okay.
So about $77.7 million that's the number for year-to-date? Yes that's correct Steven.
Okay.
David this is the highest level of forward year backlog visibility you've had since around 2011.
And with that in mind do you feel that you've got visibility to achieving a normalized level of earnings at some point over the next 12 to 18 months? And I guess I'm using a definition of normalized it would be somewhere around say $3 billion to $4 billion of revenues and 5% to 10% operating margins which seems to be kind of a historical level that was pretty achievable.
I would say Steven firstly the  I would say it's been a good quarter in terms of the order intake and also predominately it's being in the Middle East where I feel that we have made a lot of great progress in terms of relationships with those customers and getting our position  getting ourselves into a strong position.
I think with the current macro environment and I talked about it earlier in the call is that whilst we have very good visibility of what's happening in the Middle East and not only with Aramco but very pleased today to announce another award with RasGas.
It's very difficult to predict what else is happening in the other parts of the world.
So too early to say but what I would say is that from an operational and executional execution aspect I think we've also made significant progress with this organization with the team that we have with the additions that we've made to the team that we're certainly putting together a solid foundation that will allow us to compete in the market moving forward.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Tahira Afzal of KeyBanc.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi folks.
Congratulations on the strong quarter.
Thank you.
Inc.</span></strong> First question given the amount you've booked and what you've indicated on your bond rate in the 10-Q it seems like we should be moving to sort of flattish to growth on the revenue side into next year.
Could you provide some more color on why that would not happen? Tahira I'll start the answer and I'll let Stuart to add on.
I think obviously it has been a very good quarter in terms of order intake but I think as what we've said before there's a lot of volatility and let's say lumpiness in terms of awards and even trying to predict when awards will occur.
So I think it's early to say that growth  I think that what you can say is that we are getting ourselves back on track with what's happening in the Middle East we're getting ourselves back on track and that we're seeing more awards coming from Aramco and Qatar with both QP and RasGas.
But I think that whilst we're in this macro environment and I think I said it earlier there isn't sufficient visibility to say that we're certainly moving into growth mode but obviously we are very happy with what was awarded to us during the third quarter.
Stuart? Thanks David.
Yes and Tahira I think we've still got Q4 to go to look for some bookings that will give us the final backlog for 2016.
So I think it's a little bit early to indicate growth for next year.
However at our investor day that we're holding next week we will be outlining our current thoughts on 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Okay.
Thank you very much on that.
And as a follow up if I look at the profile of where your targets and focus on this is it seems that even though it's a little on the earlier side profile wise it seems to be more economical more brownfields more sort of offshore versus subsea.
Could you give us an idea of the competitive dynamics there going forward? Is this in your sweet spot? Or is this more in competitive areas versus what we've seen this year? Well I think if we start in the Middle East obviously the agreement that we have with Aramco it's public that there are four competitors.
So as we bid we will compete against the other three but obviously we feel amongst those four is that we do have a very good position both from our assets that we have there the people that we have the local content that we have.
So we feel that we've got a lot of experience that we can fuel on to be successful.
I think I spoke on the last call that we were anticipating an uptake in activity in Qatar and again it's an area whereby if you look at the capabilities you have to be capable to deliver full EPCI and predominately in shallow water.
So the competitive landscape is different from what you would see certainly in the deepwater area.
Now the deepwater market obviously in this kind of macro environment is being heavily impacted and so the competitors we see there are different from what we see in the Middle East and obviously today a very competitive area.
We have had as you've seen some successes and we continue to bid in that area with some prospects that will come up in the Gulf of Mexico in the subsea tieback area some potential opportunities in Africa and in India and one or two in Asia.
So we still see opportunities there but clearly the market is impacted by this macro environment and we do live in a very competitive world.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Vishal Shah of Deutsche Bank.
Your line is now open.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
This is Chad Dillard on for Vishal.
Just want to dig into your cash generation capabilities in the second half of the year.
Can you just talk about how much the Papa Terra collection contributed? And then how to think about the fourth quarter? Yeah sure.
So in the third quarter we did receive approximately $60 million for settlement for the Papa Terra project.
And as we look into the fourth quarter we are expecting some advanced progress payments on some of the new orders that we have booked in the third quarter so we are expecting our cash flow from operations to be positive in the last quarter of the year.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
That's helpful.
And then just given some of the reports in the news about a slowdown in project awards in the Middle East can you speak to what if any declines you're seeing in the bidding environment? Yeah.
I mean I also read the same press that you read and we read about slow down on awards.
I'll be honest from our side we haven't seen that and you can see what's happening in our third quarter in terms of awards in which we've been successful.
But I would also add that today our level of bidding activity in the Middle East remains robust and certainly not seeing any slow down on any bidding activity.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
I'll jump back in queue.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jamie Cook of Credit Suisse.
Your line is now open.
Hi.
Good evening.
I guess two questions.
One I guess as you look out  I guess in the more recent quarter as you look out to 2016 I guess the other side of being in this type of market where commodity prices are down and you're in a deflationary cost environment as a fixed price contractor sometimes there are opportunities for you guys to benefit.
So is there any of that that could potentially help boost your profitability? Or has it been on procurement or on labor? Or are customers getting whatever potential cost pressures on the downward side back? And then my second question you did cite potential for you didn't want to answer the revenue question because you're waiting to see what bookings could be in the fourth quarter.
Is there anything materially large in the fourth quarter that could potentially hit? And then  I guess that's it for right now.
Hi Jamie.
It's Stuart.
Hi.
Let me take the supply chain question first.
So today when we are bidding for new contracts there's a significant focus by the customer on ensuring that the supply chain deflation is passed through to them.
Likewise when we are negotiating any change orders on existing scope there is a significant focus on supply chain deflation being passed to the customer.
That being said as we progress with our profitability initiative in setting up global agreements and leveraging and organizing our spend we are trying to capture some of those savings for McDermott albeit I would say that's a lower percentage versus the amount that's passed through to our customers.
And then on the bookings yes we still have an active set of bids and change orders out there for the fourth quarter.
I would say like we've always said in 2015 the timing of those awards remains the most volatile part of our business and as we are confident in our value proposition on those orders we are not yet in a position to estimate how much order intake we'll have in the fourth quarter.
All righty.
Thanks.
I'll get back in queue.
Our next question comes from Martin Malloy of Johnson Rice.
Your line is now open.
Congratulations on the strong quarter.
Wanted to ask kind of a big picture question as you look out to 2016 with your discussions with customers are you seeing them maybe begin to start to take a look at moving forward on development projects given the amount that the floating drilling rig rates have fallen lower service and equipment costs? And I don't know if you can tie that in with what you're doing with the io venture? I don't think there is any strong indication Marty that things are starting to change.
Certainly there's a little bit more dialog around looking at projects of fairly early stage.
And so with our io organization we're having some dialog with certain customers.
I think clearly offshore drill rig rates have come down over the last year and generally the supply chain has come down and costs.
So there are some dialogs but I wouldn't say there's been any significant change that would say we'll start to see a lot of projects moving forward.
I was saying that again you've got to look at the market differently whether you're talking to the super majors the independents and the national oil companies.
And I would say out of the group the most active at this time are the national oil companies that we're having dialog on certain prospects moving ahead at some point although at early stages.
But I would say to answer your question haven't seen anything in the market that would indicate any change to the status that we've had through 2015 of the slowdown.
Okay.
And is there an update you can give us in terms of the customer interests in the DLV2000 and if you've started bidding it on projects? Yeah.
So the DLV2000 we're looking at the one opportunity of putting the vessel to work.
I can also say that we have a number of bids that we're actively working on today.
We have some bids where checks are already submitted and which award or selection should be over this next coming months.
Certainly we've had an active period of bidding for this particular asset.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Brian Konigsberg of Vertical Research.
Your line is now open.
Yeah hi.
Good afternoon.
Good afternoon.
A couple of questions.
Just a point of clarification on the restructuring savings so you have $100 million of cost saves this year.
I assume you're not recognizing that entire $100 million this year; some of it will probably be more anniversaried next year.
So I'm just trying to get clarity.
Is there going to be some carry-over from the $100 million this year and then you're expecting an additional $50 million on top of that or is the $50 million carry  capsulating some of the carry-over from this year? Hi Brian it's Stuart.
So the $100 million we mentioned for 2015 was cash savings are in year.
Now not all of that is going to flow through to the profit and loss given some of it is subject to a percentage of completion in our projects.
And then next year we are seeing that we will be able to generate an additional $50 million of in-year cash savings on top of the previous $100 million target.
Understood.
Great.
And separately on the capitalized interest components can you kind of accurately tell how much incremental you're going to be recognizing in the P&amp;L in 2016 at this point? Yes because the capitalized interest is occurring on the DLV2000 and we expect that to be delivered at the end of the first quarter.
We are expecting quite a step up in the interest charge in the P&amp;L next year.
As you saw from the third quarter results today we were capitalizing $5 million of interest; we had $18 million of gross.
So after Q1 next year you would expect the $18 million of gross to stay in the P&amp;L.
Okay.
And just one last one.
Just on the balance sheet the unbilled receivables actually were up quite a bit in the third quarter up almost 40% year-to-date and up quite a bit sequentially even.
Can you just talk to what is that reflecting? That would be helpful.
Thanks.
Absolutely.
When you look at our working capital in the balance sheet on the asset side you're seeing quite an increase year-to-date on our contracts in-progress.
That's really driven by our Middle East business and our BSP project in Asia.
In the Middle East we are working through a number of change orders with the customers and when those get agreed then we will be able to agree billings and also cash collection.
BSP had a very very active quarter in Q3 so we did a lot of kind of work there that we'll bill out and collect in the fourth quarter.
And then on the other side of the balance sheet you also see a big drop off this year in our advanced billings.
And those advanced billings really relate to our Ichthys project and also our PB Litoral project.
On the contracts in progress are any of those being disputed or is that just fairly run rate business? All of that is run rate business and we do not recognize any potential change orders in our P&amp;L and therefore our balance sheet unless we have a demonstrated track record with the customer and a sound contractual basis to recognize them.
In the event there is a dispute on the presented change order we would then move that to a formal claim.
And at the end of the third quarter 2015 we only had $9 million of claims recognized on our balance sheet.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Our next question comes from Rob Norfleet of Alembic Global.
Your line is now open.
Good afternoon.
This is actually Nick Chen for Rob.
Thanks for taking our question and congratulations on a great quarter.
I was hoping you guys could give a little bit more detail just an update into your head count reductions? Yeah this is Stuart.
So absolutely.
So on our head count reductions there's really as you've seen our head count dropped this year really driven by two factors.
Firstly the project workload as we sequence within projects.
Our variable work force that would be our craft labor or some of our project-specific labor we would release when the project is finished if there's not a new project to move on to.
And then there's the profitability initiative head count reductions that we've made.
We've made in excess of 1 000 head reductions this year with MPI related to rightsizing centralization and other initiatives.
Great.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
And then just a quick update.
I know you touched on it a little bit before but on the lost projects could you just give a little bit more detail into gross margins for the year? And with change orders have any of them been accretive at any point? Yes.
So at the end of the third quarter 2015 we have $317 million of backlog on the lost projects.
Year-to-date 2015 on the three active projects that we have they have been accretive to approximately $28 million to gross profit.
So we've successfully either negotiated change orders or achieved other cost recovery or contract extension to approximately $28 million.
That's very helpful.
Thank you very much.
I'll jump back into the queue.
Our next question comes from Blake Hutchinson of Howard Weil.
Your line is now open.
Good afternoon guys.
Good afternoon.
Just wanted to understand with Ichthys mainly run off at this point in terms of fabrication yard utilization and where we stand today especially on the year-over-year comparison in terms of utilization want to be wary.
Is there anything within the system at these utilization levels where you start running into issues with managing strictly around variable cost and something in maybe one of the yards within the system bites a little bit harder.
Just wanted to make sure there wasn't something we need to  kind of be a little more wary of at the yard level.
This is Stuart Blake.
So when we're specifically talking about Batam yes the Ichthys workload completes toward the end of the fourth quarter.
However you will notice in our supplemental deck we do include a fabrication only project that's going into Batam that was awarded in the third quarter of 2015 that is producing LNG modules for the Yamal project.
So this is part of our fabrication only strategy that we started in the earlier part of the year where we're looking to try and provide certain of our yards base load work moving through this cycle.
So we would hope that that would absorb a significant amount of our both fixed cost base going into 2016.
And with everything else you see at least today Batam would have been the one place that it was a little positively closer to challenging that  the ability to manage that cost base? That's correct yes.
You still get around  across the rest of the enterprise.
That's another way of asking.
Okay.
And then just I apologize for coming in late here.
Stuart did you give an absorption number? Or I guess in this case perhaps a plus for the quarter on the vessel side? We gave a total fixed cost net absorption number for the quarter and this quarter we were slightly under absorbed by about $5 million.
Thanks.
I apologize for that.
I'll turn it back.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Robert Connors of Stifel.
Your line is now open.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
I sort of wanted to touch up  you got into it a little bit on the working capital discussion.
But we've also been reading some stories out there that some of the Middle East NOCs have been clamping it a little bit down on their contractors in terms of terms and conditions.
And can you just tell us what you're seeing and what you're hearing out there? Have down payment structures changed at all particularly I guess the likes of Aramco if you can discuss? Let me just  I'll just clear it and I'll let Stuart to get into more of the details.
But contrary to what we've also heard is that working in the Middle East is we haven't seen any structural change of how we are working with the customers both in terms of negotiating terms and conditions or negotiating change orders.
So we haven't seen any significant change of what's been happening in the past.
Stuart you want to add to that? Absolutely.
So on working capital specifically in Saudi Arabia in the new long-term agreement there was a subtle change to the procurement payment schedule.
And that is now driven by receipt of materials in country as opposed to our yard in Jebel Ali.
However we are allowed to receive advance payments if we post advance payment guarantees for that amount.
So we're able to manage that change in contracting terms.
In other parts of the Middle East the working capital parts of the contract remain stable as from the last couple of years.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
I'm sorry I missed it but can you touch up on what the bids outstanding was again? Was it $2.6 billion? And if could ask a question related to the DLV2000.
You mentioned you are bidding that vessel out already but does it need to go through trials and a sort of commissioning phase before we see an actual award and when you expect that to occur? Yes this is Stuart.
Our bids outstanding at the end of the third quarter were slightly above $2 billion.
With the DLV2000 we expect delivery at the end of the first quarter.
That delivery includes the basic sea trials performed by the building contractor which is Keppel.
Post-receipt we will put the vessel through pipe lay trials and some other operational aspects specific to the equipment at which point we will deem it in service.
As David has said we've always actively looked to deploy the vessel either in a contract that we have or on a new contract that we're currently bidding.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
But no timeline or you're not willing to discuss this post-receipt/pipe lay trials when those are complete? So the vessel is due to go in service in the middle of the second quarter next year and we are not yet in a position to release what the first project will be for the vessel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And this concludes our question and answer session.
I would now like to turn the call back to Darcey Matthews for any further remarks.
Thank you Sonja and thank you everyone for joining us today.
As Stuart mentioned next Tuesday on November 17 McDermott will be hosting its 2015 Investor Day which will also be webcast live.
The link to the webcast and a copy of the presentations will be available on our website in the Investor Relations section next week.
And we look forward to seeing you there or having you join us on the webcast.
Operator this concludes our call.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today's conference.
This concludes today's program.
You may all disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing-by.
And welcome to McDermott Internationals Fourth Quarter and Full Year 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Following the Companys prepared remarks we will conduct the question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
I would now like to turn the call over to Kathy Murray McDermotts Vice President of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you and good afternoon everyone.
I would like to remind you that we are recording this call and that a replay will be available on our Web site where you can find our fourth quarter and full year 2015 results press release and the Form 10-Q we filed today.
We have also posted a presentation of supplemental financial information that will be available on the Investor Relations section of our Web site.
Additionally our comments today will include forward-looking statements and estimates.
These forward-looking comments are subject to various risks contingencies and uncertainties and reflect management's view as of today February 22 2016.
Please refer to our filings with the SEC which are available on our Web site including our Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2015 which provides a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from management's projections forecasts estimates and expectations.
Please note that except to the extent required by applicable law McDermott undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
I will now turn the call over to David Dickson McDermott's President and Chief Executive Officer for opening remarks.
Thank you Kathy and good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.
From our results today you can see we continue to make short-term progress driven by improved execution and our change in culture which is in turn building a stronger financial foundation as we manage through this current macro commodity cycle.
We are very pleased with our fourth quarter results and 2015 full year results as they reflect the impact of all the initiatives we have worked on today and clearly demonstrate the operational and financial turnaround that began in early 2014.
The Company has been significantly strengthened not only in terms of backlog and operating income but also in terms of its capabilities and competencies in an extremely challenging market.
Of special note this quarter all areas were operationally profitable on an adjusted basis.
In addition by proactively managing the cost structure at the beginning of the downturn we have not only performed well financially in 2015 but also have positioned ourselves to be competitive in all areas of our business.
Our success in winning the ONGC Vashishta award in addition to a sizeable transportation and installation contract offshore Trinidad demonstrates continued focus on customer engagement and the realization of McDermotts strong brand reputation.
It also demonstrates our ability to balance our geographic portfolio while remaining a leader in the Middle East.
McDermotts reputation as a partner-of-choice continues to grow as demonstrated by the recently announced long-term Consortium with Larsen &amp; Toubro.
This partnership strengthens our relationship for both clients with our combined capabilities and provides a unique solution for the offshore and deepwater India market.
Our commitment to excellence and project execution was further evident during the quarter as our Marine campaign on INPEXs Ichthys remains on-schedule and we successfully completed the offshore installation and the hookup of the PB Litoral jacket and Topsides ahead of schedule.
In addition our dedication to health safety environment and security continues with our outstanding performance in safety statistics throughout all areas of operation.
We remain an industry-leader in this area.
Furthermore despite the current macro headwind we hold greater than 80% of expected 2016 revenue and backlog.
Our bidding activity remains high and we continue to anticipate a good revenue opportunity pipeline.
Now Id like to provide an update on the execution of some of our key projects.
In Americas Europe and Africa area the installation of the PB Litoral jacket and Topsides and the hookup marked the first years of the float-over method of installation in Mexico by McDermott and was successfully completed without incident and ahead of schedule.
We are proud of the changes we have made to ensure that this project is executed to McDermotts global quality and safety standards.
The PB Litoral team has done an outstanding job ensuring that the loss on the project has not deteriorated further over the past four quarters.
Unfortunately PEMEX unilaterally extended payment terms to all the supply chain thus delaying some of our cash collections during the fourth quarter 2015.
We do however expect to receive payment in the near-term and we continue to remain positive on the near and longer term market outlook in Mexico.
We have demonstrated that we can deliver projects in Mexico with the appropriate blend of in-country assets and people along with developing a strong relationship with PEMEX.
Our go forward Gulfport Mississippi spoolbase facility has been handed over to operations and has substantially completed the welding of the pipeline for the LLOG Otis project.
We expect this drilling on to our North Ocean 105 vessel in the first quarter of 2016.
We continue to focus on the Middle East area with the Aramco Karan 45 project progressing ahead of schedule and the Abu Ali cables project completed ahead of schedule earning the project teams special commendations from the client.
Execution of Lump Sum project awarded under the renewed Aramco Long Term agreement LTAII is now proceeding according to schedule.
As mentioned last quarter the national oil companies in the region remain public about maintaining production and we continue to expect our pipeline of potential projects in the Middle East to be brownfield in nature.
As a result our bidding activity remains high in the Middle East area.
In our Asia Pacific area our INPEX Ichthys project achieved all of the agreed upon milestones during the quarter remaining on schedule.
We are very pleased with the performance of the Aegir Heeremas vessel and the Heerema partnership on this project.
Our partnership with Heerema is another example of our core strength in developing relationships which ultimately translates to improve project execution and performance.
During that quarter Ichthys and the 16th stope of the Brunei Shell pipeline and replacement project was deferred 2017 by a customer as a result of the commodity price environment.
We will continue to engage with the customer until they decide on their new project timeline.
Also in the quarter fabrication werent begin in the Batam yard for the 22 000 tonnes of modules for Yamal LNG.
We will continue to focus on these types of fabrication opportunities as part of our new company-wide strategy for fixed cost absorption.
I previously mentioned McDermott was awarded the ONGC Vashishta project in the fourth quarter 2015.
We believe that meeting the end-market content requirements through partnering with Larsen &amp; Toubro are demonstrating track-record in both shallow water and subsea and our newer competitive cost structure were the main drivers for winning the Vashishta award at a profitable margin.
As we have just announced we will conduct the naming ceremony of our new flagship Derrick Lay Vessel the DLV 2000 at Keppels Singmarine Shipyard in Singapore on Thursday April 14 2016.
The DLV 2000 will add high-end capabilities and versatility to our existing fleet.
As the new flagship of our fleet the DLV 2000 will allow us to utilize one vessel on projects requiring a combination of pipelay heavy lift back space restructures and offshore workforce accommodation that would normally have to be executed by multiple vessels.
We also expect the DLV 2000 to provide us with a key asset for fuel development in remote locations through the combination of these versatile construction capabilities and fast transit speed.
As part of our current work schedule the DLV 2000 have secured over 80 days on a 2016 marine campaign on the INPEX Ichthys project.
We expect to then perform its first pipelay work on the recently awarded Woodside Greater Western Flank Phase 2 transportation and installation project.
We also continue to actively bid the DLV 2000 on prospective projects.
Now I would like to discuss our legacy loss mix and projects.
As a result of our cost management our backlog of legacy loss projects has been reduced significantly from last quarter as a KGL hoots project is no longer in a loss position.
Regarding the two remaining material legacy loss projects we expect the PB Litoral project to complete in early 2016 and Agile charter to finish in early 2017.
Looking forward we continue to focus on the current macro environment and what it means to our clients.
Many exploration and production companies have deferred or reduced our capital expenditures.
However as we look at our business expanding and targeted projects at December 31 2015.
We believe we are still well-positioned in markets where capital is available for investment.
Additionally we believe we are more competitive today than ever given our strong project execution increased cost management liquidity culture and increased organizational capabilities and competences.
We do expect to continue our focus on our traditional area of excellence offshore EPCI projects until the subsea deepwater market recovers.
We continue to have significant opportunities with national oil companies which we believe are more likely to continue with fuel development project in today's market.
With the Middle East area expected to be the greatest contributor to near-term order intake.
We will also continue to position ourselves for when the micro environment recovers.
With that I would like to turn over the call to Stuart Spence our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for a review of our financials.
Thanks David and good afternoon everyone.
Today I am going to cover our fourth quarter and full year financial results then Ill discus our CapEx spend followed by our backlog and current bid pipeline then provide an update on our cost saving initiatives finally Ill discuss our guidance for 2016 based on current market conditions.
Before I get started today I would like to remind you of the new reporting majors we introduced in the third quarter.
As previously mentioned in addition to our GAAP reporting we will also report certain adjusted financials net of one-time items to provide a clear understanding of the underlying performance and drivers of our business.
To support these efforts I would like to draw your attention to our press release and supplement slide deck that detail the reconciliation of the GAAP to non-GAAP financial majors.
Now on to the fourth quarter of 2015 and year-end results revenues for the fourth quarter were 67.4 million down 138.4 million or 17% over the sequential quarter and then 139 million from Q4 2014 revenues of 806.4 million.
This decrease was driven by comparatively low activities on the INPEX Ichthys project during the fourth quarter of 2015.
The key projects driving revenue were in our Asia and Middle East areas as far as the continued progress made on PB Litoral in Mexico.
In Asia the INPEX Ichthys and the Brunei Shell pipeline replacement projects drove revenue.
In the Middle East to larger projects Aramco Safaniya Phase 2 and ADMA 4 GI projects drove revenue recognition.
Our constant focus on improving our biding and execution during the past year has made a positive impact as our adjusted operating income totaled 48.2 million during the quarter excluding 8.7 million of restructuring expenses and 26 million of mark-to-market non-cash pension charges.
Operating income for the quarter was positively impacted by the successful negotiation and agreement of weather-related recoveries in the Middle East.
A change order on the INPEX Ichthys contract cost reductions as a result over the McDermott Profitability Initiative reversal of liquidated damages related to a schedule extension on PB Litoral and better than expected utilization in the quarter.
As David mentioned the KGL hoot project is no longer in a loss making position and our loss project portfolio contributed positively to gross profit during both the fourth quarter and the full year of 2015.
Cash provided by operating activities in the fourth quarter was 60.6 million compared to cash provided by operating activities of 20.7 million for the third quarter of 2015 and 119.3 million in the prior year comparable quarter.
Improvement in the fourth quarter over the sequential quarter is attributable to advance payments on newly awarded projects and collections of weather-related recoveries both in the Middle East.
However these improvements were partially offset by PEMEX unilaterally extending payment terms to its suppliers including McDermott.
For the full year the Company reported revenues of 3.1 billion compared to 2.3 billion for 2014.
The year-over-year improvement was driven primarily by the INPEX Ichthys project the Brunei Shell pipeline replacement project and progress on the PB Litoral project.
Our adjusted operating income for the year was 174.7 million in 2015 excluding restructuring charges of 40.8 million a legal settlement of 16.7 million and non-cash mark-to-market pension charges of 26 million.
This compares to an adjusted operating income for 2014 of 23.7 million which excludes restructuring charges of 18.1 million and non-cash mark-to-market pension gains of 2.9 million.
2014 adjusted operating income included gains on sale of assets of 46.2 million.
Fourth quarter 2015 operating income includes overhead under-absorption of approximately $21 million due to project sequencing and seasonality.
Cash provided by operating activities for 2015 was 55.3 million compared to 7 million for the full year 2014.
The increase in cash provided by operating activities is primarily driven by continued focus on project execution as well as cash savings resulting from MPI.
As I previously mentioned the supplemental slide deck available on our Web site provides additional financial information.
Moving to the balance sheet at December 31 2015 we reported 781.6 million in cash and restricted cash an increase in total cash from the third quarter of 14.4 million.
This is primarily driven by 60.6 million of cash flow from operations offset by 36.7 million of capital expenditures and debt repayment of 9 million.
Restricted cash decreased this quarter as a result of the expiring of cash collateralized letters of credit.
We have not had a structural change in our contracting terms and conditions during the quarter related to working capital other than the previously mentioned PEMEX unilaterally extending vendor credit terms.
Letters of credit issued under our LT facility totaled 384 million and cash collateralized letters of credit totaled 102 million at year-end 2015.
Moving to CapEx capital expenditures for the fourth quarter were 36.7 million which includes 5.8 million of capitalized interest.
During the fourth quarter an additional 9 million of planned CapEx spend for our flagship vessel the DLV 2000 was deferred to 2016 bringing the total DLV CapEx spend expected in 2016 to approximately 189 million.
There has been no change to the total expected spend on the vessel of approximately 432 million excluding capitalized interest.
Total CapEx expenditures for the full year of 2015 were 102.9 million including 22.7 million of capitalized interest 37.9 million of spend related to the DLV 2000 12.3 million related to our CSV 108 vessel delivered in the first quarter and $4.8 million was spent for our vertical trig system upgrade on the CSV 108 currently under construction.
The remaining amounts were associated with project related items and maintenance CapEx.
Now turning to order intake we reported a backlog of approximately 4.2 billion at year-end of which 69% is related to our offshore operations and 31% is related to our subsea operations.
Bookings in the fourth quarter totaled 478.3 million driven primarily by a new profitable order from ONGC for their Vashishta field and a T&amp;I award offshore Trinidad along with change orders on existing projects.
Of the 4.2 billion of backlog 2.4 billion is due to roll off in 2016 $1.3 billion in 17 and 0.5 billion in 2018.
As I mentioned earlier our legacy loss project portfolio has decreased from three material projects at the end of the third quarter to two material projects at the end of the year.
The PB Litoral project and the Agile charter project are the only remaining material loss projects in the legacy portfolio.
The PB Litoral project is expected to be finished in the first quarter of 2016 and the Agile charter project is expected to be complete in early 2017.
For further details on the roll off of these projects please refer to the supplemental presentation.
Our bids and change orders outstanding at year-end was 4.4 billion compared to 2.6 billion at the end of the third quarter of 2015.
For the fourth quarter revenue pipeline approximately 72% of our outstanding bids and change orders relate to our offshore operations.
Our list of target projects totaled 15.2 billion as of December 31 2015.
The decrease in target projects is primarily due to projects moving from targets to bids outstanding as well as the few projects slipping out of the five quarter time horizon due to the current macro environment.
As a reminder target for those projects that we intend to bid on and we expect would be awarded to us or our competitor in the next five quarters.
Approximately 73% of the value of our target projects relate to offshore operations.
As of December 31 2015 the combination of our backlog bids and change orders outstanding and target projects which makes up our potential revenue pipeline totaled 23.8 billion up from 23.6 billion in the sequential quarter.
Also our bid pipeline increased by 400 million primarily due to national oil companies maintaining a high level of bidding activity especially in the Middle East.
Once again we have provided additional information on the breakdown by project type region and work scope of these various items in the supplemental presentation on our Web site.
Moving to cost restructuring as I mentioned in previous quarters at the end of 2014 we embarked on a planned cost reduction exercise to improve our profitability and flexibility called McDermott Profitability Initiative or MPI.
The objective of the exercise was to bring a change to our overall cost structure and address our fixed costs while still maintaining the revenue and capacity potential of the Company.
We have now substantially completed MPI other than our move from Singapore to Kuala Lumpur and some final sourcing initiatives.
We are pleased to report the Company realized approximately 150 million of annual cash savings in 2015 and expects to realize annual cash savings going-forward of approximately 150 million as compared to the 2014 benchmark.
As part of our new cost culture we proactively continued to look at new ways of improving our cost structure.
As such we initiated the additional overhead reduction program or AOR in the fourth quarter of 2015.
This program will include headcount reductions affecting direct operating expenses as well as SG&amp;A.
The program is expected to be substantially complete in the first quarter of 2016 and should generate greater than 20 million of end-year 2016 savings.
We expect total restructuring cost to be approximately 10 million in 2016 of which approximately 5 million is associated with the AOR program.
For the full year of 2016 the Company expects revenues to be approximately 2.9 billion and adjusted operating income to be approximately 115 million which excludes the expected restructuring cost of 10 million.
We also expect the adjusted operating income to be slightly weighted towards the first half of the year due to project sequencing.
As previously highlighted absorption of our asset-based cost structure in 2016 is a focus for us.
For the full year of 2016 we expect gross interest expense of approximately 74 million and capitalized interest of approximately 10 million and net interest expense of approximately 64 million.
Of the expected 74 million in gross interest expense we expect 60 million of that to be in cash and the other 14 million to be amortization.
We also expect our taxes to be approximately 55 million for 2016.
We expect full year of 2016 adjusted net income to be breakeven.
Additionally we expect adjusted street-EBITDA to be approximately 240 million and covenant EBITDA trailing 12-months to be approximately 285 million.
Which we believe provides adequate coverage for our minimum required covenant EBITDA of 251 million with 28 million remaining for EBITDA add-back.
With the CSV 108 completed in early 2015 our remaining capital expenditures to complete the DLV 2000 during 2016 are expected to be $189 million.
We expect to spend approximately 20 million completing the CSV 108 vertical lay system and 48 million during the year on the other remaining maintenance and project-related expenditures while maintaining the capabilities and reliability of our assets.
In addition to those figures we expect approximately 10 million of capitalized interest to be reported as capital expenditures in 2016.
Also we expect to have approximately 580 million of cash and restricted cash and 840 million in gross debt at the end of 2016 assuming contracting terms and industry norms and working capital remain stable and PEMEX returns to normal payment cycle.
Furthermore we expect our free cash flow to be approximately negative 160 million.
The majority of this is due to the 189 million of CapEx related to the DLV 2000 in 2016.
Adjusted for the DLV 2000 CapEx our free cash flow is expected to be approximately 29 million.
We expect our Middle East business to generate free cash flow in 2016 despite the fact that we expect assumption of working capital as a result of a normal ramp-up of project spend for recent awards.
Our guidance is based on our view of the business outlook.
However given the macro commodity environment we may see pressure from potential CapEx spending delays stronger competitive pricing pressure due to contraction in certain markets and our own lower utilization.
For now McDermott will concentrate on what we have control on which includes continued focus on our highest value proposition opportunities strong execution of our existing backlog customer alignment and focus on our utilization and cost management.
Now I would like to turn the call back over to David.
Thank you Stuart.
As we have discussed McDermott made significant progress on its turnaround with 2015 being the year where we have executed and improved our operational performance.
This has been demonstrated by improved operating income and an increase in backlog that McDermott has not achieved since 2012.
In addition our reputation in the marketplace continues to grow and our relationships with major customers and business partners continues to strengthen.
This was demonstrated in winning the ONGC Vashishta project and entry back into the offshore market in India in consortium with Larsen &amp; Toubro as well as our continued successful partnership with Heerema on the INPEX Ichthys project.
As for our organization we will continue to focus on talent and strengthen the now significant core capabilities of the organization to further our operational and financial success in 2016 and beyond.
In addition we have added a Director position to our Board and welcome Erich Kaesers experience and insights.
His extensive executive management and operational experience in the global energy industry particularly in the Middle East markets will be an invaluable asset for the Company and will compliment the extensive experience of our current Board.
So as we look to 2016 we will be focused on bidding new profitable work to secure 2017 and 2018 awards through the increased capabilities and competencies of our organization as well as leveraging our relationships with customers and partners.
We also expect to remain focused on maintaining our new standard of operational execution.
Given the continued backdrop of a lower for longer oil price environment our order intake focus remains centered around three core themes; firstly the markets where capital is available for investment; secondly the brand fuel and producing basins with the lowest production cost; and lastly focusing on national oil companies who remain committed to their production levels.
We also continue to concentrate on the items that we can control including customer alignment asset utilization cost management and liquidity culture.
As Stuart mentioned earlier we commenced our McDermott profitability initiative before the current downturn.
We have more recently enacted the additional overhead reduction program and with our new developed cost culture we believe we are more cost competitive than ever and will continue to strive to remain so in the future as we scale our business to match customer demand.
We believe that McDermott has completed its turnaround phase started in 2014.
And with a substantial portion of expected 2016 revenue in backlog we look forward to a solid year despite the macro backdrop and continue to be focused on the long-term positioning and prospects through the cycle.
With that I would now like to open up the line for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Your line is open.
First congratulations on a nice quarter.
I guess my question relates to you talked about PEMEX and delayment in payment.
I think you said you expected it in the near-term.
Can you just sort of quantify how big that is and what risks do you see to delayed payments for some of your other customers in particular with your concentration in the Middle East? And then can you talk about as youre negotiating new projects or potentially new awards or any of the terms changing I think in your prepared remarks you said you assume contracts terms dont change.
I am just wondering how realistic that is? Thanks.
Thanks Jamie it is Stuart.
Just to answer the PEMEX question first.
We suffered approximately 116 million of delayed payments from PEMEX in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
We are actively working with them and we feel very comfortable that that cash will be forthcoming early 2016.
In terms of working capital terms in our contracts today on the bids that we are making we see a stable environment and we would hope that that would continue.
I think our prepared remarks just position ourselves for a potential lower for longer cycle and if that has any detrimental impact to working capital terms.
Thirdly on the Middle East market we remain very comfortable with all of our working relationships with all clients in the Middle East and the payment terms and contractual working capital terms are being adhered too.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Steven Fisher with UBS.
Your line is open.
Thanks.
This is actually Clay Rikard on for Steve thanks for taking my question just to follow-up on Jamies question in the Middle East.
Can you discuss maybe how this value messaging on pricing terms and timing have changed over the last few months if at all? No with -- this is David Dickson.
What I would say since certainly in the nearest short-term we havent seen any changes in anything that were doing particularly in Saudi as you know our agreement that we have with Saudi is they are long-term agreement which is an agreement with the terms and conditions have already been set and what we do is were competing on a pricing basis.
So we havent seen any impact or any change whatsoever.
Our bidding activity with Aramco remains high and we expect that to continue throughout 2016.
Great thanks.
And then just in terms of the guidance it looks like the revenues are now about flat with your initial range but the operating income is up a little bit and I know there are some adjustments in there.
But I am just wondering if there has been any change in your expectations for profitability of the business or some of the regional margins going into 2016? Clay this is Stuart.
Weve increased our guidance from the initial indication that we gave at our Investor Day in 2015 really for two factors the first is that we are now showing our guidance on an adjusted basis so we adjusted our restructuring costs and the second element is around our additional overhead reduction program we have upped our guidance to reflect some of the savings that we will see in the year associated to that program which is approximately $20 million.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of John Rogers with D.
A.
Davidson.
Your line is open.
Just first of all another follow-up just relative to the PEMEX situation what are you expecting to work off in 2016 for PEMEX? In other words how much more work are you due to collect on this year and I guess my anticipation is there a risk on collections there? John this is Stuart.
We have two active projects with PEMEX at the moment.
We have the completion of PB Litoral which we expect to handover the facility in the first quarter.
And then the second contract we have is on Ayatsil-C which is at the early stages it's in the procurement stage.
We work with PEMEX extremely closely on the collection side as youd have seen them in the -- proactively last year they delayed payments through their entire supply chain not just McDermott we are continually given assurances by PEMEX that it's a timing issue and certainly not an ultimate collection issue and we positively continue to work with them on that basis.
Okay.
But I mean orders of magnitude revenue what is -- how does that? Sure on the remaining scope of PB Litoral and the Ayatsil-C we would probably have around $80 million of exposure on those contracts.
Okay great.
Thats helpful.
Okay and then secondly your comments relative to how did the year plays out due with the cash flow being more weighted towards the first half.
I assume thats also true of the way youre thinking about operating earnings? Yes in our guidance we said that our operating income would be slightly weighted to the first half of the year.
We would expect our cash profile to be similar but obviously driven by our PEMEX collections that were currently working on.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Martin Malloy with Johnson Rice.
Your line is open.
I was wondering maybe if you could give us a little more help in terms of potential timing of the awards.
As you look to the Middle East and there has been some in the press some significant projects that are according to the press expected to be awarded first half of this year? Yes Martin we have -- as we look at our bid pipeline we have several outstanding bids which are in the Middle East.
So that includes both Saudi and Qatar.
And in discussion with our customer we would expect some of these to be awarded to whoever successful in the first half of this year.
Okay.
And then any update on the IO joint venture with GE? Yes we continue to develop IO.
We more recently we just had an executive review of IO.
IO is working on some study that as we have said many times before IO is looking at what I would call development and production solutions for our customers across a broad range of activity.
So it is just not subsea but also looking at how it can resolve in some areas gas compression issues for our customers so were looking at a blend our studies which are ongoing at the moment.
So were very satisfied with the progress that IO has made today.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Brian Konigsberg with Vertical Research Partners.
Your line is open.
Can you expand a little bit more on your JV with L&amp;T? Obviously you got the award national award in Q4 if their market has been described previously just very aggressive from a competitive standpoint.
Just kind of you talk about do these margin -- does the margin profile fit the traditional margins you see in those markets? And what can you do to protect yourself to the extent there is their collection which is just quite aggressive on pricing maybe terms? Yes Brain if you look at the India market particularly the ONGC is that is a market which is forecasted to grow over the next few years.
And as we looked at India and we wanted to look at more from a long-term strategic point of view McDermott had been in India for several years previously but this is obviously in the emerging market which includes both shallow and deepwater.
And as we looked at this we were respecting the fact of that is a move for local content in India but we also know that local content in India also provides some benefits in terms of cost.
So very early on before we actually submitted our bid we started some dialogue with Larsen &amp; Toubro to set up this joint venture should I say agreement between us which we also announced today and that was very strategic as part of winning the Vashishta award.
We also looked at our execution to ensure that a large piece of the work was executed in India taking advantage of L&amp;Ts facilities and also taken advantage of what is lower cost execution.
So were very happy with this.
And also positions a Company extremely well as we look at further bids which we expect will come through from -- as bids will come from ONGC through 2016.
Got it thanks.
And then just secondly can you just touch a little bit more on the restructuring.
So you are not spending a whole lot in getting quite a bit of savings riding well above 100% return.
Can you just give me first of all more detail on exactly the plans you are intending to implement and just why the savings are actually so strong? Sure Brain.
This is Stuart.
As our management team looks at our overall cost structure towards at the end of the fourth quarter we still felt that we could make some more efficiency-based savings predominantly driven by headcount but also on some operational initiatives.
So we made plans in very late end of Q4 and we are now starting to execute those.
Were also seeing that as you have noted that were not incurring a significant amount of cost to generate return and were also not in any way diminishing the competency capability or capacity of the Company.
So this is a purely efficiency led drive that well try and wrap-up as much as we can in the first quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Andrew Kaplowitz with Citigroup.
Your line is open.
Hi this is Alan Fleming this afternoon how are you? Hi Alan how are you doing? Doing well David I guess I'll start off with a question on backlog and revenues.
So you have about 2.4 billion in backlog it is set to roll-off in 16.
I think that's mostly flattish first what you had last quarter.
So maybe you could just talk about your confidence in getting to that 2.9 billion? It looks like maybe you even you took off the bottom-end of that range if you had at your Analyst Day.
So are you going to -- do you think you can get there with just scope changes and maybe some book and burn work? Or do you need one or two more decent sized bookings in the first-half of the year to get there? So if I look at it obviously we look at it historically we are an organization that generates a certain percentage of revenue from change orders has been through our activities.
And over that previous year and thats the range between 7% and 14% of our existing revenues.
We also have book and burn work which traditionally run in places like Gulf of Mexico and in Asia.
The other area is obviously new awards.
And as you look at our pipeline revenue you see a slight change from that was in Q3 so thats also reflective.
But even in this current environment our bidding activity again particularly in the Middle East remains robust.
And we would expect those projects to be awarded by the customers through this year.
So as we think about our current 2.4 billion of revenue in the current backlog and as we look at it and compared it to last year I think we see that there is sufficient opportunities there to meet the guidance that we have given today.
Okay thanks David I appreciate that.
And then maybe Stuart a question for you on utilization I think in your prepared remarks you mentioned that it remains kind of a focus for you guys.
Are there any changes to the expectation you laid out in November in terms of how we should think about asset utilization in 2016? I think you had talked about under-absorption in fab being higher as you move through the year.
Is that still the right way to think about it? And is there anything you guys can do to support vessel utilization levels in 2016 short of just winning new work? Yes Alan so if you look at the utilization outlook for 2016 generally it is in line with the discussion that we had around our Investor Day.
Its at a higher level materially higher level than 2015 hence the focus within the Company.
We are looking at specific strategies as David mentioned earlier.
We are looking at fabrication only strategies to absorb the fixed cost structure of our facilities.
And were also looking at various opportunities either on the spot market or supporting existing contracts that we have with the vessel fleet that we have.
So we are continually looking at new ways and different ways of generating additional marine utilization as we move through 2016.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from a line of Matt Tucker with KeyBanc Capital Markets.
Your line is open.
I believe at your Investor Day oil was trading around $40 per barrel.
It's obviously taking other your leg down since then.
Based on your bids outstanding your target list or guidance doesnt seem like a lot has changed.
But could you comment on any kind of high level changes you are seeing in customer and/or competitor behavior just since your Analyst Day in reaction to this next leg lower-end prices? Hi Matt it's David Dickson here.
I would say since our Investor Day which was only some two months ago we haven't seen any what I would say our material changes.
Obviously we have had some success since then with the awards in India.
And obviously we announced the award of the pipeline in Australia the Greater Western Flank 2 project.
So were starting to see projects come.
Clearly the macro environment is going to be with us for some time.
And I am not going to go into dialogue about how long that is likely to last.
But as I said that if you look at our pipeline of bids you see there a split of something like 70% is in our let's call it our traditional and conventional offshore business and that looks like to continue on this path whilst we see some of the deepwater projects obviously being more challenged in this cost environment.
So a big focus again is on areas such as Middle East such as Mexico and some parts of Asia.
So as I said earlier in my prepared remarks I feel that as an organization weve extremely well-positioned and with a new cost structure even more competitive that this is hopefully are in a reasonable position as we bid work through 2016.
Thanks David thats very helpful.
And then apologies if I missed this but the execution schedule for Greater Western Frank I guess when does execution start to ramp-up there? This is Stuart.
The Greater Western Flank project will begin -- we will be doing engineering and some procurement this year and the main installation happens in 2017.
Great thanks.
And then just last one just one up on the guidance.
I just want to be clear that I kind of understand the moving pieces.
It sounds like you were including about 5 million in restructuring in the initial guidance thats now close to 10 million and you have pulled that out of the adjusted guidance.
And then there is 20 million improvement expected as a result of the most recent restructuring decision is that accurate? This is Stuart.
That is an accurate description yes.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And I am showing no further questions at this time.
I would now like to turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.
Thank you very much.
And thanks again for participating today.
Operator this concludes our call.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in todays conference.
This does conclude the program and you may now disconnect.
Everyone have a great day.