Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the MetLife First Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions]   As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to read the following statement on behalf of MetLife.
Except with respect to historical information statements made in this conference call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements relating to trends in the company's operations and financial results and the business and the products of the company and its subsidiaries.
MetLife's actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including those described from time to time in MetLife's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
MetLife specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I would like to turn the call over to John McCallion Head of Investor Relations.
Thank you and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MetLife's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
We will be discussing certain financial measures not based on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles so-called non-GAAP measures.
We have reconciled these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures in our earnings press release and in our quarterly financial supplements both of which are available at metlife.com.
A reconciliation of forward-looking financial information to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is not accessible because MetLife believes it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of net investment and net derivative gains and losses which can fluctuate from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
Joining me this morning on the call are Rob Henrikson Chairman of the Board; Steve Kandarian President and Chief Executive Officer; Bill Toppeta President of International Business; and Bill Wheeler Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will take your questions.
Also here with us today to participate in the discussion are other members of management including Bill Mullaney President of U.S.
Business; Bill Moore President of Auto &amp; Home; and Donna DeMaio President of MetLife Bank.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Rob.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
As you will hear in a moment MetLife delivered very strong results in the first quarter as we remain committed to the fundamentals of the business.
As you know the Board of Directors has elected Steve Kandarian as President and Chief Executive Officer effective May 1 this week.
Over the coming months Steve and I will continue to work very closely together ensuring a smooth transition of responsibilities with Steve dedicating his time to running the business.
I have great confidence in his ability to lead MetLife into a new era of global growth and outstanding performance.
I will remain Chairman of the Board through the end of the year and will continue to focus on various functions within the organization.
Since the beginning of the year I have visited our Japan operations in February China in March and the Middle East offices in April hearing from the local management teams about their businesses.
It is clear the leadership teams and employees are extremely talented and committed to a successful integration of Alico.
I will continue to visit our worldwide locations gathering input and feedback on the integration process.
We are very pleased with the process we've made and the direction we are heading as the leading global life insurance company.
This morning Bill Toppeta will provide an update on the impacts to MetLife of the recent tragic events in Japan.
However let me just say we are humbled by the humanitarian actions of our own associates in the region and inspired to see the MetLife family come together in Japan and around the world to support each other.
It is a true demonstration of one MetLife.
Now Steve will take you through the highlights of the first quarter.
Good morning everyone.
As I begin my new role as MetLife's President and CEO I am honored to have the opportunity to lead this great company.
I have the good fortune of succeeding Rob Henrikson who has been a great leader and has created a solid growth platform on which we will continue to build.
We are operating from a position of strength and have many opportunities to extend our lead in the marketplace.
Thank you Rob.
Now let's get started on our results.
The first quarter of 2011 was a very good quarter for MetLife.
Our businesses are performing well as we continue our commitment to disciplined growth and expense management.
We had record top line performance with premiums fees and other revenues increasing to $11 billion up 27% over the prior year and 15% sequentially.
Operating earnings grew to $1.4 billion up 64% over the prior year and 17% sequentially.
And our book value per share increased 10% over the prior year primarily due to strong operating earnings in investment results.
In addition our investment portfolio provided solid results for the quarter.
As we disclosed on Monday the board of directors has appointed Steve Goulart as our new Chief Investment Officer.
I'm confident that under his leadership the investment department will continue to provide value for our shareholders through solid returns and security for our policyholders through a strong balance sheet.
While Bill Wheeler will provide you the details of our results I'd like to share some highlights.
In U.S.
Business premiums fees and other revenues were $7 billion down from the prior year and the prior quarter primarily due to lower pension closeout sales and the impact of continued high unemployment as well as a challenging pricing environment for the group insurance businesses.
Operating earnings were up 15% over the prior year period.
While the lack of growth in the U.S.
marketplace is frustrating I am very pleased with our margins which are a direct result of our disciplined pricing and our focus on risk management.
Within our Insurance Products segment while Group Life operating earnings were essentially flat year-over-year underwriting results were strong.
In Non-Medical Health operating earnings increased over 50% from both the prior year and the prior quarter mainly due to improving underwriting results in dental and group disability.
While incidence remains elevated recoveries continue to improve in group disability.
In Retirement products robust separate account fee growth driven by higher net flows and favorable market performance resulted in a 13% increase in premiums fees and other revenues over the prior year.
Total annuity sales were $6.1 billion with record-setting variable annuity sales of $5.7 billion.
Operating earnings were $212 million up 5% year-over-year.
On Monday we launched the new GMIB Max variable annuity rider.
We believe this offering is a win-win for consumers and MetLife.
These solutions provide our customers better protection against extreme market swings while providing the opportunity for growth leading to more guaranteed income over time.
From MetLife's perspective there is a significant reduction in the hedging costs of this new rider and we expect more consistent returns over the long run.
Turning to International.
First quarter premiums fees and other revenues were $3.8 billion up from $1.1 billion largely due to the acquisition of Alico.
Overall sales were up 27% based on the comparison of combined first quarter 2010 MetLife and Alico results as we witnessed continued recovery in key markets and channels.
First quarter sales in Japan were up 45% with all product lines and channels showing year-over-year growth including significant increases in the bancassurance and direct marketing channels.
Japan had operating earnings of $290 million in line with plan.
Bill Toppeta will provide a more detailed update on the tragic events in Japan.
I want to express my condolences to the people of Japan and my gratitude to my colleagues on the ground who are working through this difficult situation.
Sales in other international regions were up 21%.
This increase was primarily due to solid performance in the Latin America and Asia Pacific regions.
Growth in Latin America was driven by institutional business in Mexico the Group Life and dental business in Brazil and in accident and health insurance in both Chile and Argentina.
Growth in Asia Pacific was driven by life insurance sales to the agency channel in Korea.
Operating earnings were $277 million and in line with plan due to growth favorable underwriting and lower expenses.
Overall U.S.
business performed well particularly in light of the economic conditions in the United States.
We are committed to remaining disciplined in our growth and maintaining strong margins and returns.
As to International business results were solid and in line with expectations.
And we are making good progress on the integration of Alico.
I'm especially pleased to see the strong recovery in Alico-related sales in precedency [ph] particularly in Japan.
As most of you know we are working hard on the integration of Alico into MetLife.
However let me assure you that we remain focused on all of our operations.
Backed by a solid financial position strong brand and momentum in the marketplace we have the opportunity to create an even stronger more profitable and more valuable MetLife.
With that let me turn it over to Bill Toppeta to provide an update on recent events in Japan.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
Before I begin I would also express our sorrow about the recent tragic events in Japan and our admiration for the strength and resilience of the Japanese people in general and of our Japan colleagues in particular.
Overall the situation in Japan is challenging but appears to be improving and it remains fluid.
Our operations have responded well to the challenges and have begun to return to normal operations.
We've taken many steps to aid and relief efforts.
Our Japan business provided direct support to impacted employees agents and their families.
We have made various charitable contributions and have been helping our customers in the regions hit by the earthquake and tsunami.
I'm happy to report that none of our employees or career agents has been killed or seriously injured.
Sadly however 2 of our independent agents are missing and presumed dead.
Under the circumstances we decided that certain actions were appropriate.
For the March 11 earthquake and subsequent tsunami we have waived the earthquake and tsunami exclusions in our accidental death riders.
In the affected regions we have extended the grace period for premium payments and have reduced interest rates for new policy loans while at the same time expediting the process for claims surrenders and policy loans.
From the onset of this crisis we have been operating our business continuity program with over 300 of our associates temporarily reassigned from Tokyo to our facilities in Kobe Osaka and Nagasaki.
We currently expect to keep the business continuity program operating through September and thus through the peak power demand months of the summer.
With respect to the financial implications of the disaster as you know we report our MetLife Alico operations on a one-month lag basis.
And thus since the loss events occurred in March we won't begin to reflect the financial impact until the second quarter.
I would however like to give you our current best estimate of what that impact will be.
Our projections are based on the assumption that the situation in Japan including the nuclear issue gets no worse than it currently is and gradually improves.
On that basis we estimate that our policyholders represent about 4% of the population in the affected regions.
We further estimate that the impact to the company's second quarter 2011 earnings from extraordinary claims and additional expenses due to the March 11 earthquake will be between $45 million and $65 million after taxes.
Most of the claims are on life insurance policies with a portion arising on accidental death and hospital coverage riders and policies as well while the largest expense drivers relate to our business continuity program.
From a balance sheet perspective our asset portfolio is holding up well.
The only noteworthy investment we are monitoring is our bond holdings in Tokyo Electric Power Company otherwise known as TEPCO where our total exposure is presently approximately $550 million of book value.
Finally our team continues to work diligently to keep our integration efforts on track.
Of course we've had to divert and reallocate some resources but thanks to the exceptional efforts of many people particularly our colleagues in Japan we're confident that we can still meet our overall integration targets.
Although our subsidiarization project may take longer than we previously expected.
So I hope this gives you a brief summary of the situation.
And with that let me turn the call over to Bill Wheeler.
Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
MetLife reported $1.33 of operating earnings per share for the first quarter.
As noted in the press release our first quarter results reflect 3 months of Alico operations from December 1 2010 through February 28 2011.
This morning I'll walk through our financial results and point out some highlights as well as some unusual items which occurred during the first quarter.
Let's begin with premiums fees and other revenues.
Total premiums fees and other revenues which were $11 billion in the first quarter were up 27% from the first quarter of last year and up 15% over the fourth quarter of 2010.
This growth is due to having a full quarter's results from Alico which we acquired in November of last year.
To give you a better sense of International's overall growth for the quarter our International revenues were $3.8 billion.
This is approximately 10% higher than the first quarter of 2010 on a combined basis as if we had owned Alico in both periods.
In Japan the year-over-year pro forma increase in revenues was approximately 14%.
This was driven by a 45% increase in sales which increased in all product and distribution channels with the strongest gains coming from the bank and direct marketing channels.
Higher persistency and a favorable exchange rate also contributed to the growth.
In the other international regions the year-over-year pro forma increase in revenues was approximately 7%.
Strong revenue growth in Latin America and Korea as well as favorable exchange rates were the main drivers of this growth.
Turning to the U.S.
business premiums fees and other revenues of $7 billion were down 5% as compared to the prior year quarter.
This includes a 2% decrease in insurance products revenue as growth in dental was offset by lower revenue in Group Life and disability.
Individual Life revenue was essentially flat.
This performance is consistent with our planned forecast.
Overall group insurance revenue continues to be impacted by high unemployment and our unwillingness to chase business at below desired margins or returns.
Also revenue in Retirement products increased by 13% from higher separate account fees due to positive net flows and favorable separate account investment returns.
And revenue in Corporate Benefit Funding was down significantly from the prior year quarter driven by lower pension closeout sales which fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter and a decline in structured settlement premiums which did have a very strong first quarter in 2010.
Auto &amp; Home's revenues were up 4% due to the growth across the business and MetLife Bank's revenues were down 19% reflecting lower mortgage refinancing activity in the quarter.
Turning to our operating margins.
Let's start with our underwriting results.
In U.S.
business overall results were generally positive in the quarter with the exception of Individual Life.
The Group Life mortality ratio for the quarter was 88.2% as compared to 89.5% in the prior year quarter and at the low end of our 2011 guidance range of 88% to 93%.
Our Individual Life mortality ratio for the quarter was 92.5%.
This is higher than planned and unfavorable compared to the prior year quarter.
This quarter's results were negatively impacted by higher claims incidents in large face amount policies.
The Non-Medical Health total benefits ratio for the quarter was 87.7% which was down from the prior year quarter of 91.2% and well within our 2011 guidance of 86% to 90%.
In dental our underwriting results continue to improve demonstrating the better claims activity combined with our pricing strategy is working quite well.
Disability results also continued to improve as our disability loss ratio was significantly better than the prior year quarter and better than planned.
We continue to see meaningful improvement in claims recovery experience in the quarter.
While our incidence rates have remained elevated they appear to have stabilized.
Turning to our Auto &amp; Home business.
The combined ratio including catastrophes was 98.5% for the quarter which was up over the prior year's quarter's results of 94.1% due to poor weather most of which did not show up in the catastrophe line.
The combined ratio excluding catastrophes was 92.3% in the first quarter versus 88.8% in the prior year period.
A non-catastrophe prior accident year reserve release of $10 million after tax was taken in the current quarter compared to a $5 million after-tax release in the prior year period.
Moving to investment spreads.
The yield on our general account declined from 5% in the fourth quarter to 4.69% this quarter.
The decline is due to the acquisition of Alico whose general account has a much lower yield.
Without Alico yields would have moved up sequentially.
We saw continued strong investment spreads this quarter driven by both strong variable investment income results and solid core spreads.
Pretax variable investment income for the quarter was $434 million which is $109 million above the top of our 2011 plan range of $225 million to $325 million per quarter.
Variable investment income after tax and deferred acquisition costs was $279 million which is $61 million or $0.06 per share above the top of our 2011 quarterly plan range.
Moving to expenses.
Our operating expense ratio for the quarter was 23.1% and 20.6% when excluding the impact of MetLife Bank and pension and post-retirement benefits.
Both ratios are below our 2011 guidance range of 23.5% to 24.1% and 21.2% to 21.7% respectively.
This is a very good result.
Turning to our bottom line results.
We earned $1.4 billion in operating earnings or $1.33 per share in the quarter.
As we have noted in an 8-K filed yesterday in conjunction with our press release we have changed the definition of operating revenues to exclude variable annuity GMIB fees and we've changed the definition of total operating expenses to exclude benefits and hedging costs related to GMIBs.
This change was made to better align the directional movement of the markets with the operating earnings in our quarterly results and is consistent with market practice.
This change in our accounting definition impacts our operating earnings and Retirement products.
For the quarter operating earnings and Retirement products would have been $34 billion lower absent this change due to the 5% increase in the S&amp;P 500 this quarter.
However this accounting change does not trigger a revision to our earnings guidance for this business because our plan assumes only 5% growth for the S&amp;P 500 for the entire year.
With regard to investment gains and losses in the first quarter we had after-tax net investment portfolio losses of $29 million which includes impairments of $59 million after-tax.
With regard to derivatives we had after-tax losses of $254 million driven primarily by higher interest rates and the weakening of the U.S.
dollar against current -- certain key currencies.
Now turning to our investment portfolio.
Gross unrealized gains in fixed maturity and equity securities were $13.5 billion down from $14 billion last quarter.
Gross unrealized losses of $6.8 billion were essentially unchanged from the last quarter.
Overall the fixed maturity and equity securities portfolio was in a net unrealized gain position of $6.7 billion down from $7.2 billion last quarter.
Please keep in mind that interest rate driven unrealized gains and losses in our assets are generally offset by changes in the economic value of our liabilities.
Next I'd like to briefly discuss our commercial mortgages.
First the loan-to-value ratio of our portfolio improved again this quarter to 65% from 66% as valuations continue to improve in the markets where we invest.
Additionally our delinquency rate was actually 0 which is another key measure that demonstrates the overall strength of the commercial loan portfolio.
Also our commercial mortgage valuation allowance is $532 million as of March 31 down from $562 million at year end.
Finally I'd like to provide you with an update of our exposure to peripheral Europe sovereign debt.
You may recall at Investor Day we reported that Alico had a statutory book value of $2.2 billion exposure to this region and that portfolio had a market value of $1.9 billion.
We also indicated that we would opportunistically manage down these holdings.
At quarter end our statutory book value for the region was $1.7 billion and we have now moved to have subsequently reduced our position to $1.2 billion.
In this quarter we sold approximately $400 million resulting in a GAAP after-tax loss of $10 million and we have impaired the remainder of the assets that we intended to sell resulting in a GAAP after-tax loss of $20 million.
Overall we have significantly reduced our exposure to peripheral Europe at modest cost since Investor Day.
Our cash and liquid assets at the holding company at quarter end were approximately $2.5 billion.
Since quarter end Metropolitan Life Insurance Company has repaid an intercompany surplus note and also paid a small dividend to the holding company.
Cash and liquid assets at MetLife Inc.
now stand at approximately $3.5 billion.
Our preliminary statutory operating earnings for our domestic insurance companies for the first quarter of 2011 were approximately $600 million and our preliminary statutory net income was approximately $550 million.
In addition our international capital position is tracking in line with the analysis we provided at Investor Day.
Overall our capital position remains quite strong.
In summary MetLife had a very good first quarter.
Our investment performance continued to improve.
Our operating margins remained strong driven by disciplined underwriting and expense management and our earnings continued to grow.
Also the strong performance of our International business boosted by a full quarter of Alico's operating earnings is quite encouraging.
Although we are still in the early days the benefits of this transaction are becoming a very apparent catalyst to drive MetLife's future growth.
And with that I'll turn it back to the operator for your questions.
[Operator Instructions]   Your first question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> I have 2 questions.
The first one is on capital management for Bill Wheeler.
I think I know the answer to the -- when will you start redeploying capital which I'm guessing is the end of the year.
But I wanted to drill down a little bit in terms of the why in terms of the timing.
In some of the conversations I've had with investors have sort of suggested that maybe the way that we're thinking about excess capital in terms of risk-based capital might if we looked at it under sort of bank regulatory capital requirements and some of the new Basel rules your excess capital might be a little bit lower than what RBC would imply.
And also there's a risk of being named systemically important.
So I just was hoping you could provide some color in terms of you're thinking about potential excess capital away from RBC and maybe under some of these other metrics.
Sure Suneet so I think you're right.
I mean we've talked about -- in a lot of different public forums over the past period of time really including Investor Day last December we've talked about capital management as sort of being an end of 2011 exercise.
And obviously we pay an annual dividend and we would declare that normally at the October board meeting.
And you could say "Gee why this timing?" I feel that there's a couple of reasons for that.
One is we wanted to make sure that Alico has gone as expected and I would say so far it's gone very well.
Secondly we have to make sure we're in good sync with the rating agencies.
And I think they have had a number of concerns over the past couple of years and I think we've demonstrated that those concerns are unwarranted but we felt that we would have to get into our 2011 year before some of those concerns went away.
And those are really I think some of the big drivers.
It is true that we are a bank holding company and so we have to produce bank holding company capital ratios.
Just to give you a sense of this our Tier 1 bank holding company capital ratio is in excess of 8%.
I think to be a well-capitalized bank you need Tier 1 capital of approximately 6%.
So obviously there's a substantial capital cushion there as well.
So I guess I don't -- I'm not sure that's really a gating factor in terms of managing capital going forward.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
But in terms of some of the newer Basel rules do you have those updated? We don't and it's not -- I don't think it's -- first of all I think the Basel III capital ratios are unclear exactly what impact if any they will have on us.
I believe we will probably not need to comply with Basel III in the way you might think.
And obviously the implementation of Basel III is more than half a decade off.
So I don't think that's driving a difference between capital management mid-year versus end of the year.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
And then on the SIFI any comments there? We really don't.
We don't know anything more than I think the general public in terms of where the FSOC will come out on SIFIs for the insurance industry.
Obviously we don't believe the life insurance industry should be considered systemically important and we think there's a lot of good reasons why.
But time will tell about where that decision gets made.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And then my final question is just on your operating expense ratio.
As you mentioned it came in below plan.
Away from what's going on in Japan in terms of the business continuity expenses is there any thought to seeing a higher level of expenses in the balance of the year investment in advertising or branding or anything like that? Or should we think that maybe you could come in below plan for the full year? There are some advertising initiatives scheduled in Japan and there's a rebranding initiative.
In fact in much of the rest of the world we had rebranding initiatives that have already occurred in the first quarter.
Those special advertising or rebranding initiatives are really -- are reported as part of our integration cost which means they're not included in operating income.
They're below the line.
And so that's what's going on with that kind of advertising.
With regard to our overall expense ratio I fully expect we're going to have a good year and whether we'll be actually below our planned guidance or just at sort of the bottom end of it I can't say yet.
It's probably too early but obviously we're off to a very good start.
Our next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JP Morgan.
I had a question on Alico.
I don't think -- I think you changed your disclosure in the supplement.
But if you could maybe give some numbers around what the Alico earnings were or just talk about them.
I think last quarter the number was $114 million and that was a little disappointing even though it was just one month.
Then also related to that if you could give some comments on what you've seen in terms of business activity at Alico in Japan in like the second half of March maybe and into April whether you've seen some disruption related to the earthquake? And the final question just on variable investment income it seems like private equity assets would have done very pretty well maybe even hedged funds but if you could talk about anything that would have changed.
It seems like the results are poised to be relatively strong in the second quarter also as it relates to variable investment income.
It's Bill Toppeta.
I guess I'll start.
In terms of Alico I would say it is performing at the earnings plan.
And we've melded in the operations so we're not going to be reporting them separately.
But its performance is quite strong and I think if you look at the Alico plan that we had we're just right on the button in terms of the earnings and that's also true on the MetLife side as well.
So we gave you the planned ranges back on Investor Day.
I'd say we're on track for those planned ranges.
In terms of the situation in Japan sure we've seen a slowdown in activity certainly during March.
Remember the second quarter there will be March April and May.
The event took place on March 11 so naturally there was a suspension of direct marketing sales in Japan.
There was also an impact obviously in the Tokyo area which accounts for about 30% to 40% of the sales.
So we have a pipeline effect here which is that there's business in the pipeline and so it's a little early to make any judgments about what the impact ultimately is going to be.
But the 3 months that we're focused on now obviously will be March April and May.
I'd say the situation is pretty fluid and I'd rather not speculate on it beyond that.
Have you seen a stabilization or some improvement as the month has -- as we've gotten further away from it? Well I think what we've seen is we've seen people coming back to activity.
The question is what will be the result of that activity.
So what we're seeing in terms of numbers is from pipeline effect I believe and so it's very hard to sort out what's going to happen going forward.
I think you just have to wait for the result.
The next question comes from the line of Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
Hold on.
I think your last question was on variable income too.
This is Steve Goulart by the way.
And the first thing I'd say is all components of variable income performed very well in the last quarter.
You called out private equity funds and again those performed very well.
And remember there's also a lag so what you saw in the first quarter really reflected the equity market performance in the fourth quarter so that was very strong.
And we -- to our outlook obviously the first quarter equity markets continued to be very strong as well probably not quite as strong as the fourth quarter but we would anticipate that strong performance to continue.
Nigel Dally [Morgan Stanley].
A question on banking on the Banking segment clearly a more difficult quarter.
I know you reduced your expectations from where you were at Investor Day.
But based on the results this quarter it seems like maybe even your lowered expectations may be tough to hit.
So perhaps some color on the outlook for that division.
Also in the hopefully remote possibility that having a bank means that you're going to be treated different from your peers with regards to required capital is disposing the bank a possibility? This is Donna DeMaio.
I'll take the first part of your question.
The first quarter results for the bank are largely due to the overall decline in refinancing activity across the country.
The mortgage market which approached almost $2 trillion last year is hovering around $1 trillion $1.1 trillion depending on how you measure it for this year largely due to refis and we are no exception to that.
So our refi balance -- our refis were down approximately 2/3 from the highs in 2010.
Also the first quarter is historically the lowest volume quarter due to seasonality and we will expect that to pick up as the year continues.
Nigel with the second part of your question in terms of the regulation of the insurance industry potentially by the Fed and because our -- mainly really for technical reasons we're actually a bank holding company as opposed to a thrift holding company which many of our peers are.
I don’t -- it's not clear to me how that will all play out.
Obviously the substance of the issue is is that we should be treated the same as the rest of the industry.
We are mainly an insurance company and we do have a nationally chartered bank but we're an insurance company.
And so the substance of the issue should be that the capital requirements and stuff should be the same as our peers and it's a little early I think to speculate about how that will play out and how we'll negotiate with the Fed and others regarding those issues.
Okay.
Very helpful.
We have a question from the line of Colin Devine with Citi.
I have a couple of questions.
First with respect to the Auto &amp; Home business the volatility you've seen in cats and maybe over the last 4 5 quarters has that given you any cause to rethink how you're using reinsurance to manage the volatility on that? Second Bill you mentioned I thought it was sort of a 5% assumed market increase in your GMIB pricing.
Can you reconcile that for me with the guarantees on the product which range from 5% up to 7% in fact I think 7.5% and that's net of fees? And then third it's my understanding that despite obviously an exceptional quarter in terms of sales gains for your VAs is ratcheting up the step-up guarantee on it now this month from 5% to 6%.
Why on the back of such a strong quarter for sales does the company feel the need to ratchet up the future wars once again? Colin this is Bill Moore.
Just overall our reinsurance position is really to utilize insurance to cover solvency-type events and that's what we've built our models around.
Our overall philosophy around how we handle a reinsurance cost or the catastrophes associated with that is through pricing.
Our homeowner pricing projections for 2011 are in the 7% to 9% range about 1/2 of that is for non-cat activity about 4 points and about 4 points for cat activity.
We are in the process now of evaluating our long-term cat projections and will be making appropriate pricing changes accordingly.
And Colin with regard to the riders and plan assumptions we historically have always as part of our planned -- earnings planned projection process assumed 5% growth in the S&amp;P 500.
And I think we've acknowledged that that's conservative.
That isn't quite the same as how we model out the pricing of course in our variable annuity products where we assume over time obviously over the life of those products we assume something more like an 8% or 9% return on the S&amp;P 500 which of course is consistent with historical performance.
And I think you know -- I'm sure you know this that the roll-up rate in the rider isn't necessarily sort of the investment performance guarantee that we're -- or is only one factor in the guarantee that we're making.
Obviously as a GMIB company equally or more important is the assumptions we make regarding interest rates and the annuitization rate when people can exercise that rider and that obviously is a big factor into -- and annuitization rate is pretty low by the way.
So that's a big factor in the underlying guarantee.
So the performance of the equity markets is only a piece of it.
Bill if you can comment on the step-up but also just to be fair I think that with your comment on annuitization factor it may be low but your product does offer a 5% annual withdrawal benefit your GMIB does a dollar-for-dollar withdrawal.
So I'm not sure it's frankly it's that conservative.
Well we probably reached how much we can discuss this in a public forum but obviously the withdrawal features in those products are modestly -- though they exist they are modestly utilized and that's obviously -- and a certain level of utilization is factored into pricing of the overall product as well.
Maybe we can just go to why the guarantee is going to 6% from 5%? Sure Colin.
It's Bill Mullaney.
Let me put VA sales in perspective for the quarter and why we decided to make the announcement of a new product in March.
As you said VA sales were strong in the quarter $5.7 billion which was a 40% increase year-over-year.
We think that there's going to be pretty strong industry growth this quarter.
It's early because we don't have the full numbers.
But we expect the industry growth for VAs for the quarter to be I would say somewhere between 20% and 30% so we will pick up some market share.
I will tell you that the sales that we made in the quarter because of the level of interest rates and the product changes that we introduced in February those returns that we expect to get on the sales for the quarter are quite strong.
We want to be an active player in this market we've talked about the fact that we want to continue to be a top 3 player and we think the VA market is going to grow.
So last year we really took some time and began thinking about how we could play in this marketplace and have a product that continued to deliver good returns for us but had a lower risk profile and provided good value for consumers.
And so as you know in March we announced our GMIB Max product.
We began selling that product this week and we really view this product as a significant leap forward in terms of how VAs are going to be constructed in the future.
It builds off the GMIB platform that we have and many of the mechanics that are in the new product are the same.
But it's different in that there's a limited number of fund choices.
There's 4 protected growth funds plus a government bond fund and the way that these funds are built is that they’re designd to manage equity market volatility and interest rate exposure inside the funds.
And the goal is really to mitigate some of the extreme outcomes that you can see when there's market volatility and manage some of the risks to deliver more consistent returns.
And we think this provides a lot of benefits for consumers who want more stable account values and long-term performance but they also provide some benefit for us because equity market risk and interest rate risk are mitigated because the hedging is done inside the funds as opposed to outside.
Now you did mention the 6% rollup and we felt the 6% rollup is important in order to get advisors and clients interested in this particular product because we expect it to be a significant part of our sales in the future.
It in no way indicates that we're getting into any kind of an arms race as it relates to VAs.
This new product at a 6% rollup provides strong returns with a lower risk profile and provides great value for consumers.
So we feel pretty good about this product and it's something that we're going to watch very closely over the coming months.
As I mentioned we just began selling this product earlier this week.
The next question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein with Macquarie Securities.
[Technical Difficulty] So just to go back to that point the reason that the volatility in the new VA product is lower is because the fund choices are more conservative and the hedging is done within the fund as opposed to at the higher level.
Is that the right way to think about that? That's right.
There's a greater level of hedging done inside the funds number one.
And then secondly there's a limited number of funds and so -- that people can invest in.
So when there's equity market volatility unlike some of these asset transfer features that are in other kinds of products the professional management of these funds along with the hedging is designed to really limit extreme market volatility having a significant impact on returns.
Okay.
And how does the margin expectation or I should say the return expectation on the new product compare to the legacy product? The return that we expect to get on the new GMIB Max is a slightly better return than we expect to get on the current product.
Okay.
And then just changing gears a little bit you've talked a lot about sales in Japan obviously very strong quarter not affected by the earthquake.
Can you just talk about Alico trends outside of Japan in terms of sales levels? Sure.
It's Bill Toppeta.
I would say in most of the regions around the world we're strong on sales and the only exception that I would make to that is Europe.
I would say Europe sales have been a bit weak compared to plan.
Some of that is connected -- I think most of that it's fair to say is connected to sales of credit life insurance in Europe connected to less lending in the region.
So I think as the lending comes back we would expect the credit life sales to come back but that's the only soft point.
I think everybody else is extremely strong and of course overall we're way up on sales.
Okay.
And then final question real quick do you see the spreads in Corporate Benefit Funding as sustainable from here out on a core basis obviously backing off the variable income outperformance? Yes if you normalize to the top end of variable investment income obviously part of the reason Corporate Benefit Funding did so well was the high performance of variable investment income.
But if you sort of normalize that outperformance yes I think those spreads are sustainable.
What we've also seen is our core spread has improved in variable investment income because we've -- I would say we're more fully invested and we're probably managing -- we've lengthened a little bit to I would say better match the liability duration.
So that's what's driving the margin improvement there and that is sustainable.
We have a question from the line of Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
First -- 3 questions.
First is Bill can you expand a little bit on this change in earnings definition about how you're I guess what excluding GMIB is it the change in the liability because I don't think those were marked.
Are you trying to just get rid of the disconnect between performance of the hedge asset and the lack of mark of the GMIB liability? That's my first question.
Second question is just a further elaboration on MetLife Bank.
I heard the answer that directionally 1Q is weak.
I didn't hear a response as to whether or not you still think you can get to a $200 million level for the full year so if you could provide more color on that.
And third can you give us an update on what's going on with how far out you're hedging your Alico Japanese earnings? I think you had -- last comment that I recall you making was 70% of 2011 was hedged at 86 yen/dollar.
Have you added to that program? And how far out are you going? Are you going out to 2012 or 2013? Okay.
See if I get them all.
With regard to the earnings definition of GMIB our changing operating earnings so we obviously hedge the GMIB rider and so the change in value of the derivatives was in the operating earnings and that was -- so as stock market goes up those derivatives those hedges actually are negative as you might guess because they're hedges and then that's offset somewhat by the reserve adjustments we would have to make regarding the GMIB rider.
But this is one of those moments where we make a good economic hedge but the accounting hedge is not perfect.
And so we were always explaining every time there was a big move in the stock market either negative or positive you'd see a meaningful change in the value of the derivatives.
And because of where we are and I would say the DAC amortization quarter we're now below the midpoint so what that means is our DAC amortization is very stable which is good.
That's what you want.
But it means it doesn't react meaningfully to changes in the market in any given quarter.
So you have a kind of a noisy mismatch between DAC amortization and the riders.
And so this quarter for example if we had not made this change we would have seen obviously a very positive event a nice rally in the stock market in the quarter but it would have actually cost us money in operating earnings because of how the hedge works.
Now obviously that's not I think directionally appropriate.
And also by the way it's not -- it makes us not comparable with all our peers who are in the same business who have all now moved all this hedging activity below the line.
So that's why we made this change.
It makes us more comparable and I think it also just helps make our operating earnings results for any given period make more sense.
So that's regarding the earnings definition with regard to the bank earnings projection.
On the earnings -- this is Donna DeMaio.
On the earnings projections for the bank we would expect our run rate more to be in the range of $30 million to $40 million a quarter really due to the softness in the housing market.
Again when the original plan was put out the overall mortgage market was projected to be around $1.5 trillion plus.
That was revised late last year to be more around $1 trillion to $1.2 trillion.
Our results are a direct result of the size of the market but as long as unemployment stays high and the market stays soft we will be impacted.
Also coupled with interest rates hovering around 5% the refis have substantially gone down which will also impact our business.
So our run rate will be more in the range of $30 million to $40 million a quarter.
So just to add onto that a little bit Tom.
When we gave our Investor Day guidance last December we talked about the bank earning something slightly over $200 million.
Of course what happened immediately after Investor Day is interest rates shot up.
That changed the overall projection regarding mortgage originations in 2011 and so we revised the bank's plan pretty meaningfully even before the year ended and I think we talked a little bit about that though we didn't quantify the new target.
So we feel the bank is performing pretty much in accordance with our new plan projections.
And finally your question regarding yen hedging hedging of earnings on the yen.
We have not made any additional -- or nothing of substance in additional yen hedging of earnings with regard to Alico Japan.
I would say in general we don't intend to hedge exchange rates to protect ourselves with earnings volatility.
I'm not sure in general that's money well spent.
We -- because we're not -- unlike some others for instance the yen which is our largest foreign currency exposure is only 20% and it's rare that all the currencies move in the same direction in any given quarter.
So there will always be -- some will be up and some will be down.
And I think spending a lot of money trying to minimize volatility there is probably not prudent.
That said I think there are some -- occasionally opportunities where the market environment is such that we -- that it makes sense to put on a hedge and of course that's what we did this year when we had such a big tightening in the yen versus the dollar over the last 9 months or so.
And I'm not sure we will add to this yen hedge.
We might but I don't think there's any guarantee that we will.
We have a question from the line of Ed Spehar with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
A couple of questions.
First Bill on the issue of systemically important financial institutions considering that you were -- I guess how do you avoid being categorized as such considering that you're one of the 19 companies in the government stress test? And then I have a couple of follow-ups.
Well you're right.
We are one of the top 19 and so I think by definition that makes us a SIFI under the law.
But I don't necessarily believe all SIFIs are going to be treated the same.
And I think there's obviously a good basis for that in terms of how SIFIs are dealt with.
I don't think we're all -- I don't think there's anything that's in the law that says all the rules have to be the same.
And of course we don't know who else may be labeled as SIFIs or not with regard to our peers in the industry whether just because they’re large or because they own thrifts.
And I think that there is uncertainty about that and that will have to sort itself out over time.
Do you have any indication based on preliminary discussions that there is some carving out occurring even under the SIFI proposals? I think we heard the same rumors that everybody else does.
And so I think the rumor of the moment is that the insurance industry will -- may not be labeled as SIFIs.
But I think we're months away yet from any kind of ruling from the FSOC.
So I think there's -- so I think it's really -- it's too early to really to call this.
Okay.
And then the final question is on cash flow and statutory earnings.
What's the typical -- could you just remind us the typical pattern of the domestic subs in terms of the first quarter as a percent of the full year? And also if you look at the sources of cash to the holding company outside of the domestic subs what are the relevant numbers to talk about there at this point for the first quarter or maybe thinking about the full year? Sure.
So our statutory earnings from our domestic insurance companies for the full year would be roughly $2.5 billion.
And though the statutory accounting is interesting at times and so that number can jump around a little bit.
Last year for instance it was more like $3 billion.
The first quarter is generally a weak quarter with regard to statutory earnings and there's some reasons for this.
But the biggest reason has to do with how we deal with hedging or reinsuring A/XXX and XXX risk.
We don't do that.
To save money we don't necessarily true up our hedging of those what I would call real straining reserves.
We don't true up our hedging of that every quarter.
We do it periodically over the course of a year.
And so because -- that's one big reason why statutory earnings are generally lower in the first quarter and there are some others.
But so the way to think about this $600 million of operating income is it's almost exactly the same number that we had last year okay? So operating earnings in our domestic life insurance subs on a statutory basis is basically flat year-over-year.
So in my mind it's a good result and kind of consistent with our history.
With regard to cash flow outside our domestic subs we've talked about 2 things.
We've talked about that we do expect dividend payments from both our newly acquired Alico businesses as well as some of our key MetLife International businesses mainly Mexico.
And we think that sort of ongoing dividends normal dividends from those operations should well exceed $500 million a year somewhere between $500 million and $1 billion a year.
Given how fast we're growing in some of these countries -- and by the way our growth rate obviously as we've shown this quarter is quite fast.
There is also an opportunity that which we discussed on Investor Day to take some special dividends out of some of the Alico subsidiaries or branches because of the high level of capitalization of those subs and branches when we acquired the company.
They were carrying quite a bit of capital over and above which is needed to support the operations.
So we estimated that at roughly $1 billion some of which is in Japan and not readily accessible but we expect to pull out most of that excess dividend a lot of it this year and maybe the rest of it over the next year or 2.
And just one follow-up Bill on that $500 million to $1 billion of dividends from Alico and other international how would that compare to whatever the statutory earnings type number is? Like what type of a payout is that from those subs? I think roughly 50%.
And our last question comes from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
So a couple quick ones.
Just to be clear on the hedging cost and the change in the accounting the actual cost of buying the hedges though is still in your operating earnings correct? No not necessarily.
The cost is -- because the fees that we record from the GMIB riders which obviously pay for the hedges we pulled those out of operating earnings as well.
So that's all now below the line.
Okay got it.
Then just to think about equity market sensitivity obviously a substantial change in your business mix and the change in the VA hedging accounting.
Can you sort of update us on what you think your sensitivity is to a 1% move up or down in the S&amp;P? Yes a 1% move now is about $0.02 a share over the course of a year.
And that means we're not really that sensitive to equity movements obviously because of where we are in the back quarter with regard to amortization.
We're in such a stable place that it's just not going to fluctuate that much.
Okay okay.
Then just a quick question following up on Bill Mullaney's comment on the VA sales.
Just wondering if you can give us a sense for what "quite strong" means for the returns on the recently sold business Bill.
Sure John.
We've always talked about acceptable returns for us being north of 15%.
And so the product that we're putting in the market today meets that definition.
Okay.
And then finally just on group insurance sales can you give us some sense for what your sales looked like in the January 1 or first quarter sales? And how competitive an environment it is? And what that means for premium levels in 2011 for Group Life and Non-Medical? Sure.
Well I think you saw that our revenues were down in both the Group Life and Non-Medical Health Group Life in particular Non-Medical Health was roughly flat year-over-year.
That's pretty consistent with what we talked about on Investor Day for Group Life.
We said that Group Life would be down.
It's down a little more in the first quarter but we expect that to even out more towards the back half of the year so we’ll come in within the guidance we talked about on Investor Day.
Sales in general were weak particularly in the large end of the market.
There was less quoting activity for very large cases and for the cases that we did quote on what it would take for us to win that business particularly in life insurance would have been to write those cases at a level that was far below what we were comfortable with.
And we also lost a couple of large cases which I mentioned at Investor Day.
But we are seeing I think some improvement in the pricing environment in certain segments of our business.
Disability in particular I think you saw that we had strong disability results this quarter which was a function of improving incidents a return to more average historical levels for recoveries.
But also the fact that we've been taking pricing actions over the last 2 cycles that allow us to get a good return at these elevated incidence levels.
And we think that that's going to force the market to begin to bring their prices up to more in line with what the current performance of the businesses are.
And the last thing I'll just mention is -- you may have seen that we were awarded the TRICARE Dental business which is a pretty significant dental contract for us.
And that will be having an impact in our business in 2012.
Thanks very much.
Just a quick follow-up.
I mean so Bill so order of magnitude I mean -- can you sort of -- can you give us a sense for how much group insurance sales were down year-over-year? Yes I would say as a working number probably 25%.
With most of that I assume driven by the large end of the market? Yes.
We didn't really have a large case sale in 2011 which is rare for us.
We usually have 1 or 2 big case sales.
And we just didn't have any of those this year and that was really the difference.
Smaller end of the market flat to up or...
Yes smaller end of the market is performing within our expectation so we feel pretty good about that.
Thank you everyone.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be made available for replay after 10 a.
m.
today running through May 12 2011 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive playback service at any time by dialing 1 (320) 365-3844 and entering the access code 169214.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the MetLife Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to read the following statement on behalf of MetLife.
Except with respect to historical information statements made in this conference call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities laws including statements related to trends in the company's operations and financial results and the business and the products of the company and its subsidiaries.
MetLife's actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including those described from time to time in MetLife's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
MetLife specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I would like to turn the conference call over to John McCallion Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Thank you Ernie.
And good morning everyone.
Welcome to MetLife's Second Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
We will be discussing certain financial measures not based on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles so-called non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of this non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures may be found in our earnings press release and in our quarterly financial supplements both of which are available at MetLife.com.
A reconciliation of forward-looking financial information to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is not accessible because MetLife believes it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of net investment and net derivative gains and losses which can fluctuate from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
Joining me this morning on the call are Steve Kandarian President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bill Wheeler Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will take your questions.
Also here with us today to participate in the discussion are other members of management including: Bill Toppeta President of International business; Bill Mullaney President of U.S.
Business; Steve Goulart Chief Investment Officer Bill Moore President of Auto &amp; Home; and Donna DeMaio President of MetLife Bank.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to announce that MetLife had a strong second quarter.
We grew earnings per share by 13% over the prior year quarter demonstrating the ability of MetLife's diverse portfolio of businesses to create value for shareholders.
Overall operating earnings grew by 45% to $1.3 billion and we generated record premiums fees and other revenues of $11.8 billion a 38% increase.
What is notable is that we achieved these results despite losses of $218 million related to the natural disasters in the United States and Japan.
As you know I became President and CEO of MetLife on May 1.
Over the last 90 days I'm engaged with many of MetLife's senior leaders to gather their views on the company's strengths areas for improvements and opportunities for growth.
These meetings have reaffirmed my belief that MetLife can achieve its vision of being the leading life insurance employee benefits provider in the world.
We have also sharpen my focus on some initial high-level priorities to help drive value for our customers and shareholders.
The first is the successful integration of Alico to ensure we capture the full value of this acquisition both on the short term and the long term.
Essential to this process is optimizing our portfolio of countries and businesses to ensure the best strategic fit.
Since the beginning of the year Bill Toppeta and his team have sold our businesses in Venezuela and Taiwan and a portion of our business in the U.K.
and Japan.
The specifics reasons vary from political uncertainty to asset liability mismatches to integration costs.
But the common thread is that we did not believe these businesses would be able to meet the return thresholds we have set for the company.
These divestitures will free up roughly $1 billion of capital that can be redeployed to deliver better value for shareholders.
At the same time we have also been pursuing strategic acquisitions.
During the second quarter we signed an agreement with Dexia to purchase its Turkish Life Insurance business and enter into an exclusive 15-year distribution arrangement.
While we expect this transaction to improve our market position from 12th to fifth in Turkey a high-growth market with favorable demographics and an attractive macroeconomic department.
In addition we announced this week that MetLife has entered into a 10-year exclusive distribution arrangement with Punjab National Bank of India to sell MetLife products to its branch network.
PNB the second-largest bank in India gives MetLife access to 60 million customers from more than 5 000 branches.
This move will provide MetLife with the opportunity to move into the top tier of insurance companies in India.
Another sign that the integration is succeeding is a strong international sales we experienced in the second quarter.
Total international sales for MetLife Alico were 25% higher than they were for the company's on a combined basis in the second quarter of 2010.
In Japan while sales fell 7% short of plan as a result of the earthquake it was still up 28% over the prior year.
In addition the Alico integration remains on track and we expect to meet all of our targets.
The second priority for MetLife is to strengthen our ability to achieve profitable growth and value creation.
When we get the formula right the results are impressive.
Under Bill Mullaney's leadership we saw U.S.
annuity sales in the quarter rise to $7.3 billion a 48% increase which helped drive operating earnings in the Retirement Products business to $201 million up from $136 million in the second quarter of 2010.
Part of this growth was driven by our new GMIB Max offering a simpler retirement income solutions that significantly reduces our hedging costs and we believe will provide customers with more consistent returns over time.
Given our goal of a balanced growth we are making adjustments to the product that will reduce our risk and improve returns.
We anticipate completing our filing with the SEC in August.
Another area of strong performance is in U.S.
Business insurance products where we grew earnings by 22% in the quarter on a strong underwriting results and higher net investment income.
We believe our strategy of maintaining discipline in underwriting and pricing is the right one and it's starting to pay off.
In addition we're encouraged that more rational pricing seems to be returning to the group life and disability markets particularly for larger cases.
A third priority I want to highlight this morning is our drive to be a world-class company in every aspect of our business from talent in technology to brand and culture.
Our goal is to create a high-performance organization marked by clear decision-making and innovative thinking and results focused culture.
I will have much more to say about this at our Investor Day conference in December.
For now let me cite one example.
Earlier this month we launched a program with GM to provide 1 year of car insurance with every new vehicle purchase.
If this highly innovative pilot if successful we believe a broader program could drive significant growth in our Auto &amp; Home business.
Of course what won't change to MetLife is our commitment to financial strength and risk management.
For example faced with the threat of low interest rates pressuring earnings we have not sit by idly.
As we told you at our last Investor Day conference we began purchasing hedges against low interest rates in 2004.
I'm not sure how many in the industry can say they have hedged their interest rate risk as successfully as we have which we think is a good example of the forward thinking we do here at MetLife.
Even if the 10-year Treasury drops below 2.5% and stays there for several years we have in place significant protection.
Just as important we are taking steps to ensure we remain on a level regulatory playing field with our competitors.
As we announced last week we are exploring the sale of a Depository business of MetLife Bank while holding on to our Mortgage businesses.
We do not believe it is appropriate for the overwhelming majority of our business to be governed by regulations written for banking institutions.
In the highly competitive global insurance marketplace it's imperative that we be able to operate under the same regulatory framework as other insurance companies.
Even if we are designated as systemically important financial institution it will be as an insurance company not as a bank.
Which brings me to the topic I know you are eager for MetLife to address excess capital.
As we've said before our long-term ROE target of 13% to 15% by 2015 assume some level of capital redeployment.
What I want to re-emphasize is that we will manage our excess capital with the same level of discipline that we apply to other parts of our business.
Bill Wheeler will have more to say about this in a few minutes.
In closing let me say how excited I am to be leading MetLife during this time of tremendous change and opportunity.
I believe MetLife is well positioned to provide exceptional value to our 90 million customers and profitable growth to our shareholders.
With that I will turn the call over to Bill Wheeler to go through our second quarter results in greater detail.
Thanks Steve and good morning everybody.
MetLife reported operating earnings of $1.3 billion or $1.24 per share for the second quarter which when added to our first quarter earnings results in an annualized ROE of 11.8% for the first 6 months of this year.
There were some unusual items in this quarter.
First pretax variable investment income was $425 million after taxes and the impact of deferred acquisition costs variable investment income was $46 million or $0.04 per share above the top of our investor day guidance.
This was driven by strong securities lending private equity returns and higher prepayment fees.
Also as Steve mentioned the record catastrophe activity in the United States during the second quarter resulted in a $174 million of losses in our Auto &amp; Home business which was $137 million or $0.13 per share after tax above plan.
Lastly as you may recall our Japan operations is reported on a one-month lag and therefore the impact of the earthquake in Japan that occurred on March 11 affects our second quarter results.
We recorded $44 million or $0.04 per share after tax in additional insurance claims and increased operating expenses.
Excluding the impact of these unusual items normalized operating earnings were $1.37 per share this quarter generating a normalized annualized ROE of 12.1% for the first 6 months of the year a strong result.
Now let's take a look at the results in the quarter by line of business.
U.S.
Business reported operating earnings of $908 million for the second quarter up 12% from the prior year quarter of $813 million.
Excluding the results in Auto &amp; Home U.S.
Business operating earnings were up over 30% year-over-year due to strong profit growth in Insurance Products Retirement Products and Corporate Benefit Funding.
Insurance Products' strong performance was driven by a significant increase in Group Insurance underwriting margins and continued improvement in investment margins.
The Group Life mortality ratio for the quarter was an excellent 82.1% as compared to 86.6% in the prior year quarter and well below our 2011 guidance range of 88% to 93%.
This results represent Group Life's best-ever mortality quarter.
While we are naturally very pleased with this performance we do not believe this ratio is sustainable for the remainder of 2011.
The Non-Medical Health total benefits ratio for the quarter was 87.5% which was down from the prior year quarter of 87.8% and well within our 2011 guidance of 86% to 90%.
In Dental better claims activity combined with our pricing strategy resulted in favorable underwriting.
Our disability results continue to improve due to lower claims incidents but we saw lower recoveries in the quarter.
Our Individual Life mortality ratio for the quarter was a solid 84.4%.
This quarter's results was higher than the exceptionally strong prior year quarter of 80.4% due to higher average claim size and lower reinsurance recoveries but still a good result.
Turning to our Auto &amp; Home business the combined ratio including catastrophes was 121.5% for the second quarter which was up over the prior year quarter's results of 95.3% due to unusually heavy storm activity.
The combined ratio excluding catastrophe was 85.7% in the second quarter versus 85.5% in the prior year period.
A non-catastrophe prior accident year reserve release of $17 million after tax was taken in the quarter compared to a $12 million after tax release in the prior year period.
Retirement Products operating earnings were up nearly 50% year-over-year driven primarily by strong separate account fee growth due to higher net flows and favorable investment performance.
Corporate Benefit Funding operating earnings were up 34% year-over-year driven by higher net investment income coming from both variable and recurring income.
Turning to the top line performance for U.S.
Business.
U.S.
Business reported premium fees and other revenues of $7.6 billion for the second quarter up 6% as compared to the prior year quarter.
The primary drivers for this increase were from Retirement Products which increased by 15% from higher separate account fees due to positive net flows and favorable separate account investment returns and Corporate Benefit Funding which increased 53% due to higher pension closeout sales which fluctuates from quarter-to-quarter and strong structured settlement sales.
Insurance Products revenue was essentially flat year-over-year reflecting the challenging macro environment and our ongoing commitment to disciplined growth.
Auto &amp; Home revenue was up 3% year-over-year.
Now let's move to International business.
International reported operating earnings in the second quarter of $507 million up from $142 million in the prior year quarter largely due to the acquisition of Alico and growth in the business.
To give you a better sense of International's overall growth for the quarter International's revenues were $4 billion.
This was approximately 11% higher than the second quarter of 2010 on a combined basis as if we had owned Alico in both periods.
In Japan the year-over-year increase in revenues on a combined basis was approximately 12% driven largely by the favorable exchange rate of the yen versus the U.S.
dollar and higher persistency.
On a constant rate basis revenues were up 1%.
While sales in Japan were below plan this quarter due to the crisis they were up 28% year-over-year on a constant rate basis.
Sales increased in all product and distribution channels with the strongest gains coming from the bank and direct marketing channels.
In the other international regions the year-over-year increase in revenues on a combined basis was approximately 9% strong revenue growth in Latin America and favorable exchange rates versus the U.S.
dollar were the main drivers of this growth.
On a constant rate basis revenues were up 3% while sales were up 23% year-over-year a very strong result.
Moving to expenses our operating expense ratio for the quarter was 23% and 20.4% when excluding the impact of MetLife Bank and Pension and Post-Retirement Benefits.
Both ratios are below our 2011 guidance range of 23.5% to 24.1% and 21.2% to 21.7% respectively overall a good result.
Turning to our investment portfolio.
Net unrealized gains in fixed maturity and equity securities were $11 billion up from $6.7 billion last quarter.
Please keep in mind that interest rate driven unrealized gains and losses in our investment portfolio are generally offset by changes in the economic value of our liabilities.
With regard to realized investment gains and losses in the second quarter we had after-tax investment portfolio net losses of $38 million which include impairments of $77 million after tax.
With regard to derivatives we had an after-tax gains of $189 million driven primarily by lower interest rates.
Our Commercial Mortgage holdings continue to perform better than expected.
As of June 30 our valuation allowance is $469 million down from $532 million at March 31.
The loan-to-value ratio of our portfolio improved again this quarter to 64% from 65% as valuations continue to improve in the markets where we invest.
Additionally our delinquency rate was only 40 basis points the majority of which we do not expect to incur any loss.
Lastly I would like to update you on our exposure to sovereign debt in peripheral Europe.
As I'm sure you are all well aware there've been significant recent developments around the Greek sovereign debt including the announcement of a broad outline of a new financing package.
These recent events had no impact to our second quarter GAAP earnings as our expected recoveries exceed our GAAP book value.
Now I would like to provide you with an update on our capital position.
Our preliminary statutory operating earnings for our domestic insurance companies for the second quarter of 2011 were quite good at approximately $820 million and our preliminary statutory net income was approximately $715 million.
For this first 6 months of 2011 statutory operating earnings and statutory net income were approximately $1.4 billion and $1.3 billion respectively.
This is a good result and in line with our full-year expectations.
In addition our international capital position is strong with Alico Japan's reported first quarter current solvency margin ratio of 1 463% and new solvency margin ratio of 868%.
The new solvency margin ratio measure does not become an official reporting metric until the first quarter of 2012.
We are managing to a 600% target ratio on this new basis which implies excess capital of $1.5 billion.
Cash and liquid assets at the holding company at June 30 were approximately $3.4 billion.
Adding dividends we expect to receive from our domestic and international operations less $1 billion of cushion at the holding company we will have approximately $4.8 billion of excess capital at the holding company available for capital management activities in the fourth quarter of 2011.
I would define holding company capital management activities to include the annual common dividend stock buybacks debt management and M&amp;A activity.
Regarding debt management activity keep in mind as we have previously discussed at investor day our intention is to repay $750 million of debt maturing in December of this year.
In addition while I will not provide you full details of 2012 at this time there are some incremental dividends for the holding companies that we expect next year.
We recently announced the sale of a portion of our U.K.
business.
This freed up approximately $500 million of capital that we will have access to upon closing of the sale which we expect to happen in 2012.
Also we expect to complete the conversion of Japan from a branch to a subsidiary by the middle of 2012 and therefore would expect to dividend a minimum of $700 million from Japan to the holding company at that time.
Therefore we will have approximately $1.2 billion of additional dividends to the holding company that we would expect next year above our normal dividend generation for 2012.
We spend a lot of time evaluating what investments should be made in our existing businesses and we view getting cash to the holding company as an important step toward excess capital deployment.
Overall we expect to have nearly $5 billion of deployable capital at the holding company by the fourth quarter of 2011 and we expect to generate significant cash to the holding company in 2012 as well all of which can be used for the capital management activities that I just discussed.
With regards to timing we are engaged in discussions with the Federal Reserve and our board regarding our capital management plans subsequent to these discussions which should conclude with our October board meeting we would expect to provide further details on our capital management activities.
Overall our capital position remains quite strong.
As Steve mentioned we remain committed to prudent capital management to create value for our shareholders.
In summary MetLife had a very good second quarter in spite of the tragic events in Japan and the extraordinarily bad weather in the U.S.
this quarter.
This quarter reflects the strong underlying fundamentals of our core businesses and our focus on expanding margins through disciplined growth underwriting and expense management.
And with that I'll turn it back to the operator for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of John Hall with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC</strong> Steve I have a question around the bank holding company and the like is there a sense of timing around when that might be fully executed and is it possible for the regulatory authorities to just say no? John the timing that we anticipate is second quarter 2012 and a sale would have to be approved by the Fed.
But obviously we'll be very mindful of that as we think of the [indiscernible] this business.
LLC</strong> So to the extent that capital deployment were to occur before Q2 2012 then the Fed has to be clearly on board? Yes as we have said in a couple of times in many places all our capital management activities towards the end of this year will need Federal approval.
LLC</strong> And then just around the International business you've been very active around this optimization program I was wondering after this flurry of activities is there more to come? John we look at our overall portfolio from a strategic point of view and we're constantly assessing the different businesses that we've owned for a while ourself as MetLife and also we picked up in the Alico transaction.
So there's ongoing discussions and analysis around those topics.
I don't want to announce anything right now.
We don't have anything to say at this moment.
But I can simply say that we are constantly assessing our businesses across the entire portfolio both internationally and domestically.
LLC</strong> Is the guiding principle it sort of seems so far get big or get out is that a fair way to look at things? I think size isn't the only measure here.
Size can be a factor.
It depends on the marketplace but profitability is really the key.
Return on equity delivering shareholder value is what we're really focused on.
LLC</strong> And then just finally real quick how do the losses out of the Auto &amp; Home business this quarter relate to whatever your 1 in a 100 P&amp;L might be? Let me turn it over to Bill Moore.
John it's Bill Moore.
The losses in the second quarter were actually equivalent to 1 in 100 [indiscernible] for us at Auto &amp; Home.
Obviously when we make those determinations it's based on one event as opposed to the 12 events that were in the quarter but the actual dollar amounts were about exactly the same.
LLC</strong> And how much -- was there any reinsurance coverage on these losses? No.
We have our next question from the line of Andrew Kligerman with UBS.
Bill real quickly I missed the end of that comment about the timing of the Federal government discussions where you could redeploy capital when are you going to finish that up? The discussion with the Federal Reserve and our board which we think will conclude -- we'll have something more to say after the October board meeting which is at the end of October.
And then in hearing your comments about the revenue in Japan on a constant currency basis of 1% same-store other international 3% revenue growth same-store I'm wondering when you get done with the integration and we're let's say 2 3 years out would you expect earnings to track with those revenues? What kind of earnings outlook can we expect 2 3 4 years from now in the long term? Andrew it's Bill Toppeta.
First of all I would tie this more to sales.
Sales are strong overall.
They're up 25%.
In Japan they're up 28% year-over-year.
So I think what our future outlook would be will be much more tied to our sales than to our revenues.
I mean the current softness in Japan I think is almost totally explained by the tsunami the earthquake and the results of that and maybe adding a little softness on top of that for Europe.
Those things are more macro related and I think that they will be remedied in the course of time.
But making a prediction 3 or 4  or 5 years out on earnings I think it would be perilous at best.
I guess Bill just thinking about these revenue numbers I mean because you had the strong sales I mean I'm just wondering if you're doing 25% sales growth 4 years from now can you achieve double-digit earnings? That's where I'm kind of disconnected because the sales were good this quarter and the revenues same-store were not.
So just quick answer.
I don't know can you direct me where I'm missing something? You're kind of breaking up a little bit so I'm losing little bits of your question.
I don't want to...
Yes I mean just the bottom line sales were robust and your revenues were not.
So what might give me that confidence down the road that you could still do double-digit earnings out or even higher revenue growth down the road? Well I mean I don't know if I can add much to what I just said.
I think the products are priced correctly.
The margins are in the products and the sales are coming in very strongly.
Okay.
And with that terrific sales growth about 25% combining Japan and other countries.
What were some of the strong products that you saw out of Japan and some other products at other countries that drove these sales? Well I think there are a couple of things.
One is I think A&amp;H  sales are very strong and they're not just strong in Japan where they continue to lead.
I mean the A&amp;H sales in Japan are up 10% but we told you at our Japan Investor Day that we had before the Alico transaction even closed that we were going to take A&amp;H across to other markets and we are doing that successfully.
A&amp;H sales are up strongly in Latin America in places like Chile and Argentina in Mexico their A&amp;H sales are good and I think we'll get stronger in Korea.
I think places like the Middle East and China are also showing strength in A&amp;H and these are very good margin products.
So I think that should add to your confidence.
The other thing that I would say is it's not quite a product but I think one of the stories that will evolve here over the next several quarters is Bancassurance.
I mean our Bancassurance business is very strong with the major bank distributors like Citigroup growing strongly the mega banks in Japan overall the Bancassurance sales second quarter are up 81% year-over-year and that's not even putting in things like what Steve mentioned about Turkey and the acquisition there the new deal in India.
So I would say keep an eye on Bancassurance sales going forward because this is a very strong area for us.
LLC</strong> Great then just one last one for Bill Wheeler.
So it looks like ING sold its Latin American business to another player.
So the question is in terms of M&amp;A is there a lot of activity going on? Are you seeing a lot of potential deals out there? Are you interested in acquiring in Brazil for example what are you seeing in terms of M&amp;A activity in the near term? I would guess I'd answer that by saying there is a lot of activity and there's a lot of activity on the international front not a lot of it is smaller.
Sort of like our deal in Turkey but there's a lot of activity.
In terms of our interest look as I think we've said many times in many places we want to focus on growth businesses with good ROEs the cash that we use for this business we have to make sure that we get a good return on and that we can build shareholder value and compare that return to other uses for that capital and I think that our track record there is pretty good.
And so there's a lot going on and we'll continue to look at it.
Okay.
So I think the Turkish deal off the top of my head was about $250 million deal.
So that was the kind of activity if something were to happen that I should be focused on? I think that would be typical.
We do have our next question from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
A question for Steve.
Steve as you look out at the potential for U.S.
downgrade I was hoping you could just give us your views on what you think that the ramifications might be under that scenario and how you and the management team are preparing for such an outcome? Is there anything you're doing differently over the past few months with this risk rising whether in terms of portfolio shifts or hedging activities or otherwise? John yes we have been obviously quite focused on this and let me just say that maybe at a higher level first that while this is a very difficult time is following this very critical issue closely I'll just mention that it's beyond just reason of debt ceiling that's going on in Washington right now.
It's really a bit of a turning point for us as a nation in terms of getting our finances in order long term.
So as painful as it is to watch this it is kind of democracy at work and the hope is that not just we raise the debt ceiling in an appropriate way but that we'll be addressing these long-term issues for our economy so that we remain a strong currency a strong environment for economic growth in the future and I am hopeful.
It's hard to watch.
It's difficult to see it everyday but I am hopeful that there will be action in Washington that will be appropriate that'll address this long-term problems in a sensible way.
And we have been working very hard at this internally.
I'm going to turn it over a minute over to Steve Goulart to give you some specifics but let me just say in a high level that we feel that we are well positioned even if there happens to be a 1 notch downgrade of the U.S.
Treasury at this point in time.
And I'm not saying that will happen but we have to at least take that into consideration as a contingency.
Thanks Steve.
Certainly if you look at what's going on in the market there's a fair amount of stress that's starting to build up.
Nothing at catastrophic levels yet but we're clearly are seeing it on a daily and hourly basis and look at different indicators like treasury bills treasury bills have cheapened for August.
They're actually trading in at bigger discounts than September bills at this point.
And we've seen haircuts increase on RMBS on treasuries on many asset classes and then probably most importantly everybody's building cash look at the money market fund outflows I think they have reached record levels.
And it's a period of uncertainty and what most people do is really try and liquefy those markets.
As Steve indicated we've looked hard at the implications of a U.S.
government treasury downgrade and with any of the realm of possible downgrade there really is no impact from a capital perspective on our investment portfolio.
So we don't envision any big asset class shifts although we continually review what's developing.
We are doing a couple of things though on a near-term basis.
First is we have insured that we've extended all of our near-term treasury maturities past August.
We just don't want to be in that position of what uncertainty could develop regarding developments in Washington.
And the second like I mentioned before is we have been building cash.
We've added several billion dollars of excess cash which we think is a prudent thing to do in an environment of uncertainty that exists today.
And what it does is there's a couple of things certainly to the extent there are any market liquidity issues developing I think we'll be well positioned for those.
And secondly is to put a little bit of an opportunistic hat on as well and to the extent that there are investment opportunities that become available we want to be positioned to take advantage of them.
So I think we're very well positioned at this point and obviously are staying on top of what's happening in the marketplace.
Just as follow up to that 5 or more years ago you guys started to buy hedges in a higher rate environment against the low or sustained low rate environment I'm wondering if today you're looking out and perhaps buying protection against the potential at least for rapidly rising rates? Well we always have had a very thorough very sound asset liability management strategy underlying all of our investment activity.
We have been taking advantage in certain portfolios in certain sectors of buying interest rate caps where it makes sense and we'll continue to do that.
Okay.
And then just a follow up on the capital and the timing issue not to beat a dead horse I assume this is going to receive some more attention but October is only a few months away in the scheme of the long term it's not that big of a deal but your capital position as Bill as you laid it out it's frankly better than I think most on this conference call would have expected and your stocks are pretty cheap.
I'm just wondering why no additional sort of urgency perhaps to get through this process.
As many others who have had to go to the Fed and get approvals have already done so.
John it's Steve.
Let me start and Bill can add other comments.
We spoke to our board when we did this our largest transaction our history Alico about how we would proceed for the coming year after the closing November of last year.
And one thing that we agreed with them on was let's make sure that this acquisition is fully integrated that we get the results that we anticipated at the time that we struck this deal and before we start thinking about capital redeployment.
So that was something that we agreed to with them and the timeframe that Bill Wheeler laid out in terms of late October board meeting relates to that.
The second thing I'd say is over the last several months we've seen a great deal of uncertainties still remain in the marketplace around regulatory issues.
And it's unclear at this time how that will impact all of us in the industry.
So we just think it's prudent to wait at this point in time as much as we understand the desire by our shareholders and others to get a clarity on this issue of capital redeployment.
But still we think it's prudent to wait along the lines we talked about with our board last year to make a determination late October about what the right strategy would be going forward.
Can I just follow up on that Steve if we go back in time to that discussion and agreement with your board as you think about where your capital position stands today versus where you expected it would stand at that time is it fair to characterize is it fair to say that even for management capital is in a better position? We certainly feel very good about our capital position.
We are hopeful about how things will sort out in Washington around regulation.
We believe the integration of Alico will continue on track as we mentioned.
So overall we're quite optimistic.
We have our next question from the line of Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
So you mentioned with International that you expect to hit all of your targets.
Now at the beginning of the year you've provided guidance for that division and at least based on our calculations in using quarter results you need about a 9% pick up in average sales in the back half of the year to hit the midpoint.
So my question is whether the midpoint is still achievable and if they were what are the factors driving the sort of expected improvement in the back half of the year or are we now looking at the lower end of the provided guidance? And if so what changed relative to your assumptions at the beginning of the year? Nigel it's Bill Toppeta.
You were breaking up a little.
So if I get the question wrong you'll correct me.
But in terms of the guidance that we gave back on Investor Day we still believe that we will be in the ranges that we gave you at that time.
So there's no change with respect to any of those targets.
The one thing I might add because I know that some people kind of take every number and divide it by 4 that's not exactly the way we do our plan.
So there is some seasonality in our plans with respect to particularly earnings they do tend to be more back-end loaded.
So they usually start off slower in the first and second quarters and then pick up in the third and fourth.
That is consistent with this year so but we believe we will be in the ranges that we gave you.
Okay.
And did you see also a question on International yen clearly you're depreciated so any update with regards to currency hedging plans for 2012? I'm going to pass that to Mr.
Wheeler.
Well just a review of the bidding.
We did talk about we put on a hedge to protect some of our earnings really we bought a floor.
That obviously that floor exchange rate has moved away from that floor.
And so we're along ways away from that target.
I think today the yen is JPY 77 JPY 78 to the dollar.
We do examine occasionally to be opportunistic with regard to hedging currency.
It is not our policy by the way to hedge currency on an ongoing basis.
But when we think there's a great opportunity at a great price we do it.
So we haven't done anything since then but we do continue to look at it.
We have our next question from the line of Colin Devine with Citigroup.
Just fairly quick things first with respect to the favorable group life mortality was the benefit from that of a $0.03 a share and if so isn't that what we should really be taking that out of the quarterly run rate? I would assume you expect that's going to reverse in future quarters.
And second and I really I think I'll direct this to Steve the VA sales I think set an all-time industry record for the quarter for a single company how comfortable are you at this sort of $7 billion-plus or are there some future revisions that might be coming that sort of take sales down a bit? And then lastly for Bill Wheeler at the back changes coming under GAAP what impact does that have for your business thinking both with respect to how you run your core agencies here in the U.S.
but also internationally where you do you have some big agent forces and you maybe forced to expense more immediately now than [indiscernible]? Colin it's Bill Mullaney.
Let me start on the mortality question.
Yes we had an excellent quarter as it relates to Group Life Mortality.
As Bill said in his remarks it was the best quarter we ever had.
Our second quarter tends to be a better quarter for us seasonally historically.
I think in terms of thinking about the Group Life Mortality going forward obviously we don't think it will stay at 82%.
Like I said quite a good quarter but I would think more towards the low end of the range for the balance of the year.
We gave a range at Investor Day of 88% to 93% and I think modeling toward the lower end of the range is probably the best way to think about it.
So is about $0.03 the right number? Yes roughly I'd say that's right.
Colin It's Steve on the VA issue.
As I mentioned in my prepared remarks that we have a filing-in to the SEC on some proposed changes.
So let me just kind of state a general level to the question that like all of our products all of our businesses we look for a balanced growth.
We have a real broad portfolio of products of markets we're in globally.
And one of the reasons we performed so well this quarter in the face of significant headwinds headwinds related to natural disasters related to issues in the economy in Europe and the United States and elsewhere is that we have a very balanced portfolio.
So we're very mindful of that it's part of our strategy it's something we focus on all the time.
So we wouldn't want any one part of our business to overwhelm other parts of the business.
So we're mindful of that we meet as a team regularly on these kinds of issues.
As I mentioned we do have a filing with the SEC which we anticipate we'll sort through in August  and we'll have some adjustments to the features on the VAs.
And I'll just add that when we put out GMIB Max we have to make a call about what would be competitive in the marketplace.
We thought it was a very attractive product for our customers.
We thought it also help reduce our risk at MetLife it was kind of a win-win in our judgment and I think that has proved out in the marketplace.
The features we put in place really dated back to the December timeframe in terms of the market conditions.
December to August is a great deal of time in terms of changes that's going on and we re-assess these things all the time.
So you'd expect and you'll see that we'll be making some adjustments in the VA space soon.
I should assume that you love the VA space but you're not in love with it I think as somebody used to tell us? Yes I think that's right.
That's a good way to think about it.
You know Colin the one thing I would say is it is a very dynamic marketplace in the VA space right now.
You're seeing a couple of things happen.
First of all the market itself is growing dramatically.
If you look at the first quarter growth year-over-year it was up over 20%.
Secondly there's been a great concentration of VA sales among the top 5 players.
And today VA sales for the top 5 were over 50% of total sales where a few years ago it was in the low 30s.
And so the level of sales that you have in any given quarter is a function obviously of the product that you have in the market but it's also a function of what happens in the competitive environment and we want to build products to make sure that we can react quickly to changes in the marketplace so that we continue to grow this business at a rate that we like.
It's an important part of our growth story and we're committed to it.
But as Steve said we just want to manage it well in the context of our overall portfolio of businesses.
Colin and finally it's Bill Wheeler about the back changes.
So obviously DAC policy is going to change regarding what kind of a marketing and sales expenses can be capitalized next year and that's true for both Domestic International businesses obviously.
We're also going to likely though it's not a given we're likely to do a retrospective adjustment regarding our current DAC balance and make that conform with sort of the new accounting policies to provide sort of consistency between years and that may very well result in a one-time write-off in fact sometime in the early part of next year.
Non-cash charge obviously the change to book value.
And I think some people have focused on the idea that well gee if the agent is an employee of a company versus to be [ph] the third party that may change your DAC policy and what can be capitalized and unfortunately even though that may end up being through.
My philosophy and I think the philosophy of  Met is we don't let accounting peculiarities drive business decisions okay.
If it's good to have agents as MetLife employees and have them sell in that way and pay them as such accounting should not be the decision about whether or not or certainly whether an expense that's capitalized or cost gets capitalized or expense should not be driving that decision.
It should be business driven.
That said there's likely to be some anomalies at least in the short run.
In the long run I think this all is not much of an issue.
But in the short run the next year or so there might be some anomalies on how people's income statements work.
Our peculiar issue happens in Japan or really with regard to Alico where our DAC in purchase accounting our DAC is replaced with VOBA and which works a lot like DAC but is not able to be adjusted for changes in DAC policy going forward or certainly not in the same way that our DAC balances are.
So that could cause some anomalies in some of our earnings for our International operations as well.
So there's lots of little wrinkles.
We're not in any position yet to kind of size these issues and in a quarter or so we might be able to obviously by Investor Day we think we'll be able to.
But so it's I guess stay tuned.
Just to follow up on that it shouldn't impact your capital management decisions since of course there's no DAC on a statutory basis is that fair to say? That's right.
So there's no DAC on the statutory basis.
It's not a cash charge.
It will affect GAAP book value.
And next will go to the line of Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
First one on capital management Bill earlier in the year I think the comments that you all have made suggested buyback plan that you announced at the end of this year will probably be something less than $2 billion and it sounded also like when you're evaluating different opportunities buyback seems to be taking a bit of a backseat to dividends.
Is that still true? Can you shed any light on updated thoughts related to sort of the balance between the 2? Probably not.
I guess I feel that -- look I think we're committed to doing both.
And when we talk to investors and we say what's important to you dividends or buybacks? Guess what? We get both answers.
To some investors groups they really focus on dividends others want to see buyback activity and our expectations that we'll do both and we'll try to do both in a balance that make sense.
In my mind it's just too early to speculate about size of deals size of programs.
And I'm not sure we'll tell the world or we'll give a program target size.
I'm not sure that's how we should manage buyback activity.
I think we should be opportunistic and obviously it depends on stock prices.
And so there's a lot of variables.
I'm not sure I can shed much more light on it.
Okay fair enough.
I also just want to come back to the international question about revenue growth.
Sort of how sales growth eventually turns into revenue growth.
As we think about Met's International business I think as it was laid out after the Alico deals was announced this is sort of a high single-digit revenue grower if I remember correctly.
So low single digit in aggregate for International seems certainly a bit on the low side.
If your sales targets that you put out there and the level that you saw this quarter continue are we going to see a pretty quick catch-up of revenues in '12 and '13? So is it still kind of a high single digit in aggregate revenue growth business and is there just a bit of an anomaly here based on sort of how sales will progress or can you help us think about that and how that would progress? Yes it's Bill Toppeta Tom.
I would say the answer is absolutely yes.
You're talking about a business that will grow high single digits.
I mean the one thing that as I reflected on the question that was asked before and now on yours I think the one thing where we might be seeing a bit of an anomaly is in the area of persistency.
So our persistency is improving generally but not improving as quickly as we would like it too.
So I'll give you the example of Japan.
Persistency in Japan is up a little less than 1% for the quarter.
We had a persistency program to roll out in Japan which was to address a couple of things.
One would be orphaned policyholder and the management of orphaned policyholders and the other one was notifications to agents in an earlier and more timely way so that they could work on the retention of the business.
Those things those programs were all delayed by about and I would say 45 days as a result of the earthquake.
So there may be something in the persistency area that has a bearing on this but I still think the conclusion is that this is a high single-digit growth business in terms of revenues and I think you clearly will see that going forward.
The other area where I think there is a little softness as I've said before is Europe and I think those 2 things are the explanation.
They are I think a bit of an anomaly.
I hope that helps.
It does yes.
That explains it.
And then just one last question if I could the one thing that does stand out about Met's results is the Group results are certainly holding up better than most peers can you comment on what's going on behind the scenes there is it pricing is it the results you're seeing on the claims side or just better where do you think you're at? And if peers are struggling a bit do you think the market may is it showing any signs of hardening too? Yes Tom it's Bill Mullaney.
Let me give you some perspective on the Group market overall.
The results that you're seeing I think are clearly reflective of the disciplined approach that we've taken to managing this business over the last several years.
And I've talked about on earlier calls and at an Investor Day about the aggressive pricing that we've seen in the Group market.
You've seen our Group market top line results slow as a result of our unwillingness to chase the market on price.
And I think what you're really seeing now is that the earnings power of this business is really coming through because we've been very disciplined about how we price and our claim results have been very very strong.
I think a great example of that is the Disability business.
We hear some of our peers are struggling in that business and what I will tell you that the results -- the claim results of that business continue to be affected by macroeconomic trends higher incidence rates lower recovery rates.
We were very early to recognize that and began pricing that into our business as early as 2009 and certainly through 2010.
And so our loss ratios have held up pretty well during that because of the fact that we increased our denominator because we raised our prices.
But we paid the price for that in terms of growth in that business.
What we're starting to see is we're starting to see the market harden.
If we look at deals that we're quoting on for 2012 which tend to be in the large case market the pricing seems to be a little bit more rational and we seem to be getting our share of deals at prices that we're happy with.
So we think the market is starting to move in our favor and I think you're going to see the Group business grow again both top and bottom line at more historical rates.
And our final question will be coming from the line of Suneet Kamath with Sanford Bernstein.
Inc.</strong> Thanks for the additional color on the capital position and your thoughts going forward.
I think that's very helpful.
I did have just a couple of quick follow-up questions on that topic.
The first as you think about the $5 billion of cash at the holding company that you could redeploy I guess I just wasn't taking notes fast enough did you mention what sort of implied RBC that would leave your U.S.
Life subs at? I didn't.
But to give you a sense of it our combined RBC ratio at the end of 2010 was 458% and my expectation is that that will decline by the end of 2011.
And I'm not quite sure we have an internal projection where that will go to but it will head south because we don't need that much capital at the insurance subs and as I sort of said in my remarks the excess capital that's sitting on our insurance sub it doesn't really become deployable until it gets to the holding company and that's our expectation is what we're doing this year and we're bringing a lot of that capital up to the holding company so it then can be used for other things.
Inc.</strong> Second follow up is just on the math you had mentioned a couple of uses of that capital I think debt repayment and then the common stock dividend and then obviously anything you want to do in terms of M&amp;A just so I have the numbers you said $750 million of debt repayment and then whatever you guys decide the common stock dividend will be this year is there anything else that we should think about other than the M&amp;A and obviously the buyback? No.
Inc.</strong> Got it.
And then the last question is just on the dividend philosophy you mentioned you kind of listened to investors in terms of what they want.
Would you consider moving to more of a quarterly common stock dividend and on the path there was some reluctance because of the additional costs given your large shareholder base but I think they're somewhat nominal.
So that's something that you'd consider if investors were interested in that type of payment frequency? I guess the short answer is maybe.
When we set this policy over 10 years ago the cash or the additional expense was kind of made it prohibitive in our minds.
I think things have changed.
And the costs are not as significant as they once were.
So it's something that we will likely examine.
Other people have kind of given this feedback too that maybe a quarterly dividend makes more sense and so it's something we'll think about.
Thank you everyone.
And ladies and gentlemen this does conclude our conference for today and the conference will be available for replay after 10 A.M.
today until August 5 2011 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive Playback Service at any time by dialing 1(800)475-6701 using the access code of 169215.
International participants may dial 1(320)365-3844 using the same access code 169215.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thanks again for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the MetLife Third Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to read the following statement on behalf of MetLife.
Except with respect to historical information statements made in this conference call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements relating to trends in the company's operations and financial results and the business and the products of the company and its subsidiaries.
MetLife's actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including those described from time to time in MetLife's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
MetLife specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I would like to turn the call over to John McCallion Head of Investor Relations.
Thank you Greg and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MetLife's third quarter 2011 earnings call.
Before I start let me briefly outline the logistics of today's call.
We have a 2-hour call today divided into 2 sessions.
The first session will focus on our third quarter 2011 results which will end promptly at 8:55 a.m.
We will take a 10-minute break at which time the phones will be placed on musical hold.
Then at 9:05 a.m.
we will host a discussion to address market concerns about the potential long-term low-interest rate environment in the U.S.
Presentation materials for this interest rate discussion are currently available at MetLife.com through a link on the Investor Relations page.
Now let's get started.
We will be discussing certain financial measures not based on generally accepted accounting principles so-called non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures may be found on the Investor Relations portion of MetLife.com and our earnings press release our quarterly financial supplements and in the other financial section.
A reconciliation of forward-looking financial information to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is not accessible because MetLife believes it's not possible to provide a reliable forecast of net investment and net derivative in gains and losses which can fluctuate from period-to-period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
Joining me this morning on the call are Steve Kandarian President and Chief Executive Officer; and Bill Wheeler Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will take your questions.
Also here with us today to participate in the discussion are other members of management including Bill Toppeta President of International business; Bill Mullaney President of U.S.
Business; Steve Goulart; Chief Investment Officer; and Donna DeMaio President of MetLife Bank.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
Before I discuss this quarter's results I'd like to comment on our recent annual dividend declaration.
Earlier this week we declared an annual common stock dividend of $0.74 per share for 2011.
As we announced we recently submitted a capital distribution plan to the Federal Reserve for approval that included both an increase in MetLife's annual dividend as well as the resumption of stock repurchases.
The Federal Reserve has concluded that the company's planned capital actions should be tested under a revised adverse macroeconomic scenario which is being developed for those firms that will participate in the 2012 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review.
As a result the Federal Reserve did not approve the company's planned dividend increase and other proposed capital actions at this time.
We are disappointed that we cannot commence increased capital actions now.
Our analysis shows that the company's current capital level and financial strength support capital action increases.
Moreover we believe increasing our capital actions in this time of high unemployment would prove beneficial to the economy as our shareholders redeploy these funds in a productive manner.
We look forward to seeking and gaining the approval of our capital plan from the Federal Reserve early next year.
We are firmly committed to creating shareholder value and returning capital to our shareholders.
In addition we continue to move forward on our plans to explore the sale of the depository business and the forward mortgage origination business conducted at MetLife Bank and to take the necessary steps to no longer be a bank holding company.
As I have previously noted this will ensure that MetLife is able to operate on a level regulatory playing field with other insurance companies.
Now let's discuss this quarter's results.
Despite some significant economic headwinds during the quarter MetLife delivered earnings per share of $1.11 up 3% from the prior-year quarter.
As noted in the 8-K we filed on October 6 MetLife recorded a number of onetime charges in the third quarter.
Absent these charges and some other onetime items MetLife's earnings would have been $1.28 per share which we believe is closer to the company's true earnings power.
In addition our annualized operating return on equity of 10.9% for the first 9 months of the year would have been 11.5% without onetime items.
Now let me turn to some of the broader issues facing the market.
First while Europe remains unsettled we believe our exposure is manageable especially given the number of actions we have taken over the past year.
Out of a general account asset pool of $493 billion our exposure to peripheral Europe sovereign debt was $571 million on a book value basis as of September 30 down from $1.6 billion as of December 31 2010.
And our exposure at quarter end to European banks was $6.9 billion down significantly from year end.
In addition our total $42 billion of European exposure more than 90% is investment grade.
We have provided greater detail on our exposure to Europe in the appendix to the presentation deck for our call at 9:05 a.m.
Second the variable annuity market continues to experience strong growth.
While the market in our sales grew substantially in the third quarter we are taking a proactive approach to managing growth of our variable annuity business.
As you know we recently adjusted our GMIB Max offering to reduce risk and improve returns and we will be making further adjustments in January.
While we are comfortable with the pricing and returns on our third quarter VA sales we continue to seek opportunities to reprice and improve the risk profile of our product offerings.
As of January the roll-up rate on a GMIB Max product will be reduced from 5.5% to 5%.
We are closely monitoring sales and if they rise above plan there are steps we can take and will take to bring sales in line.
You can be assured that we are reviewing all of our product features to maintain a disciplined balance between customer value risk and return.
As a matter of sound capital management we will only pursue growth that we believe maximizes long-term shareholder value.
And third while interest rates have rebounded somewhat since the announcement of Operation Twist they still remain at low levels.
While long-term low interest rates have an impact in our earnings we have taken proactive steps to mitigate this impact.
We will talk much more about this topic during the special one-hour teleconference following today's earnings call.
For now I would simply note that even if a 10-year treasury remained at 2% for the next 5 years MetLife would still expect to grow earnings and generate excess capital.
One reason is our focus on risk management.
For example as Steve Goulart will discuss in the second hour we purchased $18 billion of notional interest rate floors in 2004 and 2005 to protect against sustained low-rate environment.
Finally let me cover a few highlights from this quarter.
We are extremely pleased with the performance of our International business and believe that it will continue to drive profitable growth for the enterprise.
Total international sales were up 25% including a 28% increase in Japan sales compared with MetLife's and Alico's combined results from the third quarter of 2010.
Our business in Japan continues to recover from the impact of the March earthquake and tsunami.
International businesses operating earnings in the quarter reached $578 million and solid performance in Latin America and Asia Pacific.
In these regions our accident and health products which have low capital requirements and attractive returns are making a strong contribution to our bottom line.
Recently we launched a new stand-alone whole life product which is the only cancer-specialized product available in Korea offering both a whole life feature and additional protection for secondary cancer diagnosis.
The integration of Alico is proceeding well.
On October 3 almost 17 months after changing MetLife's long-term ratings outlook to negative on news of our agreement to purchase Alico Moody's returned our ratings outlook to stable.
In upgrading MetLife's ratings outlook Moody's pointed to among other things our substantial progress and success with the integration of Alico.
In the United States premiums and fees grew 9% primarily driven by higher pension closeouts and structured settlement sales in the Corporate Benefit Funding segment.
In addition we continue to maintain the leading position in the group insurance market.
Underwriting results improved particularly in the Dental business as we maintained our disciplined approach to underwriting.
In summary I believe MetLife is well positioned to create long-term shareholder value.
With that I will turn the call over to Bill Wheeler to cover our third quarter results in greater detail.
Bill? Thanks Steve and good morning everybody.
MetLife reported net income of $3.6 billion or $3.33 per share and operating earnings of $1.2 billion or $1.11 per share for the third quarter.
There were several unusual items in this quarter.
First we have taken an after-tax charge of $117 million or $0.11 per share to increase reserves in connection with our use of the U.S.
Social Security Administration's Death Master File and similar databases to identify potential life insurance claims for pending and incurred but not reported claim liabilities referred to as IBNR.
Over 70% of the charges in our Group Life business nearly 25% in Individual Life with the balance in Corporate Benefit Funding.
Next our Auto &amp; Home business incurred catastrophe losses of $88 million after-tax in the quarter including the impact of Hurricane Irene.
This result was $50 million after-tax or $0.05 per share above our third quarter plan provision of $38 million.
Partially offsetting the impact of the cats Auto &amp; Home had a favorable prior-year development reserve release in its Auto business of $19 million or $0.02 per share.
Also we have recorded a $40 million after-tax charge or $0.04 per share related to MetLife's obligations under the New York State liquidation plan for Executive Life Insurance Company of New York which we call ELNY.
This charge has been recorded in our corporate and other segment.
Pretax variable investment income was $400 million after-taxes and the impact of deferred acquisition costs.
Variable investment income was $37 million or $0.03 per share above the top of our Investor Day guidance driven by strong securities lending and private equity returns which more than offset weakness in our hedge fund performance.
I should remind you that we report our private equities on a one-quarter lag while hedge funds are reported on a one-month lag.
Therefore we would expect that our private equity portfolio would be negatively impacted in the fourth quarter based on the market performance in the third quarter.
Adjusting for the items that I just mentioned and a few other minor adjustments that also impacted this quarter our normalized operating earnings was $1.28 per share and our normalized ROE for the first 9 months was 11.5%.
In addition Retirement Products earnings were negatively affected by the 14% decline in the S&amp;P 500 in the quarter.
The initial market impact as a result of a higher DAC amortization cost the segment $90 million after-tax or $0.08 per share this quarter.
Clearly there were a number of unusual items in the quarter.
However when you strip those out I believe our results are quite strong reflecting good underlying fundamentals in a challenging environment.
Now let's take a look at the results in the quarter by line of business.
U.S.
business reported operating earnings of $655 million for the third quarter.
Excluding the impact of unusual items in this quarter normalized earnings for U.S.
business was $768 million.
If you exclude the initial market impact of $90 million after-tax in the quarter U.S.
business operating earnings were up 7% versus normalized operating earnings in the prior-year period.
U.S.
business had strong top line growth in the quarter as premiums fees and other revenue were $7.7 billion up 9% from the prior-year quarter driven by solid closeout and structured settlement sales in Corporate Benefit Funding and strong net flows in our Retirement Products business due to variable annuity sales and continued low lapse rates.
While the insurance products top line was essentially flat this quarter we are having a good 2012 sales and renewal season as favorable pricing trends are slowly returning to the group insurance market.
Insurance products' normalized earnings of $362 million is up 9% over the prior-year quarter.
This strong performance reflects the improved Non-Medical Health underwriting margins a better individual expense margin and continued solid interest margins.
The Group Life mortality ratio for the quarter was 98.5%.
It's elevated due to the reserve strengthening related to the life insurance claims adjustment that I mentioned previously.
Adjusting for this item the loss ratio was 88.9% near the low end of the 2011 guidance range of 88% to 93% and in line versus the prior-year quarter of 89%.
Overall we are pleased with Group Life steady underwriting results reflecting our ongoing pricing discipline.
The Non-Medical Health total benefits ratio for the quarter was 86.6% which was down from the prior-year quarter of 88% and well within our 2011 guidance of 86% to 90%.
Results in Dental continue to improvise as we execute the second year of our re-margining strategy.
We are seeing more stable utilization and favorable price trends.
Disability results improved significantly versus a very poor quarter last year.
Incidents recoveries and offsets on open claims were all better versus the third quarter of 2010.
Our Individual Life mortality ratio for the quarter was 98.5% elevated due to the reserve strengthening related to the life insurance claims adjustment that I mentioned previously.
On a normalized basis the mortality loss ratio was 89% up from the prior-year quarter of 86.7% and above plan due to higher large base claims in the quarter.
I should point out that we introduced a new higher-priced ULSG product in the third quarter.
However as the old product was still available in the quarter we saw UL sales somewhat elevated.
We would expect to see lower UL sales going forward.
Turning to our Auto &amp; Home business the combined ratio including catastrophes was 105.7% for the third quarter which was up over the prior-year quarter's results of 93.6% due to unusually heavy storm activity including the impact from Hurricane Irene.
The combined ratio excluding catastrophes was 88% in the third quarter versus 88.2% in the prior-year period.
Auto &amp; Home operating earnings were significantly impacted by the cat impact this quarter as well as other related non-catastrophe losses.
I should note that this has already been the worst catastrophe year in the history of the company and despite that fact our Auto &amp; Home business is expected to pay a dividend up to the holding company before the end of the year.
Auto &amp; Home's premiums fees and other revenues were up 3% on solid growth fundamentals and favorable pricing trends in the market.
We will look to take further pricing actions consistent with the market.
Retirement products' operating earnings were down significantly due to the 14% drop in the S&amp;P 500 this quarter.
This negatively impacted the segment by $90 million after-tax due to higher DAC amortization.
Premiums fees and other revenue were up 39% from the prior-year quarter driven by strong net flows due to variable annuity sales of $8.6 billion and continued low lapse rates.
Also our hedging program continues to perform well despite the very volatile markets.
Corporate Benefit Funding operating earnings were up 45% over the prior-period quarter driven by higher net investment income coming from both variable and recurring income.
Premiums fees and other revenues were up 65% due to higher closeouts both in the U.S.
and the U.K.
and structured settlement sales.
Now let's move to International business.
International reported operating earnings in the third quarter of $578 million up from $189 million in the prior-year quarter largely due to the acquisition of Alico and the strong growth in the business particularly in the Latin American and Asia Pacific regions.
To give you a better sense of International's overall growth for the quarter our International revenues were $4 billion.
This is approximately 11% higher than the third quarter of 2010 on a combined basis as if we had owned Alico in both periods and it's 3% higher on a constant currency basis.
In addition we continue to see strong sales growth for the business.
The sales of $1.5 billion in the quarter represent year-over-year and sequential growth of 25% and 9% respectively on a constant rate basis.
In Japan operating earnings were $315 million up 29% over the second quarter of 2011 due to higher net investment income reduced claims from the March earthquake lower operating expenses and improved persistency.
The year-over-year increase in revenues on a combined basis was approximately 13% driven largely by the favorable exchange rate of the yen versus the U.S.
dollar and higher persistency.
On a constant rate basis revenues were up 2%.
Japan sales recovered strongly in the quarter at $534 million up 28% year-over-year on a constant rate basis and 22% over the sequential quarter.
Sales increased in all product and distribution channels with the stronger gains coming from the bank channel and in whole life and fixed annuities.
In the other international regions operating earnings were $263 million up 39% driven by the Alico acquisition and growth in the Latin America and Asia Pacific regions.
Overall the key business drivers included solid underwriting improved persistency lower operating expenses and a focus on high ROI products.
The year-over-year increase in revenues on a combined basis was approximately 10% for the region with strong revenue growth in both Latin America and Asia Pacific driving these results.
In Latin America premiums fees and other revenue were up 10% year-over-year highlighted by strong sales in accident and health in Argentina and Chile and the pension business in Mexico.
Overall persistency remains strong for the region.
Asia Pacific revenue is up 11% year-over-year driven by group sales in Australia and persistency improvements in Korea.
On a constant rate basis revenues were up 4% year-over-year while sales were up 23% on a constant rate basis a very strong result.
Overall our International business had a very good quarter and continues to perform well in spite of the challenging global environment.
We are realizing the value and growth expected from the Alico acquisition and we are delivering on our commitments.
Diversification of geography products and distribution has positioned International to withstand recessionary pressures.
Moving to expenses our operating expense ratio for the quarter was 23.2% and 20.3% when excluding the impact of MetLife Bank in pension and postretirement benefits.
Both ratios are below our 2011 guidance of 23.5% to 24.1% and 21.2% to 21.7% respectively.
Overall a very good result.
Turning to our investment portfolio.
Net unrealized gains in the fixed maturity and equity securities were $19.8 billion up from $11 billion last quarter.
Please keep in mind that interest rate-driven unrealized gains and losses in our investment portfolio are generally offset by changes in the economic value of our liabilities.
With regard to realized investment gains and losses in the third quarter we had after-tax investment portfolio net gains of $14 million.
Included in this net gain our impairments of $167 million after-tax of which $134 million after-tax relate to our the Greek sovereign debt holdings.
With respect to our derivatives portfolio we had net after-tax gains of $2.7 billion.
The impact of MetLife's own credit spreads contributed $1.3 billion after-tax while lower interest rates was the other key driver.
As a reminder derivative gains and losses related to MetLife's credit spreads do not have an economic impact of the company.
These large derivative gains had a significant and somewhat unintended impact on our overall portfolio yield for the quarter as a result of the mechanics of the yield calculation.
The overall portfolio yield fell by 20 basis points from 4.83% in Q2 to 4.63% this period.
Approximately 1/2 of this yield decline relates to the substantial increase in derivative asset values coupled with the related increase in cash collateral that we received from our derivative counterparties.
Overall we are very pleased with the performance of our investment portfolio and feel it is well positioned to deal with the challenging macro environment including the potential sustained flat rate environment.
Steve Goulart will provide you with more details in our investment portfolio shortly.
Now I would like to provide you with an update on our capital position.
Our preliminary statutory operating earnings and statutory net income for domestic insurance companies for the third quarter of 2011 was approximately a $5 million loss and $117 million gain respectively.
The results in the quarter were impacted by higher reserves related to the market performance in the quarter and other nonrecurring items which we mentioned earlier.
While reserve adjustments go through the income statement the hedges in our derivatives portfolio do not go to the income statement but are rather reflected in unrealized gains.
Therefore our total adjusted capital or TAC increased by $2.3 billion in the quarter primarily due to unrealized gains on derivatives and other invested assets and now stands at $28.7 billion as of September 30.
For the first 9 months of 2011 statutory operating earnings and statutory net income was approximately $1.4 billion and $1.5 billion respectively.
On a year-to-date basis this is about in line with our expectations.
In addition our international capital position is strong with Alico Japan's reported second quarter solvency margin ratio on the 2012 basis is 896%.
While the third quarter has not been reported we do expect to see similar levels.
Cash and liquid assets at the holding company at September 30 were approximately $3.3 billion.
Last quarter we provided an estimate of year-end 2011 holding company excess capital of about $5 billion which continues to be in line.
This excess was before capital management actions and assumed the $1 billion liquidity buffer.
Of this total we plan to use $750 million to repay maturing debt and about $780 million for common dividend payments in December of this year which leaves a little bit over $3 billion of additional holding company excess capital at year end.
In summary MetLife had a very good third quarter in spite of the ongoing challenging environment.
Now before I turn over to the operator for questions John McCallion has asked me due to time constraints that you limit yourself to one question and only one and only one follow-up which relates to your initial question make sure they relate.
Now I'd like to turn it back to the operator.
Thanks.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jay Gelb from Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> The variable annuities clearly benefited from trying to get the current roll-up rate.
What do you think that contributed in the quarter? Jay it's Bill Mullaney.
Is your question about specifically do I think the higher roll-up rate contributed to higher sales? Is that your question? Research Division</strong> I'm pretty sure that is the case.
I mean with $9 billion of sales in the quarter what do you think is a reasonable run rate going forward? Well as you know we're taking some steps to bring the roll-up rate down and we set the roll-up rate on Max.
It was very early in the year when interest rates were higher and there were some competitor products out there at 6%.
We wanted Max to get good traction in the market and so we set a 6% roll-up rate.
And then obviously the macroeconomic environment changed by the time that product got in the market which obviously made it quite attractive and that was a big contributor to the overall sales level in the third quarter.
In addition we did announce that we were bringing the roll-up rate down to 5.5% so there is some fire sale impact in the third quarter as a result of that.
So I think for the fourth quarter you can expect to see sales be lower than they were in the third quarter probably in the $7 billion to $7.5 billion range.
Again you're going to see some fire sale impact because the changes didn't take place until the second week in October.
And so we saw a pretty heavy volume on the 6% product in the first couple of weeks of October.
But then the run rate will obviously come down as a result of being in 5.5%.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And so would you think maybe $5 billion run rate going into early 2012 on a quarterly basis is good for a placeholder? Yes.
I would say it's probably in that range.
That's a good way to look at it.
Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a question also on variable annuities.
Bill maybe if you could talk about given the equity market volatility is in cost of option does the price of your charging for guarantees is that enough to cover the cost of hedging? And it doesn't seem like it would be but -- and if it isn't are you planning on taking any actions at some point? How are you looking at that? Yes.
Jimmy we're looking very closely at that.
For the third quarter because of the volatility in the markets the cost to hedge for the overall book was slightly above the fees that we were charging for the hedges.
So we are monitoring that pretty closely.
And over time if edging cost don't come back in line we would take some steps to adjust our fees.
Research Division</strong> And then just cheating a little bit I guess.
On variable annuities also Bill Wheeler mentioned that there was about an $0.08 hit because of a higher DAC.
I think as Steve's comments mentioned $1.28 as a normal run rate.
In the past you've added any market-related items to your estimate of run rate because that shouldn't repeat going forward but just wondering why you view $1.28 as a run rate as opposed to $1.36? So Jimmy I mean I think the answer to that is pretty simple.
We actually generally don't add back market impact one way or another.
And I think the only time I can remember that we did adjust for it  is when we had a huge change in the performance of the stock market.
So we actually did debate whether or not we should kind of add this to normalizing run rate.
But I guess my feeling is is that markets move up and down that's a part of the business we're in.
And unless it truly distorted the number it shouldn't be adjusted.
Research Division</strong> Because I'm looking at the list of that number list of numbers you gave us in the third quarter of last year and this is one of the items that you'd mentioned.
Well I can't remember the third quarter of the last year right at the top of my head.
But I'm not -- there isn't some special message there.
We decided...
Research Division</strong> So it's like $0.05 that third quarter of $43 million? Okay.
What we'll do is I mean -- we thought we'll give people the information.
Obviously we'll quantify the market impact and let them decide what they should normalize.
Research Division</strong> But as we think about that business that $0.08 is specifically related to DAC and not lower fees or something else that might be ongoing right? I'm sorry can you just say it one more time.
Research Division</strong> The $0.08 in the annuity business was specifically related to DAC and it's not lower fees or anything else that might be ongoing? That's correct.
That's exactly right.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Giovanni from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just one question regarding sort of the decision by the Fed.
Any way you can provide any insight into terms of kind of what you went to the Fed with? And then around that same tone any reason not to go to the board and get the approval from the board for what internally you guys are comfortable deploying and sharing that with investors? This is Steve.
The Fed process is one in which a disclosure around their supervisor information is not permitted.
Some of the language you heard from us actually was approved specifically by the Fed for us to give to you because we felt that given their action we really needed to say more than simply we can't raise our dividend.
So the language we gave you is pretty much all we can tell you about the inter-workings of this process.
We're simply not allowed to give you more than what we've given so far.
So I'm sorry to limit it but it's not our decision in terms of what can be disclosed.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk some about the conversations you and the board are having in terms of internally what you guys might be thinking is comfortable in terms of deployment? I think it's not a wise thing for us in the middle of this process with the Fed to start putting out those numbers.
We're working with the Fed closely you can be assured our board and we management are in sync on this issue.
We want to return capital to our shareholders as soon as possible.
We're working hard with the Fed to enable that to happen.
Your next question comes from the line of Colin Devine from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> I have sort of 3 small ones.
Bill first you mentioned stat earnings.
Can you just I guess quantify what the strain was from the very large VA sales? Because it seemed to me that was the bigger driver of why you actually reported a stat loss.
Second can you confirm that the -- I didn't catch it in the opening remarks that the guarantee step-up on the VA is now since been lowered to 5% so I would assume maybe for Bill Mullaney we're going to continue to have a fire sale at least through this quarter until you to get that product off.
And then lastly Bill what if you can't sell the bank what are you going to do? Okay.
You have 3 questions.
So I'll answer 1 and 3 and then I'll let Mr.
Mullaney answer 2.
So with regard to stat earnings yes.
So we did report basically a breakeven stat operating earnings quarter.
And you're right it was driven.
The breakeven number was driven by the fact that we did have to increase some of our stat reserves because of the VA not just the sales necessarily the strain from the sales but because of the market performance in the third quarter.
And that order of magnitude after tax was $400 million $500 million.
Now keep in mind that the hedging offset to that and that's what I tried to say in my prepared remarks is doesn't actually flow through the income statement.
But it does -- it shows up later in our statutory financials.
Stat is strange.
And if you picked all of our hedging including the hedging related to the VAs obviously we had a very very big stat gain with regard to total adjusted capital.
So yes we did have some strain caused by market performance in the variable annuity block but it was obviously substantially offset by hedging activity.
Research Division</strong> I'm getting at the commissions Bill.
I mean I'm thinking 6% on almost $9 billion of sales seems that's the biggest swing factor.
Well yes you do have ongoing strain.
But remember just keep in mind that we have a very large variable annuity block which we have ongoing fees.
So yes so we have decent stat strain from commissions every quarter right? But obviously our inforce sort of overwhelms that number in terms of the profits we get.
So with regard to the bank look I would just say we talked about a sale process.
That sale process is on track and so we're confident we will be able to sell the bank.
But if we do have a -- if for some reason that doesn't happen or we would probably Plan B though I think this would be in the extreme scenario is we would wind it down but I think a sale is much more likely.
It's Bill Mullaney.
So let me just add a little color to what Steve Kandarian said with his opening remarks about VAs.
So we made a decision to drop the roll-up rate to 5.5%.
That was effective in the middle of October.
And then we since filed to bring our roll-up rate down to 5% and that change will take place in the first quarter.
It's actually due first  week of January of 2012.
And so yes I think the fourth quarter will be somewhat noisy.
The run rate of VA sales just on the 5.5% product a fire sale impact from going from 6% to 5.5% and there will be some though I think a less of a fire sale impact going from 5.5% to 5%.
A couple of points I'd make.
The sales at 5.5% the return on those sales are good.
The ROIs are around 15%.
And so even in the fourth quarter or in the third quarter at the 9/30 capital markets the returns on the products were about 14% on the Max product.
The Max was over 2/3 of our VA sales in the third quarter.
And by moving down to 5% it also reduces our hedging costs and hedging costs are already reduced in the Max product because some of the hedging is being done inside the funds.
So we think that the steps we're taking to bring the roll-up rate down will get us to an appropriate level of sales going into 2012.
Your next question comes from the line of Joanne Smith from Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to talk about -- I have so many things I want talk about and I know I'm only allowed one question.
So I'm going to talk about non-bank SIFI.
So let's say that you get the bank sold and you're designated a non-bank SIFI it seems to me that the regulatory trends in this country are getting more and more tight to say the least.
And so what do you think the implications are for any insurance company that's designated a non-bank SIFI if you're having so much trouble as a bank holding company getting your capital plan approved.
Does that imply that there might be some constraints under the non-bank SIFI categorization? Obviously  at this point no one knows exactly who will be designated a non-bank SIFI or if you are designated what the rules will be.
And I suspect we won't know who's designated till some time in 2012.
And as to what it means it might even be 2013.
So that's just a guess on my part but that seems to be the direction things are going in.
The hope is over time people in Washington will understand the difference between the banking business model and the insurance industry business model.
And they are quite different.
Very different liquidity factors in terms of what kinds of liabilities they have.
It's just a very different business model.
One of the challenges is Washington has not regulated insurance.
The states have.
And the level of understanding of our industry is relatively limited.
It's growing but it's relatively limited at this point in time.
And we and others in the industry are working hard to help those in Washington making these policies better understand the differences in these models.
And if we are designated a non-bank SIFI what might be the appropriate way to regulate that group of companies.
At the end of the day we are discussing this issue at length with people in Washington and we're trying to make sure they understand the importance of a level regulatory field for our industry so that they don't simply pluck out a few companies and say you are non-bank SIFI and everyone else is not.
So that's also very important to us and the story is unfolding over really years here and our hope is we get to the right answer at the end of the day.
But no one knows at this point how this will sort out.
Research Division</strong> What worries me Steve is that the federal government seems to think they know the banking system very well and they really kind of messed that up.
So I certainly hope that there's a good education process that happens of the next year or so for the insurance industry because that could just be a mess.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein from Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> So I'm actually going to use my follow-up to follow-up on Colin's question and then a real question.
Can you just explain one thing which is if the hedging costs exceed the rider fee it's a little counterintuitive that the projected margins on Q3 sales and I assume into Q4 that the returns would be in the mid-teens.
I guess one can you explain that? And two are you fully hedging the product and is that incorporated in that mid-teen projected return on Q3 sales? Mark it's Bill Mullaney.
The bank's contract is performing well in the annuity business.
So even though the rider fees are slightly below the cost of hedging we're still able to generate the returns that I talked about earlier.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Bill Wheeler you gave a comment on private equity into the fourth quarter I don't think that's a huge surprise.
But you also mentioned that sec lending was fairly strong.
Can you just talk a little bit about securities lending and what is the outlook on that revenue stream and how sustainable is it? Maybe I'll pass it over to Steve Goulart.
Let me comment on private equity and sec lending.
For private equity as Bill said we had very good returns this quarter.
But given the lag in that and given what happened in the third quarter equity markets we do expect that to fall off in the fourth quarter.
And we wanted everyone to realize that again just reminding you that there's a lag in our performance and so we'll probably see that in the fourth quarter.
Sec lending continues to be very stable and very strong for us and over the near term we don't see that really changing.
Our balances remain pretty flat and margins still remain very positive.
The curve has seen some compression but given our investment strategies and low cost of funds we're able to maintain the spreads that we have in our business.
And like I said we foresee that continuing in the near future.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Kligerman from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to go with the Colin Devine 3 including 2 easy ones.
One the tax rate it was 26.4%.
I think at the beginning of the year you guided for 32%.
So should I consider the difference an unusual? Second on the SIFI item.
The regulator let's say your designated a SIFI would your regulator be the Fed or would it still be your insurance regulator? And then more extensive on the International.
Your PFO you mentioned was 3%.
Would that -- I think with some of the asset dispositions that would have been closer to say 6% 7% 8% if you kind of normalize it is that right? And what kind of revenue outlook are you expecting? This is Bill Wheeler.
I'll do the tax thing really quickly.
I think our projected tax rate that we said at the beginning of the year would be about -- effective tax rate would be about 30% because earnings are coming in just a little bit lower mainly because of a lot of the one timers we've talked about of this call.
We've moved the effective tax rate down to 29% for the year and the catch-up occurred this quarter.
So that's why you see the dip to 26%.
So it's a true up basically based on what's happened the last 2 quarters but still just getting the overall tax rate down to 29%.
Andrew it's Steve.
On the SIFI question we'd be regulated both by the Fed and we continue to be regulated by the state regulators.
So it would be both.
It's Bill Toppeta Andrew.
So let me start for context and go back to last year's Investor Day on the question of premiums and fees and if you recall what we said at that point was overall for the International segment.
We called out that sales growth would be 22% premium and fee growth would be 8% and the combination of those 2 would lead to earnings growth of 16% for this year.
So where do we stand now? I would say simply put we're right on track for the earnings growth which I think is the most important.
We're also on track for the sales growth.
The premium and fee growth as you said correct is on a constant rate basis 3%.
So we're short.
So here's why.
In the Legacy MetLife business we have intentionally not renewed some large group cases.
I can think of a few in particular one in Mexico a large one; one in Australia.
On the basis that they did not meet our profitability targets.
So those cases I would say would account for about 3%.
Also as you pointed out we've been making dispositions during the course of the year and I think it's important for me to tell you what is our planning process with respect to acquisitions and dispositions.
And that is simply that we don't include anything in the plan unless it's actually done okay.
So even though we're very certain that we're going to dispose of something as long as we still own it at a time of the plan we put it in the plan and we put it into the full year.
Same thing is true for acquisitions.
So we have been making dispositions during the course of this year things like Taiwan things like the closed block in the U.K.
things like Venezuela.
And those dispositions -- and I would say one other thing softness in the credit life business in Europe all those things account for almost the remaining 2%.
So I think that gets you from the 3% to the 8% that we talked about on Investor Day.
Now the only other item that I would mention here is that one more thing in some countries we are seeing a change in product mix from FAS 60 products to FAS 97 products which tends to dampen premium and fee growth.
Now generally I would say our experience tells us that that kind of thing is usually cyclical and not permanent.
That's one piece to remember.
The second thing I would say is on the margins and the ROEs on our FAS 97 products they're just as good or better than on our FAS 60 products.
So the product mix shift does not affect profitability.
But I would say this is also -- and I spoke about this on the last quarter conference call a little bit this is also why I think to get a fuller picture of our business of really what's going on in the business it's important not just to look at premiums and fees but it's also important to look at sales to look at persistency and to look at other metrics.
So that gives you a fuller picture.
I hope I'm being responsive to your question.
Your next question comes from the line of Randy Binner from FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just hoping to get an update on the DAC 09G changes if you have any estimates or color you can provide on the book value or earnings impact? We are going to give those estimates on Investor Day in early December.
We're not quite ready to give people I think a refined estimate.
Just a little color of course the thing that will impact us more than others is maybe the fact that we have a substantial amount of VOBA which has been created through our acquisitions over the past number of years.
So we do expect that earnings drag though we'd be able to quantify that more clearly in early December.
Research Division</strong> Is the VOBA issue more related to the recent Alico acquisition or is it kind of balanced across all the acquisitions over the years? Well it's more about Alico but that's only because Alico is the biggest and the most recent.
Obviously VOBA has been created on other acquisitions like travelers and such.
Research Division</strong> And so that VOBA was kind of branch distribution heavy or like a controlled distribution heavy? Is that a fair way to describe the Alico business? No no.
VOBA -- remember DAC gets wiped out in purchase accounting and it's replaced by VOBA.
VOBA is value of business acquired so it's really sort of determining the value of the in-force block based on various discount rates and hurdle returns.
That's how VOBA gets built.
Your final question comes from the line of Jeffrey Schuman from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to come back for clarification on the non-bank SIFIs.
I think Steve said that non-bank SIFIs would answer to the Fed.
But I was wondering about the role of the FSOC.
The FSOC clearly determines who is a non-bank SIFI.
But do they have any role in determining how they're regulated by the Fed or what the capital standards are or anything like that? FSOC is going to been involved in determining whether you're a non-bank SIFI but the regulation will be by the Fed going forward if you're designated as such.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because I was wondering obviously you have insurance representation on the FSOC.
But I guess if they were to hand you over to the Fed then I guess that influence doesn't continue.
Okay.
Thank you.
Greg and everyone on the phone we'll take a 10-minute break and we will come back to you at 9:05.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen you'll now hear music.
Please stay on the line.
Your host John McCallion is back on the line.
Thank you Greg.
We apologize everyone.
We had some technical difficulties with AT&amp;T.
But welcome back and we're going to get through this session of the call.
For this session of the call we'll be referring to the interest rate presentation materials that can be found on the Investor Relations portion of MetLife.com.
Before I start before we start let me refer you to the safe harbor statement on Slide 2 and this governs the statements made on today's call.
As the statement notes any and all forward-looking statements may turn out to be wrong.
For a discussion of the factors that could cause actual results to differ please see the risk factors in our 10-K and 10-Q reports filed with the SEC.
Starting on Slide 3 let me remind you that we will be using non-GAAP financial measures on today's call.
Slide 3 and 4 explain how we calculate these measures and the reasons we believe they are useful reconciliations to the most directly comparable GAAP measures are included in the appendix.
Now I'd like to turn the call over to Steve Kandarian.
Thank you John.
Slide 5 contains our agenda for today.
After some opening remarks I will turn the call over to Bill Wheeler who will go through the low interest rate scenario in detail highlighting where we have exposure and why our earnings will still be expected to grow but at a slower pace.
Steve Goulart will then describe the proactive steps we have taken to protect our portfolio from the impact of low interest rates including our purchase of derivatives that provide significant low rate protection that extends well into the next decade.
Finally Bill Mullaney will briefly cover some additional business actions that could be taken to address low interest rates should they persist.
As to recent actions we have mentioned on our previous call that we're reducing the roll-up rate on our GMIB Max product to 5% in January.
My hope is that by the end of this hour you will have a deeper appreciation of MetLife's ability to continue to grow earnings and capital even if interest rates remain at current levels for a number of years.
Now let's turn to Slide 6.
Like most major life insurers MetLife has been trading in tight correlation to the yield on a 10-year treasury note.
However I believe the market has overreacted to the impact low rates have on our business.
So I thought I would take a few moments to discuss the key reasons why MetLife can still prosper in a low-rate environment.
First MetLife is well diversified across products distribution channels and geography.
It is truly one of our real strengths.
Second risk management is fundamental to how we run the business.
It starts with prudent product design and continues through asset liability management which is a key reason why low interest rates have a relatively modest impact on our financial performance.
In addition we continue to leverage our private asset origination capabilities and look to opportunistically deploy derivatives to protect against difficult economic environments.
That's why we started purchasing interest rate floors in 2004 on a 10-year treasury traded above 4%.
Through proactive portfolio management we are well positioned to navigate through difficult economic environments whether it's a financial crisis that started in 2008 or a period of sustained low interest rates.
Slide 7 is a useful reminder of how diverse our business is from an earnings perspective.
Currently nearly 40% of our earnings are generated outside the United States.
Over time we believe this number will move closer to parity.
Most of our international products are not particularly sensitive to interest rates or equity markets.
They are primarily protection products where we assume insurance risks rather than market risks.
In addition many parts of our U.S.
business are not entirely impacted by low interest rates.
While all of our products have some sensitivity rates significant interest rate sensitivity is concentrated in 3 areas.
And here they are: Group Life Individual Life and our Retirement Products segment.
To be clear it is not all parts of these businesses.
However these are businesses and products in which we provide some minimum rate guarantees.
As a result in a sustained low interest rate environment these products will experience spread compression.
That doesn't mean that we don't make money in these products.
It just means that our earnings growth rate will be dampened.
You may have noticed that we did not mention certain long tail products such as long-term care and those in Corporate Benefit Funding.
While there is reinvestment risk with these products you will see later in this presentation that because of tight asset liability management and prudent hedging the financial impact of low rates on these products is very modest.
Now let's turn to Slide 9.
The blue line is the 4 quarter moving average of a blended 5-year and 10-year U.S.
Treasury yield.
As you can see in the chart back in 2000 when we became a public company the blended rate was around 6%.
These rates have come down significantly over the past decade and recently had been in the 2% to 3% range.
The red line in this chart represents the unweighted average of the annualized spreads shown in our quarterly financial supplement for Group Life; Variable and Universal Life; Non-Medical Health; deferred annuities which is part of our Retirement Products segment; and Corporate Benefit Funding.
While our spreads have fluctuated largely due to the performance of variable investment income core spreads have been relatively stable over time.
You can see that the average spread over the entire period shown reflected by the gray line is around 200 basis points.
This didn't happen by accident.
It is a result of our making effective use of the management tools I mentioned earlier prudent product design ALM hedging risk management and managing the company for the long run.
Turning to Slide 10 let me first describe the assumptions we used to create this analysis.
We held interest rates flat for the next 5 years with a 10-year treasury yield of 2%.
And we held the slope of the treasury yield curve constant as well.
Then to gauge the impact of this scenario we compared the results to a base case which is the June 2011 forward curve consensus.
In the base case the 10-year treasury starts at 3% and increases to 4.5% by 2013.
We also assumed an S&amp;P 500 growth rate of 5%.
In addition GDP growth remained slow and there is no material change to the current unemployment rate.
Nor do we assume any extraordinary management actions to counteract this environment.
The intent is to isolate the impact of low interest rates.
Turning to Slide 11.
Here is a summary of the results of our analysis.
Overall earnings for MetLife will continue to grow but at a slower rate.
While U.S.
business earnings will remain relatively flat this will be offset by the limited impact of low rates on our international earnings.
I should note while we would not be required to strengthen statutory capital reserves we might make modest adjustments as we have in the past.
Finally on a GAAP basis we'd expect no loss recognition over the next 5 years but some impact to DAC and goodwill.
All in all we think the impact of a sustained low-rate environment on our financial performance is quite manageable.
With that I will turn the call over to Bill Wheeler who will walk you through our analysis in greater detail.
Bill? Thanks Steve and good morning again everybody.
Steve just walked you through the assumptions for this analysis and the financial impact for us if we were to remain in a sustained flat rate interest environment.
My job is now to provide you with a detailed view of that analysis.
So let's turn to Slide 13.
To analyze the impact of this scenario we looked at both what would happen to operating earnings as well as to certain areas of our balance sheet.
First the blue line shows the base interest case -- rate assumptions where the 10-year starts at roughly 3% and then if you follow that blue line increases to 4.5% by 2013.
Then we illustrate the flat rate scenario with the a yellow line where the 10-year yield drops to 2% and then it stays there over the time period.
The operating earnings difference in 2012 as a result of this scenario is $0.21.
In 2013 the total impact will be $0.42.
It's a coincidence that it happens to be an additional $0.21.
Now it's important to understand that this is the incremental impact.
MetLife's earnings would be growing in the base case.
Another way to show this on the next slide.
So let me explain this chart on Slide 14 to you.
In 2011 we assumed MetLife will earn approximately $5 billion in operating earnings.
That includes both the domestic and international businesses.
We've assumed for purposes of this illustration that MetLife's earnings would grow at 8% per year.
That's 6% growth domestically and about 10% growth in international for a blended rate of 8%.
So in 2016 earnings would have grown to about $7.5 billion.
However in the flat rate scenario we project that we would have about $500 million of spread compression in our U.S.
business by 2016.
I'll give you more details about that in a minute.
We would also have a decline in operating earnings of roughly $700 million primarily from 2 other factors.
First we estimate our pension cost would increase another $50 million after-tax and there would also be a $600 million decline in investment income from the assets held in our surplus account which shows up in corporate and other.
The remaining $50 million is made up primarily of international as U.S.-related assets.
Therefore the total incremental decline in operating earnings in 2016 would be approximately $1.2 billion.
Remember in the base case we said earnings would grow to approximately $7.5 billion so that in the stress case they will only grow to $6.3 billion.
That represents about a 4% implied annual growth rate over the 5-year period.
I think that's worth repeating.
Our earnings will grow at about 4% annually not decline as the market seems to expect.
Now let's look at the components of spread compression for U.S.
business in 2016 and as shown on Slide 15.
The bars show the compression in earnings relative to the base case interest rate environment for each business segment by 2016.
It is important to note that the benefit from our interest rate hedges is also in these numbers.
Steve Goulart will give more detail about our interest rate hedging program in a moment.
The biggest impact is in Retirement Products or our Annuity business at $200 million in 2016.
Almost all of the impact here is in our deferred annuities where much of the in-force block has a 3% minimum guarantee.
We assume that customers will maintain their funds and their contracts with the 3% minimum and we will therefore experience spread compression as we reinvest assets and lower interest rates.
Partially offsetting this compression is the fact that we will lower crediting rates on that part of our block where we are not at minimum crediting rates today.
We will also receive income from our hedging contracts.
The story is similar in Individual Life.
Lower reinvestment income partially offset by dividend cuts in our traditional products and crediting rate reductions in our UL products as well as higher hedging income.
There's also a DAC true up caused by lowering dividends here.
While universal life has interest rate risk only 35% of the block is at minimum crediting rates and we have a very effective ALM strategy.
Therefore much of the potential impact in this scenario is muted.
In Group Life while these products in general have significant repricing flexibility the impact is in the Total Control Account or TCA.
In the flat rate scenario all of our TCA balances are already at their crediting rate minimums but we do have substantial hedging activity here to partially offset the decline in reinvestment income.
In Non-Medical Health only a small amount of the impact comes from long-term care which might surprise some of you.
Our long-term care block which is now closed to new business is very well immunized against changes in interest rates.
Most of the impact here comes from our disability business where lower reinvestment income cannot be offset by a reduction in liability crediting rates although we do have some hedging income here as well.
The small impact of $40 million in Corporate Benefit Funding is probably the most surprising number on this slide.
Despite the long duration of these products the cash flows here are very predictable and we have very tight cash flow matching in the segment as well as several deferred starting derivative contracts to help.
Again Steve Goulart will give you some more detail about that in a minute.
Finally as you would expect the impact on Auto &amp; Home is very small.
So we've discussed how low interest rates can affect normal operating earnings.
Now we turn to the potential impact on our balance sheet on Slide 16.
We conduct a number of examinations at least annually and sometimes more often to determine the adequacy of our statutory reserves our GAAP reserves the level of our deferred acquisition costs and whether or not our goodwill should be impaired.
Each one of these analyses is influenced by where interest rates are at a moment and what our interest rate outlook is for the future.
So starting with the statutory reserve cash flow testing we are required by New York State to analyze every major block of business in the U.S.
annually.
Other states generally allow cash flow testing to be done on a more consolidated basis.
We take the current policy liabilities in the specific assets backing those liabilities and project that to net cash flow for virtually in the entire life of the liabilities and that could be as long as 75 years.
We do these cash flow projections under 7 different interest rates scenarios which are called the New York 7.
And we do a similar type of analysis for GAAP reserve cash flow testing as well.
With regard to DAC or deferred acquisition costs we amortize DAC over the life of the in-force policy generally in sync with when the profits emerge from the in-force block.
We review the assumptions about the ultimate profitability of this block of business and that would include our claims experience our lapse rates the expenses of servicing the block the performance of the stock market if it's a product like a variable annuity; and of course the impact of interest rates.
We don't change these assumptions very often because the liabilities are generally very long.
So even if current experience is different from our DAC assumptions we usually assume that over the life of the product the results will revert back to the norm.
But we do occasionally change these assumptions that's called a DAC unlocking and it will cause us to change our DAC balance and that might be positive or negative by the way.
I give you this background because in this low interest rate scenario we assumed that we will start lowering our interest-rate assumptions in our DAC calculations beginning in 2014.
I don't believe it would happen any earlier than that.
If we believe that interest rates were going to improve after 5 years I don't think we would change any of our long-term interest rate assumptions.
But in this scenario we don't assume an improvement and I think it's important we show how big the DAC write off might be if we don't assume any future improvements.
Finally when we acquire a business goodwill is usually created in the purchase accounting process and then is allocated to the appropriate business line.
In the last financial crisis we came very close to impairing the goodwill in our Retirement Products business because both the stock market and the interest rates had declined materially and significantly affected the profitability of the business.
Many of our peers did write off some or all of their goodwill in the annuities businesses during that period.
No other business at MetLife is even close to a goodwill impairment.
But in this scenario the stock market performance is better but interest rates are even lower so there is a chance we would have some good -- level of goodwill impairment likely sooner rather than later.
Now let's look at Slide 17 which shows the results of our balance sheet analysis.
So in our low interest rate scenario what were the results? I'm sure you'll be glad to know that we have very healthy statutory insurance reserves.
And while we don't think we will be required to strengthen reserves even at these interest rate levels we may have some modest strengthening.
Our GAAP reserves are also very strong and we expect no GAAP loss recognition under this scenario.
With regard to DAC we have assumed we will have negative unlockings in 2014 '15 and '16 in our Annuities and Universal Life product areas.
The cumulative impact of these unlockings is estimated at $425 million after-tax with most of that occurring in 2016.
Also we believe that in this scenario we would impair some or all of the $1.7 billion in our Retirement Products segment.
If we impaired it all that would be about $1.2 billion after-tax.
To put the DAC and goodwill write-offs in context we currently have $61 billion of GAAP stockholders' equity and these charges would represent a little more than one quarter's earnings for us.
In other words they would not materially change MetLife's financial position.
So I think the bottom line of this study we have undertaken is that if the current low interest rate environment lasted for the next 5 years it would have an impact on our financial performance but it definitely would not weaken the company or put us in a perilous financial position.
Now I'd like to pass the presentation over to Steve Goulart to discuss how our investment actions have positioned us to help mitigate some of the financial impact of a low interest rate environment.
Steve? Thanks Bill and good morning everyone.
I'll start on Slide 19.
I'm going to talk a lot about our asset liability management in this section.
It's the critical underpinning to this analysis.
And most importantly it's the asset liability management you've practiced in the past that matters most because what you can do today is not that meaningful.
There really aren't any magic levers to pull at this point.
If you practiced sound asset liability management you're going to be in reasonably protected shape.
And at Met we've always practiced sound consistent and disciplined asset liability management.
Our investment management structure and practices include not only investment professionals but also associates from finance and the business lines as well.
Portfolios are managed according to underlying guidelines as well as ongoing input from ALM committees and regular relative value and asset allocation reviews.
And importantly while we pay attention to total returns we're essentially liability-driven investors.
That is we invest according to the needs our liabilities create while seeking optimal returns in liquidity.
As a result our portfolios are highly matched from a cash flow perspective and I'll show you some examples shortly.
Additionally Steve showed you the steadiness and dependability of our net margins over the last 10 years.
This is a reflection of our disciplined ALM practices.
That is also what led us to add low interest rate protection starting in 2004 long before anyone started talking about it.
And I'll discuss that further in a few minutes too.
We've continued to expand our capabilities as we have grown.
Our commercial and agricultural mortgage lending and real estate platform is the best in the industry and we have the track record to prove it.
Over the last 10 years we've originated over $74 billion of commercial mortgages.
And in that time period our total credit losses are well less than 1/2 of 1%.
Our ability to originate assets like these and private placements continues to be strong in this environment.
They provide significant additional net investment income compared to public securities and government bonds.
Given the focus on ALM on asset allocation and risk management we actively review and manage our portfolios to ensure we will continue to meet the needs of the liabilities and our policyholders as well as and most importantly generate attractive returns to our shareholders.
Starting on Slide 20 let's take a closer look at 3 product investment portfolios that have traditionally been thought of as having significant reinvestment risks: Corporate Benefit Funding deferred annuities and long-term care.
As a result of our consistent ALM practices we have modest reinvestment risk in all 3.
First is Corporate Benefit Funding specifically our long-term portion which consist of U.S.
and U.K.
pension closeouts structured settlements and other benefit funding products.
It is a fairly large portfolio consisting of $45 billion in invested assets.
On the right bar you can see total expected investable cash flow for 2012 of $2.9 billion.
However as indicated in green $2.6 billion of this represents new sales which are priced in current markets so there's no reinvestment risk for the bulk of the cash flows.
The small red slice of $300 million represent net cash flow from the portfolio to be reinvested.
This includes net investment income roll-offs and maturities net of outflows to customers.
This relationship continues very steadily into the future.
2013 is actually even better than this so you can see the true reinvestment risk in Corporate Benefit Funding is minimal.
On Slide 21 we look at deferred annuities part of our Retirement Products segment.
Assets are nearly $25 billion.
On the right you see investable cash flow totals $2.7 billion.
$600 million of this total represents new sales which again are sold at current market rates so have minimal reinvestment risk.
But there are 2 other categories to show you.
First the orange slice represents our estimate of how much existing customers will deposit at their guaranteed rates which would represent reinvestment risk to us.
However it is worth noting that we also have $10 billion of interest rate floors in this portfolio protecting us against rate guarantees.
The red slice is $1 billion of net cash flows from the portfolio again representing inflows from the portfolio net of outflows to customers.
These 2 slices account for nearly all of the $200 million in spread compression over 5 years that Bill Wheeler showed you in Retirement Products earlier.
The final portfolio that I want to show you is long-term care on Slide 22.
Long-term care is a fairly small portfolio at $6.8 billion.
As you know we stop selling long-term care so there are no new sales.
However we still receive renewal premiums on the block.
You can see here we expect investable cash flows of $900 million in 2012 representing those renewal premiums and portfolio cash flows.
Nearly 1/2 of the $900 million or about $400 million is already hedged on a longer-term basis to provide us with interest rate protection.
And again this relationship continues into the future.
I hope this has helped further impress upon you the importance of asset liability management at MetLife.
We are very disciplined and consistent and it has served us well.
Now let's turn to Slide 23.
I mentioned earlier one of the previous outgrowths of our diversified ALM existing low rate protection.
In 2004 we started adding interest rate floors.
They're very cheap at the time and we thought they added prudent protection against the low interest rate environment.
I don't think many people were concerning themselves with this kind of an environment at the time but we were.
We added over $47 billion notional amounts through interest rate floors swaps and swaptions over the ensuing years.
In 2012 this protection would provide nearly $500 million in pretax income.
Almost as important you should note that this protection extends beyond 2020 and well into the next decade.
Further it is with a large and diversified group of counterparties.
And consistent with our practices we continue to look at different scenarios and what they mean to us.
As an example we have been modestly adding protection against rising rate scenarios.
On to Slide 24.
As we look forward there's more to do.
We will continue broadening the asset mix and diversity of our international portfolios which is part of our strategy upon closing Alico.
We do this regardless of interest rates but it will further bolster our net investment income.
I mentioned commercial mortgages earlier.
We've been able to continue expanding here as well as in agricultural lending real estate equity and private placements without taking undue risk due in large part to current market conditions and opportunities and our strong franchises in these areas.
Of course we'll continue to analyze ways of protecting the portfolio through derivative and other ALM strategies.
But most of all we will continue to adhere to the disciplined ALM and risk management practices the way we've always done.
Now before I turn it over to Bill Mullaney I want to quickly review another topic with you our European investment exposure.
There are 3 slides in the appendix starting on Slide 32 which summarize this.
MetLife's total European exposure is approximately $42 billion in GAAP book value which is less than 10% of our general account portfolio.
It's important to note that the market value exceeds the GAAP book value by more than $1 billion.
Generally speaking our European exposures focused on those higher-rated countries in the region.
The largest holdings are our $24 billion of non-financial corporate bonds.
These holdings are in companies that are market leaders in the utility telecom or infrastructure sectors or large investment grade companies that are globally diversified such as food and beverage energy or pharmaceuticals.
I would highlight that over 90% of our European portfolio is investment-grade and of the 10% which is below investment grade approximately 60% of it is in the corporate sector.
Less than 2% or about $8.8 billion of our portfolio is invested in European financials.
This is an area where MetLife has been reducing exposure for nearly 2 years.
Within financials our European hybrid exposure is less than $1.4 billion or less than 0.35% of our total portfolio.
Our hybrid positions are concentrated in financial companies in the U.K.
Netherlands and Switzerland.
As you can see from the slide we hold approximately $6.9 billion in European banks.
We've sold nearly $3.5 billion in book value since early 2010 at average prices in the mid-'90s.
Sales have focused on institutions with exposure to peripheral Europe lower preference capital structure instruments and larger absolute exposures particularly where we had any credit concerns.
Our remaining holdings are generally in the larger better-capitalized European banks.
Turning to our peripheral sovereign exposure.
When we purchased Alico a year ago we initially acquired $1.8 billion of GAAP book value exposure of which approximately $726 million or 40% was Greece.
Since then we've sold approximately $1.1 billion in book value of peripheral sovereigns.
Our remaining book value exposure to the peripheral sovereigns is now $571 million of which $377 million is Greece.
Slide 34 provides the key takeaways relating to our European exposure.
But let me just say in summary we've managed our exposures to the most sensitive credits very well and according to plan.
We knew Alico had exposures that we would need to proactively manage.
We've managed them down materially and we will continue to do so.
Given the size and diversification of our total portfolio we do not feel that our remaining European exposures pose a material risk and we deem our level of exposure to be very manageable going forward.
With that let me now introduce Bill Mullaney.
Thanks Steve and good morning everybody.
In addition to the actions that we're taking on the investment portfolio there are also actions being taken in the business to address the interest rate risk environment.
As you would expect the most impactful action we can take is to increase prices where we can on existing business.
The most common way this is done is for products with shorter liabilities that renew periodically.
An example of this is our group insurance businesses.
This business renews annually subject to rate guarantees.
So we have the opportunity to adjust prices to reflect the current environment.
Auto &amp; Home is another business that renews annually where we have the ability to change prices.
So as you saw in the earlier slide these businesses are not particularly interest rate sensitive.
We also have some longer liability businesses in which the contract permits us to increase prices.
As we have discussed in the past we've been raising prices on our in-force long-term care business to improve returns.
On Slide 26 here are some additional actions that we're taking and some of the actions that we can take in the future in dealing with low interest rates.
For longer liability businesses where we can change prices here is some actions we can take: In our variable annuity business for example one of the actions we are pursuing is adding some of the new funds that we have in our new VA product to our in-force business.
These funds are managed to reduce volatility but also reduce interest rate exposure by virtue of the interest rate swaps that are in the protected growth strategies funds.
As a result these products require less capital.
Getting these funds adopted in existing business in a meaningful way could increase returns by reducing our capital requirements.
It will also decrease the amount of hedging that we need to do since some of the hedges are embedded in the funds.
If low interest rates persist we're also looking at implementing an increase in fees when a VA policyholder elects to step up the contract to the higher income base.
We have more flexibility on business we write going forward as we can adjust prices to reflect the current environment.
In the past we've talked about how we measure returns on new business.
As interest rates have come down over the last couple of years we continue to adjust prices to reflect the low interest rate environment.
More interest rate-sensitive products such as Universal Life structured settlements pension closeouts and Group Disability have all seen increases in prices in some cases multiple price increases to reflect our expected returns on the assets investment and we will continue to do this.
Another action we've taken is to reduce the minimum interest rate guarantees we have embedded in our products.
Before the year 2000 it was not uncommon for many products to have minimum interest rate guarantees of 3%.
Over the last decade we've been reducing these minimum guarantees.
The total control account is a great example of this.
The 3% minimum guaranteed rate was reduced to 1.5% in April 2003 and reduced again to 0.5% in April 2009.
We're also considering whether to reduce the minimum further to reflect the current environment and we are taking similar steps with our other products.
And finally we can put greater emphasis on selling less interest rate-sensitive products either through pricing actions adjusting compensation to agents or placing some limits on more interest rate-sensitive offerings.
And not on the slide here but obviously we also have the option to reduce expenses and our businesses as we look to maintain returns in the low interest rate environment.
With that let me turn it back over to Steve Kandarian.
Thank you Bill.
Let me wrap up by summarizing the key takeaways from today's call starting on Slide 28.
Overall even if interest rates remained at historically low levels for another 5 years MetLife's earnings will continue to grow the impact in our balance sheet would be modest no stat reserve strengthening will be required and most importantly we will continue to generate excess capital.
We also possess a number of tools that management can and would use to respond to protracted low rates.
To conclude on Slide 29 I believe MetLife is less of a play on a 10-year treasury and more of a play on the growing middle class around the world which is eagerly seeking financial protection and retirement security.
It is our diversification that will provide us with strong and growing earnings.
Even under a scenario of prolonged low interest rates the U.S.
business would hold steady while the International business would provide continued earnings growth.
This is yet another testament to our commitment to managing MetLife for the long term.
We saw the financial downturn coming long before others and took a number of steps that might have seemed overly cautious at the time.
Now with our recent acquisition of Alico and the actions we have taken in our U.S.
business we are well positioned to weather a prolonged period of low interest rates.
If rates returned to more normal levels the amount of value we create for our shareholders will only accelerate.
With that I will turn the call back to John McCallion.
Thanks Steve and again we'd like to apologize for the technical difficulties we had.
This will be available for replay.
Again the dial-in number is the same as was in the press release at (320) 365-3844.
And obviously we in Investor Relations will be available for your questions as well.
We're going to extend the call for 10 minutes for Q&amp;A.
I understand we're backing up against some other calls here but for those that can stay on we'll make ourselves available for another 10 minutes.
So let me turn it back over to Greg for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I have one going back to the third quarter and then one for this one if I could.
When you guys characterized excess capital in the prior call you mentioned $3 billion at the holding company at year end after you paid the common dividend and the $750 million debt maturity.
And I believe that was above your $1 billion consistent cushion.
My question for you is this hypothetically speaking if you weren't a bank holding company and subject to the stress testing is it your view that the entire $3 billion is fully deployable? Yes.
Research Division</strong> And then the last question I have for you is just -- is there a certain type of insurance business that if you were looking at it let's say from an M&amp;A perspective in this type of 5-year 2% 10-year treasury yield type of environment that you would be extremely concerned about its ability to pass the statutory cash flow testing or New York 7 test? And if so which types of business would sort of be on the top of your list of concerns? No.
I'm not going to go there.
No.
You got your job John.
Research Division</strong> All right.
If I could just follow up then with a different one.
The pension cost the incremental $50 million over the next several years that surprised me as low.
I guess the question for you is why? You're right.
It is low.
But remember that's the 2016 number.
It actually -- it's interesting the impact is later in the 2016 time frame as assumptions get modified and smoothed.
It's a bigger impact in the early years and that's factored into that $0.21.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Understood.
So that's just the incremental $50 million from 2015 to 2016? No.
Actually it's from now until then.
But it starts -- if it's a $50 million impact then it's a bigger number now and then as the impact gets smoothed over time.
But in the $0.21 number for 2012 we include the full '12 impact of the pension.
Your next question comes from the line of Thomas Gallagher from Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just had a quick one from the earlier call as well then an interest rate one.
I just want to confirm I know for 2012 you're going to need Fed approval for your capital management.
Assuming the bank sale goes through I just want to confirm that your understanding is you will no longer need Fed approval post the sale of that bank in terms of capital management? Tom that's correct.
If the bank gets sold and we're no longer a bank holding company.
The Fed would not be approving our capital management.
Obviously it's a little time before we get that bank sold we're doing everything we can to move that along as fast as possible but there are number of regulatory approvals that are necessary to go through.
So I can't tell you exactly the timing is going to be.
We're hoping by the end of the second quarter of 2012 that we'd no longer be a bank holding company.
Tom I should probably add that we're going to resubmit here in January and are looking forward to hearing back from the Fed sometime before the end of March.
So you can figure out that timing in terms of bank holding company.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So your timing back from the SCAP [ph] would be potentially March.
The potential close of the sale of the bank end of 2Q.
So for the 2012 plan it sounds like it would be Fed approval but then beyond that the hope would be no longer assuming the sale of the bank goes through.
Is that the right way to think about it? Yes.
So most likely we'll be receiving a response from the Fed before we're no longer a bank holding company.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
That's what I thought.
And then on the interest rate side on Slide 15 when you get into the $540 million of spread compression by product are you allocating any hedge offsets? And can you just give us an idea on how you're allocating the hedge gains as a partial offset? Is it done pro rata or -- that's my first question on interest rates.
Yes.
The hedging offsets and that was in my remarks are in these numbers.
And it's not pro rata or anything like that.
The derivative the specific derivatives contracts which are both swaps and floors as well as swaptions are allocated to different portfolio and of course it's the match the risk and the liability shape and things like that.
So that's how it's allocated.
Research Division</strong> And Bill what's the aggregate hedge gain in 2016 again that are -- these are net numbers obviously but what is the absolute hedge gain that's being assumed here for 2016? I think the way to look at that is look at the chart.
Let's just go to that page quickly.
Whatever it is got to dig down there.
I think it's on Page 23.
And you can kind of see that.
If you assume the orange line which is the middle in 2016 you can see that the numbers crudely $600 million pretax derivative income from all these contracts.
Research Division</strong> That's pretax and these are after-tax numbers that $540 million? That's right.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then the last question I had is when you do this interest rate assumption are you assuming any level of sort of stressed prepayment activity from your portfolio meaning some convexity prepays on mortgage backs or bond calls or are you not making much of an assumption there? It's Steve Goulart.
Yes we are.
I mean again we're reflecting how we think the investment portfolio would performed given this [Audio Gap] [Technical Difficulty] Research Division</strong> Mortgage-backed prepays? Tom it's John.
We'll address the that off-line.
We're going to have to just keep moving here.
Next question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to stick with the pattern of one earnings call and then one interest rate question.
On the capital issue and I hear what you're saying about applying for approval and all that but let's just assume that for whatever reason regulatory-wise or political-wise you don't get to redeploy the capital that you'd like to.
My question is what is Plan B? Because you're going to be building a ton of capital.
You mentioned the dividends coming out of the international subs in January so you're going to be sitting on a lot of this capital.
So what is Plan B? What are the alternatives in terms of what you can do with that? And then I'll have an interest rate question? Let me start by saying our expectation is our plan will be approved next year.
So that's our starting point.
So you're saying what if it's not approved? We will continue generating excess capital.
We will look for ways to deploy it.
We hope to no longer be a bank holding company by midyear.
So we will -- things will unfold on that basis.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> So just as a follow-up I mean if you wanted to do something with that capital in terms of M&amp;A or what have you would you need approval for that as well or is it just the capital return to shareholders? We'll look at M&amp;A in the normal course.
Obviously we look at it in the context of how accretive is it compared to a share buyback.
Right now as you know we can't do the share buyback but our assumption is we will be able to do share buybacks in the first part of next year.
So we will continue looking at M&amp;A opportunities.
We inform the Fed about our activities but we don't seek approval from them.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Terrific.
And then just on the interest rate presentation.
Thanks by the way that's very helpful.
But you mentioned those stat reserve impact or the GAAP impact is pretty small in terms of reserves 5 years out but -- not this is likely but what happens if we extend the time frame beyond 2016.
I guess at what point does it become a bigger problem in terms of stat reserves or GAAP reserves? Is there a cliff some time beyond 2016 or how should we think about that? No.
There's no cliff.
Remember the way stat works we're actually projecting the cash flows to the life of the liability and then present valuing it back.
So we're not thinking that somehow magically in like 2017 that answer will change.
And the GAAP analysis works the same way.
So there wouldn't be a cliff kind of impact there.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then quick question for Steve Goulart.
In your plan what is the new money rate assumption that you're using in this 5-year outlook? Based on -- essentially what we're seeing currently which is just under 4%.
And your final question today comes from the line of Nigel Dally from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So in the investment portfolio can you provide some details as to how you're changing your asset mix given the current environment? I'm guessing traditional corporate looks somewhat less attractive there.
What are the key areas that you're looking at increasing your allocation of your investments? And perhaps you can also provide some details internationally as to how you're broadening your asset mix there as well? Nigel it's Steve.
Some of this is -- also what I commented on in the low rate scenario too.
What we're seeing today is really still great opportunities in private asset originations and commercial mortgages and agricultural mortgages.
So we have been over the course of the year increasing our allocations of those sectors.
And as we look forward to next year we're likely to see that relationship continue.
At the same time we continue to check from a relative value basis how it compares versus other opportunities and traditional corporate bonds and the like.
But we really like what we see in private assets.
Well thank you everyone.
Again we will post the replay information on our Investor Relations portion of the website.
And that's going to end the call.
Thanks for joining.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the MetLife Fourth Quarter 2011 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to read the following statement on behalf of MetLife.
Except with respect to historical information statements made in this conference call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements relating to trends in the company's operations and financial results and the business and products of the company and its subsidiaries.
MetLife's actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward-looking statements as result of risks and uncertainties including those described from time to time in MetLife's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
MetLife specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I would like to turn the call over to John McCallion Head of Investor Relations.
Great.
Thank you Greg and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MetLife Fourth Quarter 2011 Earning Call.
We will be discussing certain financial measures not based on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles so-called non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures may be found on the Investor Relations portion of metlife.com in our earnings press release our Quarterly Financial Supplements and in the Other Financial Information section.
A reconciliation of forward-looking financial information to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is not accessible because MetLife believes it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of net investments and net derivative gains and losses which can fluctuate from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
I would also like to bring your attention to one item.
As noted in our press release during the fourth quarter of 2011 MetLife began reporting certain operations of MetLife Bank and Insurance operations in the Caribbean Region Panama and Costa Rica as divested businesses.
As a result we have modified our definition of operating earnings to exclude the impact of these divested businesses and prior periods have been reclassified to confirm -- conform to the current period segment presentation.
Now joining me this morning on the call are Steve Kandarian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Eric Steigerwalt Interim Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we'll take your questions.
Also here with us today to participate in the discussion are other members of management including Bill Wheeler President of Americas; Steve Goulart Chief Investment Officer; and Bill Toppeta Vice Chairman of EMEA and Asia.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
Let me begin this morning with by an overview of MetLife's performance for the full year 2011.
Overall MetLife had a solid year.
We generated operating earnings per share of $5.02 up 16% from 2010 and our operating return on shareholders' equity was 11% up 100 basis points from 10% in 2010.
These results are even more noteworthy in light of a challenging external environment the insurance industry faced in 2011.
The global macroeconomic environment remain volatile.
Interest rates declined equity markets were flat and several natural disasters in both the United States and Japan drove up claims.
Adjusting for certain onetime items which we discussed at our December investor call MetLife's 2011 operatings -- operating earnings would have been $5.25 per share.
Capping a solid 2011 was a strong fourth quarter.
MetLife delivered operating earnings per share of $1.31 up 11% year-over-year.
In our U.S.
Businesses underwriting discipline continue to produce favorable results in Group Life with a loss ratio of 85.2% as well as in Dental.
In addition core spreads held relatively stable despite the low interest rate environment largely as a result of our disciplined asset liability management our hedging strategies and our private asset origination capabilities.
Outside the United States we continue to be pleased with our financial results and our progress in integrating Alico.
Compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 sales increased by 12% on a combined basis while premiums fees and other revenue rose by 1%.
We generated $570 million in operating earnings on $3.8 billion of premiums fees and other revenues.
Top line growth was negatively impacted by the disposition of noncore businesses nonrenewals of certain large group accounts and the accounting impact of a shift towards savings products.
In Japan sales increased in the Bank and Independent channels.
In other international regions we benefited from our acquisition in Turkey and in leveraging of our accident health capabilities in Latin America and Asia Pacific.
Total sales of A&amp;H a low capital high-ROE product increased roughly 25% year-over-year.
Looking ahead we remain confident in the growth of our non-U.S.
businesses.
As we said on our December investor call we expect to grow operating earnings by roughly 14% outside of the United States in 2012 after adjusting for the new accounting treatment of deferred acquisition costs.
One final note from the quarter concerns variable annuity sales.
As we discussed on our last call we sold $8.6 billion of VAs in the third quarter of 2011.
In the fourth quarter VA sales declined 16% to $7.2 billion in line with our expectations.
As I have said previously one of our guiding principles at MetLife is to strike the right balance between growth profitability and risk.
Consistent with that principle we are committed to actively managing the level of our VA sales.
In January we once again reduced the roll-up rate on our GMIB Max product from 5.5% to 5%.
This change is having the desired effect.
VA sales in the early part of the year are tracking with our 2012 guidance of $17.5 billion to $18.5 billion consistent with the level of VA sales prior to 2011.
With the management actions we are taking we are confident that VA sales will remain an important part of our overall product mix.
Despite the low interest rate environment in which we are operating MetLife's businesses continue to generate excess capital.
We finished 2011 where we expected with $3.5 billion of deployable capital.
By the end of 2012 we anticipate deployable capital to grow to $6 billion to $7 billion before any deployments.
As I previously mentioned it is our intention to begin returning excess capital to shareholders this year pending regulatory approval.
In January we submitted our 2012 capital plan to the Federal Reserve and expect to receive a response before the end of the first quarter.
Qualitatively we believe we have developed a robust forward-looking capital planning process consistent with the Fed's guidelines.
Quantitatively we specifically designed our capital plan to meet the Fed's requirement that we have sufficient capital to continue operations throughout times of economic and financial stress.
Finally we believe that approval of our capital plan is consistent with the Fed's mandate to promote maximum employment as MetLife shareholders would redeploy idle capital in a more productive manner.
At the same time we continue to move forward with our plans to seize being a bank holding company.
On December 27 2011 we announced the sale of our depository business GE Capital which we expect to close during the second quarter.
In addition we are writing -- we are winding down our forward mortgage business and exiting our Warehouse Finance business through an asset sale to EverBank.
Further down the road a number of insurance companies face the possibility of being named nonbank systemically important financial institutions.
To be clear we do not believe the life insurance business poses a systemic risk to the U.S.
economy and we look forward to continuing to meet with policymakers to convey our position.
The business of life insurance is highly regulated with strict capital reserve and derivative use requirements.
With regard to derivatives we are -- which are one of the key aspects of our business that regulators will examine we are well collateralized and our counterparty exposure is well diversified providing protection to policy holders and shareholders alike.
Just as our decision to reduce VA sales as part of our commitment to managing our portfolio of products MetLife also continues to manage its portfolio of markets.
In November we announced that we were divesting our businesses in the Caribbean Panama and Costa Rica.
And last month we announced our plans to acquire from Aviva plc its Life Insurance businesses in Eastern Europe which will expand MetLife's presence in growth markets.
As I said on our December investor call we are going to invest in those markets that we consider core and divest from those that do not meet our strategic priorities or financial requirements.
Now let me turn to strategy and our recent organizational changes.
As CEO of MetLife I believe it is important for us to continuously reassess our strategy especially in light of the uncertain external environment.
We'll provide the details of our current strategic review at our next investor event on May 23.
You've already heard me say that capital is precious and that we must limit its use to those activities that can best create long-term shareholder value.
Of course having the right strategy is not sufficient.
On our earnings call last July I outlined some of my key priorities to ensure that MetLife is equipped to deliver strong business results.
I spoke of the importance of maximizing the value of our brand which we have done with the naming rights to MetLife Stadium our extensive rebranding efforts in key Alico markets such as Japan and our new U.S.
advertising campaign launched during the Super Bowl.
I discussed sharpening our focus on value creation and have emphasized to our senior leaders that we must pursue profitable growth with returns that exceed our cost to capital and I described MetLife's commitment to recruiting top talent which is our guiding principle in selecting a new CFO and President of Asia.
Last November I also announced that MetLife was reorganizing from a U.S.
and international structure into 3 broad geographic regions: the Americas EMEA and Asia and creating a global employee benefits business.
We are continuing to implement that reorganization plan and have taken a number of additional steps to enhance our operating model.
Today I like to give you a high-level overview of our Americas division.
Under the leadership of Bill Wheeler the Americas is comprised of the following 6 core businesses: Retail Corporate Benefit Funding Group Voluntary and Worksite Latin America and Direct.
Once we have named a new CFO Eric Steigerwalt will lead the Retail business which includes Individual Life and VAs.
What will not change as a result of our new structure is MetLife's commitment to ensuring that customers can do business with us through a variety of channels.
For example even as we were to develop our direct-to-consumer business we recognize the face-to-face distribution through agents and advisors is critical to our success.
Having a diversity of channels is a competitive advantage that enables us to pursue growth in multiple markets simultaneously.
The final topic I want to address this morning is the impact of interest rates on MetLife's financial performance.
We discussed this topic at length last fall and since that time the shares of MetLife have traded with less correlation to the 10-year treasury.
Even so when the Fed announced its decision to keep short-term interest rates low through 2014 the shares of life insurers fell sharply that day.
One question we have been asked is whether MetLife's 2012 earnings would be impacted by low interest rates over the entire year especially since our guidance assumed that 10-year treasury would rise from about 2% last fall to 3% by the end of 2012.
The short answer is no.
We reran our 2012 projections assuming the 10-year treasury holds constant during the year.
The decline in investment income will be offset by income generated by our interest rate floors.
Over the longer term low interest rates would have impacted MetLife's earnings as we explained in detail last fall.
Under the scenario we used at that time we held a 10-year treasury flat at 2% over 5 years.
MetLife's operating earnings still grew over the 5-year period but at a slower rate.
It's important to note that we assume no extraordinary management actions under that scenario.
In reality we have a number of tools that can and would be used to mitigate the impact of sustained low rates including pricing crediting rates and expense management.
To sum up MetLife had a solid 2011 and a strong fourth quarter even in the face of some significant market pressures.
Our capital position is strong and getting stronger and our ability to grow operating earnings in the face of low interest rates remains intact.
In short we think we're the best-positioned company in the life insurance sector to deliver shareholder value.
Thank you again for joining us this morning.
And with that I will turn the call over to Eric Steigerwalt.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
MetLife reported operating earnings of $1.4 billion or $1.31 per share for the fourth quarter.
When adjusting for a few nonrecurring items which I will discuss shortly normalized operating earnings were $1.30 per share.
You will note this result is comfortably higher than our fourth quarter guidance range of $1.16 to $1.26 provided to you during our Investor call on December 5.
The primary drivers for this outperformance were higher-than-expected variable investment income lower expenses and stock market performance in December coming in better than expected.
Overall I would characterize this as a very good quarter driven by solid underwriting margins strong and stable core investment spreads which reflect how well we have managed the business despite the low-rate environment and continuing expense control.
Underwriting margins were healthy due to our ongoing pricing discipline.
This was most evident this quarter on our group insurance operations with a very favorable mortality ratio in Group Life and in improving benefit ratio in our non-medical health businesses.
In Japan accident and health underwriting margins continue to be quite attractive.
And finally expenses remain very much under control.
Our overall expense ratio was 22.3% in the quarter after recasting for the divested businesses in the bank and the Caribbean as John indicated earlier.
Now let me walk you through our financial results and point out some of the highlights.
First let me discuss some normalizing items which occurred during the fourth quarter.
As part of our annual review of DAC assumptions we had net positive DAC unlocking and other net adjustments of $27 million after tax in our U.S.
Businesses.
In our Insurance Products segment Individual Life had a net positive unlocking and other reserve adjustments of $65 million after tax.
The favorable unlocking was driven by a policyholder dividend scale reduction on a portion of our Individual Life business and updates to our SOP reserving model in our Universal Life business.
In Retirement Products we had negative DAC unlockings and reserve adjustments of $38 million after tax primarily as a result of a reduction in the long-term assumption for our separate account returns.
This change was due to the higher allocation to bonds that we are seeing in our separate accounts which is causing the blended return to be slightly lower.
Next our Auto &amp; Home business had favorable prior year development reserve release in its Auto business of $14 million after tax.
This was partially offset by incurred catastrophe losses of $18 million after tax in the quarter which was $6 million above our fourth quarter planned provision of $12 million after tax.
The net impact of these 2 items benefited Auto &amp; Home's operating earnings by $8 million after tax.
And finally Alico integration expenses in the quarter were $20 million after tax.
We have recorded these expenses in our Corporate &amp; Other segment.
Now let's take a look at the results in the quarter by line of business.
In U.S.
business we reported operating earnings of $932 million for the fourth quarter.
Excluding the impact of onetime items that I mentioned normalized operating earnings were $897 million.
This reflects solid operating earnings growth of 4% on a reported basis as compared to the prior year period of $894 million and 9% higher on a normalized basis.
The primary drivers of this normalized earnings growth were strong underwriting results in Group Life and Dental as well as strong separate account fee growth in our Retirement Products segment.
Premiums fees and other revenue were $7.6 billion up 7% from the prior year quarter driven by higher U.K.
pension closeouts in our Corporate Benefit Funding segment and higher premiums and fees in Retirement Products.
While Insurance Products’ top line was essentially flat this quarter we do expect to see a pickup in 2012 revenue growth consistent with our plan as we are experiencing a nice rebound in 2012 Group Life sales and persistency and continued growth on our Dental business primarily driven by the addition of the TRICARE Dental account.
Auto &amp; Home had solid growth in the quarter as net written premiums were up 2% year-over-year.
Insurance Products normalized earnings of $346 million were up 7% over the prior year quarter.
This strong performance is mainly driven by improved Group Life and Nonmedical Health underwriting margins.
The Group Life mortality ratio for the quarter was a very favorable 85.2% below both the prior year quarter of 89.7% and our 2011 guidance range of 88% to 93%.
Overall we are pleased with Group Life's steady underwriting results reflecting our ongoing pricing discipline.
The Nonmedical Health total benefits ratio for the quarter was 88.9% which was down from the prior year quarter of 89.7% and within our 2011 guidance of 86% to 90%.
Underwriting trends in Dental remain favorable due to more stable utilization and pricing trends.
However disability results were less favorable than recent quarters.
Although claims incidents improved in the quarter we did see higher average claims’ size and weaker recovery experience.
Our Individual Life mortality ratio for the quarter was 81.1% compared to 82.9% in the prior year quarter.
While direct mortality was good we did have weaker reinsurance recoverables on some high-face amount claims.
Turning to our Auto &amp; Home business.
Normalized operating earnings for the quarter were $73 million up 4% versus the year-ago quarter.
The combined ratio including catastrophes was 93.8% for the fourth quarter favorable to the prior year quarter's result of 95.2%.
The combined ratio excluding catastrophes was 90.2% in the fourth quarter generally in line with the prior year quarter of 90%.
Overall this was a good bounce-back quarter for Auto &amp; Home to close out a year that was materially impacted by record catastrophes and adverse weather.
Retirement Products normalized operating earnings of $254 million were up 16% as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
Earnings growth was primarily driven by higher fees from growth in the separate accounts balances of 12% year-over-year.
Corporate Benefit Funding operating earnings of $224 million were up 8% over the prior year quarter on a normalized basis largely reflecting increased net investment income from growth in the general account which was up 4% year-over-year.
Now let's discuss our businesses in Japan and Other International Regions.
Focusing on Japan first.
Our Japan operation produced good results for the quarter.
Japan's operating earnings for the fourth quarter were a strong $326 million up 3% over third quarter 2011 driven by solid Accident and Health underwriting results improvements in persistency as well as higher net investment income.
Japan sales grew 16% in the quarter as compared with the combined MetLife and Alico results for the fourth quarter of 2010.
We continue to experience strong sales growth in the agency and bank channels.
Our expectation is that sales growth will continue to be solid in 2012 but perhaps at more modest growth rates due to prior year recovery from the financial crisis causing tougher comparisons from our 2011 sales.
The year-over-year increase in fourth quarter revenues on a combined basis was approximately 5% driven largely by the favorable exchange rate of the yen versus the U.S.
dollar.
On a constant rate basis revenues were down 2% on a combined basis as GAAP revenue growth has been dampened by the shift towards FAS 97 savings products.
While the revenue for these products is accounted for differently than the risk protection products sold in Japan resulting in incrementally lower PFOs and higher net investment income their margins and earnings are comparable.
In our Other International Regions segment operating earnings were $244 million down 6% from the third quarter 2011 due to foreign exchange rates and the challenging European market conditions.
However our Latin America and Middle East businesses continue to deliver strong revenue and earnings growth.
OIR sales grew 9% in the quarter as compared with the combined MetLife and Alico results in the fourth quarter of 2010 driven by strong sales in Eastern Europe and the Middle East.
Sales growth was negatively impacted by the challenging market conditions in Western Europe and Asia Pacific regions.
The year-over-year revenues decreased on a combined basis by approximately 2% reflecting the strength of the U.S.
dollar.
On a constant rate basis revenues were up 2%.
Revenue growth within OIR was relatively soft due to our strategic pruning of noncore businesses non-renewal of some large institutional cases that did not meet our profitability targets and the annual resumption -- annual assumption review in our Korea business which actually has a revenue effect.
Offsetting for these factors OIR revenue growth would've been approximately 8% on a combined basis.
Despite the tragic events in Japan ongoing unrest in the Middle East and adverse market conditions in Europe our businesses outside of the United States taken as a whole were within their full-year plan range for sales premiums fees and other revenue.
We have made significant progress in leveraging our accident and health product portfolio by expanding our capabilities into Asia Pacific and Latin America.
As Steve mentioned total Accident and Health sales increased by approximately 25% a strong result.
These products have low capital requirements attractive returns and high customer demand in emerging economies which fits nicely into the guiding principles that Steve has already outlined.
Now let me turn to investments.
I'll begin with variable investment income.
Pretax variable investment income was $247 million and within our 2011 quarterly guidance range of $225 million to $325 million.
After taxes and the impact of deferred acquisition costs variable investment income was $162 million.
While results were in the planned range variable investment income is lower sequentially and compared to the prior year driven by lower private equity income reflective of the third quarter market decline and volatility that we've said can occur within these asset classes.
Next let me briefly mention realized investment gains and losses.
In the fourth quarter we had after-tax investment portfolio net losses excluding divested businesses of $213 million.
Included in this net loss are impairments of $163 million after-tax of which $123 million relate to our Greek sovereign debt holdings.
Moving to our commercial mortgage holdings.
This portfolio continues to perform extremely well.
As of December 31 our valuation allowance is $398 million down from $428 million at the end of September.
The loan-to-value ratio of our portfolio improved again in this quarter to 61% from 62% as valuations continue to improve in the markets where we invest.
Additionally our delinquency rate remains very low and more importantly our losses recorded during 2011 were only $12 million on a $40 billion portfolio.
With respect to our derivatives portfolio we had after-tax gains excluding divested businesses of $351 million that were driven primarily by lower interest rates and gains in our variable annuity hedging programs.
Lastly I’d like to update you on certain European exposures.
During the fourth quarter we continued to manage down our exposure to peripheral European sovereign debt.
As a result of targeted sales and the recognition of impairments we have reduced our GAAP book value to $254 million a relatively modest level given the size of our overall investment portfolio.
We continue to reduce our exposure to European banks as well.
We sold approximately $250 million of GAAP book value in the fourth quarter for a loss of $18 million bringing the full-year 2011 sales total to $3.2 billion.
The sales were focused on those institutions with exposure to peripheral Europe securities with a lower preference in the capital structure and larger absolute exposures.
Looking forward we believe our remaining European exposure is quite manageable given the size and diversification of our overall investment portfolio.
Now let me discuss our balance sheet and capital position.
First our book value per share excluding AOCI is $49.02 as of year-end reflecting strong year-over-year growth of 13%.
Steve referenced earlier how well protected the income statement is in a sustained low interest rate environment.
I would add that our balance sheet remains quite strong and is well positioned to remain so even if -- even in a sustained low rate environment.
As we have previously stated even if rates stay low for the next 5 years our balance sheet both on a GAAP and stat basis would only be modestly impacted.
This is the result of managing for the long term utilizing prudent risk management techniques and taking actions prior to the crisis not waiting until it was upon us.
Let me also provide you with an update on our statutory earnings and capital position.
Our preliminary statutory operating earnings and statutory net income for our domestic insurance companies for the fourth quarter of 2011 were approximately $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion respectively.
As you may recall our third quarter statutory operating earnings were impacted by an increase in reserves.
Primarily related to the weakness in the equity markets.
Included in our fourth quarter results is the reversal of a portion of that position due to the strong equity market performance in the fourth quarter.
For full year 2011 our preliminary statutory operating earnings and net income were each approximately $2.6 billion.
These results were negatively impacted by catastrophes similar to GAAP and market-related reserve items in 2011.
Our total adjusted capital is at $27.7 billion as of December 31 reflecting year-over-year growth of 8%.
While we have not completely finished our RBC calculations for 2011 based on our work to date we are estimating that our consolidated RBC ratio will end the year at the upper end of our guidance range of 420% to 445% that we gave you during our December 5 call.
Also we are estimating that our Japan solvency margin ratio on the new basis will be within our guidance range of 850% to 950%.
Consistent with our guidance cash and liquid assets at the holding companies at December 31 were approximately $4.5 billion giving us deployable capital of $3.5 billion $1 billion above our holding company cushion.
In addition we are projecting that deployable capital will be within the guidance range we gave of $6 billion to $7 billion at year-end 2012 prior to any capital management actions.
In conclusion MetLife had a very good fourth quarter completing a strong 2011 despite the ongoing challenging environment.
Our margins remain strong as we continue to focus on generating profitable growth.
Our financial strength is intact.
Our balance sheet is positioned to withstand a sustained low rate environment and our capital position remains robust.
And with that I'll turn it back to the operator so we may take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath from Sanford Bernstein.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on the variable annuity business.
Obviously you guys have added a lot of business second half of the year but even as we go back to the earlier part of 2011.
At -- this business had guarantees that were richer than what you're currently comfortable with.
So if I think back to the last quarter I think you talked about ROAs of kind of 14% to 15% -- ROIs excuse me of 14% to 15%.
And I'm just wondering kind of given the environment that we're in how are you feeling about those returns on a go-forward basis.
Suneet it's Bill Wheeler.
The -- I think the ROIs that we talked about on the previous call I think those are still consistent even in the fourth quarter.
Obviously we had I would say a little bit lower than 15% ROI on our VA sales.
The cost of hedging is still relatively high and so that obviously depressed the number a little bit.
We don't consider those returns adequate.
And so obviously that's why we changed the roll-up rate at the beginning of January back down to 5% and we've also changed a number of other features.
I guess I would say by the way just keep in mind when we talk about ROIs we're talking about fully allocated expenses here not marginal expenses and that's always important.
That's how we look at it and we think that's the right way to look at it.
And so we feel the sales clearly we had in the fourth quarter and in the latter part of the year were above our cost of capital.
We created value through those sales but we think we need to improve.
And so therefore that's why we've changed our pricing.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'm a little surprised to hear you say that they're not adequate.
So where should we -- or where do you think the ROIs on the 5% product would put you? Well obviously it depends on market conditions but we want to be 15%-plus in terms of ROIs.
The risk profile of that product is such that we think we need to earn 15%-plus.
LLC.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then my last question also on VAs is at your -- during your interest rate call you talked about perhaps using the strategy of going back to your legacy book and using some of the asset allocation techniques in the GMIB Max and sort of rolling those out.
And I guess I'm wondering if you're successful in doing that could that have a significant impact on the ROIs of that back book? We're still pursuing that strategy but it's one of I would say a group of strategies we're doing to improve the performance of the in-force book.
And so as a whole I think they will have -- as a group I think they'll have an impact that is measurable.
But that one technique is -- it'll depend on the adoption and the investment in that -- in those new funds which by the way have performed very well.
So it's nothing to do with how the funds have performed.
But you got to change policyholder behavior a little bit to want to invest in those new funds under existing annuities.
So I would say that we’re pursuing a number of strategies to improve the profitability of the in-force block and that's one of them.
Your next question comes from the line of Andrew Kligerman from UBS.
Research Division</strong> With regard to the international business so OIR was up 2% in premium fees and other; Japan was down 2%.
Could you give us a sense of where you expect that PFO to go in 2012.
And then secondly why do you think the margins are comparable as you increase your allocation of sales to investment products.
I understand with Aflac their margins are about 2/3 or less the more traditional medical-type products that they're selling.
Andrew it's Bill Toppeta.
In terms of where we think the PFOs will go next year the total for international as we gave you on the investor call in December would be approximately 6%.
And the breakdown on that is Japan would be a little bit above 5% and then the other regions would be about 6.7%.
So I think that there are a couple of things that will drive that going forward.
The first thing I would say is a big emphasis pretty much in all regions on the Accident and Health business.
We expect that there's going to be a strong emphasis on A&amp;H growth in all regions.
In fact we just came back from Latin America where there's very strong growth in A&amp;H in a number of countries.
We're seeing very strong A&amp;H growth in Korea.
So I think the trend is very good.
Another point I think would be related to persistency.
There are number of management actions being taken around persistency particularly in Japan but also in other places.
I think what we saw this year was a little bit of a delay in getting that started and that was related to the earthquake.
So we're probably -- and I've mentioned this before we're probably about 3 to 4 months late on the persistency initiatives.
Nonetheless the trend is very good.
The trend this year in Japan has improved persistency by about a percentage point and that's going to benefit premiums and fees next year of course.
And we expect that there's going to be continued growth with that.
So I think those are a couple of the factors that make us confident that we can achieve the premium fee growth that I outlined going forward.
Research Division</strong> And then to that second question Bill about the margins.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Will the earnings go -- move in sync with these revenues? Yes.
The margins -- actually the margins -- this is related to the shift between FAS 60 products and FAS 97 products.
The margins -- and we've looked at several of these products the margins are every bit as good on FAS 97 products.
So while you may get a lower PFO number your profitability is going to hold.
Research Division</strong> And just to give a little more color on that persistency number.
You got one point in Japan.
How many more points do you think you can get going forward? Well I think we probably will be looking at something like that for next year something between say 0.5 to 0.7 maybe up to a full point of improvement depending upon how successful we are.
But I think it's in that range.
Research Division</strong> And then just one last point.
On Japan the A&amp;H business do you expect some growth in that area as well or is it more in other regions? No we absolutely expect growth.
In fact I think that A&amp;H sales growth in Japan is expected to be strong.
And I think the reason for that is a focus on distribution.
So there's going to be a lot of focus on A&amp;H in both -- well all 3 channels.
I would say in face-to-face we certainly are doing very well with respect to the independent agency in Japan.
I think we'll get good strength there but we'll get even bigger emphasis in the career agent force.
Sale of A&amp;H through the banks is another emphasis.
And then in DM but DM with sponsors.
So I think that we're going to -- in all those channels we expect to get good -- very good growth in A&amp;H sales in Japan.
Your next question comes from the line of Joanne Smith from Scotiabank.
Research Division</strong> Yes a couple of questions.
One is with respect to the guidance and the change -- and their changing guidance given a different scenario of interest rates staying at current level for the full year.
What factors in your assumptions changed that allowed you to maintain the guidance in that type of a scenario? You're talking about our EPS guidance for 2012? Research Division</strong> Yes.
So as we went through on the interest rate presentation we have interest rate floors not only helping us given the level of interest rates but we had some deferred start interest rate floors that kick in in July and that's going to help 2012.
In addition in both our Retirement Product and our Life Insurance -- Individual Life Insurance businesses we still have crediting rate flexibility and you'll see that play itself out depending on what happens with interest rates during the next 4 quarters.
So as we project out and as Steve said we have done these projections we think that the impact in 2012 will be very modest.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then just as a separate question.
On the VAs with respect to the lapse rates they're really low.
And I'm wondering if at this level of lapse rate it's really within the range of your expectations then what type of utilization rates you're expecting? Well our whole product is designed with a series of assumptions about -- we use this phrase dynamic lapse rate assumptions which means as the products get more in the money and they're relatively in the money now even though we've had a nice rally of the stock market just mainly because they're in low interest rates they're in the money or the guarantees are in the money is that -- therefore we assume that lapse rates will go down.
And that's how the businesses -- and therefore the accounting adjusts for that.
I think utilization rates -- we assume that consumers are going to utilize or annuitize fairly efficiently.
That means if they are in the money and the guarantee is valuable they will take advantage of that.
That's what -- and then we hedge accordingly.
So we assume that they'll act appropriately.
As a matter of real experience I'm not sure.
I think that's a very conservative assumption.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So you would say that 6 or so percent lapse rate at this point are within your range of expectations and that you're factoring in a further decline on that? Yes absolutely.
So we're -- well so the lapse rates where they are today we think is -- we're not surprised by that and that' sort of what -- how the product is designed and how the accounting works.
And in terms of actually annuitizing we're not seeing a lot of people at -- the very first policy holders are able now to annuitize and it's not a big enough sample to really draw any conclusions from -- remember because they have to wait 10 years.
And the level of annuitization is very modest and we're assuming a lot more -- well the way we hedge we assume more will annuitize.
Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a few questions.
First on the group disability business.
Your margins were weak.
I just wanted to get an idea on what your expectation is for clean recovery rates given the economy and what you've seen in terms of competitor behavior on pricing in the disability market.
And then secondly on capital deployment you mentioned that it could begin once you get fed approval assuming you're referring to share buybacks.
But maybe if you could discuss where acquisitions fit into your capital plans.
Would you consider additional deals in the near term? And if yes which products or markets are you most interested in? And then lastly in the past I think Bill you have mentioned hedging cost for the GMIB feature were higher through 2011 versus the fee that you were charging.
Where that stands now that the market volatilities declined a little bit? Okay.
So I'll try to do these.
So I'm in a new job Jimmy so don't put too much pressure on me.
Research Division</strong> Well Steve can answer some of these.
Okay.
With regard to group disability I thought Eric explained it pretty well.
Incidence rates are actually down which is a good sign.
And the claim closure rates are below plan and below expectations and actually ticked down a little bit in the fourth quarter which is not good and that's all about getting people back to work.
And so that's very much driven by the macro factor.
Where that goes from here? We hope it improves.
We're not sure.
What -- the way we're dealing with that of course is -- and the other final thing by the way which is just unusual is we had some fairly high severity in our disability claims and that's just a blip.
We suspect that'll come back down to a normal level of severity probably in the next quarter.
But you never can be sure.
The way we're dealing with this is obviously through pricing and obviously making sure we manage claims appropriately.
We're -- because the environment is still difficult we've been raising prices in our group disability business for a while.
So that leads to the competitive environment question.
Clearly we've seen a shift in terms of group competitors in terms of how aggressive they've been to obtain business and that's good.
We've seen that both in Group Life and in Group Disability and I think -- so the environment is clearly from a pricing -- but getting better.
Okay.
Just -- I'll do the last one on hedging.
As I just I think mentioned a few minutes ago so our hedging costs in the fourth quarter were relatively flat with where they were in the third quarter which means that they're higher than the fee we're charging on the rider a little bit higher.
Now that's obviously not great.
But you have to always remember that we're earning a substantial fee on the base contract and that's very important.
So that's why we still make a return that's just a little south of 15% in the fourth quarter even though these hedging costs are higher.
So Jimmy on the capital deployment issue.
As I mentioned in my remarks we have submitted our plan to the Fed earlier this year.
We expect to hear back before the end of this quarter.
We feel very good about our submission.
We feel very good about our capital position and we are hopeful that we'll be able to return capital to our shareholders this year.
But we must await a response from the Federal Reserve.
As to what we will do with that capital obviously we're looking at all the possible avenues there dividends share buybacks opportunistic M&amp;A that fits our strategic direction and which provides shareholder value and which provides accretion to our earnings and markets that we think are desirable.
All those things are on the table.
Your next question comes from the line of Randy Binner from FBR.
Research Division</strong> I'd like to follow up on that last question.
So with the CCAR submission or the submission that you've given to the Fed that would contemplate a level of capital management that would be considerably below kind of the $6 billion to $7 billion level.
So I just want to clarify the timing and I think that it's right that you would go through the CCAR process to the extent you're still a bank holding company.
And then if you can shed the bank holding company status later in the year that would open the door for more material capital management.
So it's kind of a 2-step process.
Is that the right way to think of it? Well let me say this the -- we've submitted what we're comfortable doing in terms of capital redeployment for 2012 to the Fed.
And again we can't prejudge things but we feel good about our submission and we are hopeful that we'll be able to execute it here over the course of the year.
The numbers that we talked to you about $6 billion to $7 billion by year end of course that builds over time.
So that capital will be there by year end absent any deployment well to see what happens over the course of this year in terms of we do run the areas of dividends and share buybacks again based upon what we hear back from the fed and well to see what happens in the M&amp;A arena over the course of the year.
We look at most any property that's put up for sale.
We have very strict criteria in terms of what we will pursue and what price.
But as we mentioned we have done some deals recently in Turkey in Eastern Europe and we'll be looking at other opportunities over the course of this year.
So I can't really say exactly what we'll be doing with that full $6 billion to $7 billion we anticipate having by year end over -- I'd say it'll be a 2-year process because a lot of this depends upon what happens in the marketplace in the M&amp;A arena and also depends upon what kind of reaction we get from the Federal Reserve to our submission.
And as you point out we are de-banking.
Process is under way.
We're hopeful that will conclude sometime midyear this year.
And that would put us in a different status at that point in time and that will be taken into account in terms of how we deploy our capital as well.
Research Division</strong> All right understood.
And one more if I could real quick.
The strategic review is on everyone's mind and you've been I think clear that May 23 is when that's going to be covered in depth.
But is there any other commentary you can give? It seems like the non-U.S.
A&amp;H products are favorably mentioned here a couple of times maybe spread-based products domestically are less in favor.
Anything else you could provide there would be appreciated.
We will talk at much greater length at our May call.
But let me go through the -- some guiding principles.
I'll give you some insights into our thinking here.
So first let me start by saying obviously the acquisition of Alico $16.3 billion acquisition transformed MetLife.
We went from being a largely domestic-focused life insurance company to being a truly global business.
Now a lot has to happen to catch up with that business in terms of culture organization and we've been doing quite a bit in that arena as you've heard from us.
So that's one issue that we'll be talking more about.
We've talked about how easy it is to do business with us and being more customer-centric going forward and in allowing people to interact with us on the basis that they want to.
That doesn't mean excluding channels we're in now.
It means really in addition here in terms of allowing people to interact with us on a number of different bases.
Let me add also talent.
We talked a lot about our talent here.
You've already heard about some high-level hires to MetLife and more coming in the area of the CFO and President of Asia positions.
Another issue to talk about is how we look at our businesses overall as a portfolio both in terms of products and geographies and making sure there's a balance there especially when you take into account risk.
So your question allude to A&amp;H lower capital charge kind of product strong ROE kind of product so obviously we want a good balance between the different products we sell.
We've told you today that our guidance around VAs for 2012 is roughly $18 billion.
That is down from 2011.
That's related to our way of looking at risk and making sure we balance this portfolio of products that we offer to the marketplace.
And finally I'll just say in terms of guiding principles all these things I just mentioned that are heretofore is because we're trying to drive shareholder value.
That's the bottom line.
And if we do all those things well we will drive shareholder value and we're confident we can do that.
Great.
Well thank you everyone for joining us today and enjoy the rest of your day.
And I'll turn it back to Greg.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the MetLife First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to read the following statement on behalf of MetLife.
Except with respect to historical information statements made in this conference call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements relating to trends in the company's operations and financial results and the business and products of the company and its subsidiaries.
MetLife's actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including those described from time to time in MetLife's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
MetLife specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I would like to turn the call over to John McCallion Head of Investor Relations.
Thank you Marla and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MetLife's First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
We'll be discussing certain financial measures not based on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles so-called non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures may be found on the Investor Relations portion of metlife.com in our earnings press release our quarterly financial supplements and in the other financial information section.
A reconciliation of forward-looking financial information to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is not accessible because MetLife believes it is not possible to provide a reliable forecast of net investment and net derivative gains and losses which can fluctuate from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
Also please note that our -- that the financial results for this quarter and all prior periods reflect our new reporting structure as well as the adoption and retrospective application of the new DAC accounting guidance.
In addition as provided in our earnings press release we have recast our 2012 projected operating earnings by segment to align with the company's new financial reporting structure.
In doing so we have neither affirmed nor updated our 2012 projections which were originally provided on December 5 2011.
Now joining me this morning on the call are Steve Kandarian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and Eric Steigerwalt Interim Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will take your questions.
Also here with us today to participate in the discussion are other members of management including Bill Wheeler President of Americas; Steve Goulart Chief Investment Officer; Michel Khalaf President of EMEA; and Bill Hogan Executive Vice President and Head of our Japan operations.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
I'm pleased to report that MetLife delivered strong financial results in the first quarter.
We had healthy top line growth with premiums fees and other income rising by 7% year-over-year.
Our bottom line performance was even stronger.
MetLife generated operating earnings of $1.5 billion or $1.37 per share up 11% year-over-year.
MetLife's performance during the quarter was driven by some fundamentals in the core earnings power of our diversified global portfolio of businesses.
Eric will discuss our segment results in greater detail.
I wanted to provide a high-level overview of how each of our major geographic divisions is performing.
Our businesses in the Americas which consists of the United States Mexico Argentina Brazil Chile Colombia and Uruguay performed very well in the first quarter.
In our U.S.
business operating earnings were up 12% year-over-year driven by strong underwriting improving core spreads and rising equity markets.
Variable annuity sales in the first quarter were down 13% year-over-year and 32% sequentially to $4.9 billion consistent with our expectations.
As a reminder our target range for VA sales in 2012 is $17.5 billion to $18.5 billion.
While our annualized first quarter sales put us slightly above the top end of the range our expectation is that the product and pricing actions we have taken will result in sales within the target range.
In Latin America operating earnings were up 22% year-over-year driven by growth across the region and improved underwriting results.
The region saw a very strong sales growth in accident and health credit insurance and retirement products.
In Mexico our largest Latin American market underwriting results for life products remained highly favorable although increased competition could pressure growth going forward.
In Asia which consists of Japan South Korea Australia Hong Kong and China our businesses delivered growth in operating earnings of 33% year-over-year.
In Japan our second largest market sales were up 28% year-over-year with all distribution channels growing by double digits.
Australia and China saw very strong sales growth although off a smaller base.
Total sales in Asia were up 15% while premiums fees and other revenues were up 8%.
In our EMEA region which consists of 35 countries across Europe the Middle East Africa and South Asia operating earnings were down 4% year-over-year primarily due to unfavorable exchange rates and a challenging economic environment in Europe.
Premiums fees and other revenues were up 9% year-over-year.
At our last Investor Day in December of 2011 I noted that one of MetLife's guiding principles is to continuously reassess our strategy especially given the rapidly changing external environment.
That is why we conducted strategic reviews in 2007 and 2009 and began another in 2011.
Over the last several years MetLife has built a solid foundation to deliver value for our customers shareholders employees and the communities in which we operate.
Our strategic review has focused on developing a clear roadmap for creating shareholder value.
At our next Investor Day on May 23 you will hear further detail on many of the themes I've been emphasizing for the past year taking a portfolio view of our business treating capital as precious avoiding growth for growth's sake and earning above our long-term cost of capital.
An example of these principles in action is our decision to manage VA sales to appropriate levels.
I look forward to talking with you more about the tremendous opportunities ahead.
Now let me turn to MetLife's capital position and plan.
MetLife is a financially strong company.
At the end of 2011 the combined risk-based capital ratio for our U.S.
life insurance companies was 450% and the solvency margin ratio for our Japan business was 880%.
As you know we are selling the depository business of MetLife Bank to GE Capital which is a critical step in our ceasing to be a bank holding company.
This action will put us on a level playing field with our insurance company peers.
Once regulatory approval has been granted and the transaction closes our deregistration as a bank holding company is expected to follow shortly thereafter.
The actual timing of these events could vary based on the regulatory review process.
Yesterday MetLife also announced that we are exiting the reverse mortgage business.
Nationstar Mortgage LLC will acquire MetLife Bank's reverse mortgage servicing portfolio subject to regulatory approval and then MetLife -- and MetLife Bank will no longer accept new reverse mortgage loan applications and registrations.
Earlier we announced the sale of our warehouse finance business and the discontinuation of our forward mortgage origination business.
Together these actions will allow MetLife to maintain its strategic focus as a global insurance employee benefits leader.
We received a number of questions regarding whether we will be designated a nonbank systemically important financial institution by the Financial Stability Oversight Council.
Let me say first that we do not believe traditional regulated insurance activities generate or amplify systemic risk to the U.S.
economy.
However in the event that FSOC names MetLife and other large insurers as SIFIs it will be essential to tailor the new prudential rules to the insurance industry.
We are discussing with policymakers the appropriate regulatory framework for nonbank SIFIs and we are urging that the new rules reflect the unique asset and liability characteristics of insurers.
On the issue of returning capital to shareholders our first step is to complete the process of de-banking.
Once that has occurred we will examine a range of factors including the state of the global economy MetLife's earnings and capital position and the regulatory outlook in the United States including the potential shape of the Federal Reserve's prudential regulations for nonbank SIFIs.
Based on these considerations we will bring a recommendation on capital deployment to our board of directors.
As a reminder any specific announcement with regard to our dividend will be made in October as usual.
Let me close by restating my belief that MetLife is well positioned for profitable growth today and into the future.
We are aligning the company both strategically and operationally to achieve that growth and I look forward to sharing with you on May 23 the results of our latest work.
Thank you again for joining us this morning.
And with that I will turn the call over to Eric Steigerwalt.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
MetLife reported operating earnings of $1.5 billion or $1.37 per share for the first quarter.
This quarter's results included a few onetime items which I will discuss shortly that depressed operating earnings by $0.02 per share.
Overall I would characterize this as a very good quarter well above our plan driven by strong interest in underwriting margins as well as solid growth within all regions as total company premiums fees and other revenues grew to $11.6 billion up 7% year-over-year.
The quarter also benefited from favorable market performance.
Interest margins were favorable primarily due to higher recurring investment results but also from variable investment income which came in at the high end of our planned range.
Over time the general level of spreads will come down if interest rates remain at their current levels.
However as we have discussed previously we have been able to maintain strong spreads in this environment as a result of our ALM discipline private origination capabilities and the use of derivatives.
In the Americas we saw favorable underwriting results in our Group Voluntary and Worksite Benefits segment particularly in the nonmedical health and property/casualty businesses as well as in Latin America.
In addition expenses remained very much under control.
Our overall expense ratio was 25.2% on a reported basis in the quarter and 24.2% when adjusting for pension and post-retirement benefits.
While the new DAC accounting rules elevate the expense ratio our underlying discipline around expenses remains very much intact.
Now I'll walk you through our financial results and point out some highlights.
First let me discuss some onetime items which occurred during the first quarter.
As a result of a multistate examination and settlement payment related to unclaimed property and MetLife's use of the Social Security Death Master File retail life incurred a $26 million after tax or $0.02 per share charge related to the expected acceleration of benefit payments to policyholders while our Corporate &amp; Other segment incurred a $26 million after tax or $0.02 per share charge related to the examination payment.
This was partially offset by the following favorable onetime items in the quarter which impacted operating earnings by $22 million after tax or $0.02 per share.
In our Asia region operating earnings were favorably impacted by $12 million after tax due to an accident and health reserve release in Japan.
Our property and casualty business had a favorable prior year development reserve release in its auto business of $4 million after tax and incurred catastrophe losses of $17 million after tax which was $3 million below our first quarter plan provision of $20 million after tax.
And finally our Corporate &amp; Other segment had a few additional onetime items that benefited earnings by a net $3 million after tax.
Now let's take a look at the results in the quarter by region.
In the Americas reported operating earnings were $1.2 billion for the first quarter up 13% versus the prior year quarter of $1 billion.
The primary business drivers for this earnings growth were in retail annuities property and casualty and Latin America.
Retail annuities operating earnings were $282 million up 37% year-over-year as the business experienced favorable market performance and strong investment spreads.
As a result of the S&amp;P 500 being up almost 12% in the quarter retail annuities had an initial market impact on operating earnings of $38 million after tax due to favorable DAC and SOP 03-1 true-ups.
Deferred annuity spreads as reflected in our quarterly financial supplement achieved a record of 309 basis points in the quarter driven by core earned rates from higher fixed income yields higher derivative income and lower credit rates.
Property/casualty operating earnings were $91 million up 60% year-over-year as a result of favorable non-cat accident year experienced and favorable catastrophe losses primarily in our homeowner's line.
The combined ratio for property and casualty was 91.7% and 88.2% excluding catastrophes in the quarter.
This was significantly below the combined ratio of 98.7% and 92.5% excluding cats in the first quarter of 2011 and well below plan.
While we are pleased with these results it should be pointed out that catastrophes are seasonal and we plan for higher cats in the second and third quarters.
Latin America operating earnings were $148 million up 22% year-over-year.
On a constant rate basis operating earnings were up 30% due to growth across the region and improved underwriting results.
We expect Latin America's results to remain strong for the balance of the year.
In addition the nonmedical health total benefit ratio for the quarter was 86.7% 100 basis point improvement versus 87.7% in the first quarter of 2011.
Results in dental were solid reflecting favorable trend and utilization.
And disability results were encouraging as the LTD incidence rate improved versus the prior year quarter and actually came in better than expected.
However I should point out recoveries continue to be weak.
Mortality results for the Americas were mixed in the quarter.
Group life's loss ratio for the quarter was 89.1% higher than the prior year quarter of 88.2% and a very strong fourth quarter of 85.2%.
That said the ratio was within our expectations.
Retail life mortality ratio was 91.6% in the quarter better than the prior year quarter of 92.5% but higher than a very favorable fourth quarter of 81.1%.
Overall retail life underwriting results were below plan but we would expect them to return to more normal levels.
Premiums fees and other revenues for the Americas were $8.3 billion up 7% from the prior year quarter.
This growth was primarily driven by higher separate account fees and income annuity premiums in retail annuities higher closeouts and structured settlement sales in our Corporate Benefit Funding segment and growth in immediate annuity sales in Chile and universal life and AFORE sales in Mexico which are all in our Latin America segment.
Let me turn to our Asia region.
Operating earnings in the Asia region were $297 million up 33% from $224 million in the prior year quarter due to strong growth in the business particularly in Japan as well as improved expense efficiency.
In Japan operating earnings growth was driven by favorable results in accident and health and ordinary life as well as improved expense efficiency.
Premiums fees and other revenues in Asia were $2.3 billion up 8% from $2.1 billion in the first quarter of 2011.
On a constant rate basis revenue grew 3% due to business growth in Japan Korea and Australia as well as favorable persistency in both Japan and Korea.
Japan premiums fees and other revenues were up 10% year-over-year 3% on a constant rate basis.
In addition total sales for the region grew 15% driven by increases in Japan China and Australia.
For the region key product drivers were life and annuity sales in Japan accident and health sales in Korea and China and group sales in Australia.
Turning to EMEA.
In EMEA first quarter results were solid and in line with expectations despite the challenging market conditions across the region.
Operating earnings were $76 million down 4% from the first quarter of 2011 driven by the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar versus key European currencies and the challenging economic environment.
On a constant rate basis operating earnings were up 2% reflecting growth in emerging markets within the region.
EMEA sales grew 7% compared to the first quarter of 2011 driven by our new distribution partner in Turkey and strong credit life sales.
Premiums fees and other revenues increased 9% from the first quarter of 2011.
On a constant rate basis revenues were up 14% driven by strong persistency and growth in emerging markets.
Immediate annuities in Western Europe were also a driver.
However we are evaluating the product in light of the competitive environment there which may dampen the run rate going forward.
Now let's turn to investments.
Let me begin with variable investment income which as a reminder now excludes securities lending.
Pretax variable investment income was $239 million and within our 2012 quarterly guidance range of $150 million to $250 million.
After taxes variable investment income was $155 million.
Barring any unforeseen market disruptions we expect variable income to remain within our 2012 guidance range.
Next let me briefly mention realized investment gains and losses.
In the first quarter we had after-tax investment portfolio net losses of $145 million.
Included in this net loss are impairments of $103 million after tax.
We expect investment portfolio net losses to remain relatively modest for the remainder of the year and within the full year range established on our Investor Day call.
Moving to our commercial mortgage holdings.
This portfolio continues to perform well.
As of March 31 our valuation allowance is $368 million down from $398 million at December 31.
The loan-to-value ratio of our portfolio improved again this quarter to 60% from 61% as valuations continue to improve in the markets where we invest.
Additionally as of March 31 there were no delinquent loans in the portfolio and no losses recorded during the quarter on this $40 billion portfolio.
With respect to our derivatives portfolio we had after-tax losses of $1.3 billion that were driven primarily by the impact of MetLife's credit spreads and higher interest rates.
As a reminder derivative gains or losses related to MetLife's credit spreads do not have an economic impact on the company.
Lastly I would like to update you on certain European exposures.
As of quarter end the GAAP book value of our peripheral European sovereign debt was $210 million.
In the second quarter of 2012 (sic) we did participate in the Greek debt exchange and as a result of the exchange our exposure to peripheral European sovereign debt has been further reduced to approximately $100 million which is a very modest level given the size of our overall investment portfolio.
With respect to European banks we continue to selectively trim our positions during the quarter and we believe our remaining exposure is very manageable given the size and diversification of our overall investment portfolio.
Now let me discuss our balance sheet and capital position.
First our book value per share excluding AOCI is at $46.52 as of March 31 reflecting strong year-over-year growth of 10%.
That said I should point out that our ending 2011 book value excluding AOCI was reduced by $2.5 billion or $2.34 per share as a result of the new DAC accounting rules.
When adjusting for other equity impacts the total reduction was $2.3 billion which was within the range of our guidance of $2.1 billion to $2.6 billion provided on our December 5 call.
In addition after-tax derivative losses of $1.3 billion that I mentioned previously reduced book value by another $1.26 per share.
Next I'd like to provide you with an update on our statutory earnings and capital position.
Our preliminary statutory operating earnings and statutory net income for our domestic insurance companies for the first quarter of 2012 were approximately $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion respectively.
The solid results were primarily driven by favorable underwriting and improved market conditions in the quarter.
As Steve mentioned our combined RBC ratio for our U.S.
life insurance companies excluding Alico at year end 2011 was 450%.
Also our Japan solvency margin ratio on the new basis was 880%.
Our results clearly reflect a strong capital position in the U.S.
and Japan.
Cash and liquid assets at the holding companies at March 31 were approximately $4.4 billion giving us deployable capital of roughly $3.4 billion above a $1 billion holding company cushion.
In addition we are projecting that deployable capital remains within the guidance range of $6 billion to $7 billion at year end 2012 prior to any capital management actions.
In conclusion MetLife had a very good first quarter.
Our margins remain strong as we continue to focus on generating profitable growth and our financial strength is intact as reflected in our capital position which remains robust.
And with that let me turn it back to the operator so we can take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will go to the line of Thomas Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just first I had a sort of a philosophical question on capital and then a specific earnings question.
The -- I guess the philosophical question is how are you approaching the view of required capital right now? I mean it's clearly in a bit of flux both for you all and the industry depending on different ways you might measure it versus history.
So just curious how you would approach that.
And in particular how are you looking at that as part of your strategic review? And then just a question on the earnings side.
I guess the U.S.
earnings came in well above plan.
How should we think about that as it relates to a run rate? It looks like to me it was a mix of strong investment spreads and good underwriting results.
What's your anticipation as to whether or not that's going to be sustained for the balance of the year? Tom as to capital let me just start by saying that our philosophy about returning excess capital to shareholders remains intact.
Having said that we've lived most of our existence at MetLife under state regulatory regimes which have one set of rules for us.
We now as you know as a bank holding company are regulated additionally by the Fed and there are different rules as a bank holding company which we've talked about with respect to the Fed stress test we just went through.
So that's why my remarks were cautious in a sense of measuring all this trying to take into account this changing regulatory landscape that we currently face.
We are de-banking.
There's still the issue of whether MetLife and other insurers large insurers may be designated by FSOC as a nonbank SIFI.
So all those factors are taken into consideration as we think about when and how to return capital to shareholders.
And as that landscape becomes clear to us and as we get through the bank -- de-banking process then we'll have more to say about that.
So those things are still a moving target.
To date no one's been designated yet in nonbank SIFIs.
So we have to wait and see more on that.
If you are designated as such the rules are at this point not promulgated.
So it is -- it's a difficult environment in which to operate from the point of view of providing clarity and certainty to our shareholders this very moment about our capital plans.
As to U.S.
earnings I’ll simply say we had a very good Q1.
Eric went through some of the details in that in terms of what drove those good earnings.
As mentioned we're not changing our guidance.
Obviously the strong first quarter puts upward pressure within the range that we provided to you at Investor Day.
And beyond that I'll simply say that we're heartened by the first quarter but it is uncertain environment out there in the world today and we're remaining with the current guidance.
Eric do you want to add anything to that? Sure Steve.
Let me just walk through very briefly here.
As we said we reported $1.37 per share normalizing to $1.39.
Just thinking about a few things that we don't normalize as we consider them part of our business frankly.
We did have about $0.04 of initial market impact that helped earnings in the Americas in the first quarter.
We’ve talked about the fact that our variable investment income was at the higher end of our range.
Our range is $150 million to $250 million and we came in at $239 million.
So you can think about that.
In addition on a normalized basis we reported P&amp;C earnings of $84 million.
And as I mentioned we expect higher cats in the second quarter and third quarter.
And as a matter of fact versus last year we actually added another $20 million to our cat provision for the second quarter.
So I think P&amp;C earnings will come down a little bit in the second quarter.
And finally we had very good recurring income.
We expect that to -- for the most degree to continue going forward.
But it was a very good quarter.
So when I say recurring income investment income I mean non-variable.
So you can think about maybe those 4 categories with respect to adjusting off of our normalized $1.39 Tom.
And next we'll go to the line of Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> Steve you've made it pretty clear that exporting Alico's accident and health capabilities globally is a major strategic priority for MET.
I was curious if that includes a desire also to place more of an emphasis on A&amp;H in the U.S.
where I think you're a pretty small player but there's -- the competitive environment still seems pretty favorable and the market penetration remains pretty low there.
Yes I think you pegged it.
That is our intention.
We -- the accident and health business that was really I guess started in Japan some 20 or 30 years ago has -- Alico did a very good job of rolling that out around the world and that continues today.
Our accident and health sales are up for instance in Latin America are up very nicely and that -- it's through a number of different channels.
So our presence in accident and health in the U.S.
is very modest and we expect that we will be developing products and rolling that out through a number of channels really starting this year but obviously continuing over the next couple of years to build some momentum.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And then M&amp;A opportunities in the U.S.
and abroad seem to have heated up a little bit lately.
How are you thinking about M&amp;A at this point I guess in terms of both geography and product mix? And along the same lines when you look at potential M&amp;A accretion versus share repurchase are you now factoring in the factor that you're likely to be able to deploy a greater amount of capital into M&amp;A at this point versus buyback? Our view of M&amp;A really hasn't changed.
We've talked about a number of times in the past.
As we look at deals we'll compare it to a share buyback program as well.
And we have to see accretion soon after a deal closes.
It doesn't have to be day one.
It depends upon the deal and the importance of the transaction to us.
But you can be assured that we remain disciplined in any sort of M&amp;A transactions that we do.
I have no comment today about any specific M&amp;A deals.
Obviously we don't talk about that until there's certainty.
But we are still looking at properties not just in the United States but globally that may make sense in terms of being a good fit from our point of view strategically.
So that's kind of the key message.
Next we'll go to the line of Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
My first question is just a I guess clarification.
When you gave the book value guidance for year end 2012 in the neighborhood of $50 that was accounting for the DAC accounting change? Yes it was.
Okay.
And secondly just a broad question about SIFI.
Is it your understanding that companies designated as SIFIs will have to submit a capital plan for calendar year 2013? I mean in other words will the framework the regulatory framework be in place by the end of this year? Sean we just don't know.
At this point there is not much clarity provided by Washington on this topic.
So we don't have an answer for you.
And we'll go to the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> A couple of quick ones.
Did you -- I'm just curious whether you filed a challenge to the Fed's decision on your capital plan.
I think you had like others 30 days to do so.
It seems clear to me at least that some of the adjustments that they made to your plan didn't make much sense.
So I'm wondering whether you filed any petition along those lines? John we did not file an appeal.
We obviously looked at that avenue as a possibility.
Given the fact that we are de-banking and we looked at the time lines of these we thought it made more sense to focus our energies on de-banking.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then along those lines you mentioned that the closing of the bank sale and the deregistration of the holding company is clearly subject to various regulatory approvals.
I guess my question is just -- based on the progress to date do you still expect the closing of the bank by the end of the second quarter or is that something that could slip further? As you know these transactions are subject to regulatory approval specifically FDIC and even the Fed has an involvement in it in terms of us de-banking and we just can't say with certainty when the regulatory approvals will be forthcoming.
The FDIC has to put it on their docket.
They meet once a month.
I'm sure they've a lot of matters before them.
So at this point in time we don't have clarity on our side to be specific about timing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one more quick one.
Aside from the specific capital plan buybacks and the dividend raise is there any restriction on you to for instance deploy capital into paying down debt maturities and/or spending capital on acquisition opportunities? Not as to paying down debt certainly.
And we do talk to the Fed typically before doing an M&amp;A transaction especially the larger ones.
So we keep them informed.
And next we'll go to the line of Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I guess just following up on John's.
So the $800 million debt maturity you plan on refinancing? Right now it's uncertain.
We've mentioned that we may do that but we'll let you know as we get through the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe just to drill into annuities a little bit.
Obviously the sales numbers did come down as targeted.
And I think in the opening remarks you alluded to product changes.
My question is do you have any further planned changes in annuities going forward and are there any other changes that you're making at the distribution level that's helping to control the sales level towards the targeted $18 billion range for the year? Yes.
Mark it's Bill Wheeler.
We haven't announced any new product changes or any more product changes to annuities.
But there -- but I'd be very surprised if we didn't have some changes going forward.
And yes we're always sort of tweaking our distribution in terms of which distributors.
Obviously we have our own agents but obviously third parties and we're always looking at sort of the productivity of the various third-party channels we have.
So I'd be very surprised if there weren't further changes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just maybe one follow-up to I think Tom's question earlier specific to annuities.
When I look at annuity earnings and I adjust down for the market factors that you talked about Eric the $0.04 it still was a very strong annuity earnings core.
I think your ROAs went up quite a bit sequentially 3 basis points or so.
Is this level sustainable or were there any other kind of favorability items in there that we shouldn't really think about as a run rate adjusting for the market? Look you got the market piece obviously.
We had great spreads.
We had record spreads in the retail annuity business 309 basis points.
So within there as per my sort of global comments on spreads recurring investment income was very good.
Now part of that is propped up by the interest rate floors not only in this business but in others.
So I would have to say I'm not expecting record spreads every quarter but it was clearly a good quarter and much of it is sustainable.
And next we'll go to the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> A question in terms of -- it seems like uncertainty remains kind of the prominent word here when it comes to regulation and capital deployment.
So -- and we've seen regulatory matters clearly get pushed back or delayed in the past.
So I guess what can be done sort of in the near to intermediate term to potentially reduce the capital that continues to build as we await clarity? Chris there's not a lot that can be done.
We're waiting for clarity and -- but we -- if there is an M&amp;A transaction that makes sense to us we're going to pursue those kinds of activities.
But again I have nothing today to report to you on that front.
Over time when we are able to de-bank we'll make a decision about returning or deploying capital in October.
We'll talk about our dividend.
But at this point in time given the regulatory environment that's as much as I can say.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in the pension closeout market? I mean obviously PRU has had some success recently.
But it seems like a lot of CFOs are eager to get this risk off their balance sheet yet we haven't really seen the big transactions take place.
So I guess what do you think it'll take to begin to push some of these things across the finish line? Chris it's Bill.
I think there is an interest on corporate America's part to getting rid of I would say traditional pension plans and doing a closeout.
What's giving them pause is continued low interest rates.
I mean the -- when interest rates are this low the cost of doing that even if they have a well-funded plan isn't that attractive.
I think they're -- they've kind of said "Gee we should just wait.
We don't have to do this now.
We should wait.
Interest rates will be higher." But I think the reality is coming home that interest rates may stay this low for a while yet given what the Fed says every day.
So I think what might occur is -- if there's one big trade printed they might -- that I think that people might say "Well it's probably time to go." So I think this market is pretty dynamic right now in terms of what might break and when.
So we'll just -- we'll have to wait and see.
We'll go to the line of Randy Binner with FBR.
Research Division</strong> I just had a kind of a follow-up on Corporate Benefit Funding.
The segment has held up well despite the low rate environment.
Has it been the -- was it the U.K.
again in the first quarter of '12 carrying the result? I think that activity there has been moving along better than in the U.S.
Yes sales activity has been good.
There's not a very big block in the U.K.
So the profit contribution from that business is modest.
I mean it's profitable but it's modest.
So -- but sales activity has been good.
I mean there's a lot of closeout activity in the U.K.
right now.
Research Division</strong> And I guess to follow up too.
I guess your answer to Chris's question before Bill was that you could still see big U.S.
closeouts go.
But I guess is -- are smaller scale solutions going to be more of a focus? I mean is there real traction there or do we really have to kind of wait for those lumpy big deals to come through? Well look that's -- if you look at our -- the deals that we're executing on now you would say they're sort of small deals and that's been that way for a while.
I think -- or relatively small deals.
They're -- I think what people have talked about for a number of years including us is there are a number of large pension plans out there is something else going to happen and something that would really be big.
And the answer is we don't know yet.
We'll have to wait and see.
Clearly there's an interest on the part of corporate America to do those deals.
But obviously we've -- I talked about the pressure is what's causing them to pause.
Next we'll go to the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of questions.
The first one for Steve just on your approach to share buybacks.
Obviously there's uncertainty on how long it could take you to deregister the bank holding company.
But assuming that you're able to do it by sometime in late 2012 would you still wait for more clarity on the SIFI rules before you resume share buybacks or would you start repurchases regardless? And then the second question maybe Bill can answer that is just on individual life.
Your mortality has been weak I think in -- or margins have been weak for 3 of the last 5 quarters.
Part of that I think is lower reinsurance offsets.
But just to your comfort with pricing in your individual life book especially since you've been raising prices as well.
Is there any one product that's causing weakness or part of the block? Just what your comfort level is with the underwriting in that block? Jimmy on the first one buybacks let me start by saying it is our intent to return excess capital to our shareholders.
That remains a strong commitment on our part.
And I also said that we can look at the entire landscape at a time when we can return capital to shareholders.
Right now we cannot.
So we'll take a look at all the factors how MetLife is doing our capital position the overall economic environment what's going on there and the regulatory landscape as the key factors and we'll have to assess that as that day comes in terms of being able to return capital.
So right now I just -- I don't see any upside in me making predictions about what all those factors will look like at the point in time when we can return capital to our shareholders.
So I'm afraid it's not the clarity you'd like to have and frankly it's not the clarity I’d like to give you but that's the environment we're living in.
Research Division</strong> No I know what it is.
The reason I'm asking is in previous cases you guys have made recommendations that obviously have -- and things have been out of your control but you've implied a higher level of certainty with this than was really the case.
I think you're right we have.
And we anticipated passing the Fed stress test and we did not.
Research Division</strong> And then on the individual life question? Sure Jimmy.
So now earnings were down a little bit in individual life but really that was due entirely to -- or almost entirely to the settlement we reached because the reserve adjustments that had to be made to ascete [ph] those old policies were in the charge there which is the $26 million after tax was in that line.
I think if you added that back I think individual life had a pretty good quarter.
You are right.
I mean mortality is up a bit this quarter.
There is a seasonality aspect to mortality.
And oftentimes the mortality report -- remember that's gross before reinsurance offsets.
And reinsurance offsets that's just -- it can move around a little bit quarter-to-quarter.
If you look over any lengthy period of time we are -- our mortality experience is actually pretty good.
The pressure on pricing changes and that's really occurring in UL is all about interest rates and the capital that's needed to support the ULSG guarantees.
And so we and really I think everybody in the industry is as well we're all raising prices in UL.
It's -- in this kind of an interest rate environment it's just not as an attractive product.
And because of that you can see our sales are down this quarter as we continue to tighten pricing there.
So I -- that's I would say what's really going on with individual life pricing.
And next we'll go to the line of Ed Spehar with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I have 2 questions.
First can you give us any sense on the visibility of VII in the second quarter? Yes it's Steve Goulart.
I think Eric actually probably gave the answer already.
But as we look at VII for the next quarter and the rest of the year we still expect it to perform within the plan that we set out at the beginning of the year.
Research Division</strong> But I guess -- anything related to high end or low end? I think there's about a $0.06 gap between the 2.
I think we're still comfortable with the range we've given and that we expect to be in that range.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And the second question is Milliman's Hedge Cost Index for VA was at an average level in the first quarter that was similar to the peak we saw during the financial crisis.
So I guess the question is do you think that this index accurately captures the cost of hedging for the business? And if it does would you anticipate that more companies are going to follow your lead and pull back from this business? And I mean will you continue to follow? I guess if others raise prices lower guarantees will you continue to follow those down? Well I'll be honest.
I don't follow the Milliman Hedge Cost Index.
I don't want to give them an endorsement frankly.
We look at our own hedge cost index.
Our hedge cost index actually went down.
It's not anywhere near what it was at the peak and it was actually down from the last couple of quarters.
So my guess is we don't track very well with that index.
That's one.
Two is in terms of pulling back -- I mean remember now we're only going back to sales that we had in 2010 right.
I mean 2011 was a bit of an aberration because of the way we priced the new product.
So it's all relevant in terms of what you mean pulling back.
Obviously we've seen people in the industry exit this business and a lot of that has to do with frankly their historical risk management performance.
And they just couldn't stand the pain anymore.
Our experience is very different and we've talked about on many different occasions about how we hedge this product and how we've come through the financial crisis.
So we're -- we think we're in much better shape and we think the product we sell today has a very good return.
So hedging costs are still a little elevated relative to our pricing assumptions but just a little bit frankly and that does jump around.
So I guess that's kind of our feeling about that.
Bill I'll just add.
Ed with the new product as we go through this year our hedging costs will continue to come down a little bit.
So you can factor that in as you think about this as well.
And next we'll go to the line of Joanne Smith with Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
I just wanted to follow up on the M&amp;A and just talk a little bit more from a philosophical level.
It just seems that there's been a number of properties that have been talked about or have actually been put on the market.
And I just -- I'm just wondering Steve if you think that this is a period that we're entering into of greater consolidation for a longer-term period.
And I don't expect you to comment on specific transactions but just in terms of philosophically speaking it looks like there's a lot more capital rationalization going on especially with respect to some more distressed properties.
Joanne I think that's right.
There are things that frankly we've known about now for a year or 2 in terms of certain companies that have made announcements that they'll be divesting of certain properties as they try to repair their own balance sheets.
And those properties now are entering the marketplace.
Some have already been on the marketplace for a while and have been sold.
So I think that trend will continue for some period of time.
And as you can imagine most any transaction of any size we do look at.
These transactions are shown to us.
We are looking at properties that make sense from a strategic point of view in terms of our goals going forward in terms of we want to expand our business.
So we look at those properties very closely.
We determine whether or not to make a bid.
But if we make a bid again as we've said many times has to make sense from a point of view of shareholder value creation which means it has to be accretive soon or immediately and we compare it to share repurchases.
Research Division</strong> Is it a buyer's or seller's market Steve? And I guess there's probably different answers for each kind of transaction but generally speaking.
I'd say that right after the start of the crisis it was very much a buyer's market.
And Alico is an example of that.
I think now it's more of a neutral market.
It's not like 2006 2007 where it's clearly a seller’s market.
But I'd say within that there are segments.
So certain properties you can imagine -- you've read the announcements of a number of companies looking to expand in markets in Asia.
So properties of that nature are getting more attention and potentially more aggressive bidding.
Other markets and other properties that perhaps are not growing as rapidly might shift a little bit more toward the buyer side.
And our final question will come from the line of John Hall with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> My question has to do more with I guess growth.
And over in Japan it looked like there was a lot of that going on.
And I was hoping you could offer a little bit more granularity about what you're selling why sales are up so much and perhaps touch on some of the other regions as well.
This is Bill Hogan.
Let me start to reiterate what Steve said that sales were up 28%.
We saw double-digit growth across all of our channels also saw a good mix of different products in terms of life products annuity products and our A&amp;H products were all up in the course of the first quarter.
The leading distribution was bancassurance and our independent agents particularly the broker general agents had a real strong quarter.
They continue to have strong growth opportunities there.
A reminder that this obviously does not include the month of March which is traditionally the strongest month for the bank business because we report the quarter with a one month lag.
So we see some great growth there and we've got a good balance risk profile due to the diversity of our product mix.
So we continue to see that broad product mix and the good diversity of products and that is what we see going forward as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess the question is why.
I think on the independent side and the bank side we had some very strong wholesaling and training.
They're still learning the business.
The BGA business is growing rapidly and they need training.
And our wholesalers are providing that.
The banks are still getting new into the life insurance market and we're providing the training to help support that.
On the independent or career side of our agency channel we continue to see steady growth there through providing good solid products and we're offering consultative-type sales that include both a life product as well as an A&amp;H product.
And that's really what customers are looking for these days.
On the direct marketing side we've been repositioning the portfolio and doing a lot more outbound telemarketing and that's been extremely successful as well as starting to see some sales on the Internet.
LLC Research Division</strong> Great.
And can we get an early look on March? Well March is as I said it’s the end of the year for the bank business so it looks -- that certainly will look pretty strong and I think we'll see a good second quarter relative to prior year.
A reminder that last year we had the earthquake which dampened sales substantially.
So good second quarter.
It looks promising and the bar certainly gets raised in the third and fourth quarter.
Great.
Well thank you everyone for joining us.
Obviously if you have any follow-up questions feel free to contact the Investor Relations department.
And everyone have a great day.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10 a.m.
Eastern Time today through May 4 2012.
You may access the AT&amp;T TeleConference replay system at any time by dialing (320) 365-3844 and entering the access code 226301.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the MetLife Second Quarter Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to read the following statement on behalf of MetLife.
Except with respect to historical information statements made in this conference call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of federal securities laws including statements relating to trends in the company's operations and financial results and the business and products of the company and its subsidiaries.
MetLife's actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including those described from time to time in MetLife's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
MetLife specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I would like to turn the call over to John McCallion Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
All right.
Thank you Brad and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MetLife's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
We will be discussing certain financial measures not based on generally accepted accounting principles so-called non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measures may be found on the Investor Relations portion of metlife.com in our earnings press release our quarterly financial supplements and in the Other Financial Information section.
A reconciliation of forward-looking information to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is not accessible because MetLife believes it's not possible to provide a reliable forecast of net investment and net derivative gains and losses which can fluctuate from period-to-period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
Now joining me this morning on the call are Steve Kandarian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; Eric Steigerwalt Interim Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will take your questions.
Also here with us today to participate in the discussion are other members of management including Bill Wheeler President of Americas; Steve Goulart Chief Investment Officer; Michel Khalaf President of EMEA; and Bill Hogan Executive Vice President and Head of our Japan operations.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
MetLife continued to perform well in the second quarter particularly in light of the current environment.
We delivered operating earnings of $1.4 billion or $1.33 per share up 18% year-over-year.
Book value per share excluding AOCI rose to $48.60 a 12% gain year-over-year.
MetLife's story in the second quarter is one of sound execution on the fundamentals.
Our underwriting results remain solid with strong performance in dental and improving results in disability.
MetLife's commitment to underwriting discipline demonstrates that we will not chase sales at the expense of margins which has proved over time to be a competitive strength.
Consistent with our strategy of balancing growth and risk we have reduced variable annuity sales in the quarter by 34% year-over-year and by 6% sequentially.
Emerging market growth another strategic priority was very strong in Latin America with earnings up 5% on a reported basis and by 19% on a constant currency basis.
Perhaps no area better reflects the disciplined approach we take to the business than our actions to manage interest rate exposure.
As you know we provided extensive disclosure about our interest rate risk in conjunction with the third quarter 2011 earnings call.
Interest rates have come down further since then.
And we have done additional analysis on the impact to MetLife's earnings.
I would like to share those results with you today.
The interest rate scenario we discussed last fall assumed a rate curve with a 10-year Treasury rate held flat at 2% for 5 years.
We reran that scenario using a more recent yield curve with a 10-year Treasury at a record low 1.4%.
The result was essentially no incremental impact on MetLife's earning per share for 2012 and 2013 and only roughly $0.05 per share in 2014.
We also examined the impact of the low interest rate environment on MetLife's return on equity.
At our Investor Day in May we said we expected to have an ROE of 12% to 14% by 2016.
Even if the 10-year Treasury rate were to remain at 1.4% through the end of 2016 we would expect to hit the lower end of that range adding roughly 100 basis points of ROE from this year's expected level despite the low interest rate environment.
The impact of low interest rates on MetLife's earnings is more benign than many suspect for 2 main reasons.
First we still have room to adjust credit rates on a number of our products in response to changes in interest rates.
And second our hedging program has been highly effective.
We made a forward-looking call in 2004 to start buying low rate protection when the 10-year Treasury was trading above 4%.
We are reaping the benefits today and we will continue to do so for a number of years to come.
Now let me discuss a few regulatory issues facing MetLife.
With regard to debanking regulatory approval for the sale of the depository business of MetLife Bank to GE Capital needs to be obtained from the FDIC.
And the application for sale is pending with them.
I know that investors are eager for resolution of this issue but the timing is outside of MetLife's control.
As I said last quarter I'm not going to speculate as to when the FDIC will take final action.
As soon as we have something to report we will.
Until then we are not responding to questions about the status of the FDIC process.
Looking ahead a central regulatory issue for MetLife is whether we'll be named a nonbank systemically important financial institution and what the new prudential standards for nonbank SIFIs will look like.
The Financial Stability Oversight Council has begun designating nonbank SIFIs.
On July 18 FSOC applied the designation to 8 financial clearinghouses.
As we have said many times we do not believe regulated insurance activities pose systemic risk to the U.S.
financial system.
In the event that certain insurance companies are named SIFIs the impact is a matter of public debate with some policy analysts focusing on the benefits and others focusing on the costs.
My view is that the impact will depend on how the final prudential rules are written.
So far Federal Reserve officials have signaled their intention to adapt the rules to the unique circumstances of nonbank financial firms.
In recent congressional testimony Fed officials have said the bank-centric capital rules would likely be a bad fit for insurance companies.
There is a recognition that insurance companies have different asset and liability structures than banks and that the appropriate regulation needs to take that into account.
Now let me provide an update on recent M&amp;A activity.
As I've said previously we take a portfolio view of our business investing in markets we consider core and divesting from those that do not meet our strategic priorities or financial requirements.
Earlier this week we closed on the sale of a significant portion of our Caribbean and Central American operations to Pan-American Life Insurance Group which was initially announced last November.
Also this week we closed on the acquisition of Aviva plc's life insurance operations in the Czech Republic Hungary and Romania which expands MetLife's presence in growth markets in Eastern Europe.
Our views on M&amp;A remain consistent.
Any transaction we pursue must compare favorably to alternative uses of capital.
Before I hand the call over to Eric I also want to take a moment to highlight the completion of the senior executive team here at MetLife.
Yesterday Chris Townsend started as our President for Asia based in Hong Kong.
Chris comes to us from Chartis where he served as CEO of their Asia Pacific region with 4 700 employees in 15 countries.
Chris has a strong background in the area of capital management and portfolio optimization as well as the direct-to-consumer business which is an important part of our Asia operations.
And right after Labor Day John Hele will be starting as MetLife's new CFO.
John is a highly qualified Chief Financial Officer with over 30 years of broad experience in the financial services industry.
He comes to us from Arch Capital Group where he was Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer.
Previously he was Chief Financial Officer of ING Group one of the largest financial services companies in the world.
Earlier in his career John spent 11 years with Merrill Lynch in investment banking marketing and finance positions.
Finally I want to thank Eric Steigerwalt who has done an excellent job as Interim CFO.
Upon the arrival of John Hele Eric will devote himself full time to leading our Retail business and reporting to Bill Wheeler President of the Americas division.
With that I will hand the call over to Eric.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
MetLife reported operating earnings of $1.4 billion or $1.33 per share for the second quarter.
This quarter's results included a few significant items which I will discuss shortly that benefited operating earnings by $0.02 per share.
Overall our strong results continue to demonstrate the resiliency of our businesses and our focus on pricing underwriting and expense discipline across all of our regions.
Interest margins were favorable due to strong variable investment income which was significantly above our planned range and higher recurring net investment income.
As we have stated in prior calls we have been able to maintain strong spreads despite this low rate environment due to our ALM discipline private origination capabilities and the effectiveness of our hedging programs.
In addition we continue to manage crediting rates prudently and have additional capacity to lower rates on our interest-rate-sensitive products.
In the Americas we saw favorable underwriting results in Non-Medical Health and had significant improvement in property/casualty as compared to the record catastrophes in the prior year quarter.
We also had solid results in Latin America particularly in Mexico and Argentina.
In addition expenses remained very much under control.
Our overall expense ratio was 24.1% on a reported basis in the quarter and 23.2% when adjusting for pension and postretirement benefits.
Now I'll walk you through our financial results and point out some of the highlights.
First let me discuss some significant items included in the second quarter results.
Pretax variable investment income was $371 million.
After taxes and the impact of deferred acquisition costs variable investment income was $242 million or $0.07 per share above the top of our 2012 guidance range.
This performance was primarily driven by strong private equity returns.
I should remind you that we report our private equity funds on a one-quarter lag therefore we would expect that returns in our private equity portfolio in the third quarter will be impacted by market performance in the second quarter.
In the Americas our property &amp; casualty business incurred catastrophe losses of $94 million after tax which was $44 million after tax or $0.04 per share above our second quarter plan provision of $50 million after tax.
These higher-than-expected catastrophes were partially offset by a favorable non-cat prior year development reserve release primarily in our auto business of $25 million after tax or $0.02 per share.
In our Asia region operating earnings were negatively impacted by $17 million or $0.02 per share due to a DAC model refinement in Japan.
In our EMEA region operating earnings benefited from a $12 million after-tax or $0.01 per share release of negative VOBA in Greece as customers have shifted away from interest-sensitive pension products to products with more liquidity.
And finally our Corporate &amp; Other segment had 2 individual items which each negatively impacted earnings by a little over $0.01 per share.
These items relate to expenses from our efficiency initiative and our Japan JV run-off book of business.
Now let's take a look at the results in the quarter by region.
For the Americas reported operating earnings were $1.1 billion for the second quarter up 11% versus the prior year quarter.
The primary drivers for this earnings growth were in our Retail and Group Voluntary and Worksite Benefits segments.
The Retail segment reported operating earnings of $380 million for the second quarter up 14% as compared to the prior year quarter driven primarily by the annuity segment.
Operating earnings for annuities were $226 million in the quarter up 25% year-over-year as the business continues to enjoy strong core spreads higher fee income due to separate account asset growth and lower expenses partially offset by market true-ups in the quarter.
Deferred annuity spreads as reflected in our quarterly financial supplement were 301 basis points in the quarter down modestly from the record spreads in the first quarter but up 44 basis points year-over-year.
This improvement was due mainly to higher derivative income primarily from interest rate floors as well as lower crediting rates.
Our Group Voluntary and Worksite segment reported operating earnings of $295 million for the quarter up 29% versus the prior year quarter driven by the Non-Medical Health and property/casualty businesses.
Non-Medical Health reported operating earnings of $133 million in the quarter up 22% year-over-year mainly on improved underwriting earnings across the product set.
The Non-Medical Health benefit ratio for the quarter was 86.1% a 140-basis-point improvement in the ratios compared to the prior year quarter of 87.5% and well within our expectations.
In dental our underwriting trends remain favorable as a result of stable utilization combined with our disciplined pricing strategy.
Also disability results improved due to a lower LTD incidence rate compared to the prior year quarter and plan.
However recoveries while better than the prior year continued to remain below plan in the second quarter.
Property &amp; casualty operating earnings were $44 million in the quarter up $100 million versus the prior year quarter primarily due to lower catastrophes as compared to the record prior year levels.
That said pretax catastrophe losses of $144 million were above our plan.
The combined ratio for property &amp; casualty was 102.3% or 83.4% excluding catastrophes in the quarter.
This result was significantly better than the combined ratio of 121.7% or 85.9% excluding cats in the second quarter of 2011.
Latin America operating earnings were $135 million up 5% year-over-year.
On a constant rate basis operating earnings were up 19% due to business growth across the region operating synergies and higher investment yields.
Also underwriting results were favorable to plan primarily in Mexico.
We expect underwriting in Latin America to continue to be favorable for the balance of the year.
Mortality results in the U.S.
were modestly unfavorable in the quarter compared to the prior year quarter.
Group life's loss ratio for the quarter was 87.3% higher than the very strong prior year quarter of 82.1% but right within our expectations.
Retail life's mortality ratio was 85.6% in the quarter higher than the prior year quarter of 84.4%.
However reinsurance recoveries were better in the quarter resulting in an improvement of overall underwriting results year-over-year.
Premiums fees and other revenues for the Americas were $8.4 billion down 1% from the prior year quarter.
Higher separate account fees and retail annuities solid dental premiums in Non-Medical Health were offset by lower pension closeouts.
In Non-Medical Health results this quarter reflect nearly $100 million of premiums from the TRICARE Dental contract which became effective May 1.
Also in Latin America while revenues were up 1% year-over-year they were up 13% on a constant rate basis driven by growth in accident and health and strong immediate annuity sales.
Now let me turn to the Asia region.
Operating earnings in the Asia region were $275 million up 61% from $171 million in the prior year quarter and up 25% after adjusting for onetime items most notably $44 million of higher claims and expenses in the second quarter of 2011 as a result of the earthquake and tsunami in Japan.
We are seeing solid growth in new business in Japan as well as strong persistency gains year-over-year particularly for accident and health products.
Premiums fees and other revenues in Asia were $2.3 billion up 6% from the prior year quarter on both the reported and constant rate basis.
Growth was driven by new business in Japan and persistency gains in both Japan and Korea.
In addition total sales for the region grew 13% driven by Japan which was up 33% year-over-year as well as strong growth in China and Australia.
For the region key product drivers were life and accident and health sales in Japan and A&amp;H sales in China as well as group sales in Australia.
In EMEA operating earnings were $82 million up 28% from the second quarter of 2011 and up 46% on a constant rate basis.
This increase was due to expense improvements business growth in several countries and the benefit of a onetime item in the quarter that I discussed earlier.
EMEA premiums fees and other revenues were $815 million down 4% versus the prior year quarter on a reported basis and up 3% on a constant rate basis.
Finally EMEA sales grew 13% compared to the second quarter of 2011 driven by Turkey credit life sales in Russia and strong sales in our Gulf countries.
This is a solid result despite the challenging market conditions across the region.
Now let me turn to investments.
Let's start with our realized investment gains and losses.
In the second quarter we had after-tax investment portfolio net gains of $4 million.
Included in this net gain were impairments of $36 million after-tax.
We expect investment portfolio net losses to remain relatively modest for the remainder of the year.
Moving to our commercial mortgage holdings.
This portfolio continues to perform well.
As of June 30 our valuation allowance was $300 million down from $368 million at the end of the first quarter.
The loan-to-value ratio of our portfolio improved again this quarter to 59% from 60% as valuations continue to improve in the markets where we invest.
Additionally as of June 30 there were no delinquent loans in the portfolio and no losses recorded during the quarter on this $41 billion portfolio.
Finally with respect to our derivatives portfolio we had after-tax gains of $1.3 billion that were driven primarily by lower interest rates and the impact of MetLife's credit spreads.
As a reminder derivative gains or losses related to MetLife's credit spreads do not have an economic impact on the company.
Now let me discuss the balance sheet and capital position.
Cash and liquid assets at the holding companies at June 30 totaled approximately $5.3 billion which is on track with our 2012 guidance.
This includes a $1.5 billion residual capital remittance from our Japan operation in May as it converted from a branch to a subsidiary offset by the deployment of $397 million as we repaid senior debt that matured in June.
Our Japan solvency margin ratio on the new basis was 847% as of March 31 2012 and well above our target ratio of 600%.
Due to accounting rules this included the effect of the plan residual capital remittance which was largely offset by a surplus relief transaction that occurred in the first quarter.
Next I would like to provide you with an update on our U.S.
stat earnings and capital position.
Our preliminary second quarter 2012 statutory operating earnings and net income for our domestic insurance companies were approximately $230 million and $630 million respectively.
The results were impacted by higher reserves related to the market performance in the quarter.
While reserve adjustments go through the income statement the hedges in our derivatives portfolio do not go through the income statement but instead are reflected in unrealized gains.
Therefore our total adjusted capital or TAC increased by $2.1 billion in the quarter primarily due to unrealized gains on derivatives and other invested assets and now stands at approximately $30 billion as of June 30.
For the first 6 months of 2012 statutory operating earnings and statutory net income were approximately $1.7 billion and $1.9 billion respectively.
In conclusion MetLife had another very good quarter.
Our margins remain strong as we continue to focus on generating profitable growth through pricing underwriting expense and investment discipline.
As a result we have been able to grow earnings maintain a strong balance sheet and capital position in a very challenging environment.
And with that I'll turn it back to the operator so we can take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question today comes from the line of Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Research Division</strong> Question I guess for Steve.
On the capital I appreciate that you can't really talk about what the Fed and the FDIC might do but this is a management team that's always been sort of planning for contingencies.
And as we think about the capital that's building here I think you're pretty much on track as you said in terms of where you're going to be at the end of the year.
If you can't return capital to shareholders what is Plan B in terms of redeploying that capital? I mean does M&amp;A all of a sudden become a lot more compelling? And do you think there's opportunities out there or anything in the pension transfer market? I mean just kind of get a sense of what's going to happen to this capital that's clearly building and is not needed for your core business right now? I think it's premature for me to say that we'll do one thing or another.
We're still working hard to de-bank and be able to take capital actions.
In terms of M&amp;A I wouldn't say that if we have interim period where we can't return capital or raise our dividend that that somehow changes our analysis around whether we should buy or not buy a company that's for sale at some price.
So I would still look at it as -- it needs to be accretive to earnings.
We're not going to let our standards slip based upon our inability in the short term to return capital to our shareholders above the current levels of our dividend.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
But is there anything out there that you're seeing versus perhaps the last time you spoke to us in terms of M&amp;A opportunities? Or is it pretty much the same? As you know we look at most anything that is in our general scope of businesses we're in currently.
And I'm sure you're aware there are number of properties today for sale.
I anticipate there'll be a number of other properties available for sale in the coming months and years as well particularly in light of capital rules in Europe and elsewhere.
So we're remaining disciplined.
I think MetLife has proven over the years that we don't get caught up in the frenzy of the moment in terms of buying properties.
And I've said before that we're not going to adjust our standards around what is a good transaction or not a good transaction either strategically or in terms of pricing of a deal based upon what the competition is doing.
We're going to remain disciplined and we're confident that we can over time make appropriate acquisitions at prices that make sense for our shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then my follow-up question or second question is for Bill Wheeler.
Obviously the underwriting results in the Americas were strong.
I think we're seeing some mixed results from some of your peers.
Can you just talk about what you're seeing in terms of pricing particularly in some of the group insurance lines and if you think that kind of what you're seeing in the market is truly reflective of the current interest rate environment or are people sort of pricing based on an expectation that eventually rates will rise? Just any color there would be helpful.
Sure.
Well you kind of mixed 2 ideas there.
In terms of sort of group underwriting I would say that the environment is clearly better.
And there are number of people I think who were probably too aggressive.
I think they're -- it's caught up with them and their results.
And so I think they're showing a lot more discipline now and that's just good for us.
And I think the other thing too obviously is that our underwriting discipline over the last couple of years the contrast is pretty stark with some of our peers.
So I think that's good.
In terms of interest rates and how that might be influencing pricing we've seen yet another kind of dip here in interest rates from the 10-year Treasuries sort of the 2-ish range down to 1.5.
I think that I'm not sure everybody's caught up yet with that reality in terms of their pricing.
And so I would guess you're going to see more pricing adjustments coming from the industry because of it.
I think when interest rates get this low obviously that really starts to pressure ROIs product sales.
But it takes a little bit of time I think for pricing to adjust.
And I'm sure some people probably think that "Gee I'll just wait and I'm sure it will get better.
How could it possibly get lower?" But I think people have been making -- saying that line for quite a while and now it's not come true.
So we view this as an opportunity obviously to change prices if we need to in certain areas.
And we've been pretty -- pricing pretty aggressively in places like UL.
And obviously the variable annuity business for quite some time now.
And that's had an effect on our sales levels there but I think that makes good sense to do.
And we do have a question from the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I was hoping -- maybe for Bill.
I was hoping we could revisit the slide from your Investor Day and get a sense for how things maybe have or haven't changed given the first half of the year results.
And the slide I'm referring to is the one that showed sort of 3 different categories of return on equity with a bunch of different businesses categorized in 15% or greater 10% to 15% and then under 10% and in particular focus on the group disability and the annuity business both of which were under 10%.
I'm wondering if there's been any change there.
I think with regard to the annuity business the answer is probably no.
But our new product sales ROIs in this quarter even with relatively low interest rates we calculate our ROI to be about high-13s as an average for the quarter.
Probably by the end of the quarter given where interest rates had moved to it would probably move to something more like 13%.
But we're changing some more of our features on our VAs.
We're changing altering the dollar-for-dollar feature which I think will improve the ROI in the out quarters.
So it's a big block.
So it's hard to move the overall ROE there.
But new product pricing is good.
Secondly with regard to disability our book is really starting to turn.
And you can see that.
In terms of our underwriting results and the profitability of it again this is in pretty stark contrast to most of our peers in the group disability business who -- and I'm hard-pressed to actually explain why but our book is different than theirs.
And if you've been aggressive I think you're getting punished for it.
But incidence rates are down.
Claim closure rates are still elevated.
And so we're -- so underwriting isn't yet where it should be or could be we think in the future.
But clearly the ROE of that book is improving.
Research Division</strong> And Bill just as a quick follow-up on that I mean in the group disability business what does -- how do we think about 100 basis points of loss ratio improvement there? How much does that move the ROE roughly? I'm not sure off the top of my head.
Crudely something like 1 point.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then separately I guess a question for Eric.
Just thinking about Asia and EMEA those are the 2 other primary segments where I don't think we really have any strong or any real idea what the ROEs are today.
Can you give us some sense? That's an interesting question John.
We have not been giving any returns out on the segments as you know.
We've been working through our economic capital that is associated with how we allocate equity.
The returns I would say in both of those operations are quite good but I'm not going to give out a number.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And -- understood.
Maybe some further disclosure going down the road.
Last one just a quick one given the severity of drought conditions is there any reason we should be thinking about potential losses on the agricultural mortgage portfolio? John it's Steve Goulart.
The answer is no.
I mean we've obviously been following that closely in our portfolio but we don't think it would have any material impact.
And also remember an advent in that market has been crop insurance over the last few years.
So most of our borrowers are insured through their crop insurance programs as well.
But we don't think it will have any material impact on us.
[Audio Gap] Bank of America.
I think this question is for Steve Kandarian.
There is a debate about whether GAAP or statutory will be the basis for regulation of insurance companies if they are designated nonbank SIFIs.
And I'm just wondering is it reasonable to assume that the bank capital model framework that underpins the CCAR analysis would be a workable model for life insurers as long as there are revisions to how separate accounts are treated the capital charges are designed to appropriately reflect the risk of corporates and just that there's generally a clear understanding that derivatives are used exclusively to hedge economic risks and approach that can introduce I guess what we would call uneconomic outcomes on a GAAP basis from quarter to quarter? So we've said that our feeling is that the RBC framework really makes the most sense in terms of regulating the industry.
Obviously there's improvements that have been made to the RBC framework over a number of years.
There could be further improvements made but we think that's the best way to look at the risks in our industry.
If it is decided that insurance companies are deemed as being systemically risky then the framework will come out of the Federal Reserve.
At this point in time we really don't have a great deal of insight as to how they will sort all that out.
If they use more of a bank framework with a modification we'll have to see the details of that to determine whether or not we think that is an appropriate way to regulate a company like ours.
They have made statements on the record out of Washington at the most senior levels of the Fed the Treasury that a purely banking model would not make sense in terms of regulating the insurance industries.
So those are favorable comments from our perspective.
But again the details are going to be the key here and those details have not been sorted out.
They have not been finalized.
It's very early days on the details of the regulatory framework if there is one for us.
Okay.
And my follow-up is for Bill Wheeler on the interest rate assumption behind product pricing.
Bill I think you mentioned that VA marginal returns it sounds like came down only slightly during the quarter despite a material decline in the 10-year Treasury yield.
Did I hear that correctly? And if I did I mean I guess that's implying that this product is not nearly as interest-sensitive maybe as some people anticipate? Well okay.
So first you used the phrase -- word marginal.
I just need to correct you.
There's nothing -- our -- these are not marginal returns.
These are fully allocated fully costed returns on the product.
I'm sorry I meant marginal as meaning new business returns.
No I know.
It's just we were good to capture [ph] it.
I took the opportunity.
Well look they're obviously somewhat interest-rate sensitive.
But remember now the underlying guarantees and the minimum interest rates for annuitization are still very low.
I think the minimum annuitization right now is 1% in the guarantees.
So even though yes they came down there's still a cushion there obviously.
And there's a lot of parts of the economics of these products.
It isn't all about the guarantee of course.
The base fee itself is very profitable.
So sure there's been -- when I say there's no interest rate sensitivity a couple of quarters ago or 2 quarters ago the ROI here was in the 15s or higher.
So we have seen it tick down.
I'm not real happy with high 13s but I think given where interest rates are that's pretty good.
So there's been some sensitivity but the point of it is this is still a product which earns above our cost of capital.
And so we think we're still adding value with each sale.
And that's the most important thing.
And just one quick one on the life side.
If you were to look at the appropriate -- what you would view to be the appropriate pricing of interest-sensitive individual life products I know that's a broad category but how much do prices have to change if we were to assume 1.5% 10-year Treasury versus 2.5%? Is that a very significant change given how the products are already designed with the minimums that are in place today? I think it's a reasonably significant change.
We just priced one of our interest-rate sensitive products.
One of those interest-rate sensitive products we raised prices 15%.
Okay.
Now that was not just in the last -- based on interest rates in the last couple of quarters but it's I mean -- but we've -- pricing in the UL category has been moving up aggressively now for a couple of years and I don't think that's going to stop.
And we do have a question from the line of Mark Finkelstein from Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> I guess I'll ask the somewhat obvious follow-up which is are there any capital impacts with this lower rate as you look out to 2016 above and beyond what you kind of told us in your interest rate disclosures at this lower rate? Mark it's Eric.
So let's just review the bidding on what we did previously.
We said that in the last interest rate presentation that Steve referred to that we would have no stat reserve strengthening but that we expected to have modest actions year after year after year.
We said there'd be no GAAP loss recognition in the U.S.
We said we'd probably have let's call it $400 million to $450 million after-tax impact on DAC mostly occurring in the back end of that 5-year outlook.
And we said there's potential pressure on Retirement Products goodwill.
So at this point and I'm just going to make a blanket statement here anything I say here is going to be subject to what we learn in actual testing okay which is beginning both for CFT loss recognition goodwill testing et cetera okay? So having said that I think maybe the change here would be I feel compelled to say that modest stat reserves strengthening could be required if rates stay low.
For GAAP loss recognition as we think about it from the point of view of August 1 here August 2 whatever date this is we don't see a lot of loss recognition in the near term.
But again we'll have to see what happens as we go through testing.
We still don't see given our current methodology a big DAC impact in the next couple of years.
And I would certainly then finally add that there remains pressure on our goodwill specifically for the Retirement Products.
We're starting goodwill testing now and we'll have to see where we come out as we get to the end of the year here.
So I'm increasing it using the word modest but always subject to what we learn as we go through all the various tests.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Question on Corporate Benefit Funding and I guess more directly on the pension closeout market.
Obviously you saw PRU do a big transaction in the quarter.
AIG has talked more constructively about this market.
And I'm interested in how you're thinking about one the opportunities with pension closeouts; and two I guess how you're thinking about the opportunity in terms of capital deployment that can be larger transactions but on the other hand it also adds significant assets to equity leverage.
So if you could just kind of comment on the opportunities and broadly how you're thinking about that business now.
Sure Mark.
I think you framed it out really well.
The General Motors transaction I think it's fair to view that as a bit of a catalyst.
I think that's causing other corporate treasurers of large traditional companies with old traditional pension plans to think hard about what they should be doing.
And certainly there's a lot more conversation now than there was pre-GM.
My expectation -- but the can of that of course is interest rates keep ticking down.
And I think that makes pension closeouts more difficult.
So there's contrary trend influences there.
But I do think you'll see more deals more big deals despite the low interest rates.
In terms of how we're approaching it each -- a big pension closeout is a big sort of one-off transaction.
It's not unfair to think of it like a big M&amp;A deal.
It's a large transfer of assets.
So the capital considerations there are significant.
And so we just like an M&amp;A deal or anything else which is a big capital transaction have to evaluate that capital that would get allocated to that deal versus other alternatives that are available to the company.
We will not do a big closeout just so we can print a big deal okay? If it doesn't add shareholder value and get us the right kind of returns on our capital we will not do it.
And so that's got to be our discipline.
And look I think our track record about having -- being disciplined about those kind of decisions is pretty good.
So that's got to be how we look at it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then finally just a follow-up on annuities.
When do you expect the pricing changes that you've announced including I guess changes to the dollar-for-dollar withdrawal benefit to be implemented and would the IRRs on the product at this rate environment be pushed over 500% -- or 15% with those changes? So the dollar-for-dollar adjustment I think it was implemented in August.
I think there are other changes we're making.
Some of those are occurring this month.
So I guess we're in August so technically I meant some were implemented in July.
So I don't think the dollar-for-dollar change given where interest rates are will push it back to 15%.
But it will push it I think closer to 14%.
Research Division</strong> But the overall changes do you get over 15%? Well no.
The other changes won't necessarily improve the ROI but they'll -- because they are more about the in-force.
So it's the ROI on new sales.
And we do have a question from the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Most have been asked.
I guess a question for Bill Wheeler on Latin American business.
I mean this is obviously a region that you guys like.
I think you want to get bigger here given that you didn't get a lot kind of with the Alico acquisition.
But I guess how are you thinking about the opportunity there given the decline in short-term rates how they've moved noticeably lower? And does that really kind of begin to push consumers to begin to kind of venture closer to the products that you guys are offering in that region? I think in most of the countries our interest rates -- the interest rates aren't having I would say a big impact on our insurance sales.
I think the one area where you see this phenomenon where it's a real trade-off between an insurance product and a bank deposit is in Brazil.
And we're not really very much in that where insurance products obviously have a sort of a built-in interest rate.
We're not very heavy into that market and we're certainly not trying to compete with those kinds products.
Latin America the reason Latin America is really attractive to us is it's all about an emerging middle class that are first-time purchasers of life insurance.
So life insurance as a percentage of GDP is growing very nicely and then GDP itself is growing nicely.
And there are markets that are developing.
Our fastest-growing segments in Latin America right now are in direct marketing okay which obviously has nothing to do with interest rates really.
It's all about the channel management and driving growth.
In general I would tell you that we really do like Latin America.
Obviously it's a big segment for us.
The returns are very good.
The growth rates are good.
Our top line growth adjusting for currency was 13% this quarter.
We have very good management teams down there.
They're seasoned.
And our market position we're #1 in 4 different -- 4 of the 6 Latin American countries we participate in.
So we're very well positioned.
So obviously it's an area where there will be a lot of emphasis going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe a question for Steve Goulart.
Given the challenge to find yield and I guess coupled with the challenge to deploy some of the capital that you guys have curious if you're at all enticed by the yields in Europe and if you'd consider putting more money to work there to offset some of the low rates -- low new money rates you guys are seeing? Well I think we've always been a pretty conservative investor.
And it's always most important to make sure that we can pay off our liabilities.
So we're always looking for relative value propositions but I don't think we're comfortable with by and large what you see in peripheral Europe.
Just given our European portfolios though we continue to invest in Europe but they tend to be in the safer economies and in very strong corporates.
And our next question comes from the line of John Hall with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> In Bill's commentary he mentioned cost of capital.
And I was just wondering what is it that you consider to be your cost of capital? And in that construct what are you using in considering your beta as right now? That's a very interesting question.
So maybe I'll talk a little bit.
Maybe I'll let Mr.
Kandarian -- because this is obviously -- this a big focus inside MetLife right now.
So I would just say our cost of capital I would say in general sort of the rule of thumb we're looking at in terms of how we price products is roughly 12%.
And that's sort of a blended cost of capital across all products.
And that's obviously up over what we -- I would think most people would have said what it was a couple of years ago.
So when we price products if they don't in our minds if they don't earn at least 12% we think we're destroying value.
And so that's how -- that's guiding us in our pricing.
But in terms of sort of the general philosophy on where we are I'll let Steve do that.
Hi John.
We look at this very closely.
We've talked about it internally in terms of not just product pricing but overall strategy at MetLife.
And say our -- if you kind of impute a cost of capital to MetLife's equity right now it's higher than the 12% number that Bill just referred to and we believe that is a temporary level of equity capital cost to us.
And we have to really look at this in a longer time frame because basically right now the markets are very volatile probably driven by things like low rates obviously for our industry regulatory overhang for larger insurers and so on.
And that's driven up the perception in the marketplace about what our beta is.
And it certainly is now closer to a 2 beta as opposed to historical norm closer to 1 or 1.1.
So as we think about our business I wouldn't for example on the flip side say if our beta drops just hypothetically to below 1 let's say 0.6 or something that all of a sudden we're going to print a bunch of business at 8%.
We wouldn't think that would be the prudent thing to do longer term.
Similarly if things are spiking up because of near-term volatility out there we have to kind of look past that at a short timeframe.
So Bill gave you the answer about how we're looking at our products right now but clearly our cost of capital is higher than historical because our beta is significantly higher than the historical 1.1x that we've seen.
LLC Research Division</strong> And just sort of a follow-up and this is going out the plank a little bit.
Say MetLife is designated nonbank SIFI.
What effect do you think that would have on your cost of capital? John I think it depends on what the rules look like.
And analysts have looked at this both ways and said "On the positive side you get the good housekeeping seal of approval of the federal government.
You're too big to fail.
You're safe to do business with.
It could lower your beta is one theory." The flip side is there could be very harsh rules around the regulation and capital requirements and that can make you unattractive in some ways.
That could raise your cost of capital.
And 2 of the rules are written.
I think it's just we're all speculating as to the ultimate impact.
What we have said certainly on the record is that we don't think that we really should fall under Dodd-Frank in this regard and should not be designated systemic.
But if we are so designated let's be sure these rules really are appropriate for the risks of our company.
And our last question of the day comes from the line of Thomas Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First question was just on the interest rate impact guidance.
Is the reason -- I guess this should be for Eric.
Is the reason the incremental drop in rates has essentially minimal impact on EPS for the next 3 years because your initial guide was conservative enough and that it didn't assume much benefit from lowering crediting rates but now you are? Or can you help us get to kind of what's behind those assumptions? Look these are big exercises.
So obviously everything is thought about within a range.
And when we went out with that guidance we thought we had a reasonable range here.
And now that we've done a refresh of this I think it kind of confirms what we thought previously and now just simply adds to that.
Now we've got a couple of things going on here.
We always thought when we made that presentation last year that we would -- that we not only had room in crediting rates but that we would take advantage of that if rates continue to decline.
That's number one.
In some of our portfolios I think we're probably better cash flow matched than anybody externally would actually think.
Third we've got a lot of interest rate protection.
We've got all of these floors and swaptions and swaps that we've talked about.
Floor income year-over-year is meaningful and could continue to be meaningful depending on if rates stay here or frankly even if they went a little bit lower.
I guess I'll give you a sense because I've know we've talked about it this publicly.
Like in our UL block 1/3 of that block is at minimum guarantees.
So here where we are today end of the second quarter 1/3 of the block is at minimum guarantees.
I don't know what you would have thought that number was but that means obviously we've got 2/3 to go.
It's in the 70% range on the general account annuity blocks.
And so putting all of those things together the impact from where we were to here is minimal.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And just 2 quick follow-ups if I could.
Eric you had mentioned Retirement Products goodwill potentially comes under scrutiny I guess at year end.
Can you remind us how big that is? $1.7 billion.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly we're starting to see some of your competitors in long-term care obviously having some pressure because of low rates and that's just mechanical.
But in addition to that you're also seeing adverse claims trends.
I'm curious what you guys are seeing because I think generally you have a newer vintage book.
But can you comment at all on what you're seeing on long-term care and sort of the outlook for that business? Well Bill would like to do that one.
I just want to prove I know.
Let me start by saying just to remind everyone we exited the long-term business a couple of years ago.
There was a modest tick-up in claims activity this quarter so underwriting results were down a little bit.
But it wasn't very material.
In terms of kind of managing the block I used the word immunized it loosely but we put in some very long-term interest rate swaps that are in that block to kind of really protect ourselves from just this sort of scenario.
So we think we're managing interest rates really well there.
That said it's possible that there might need to be some stat.
We might add the stat reserves.
We have done that historically I think you know not necessarily because we absolutely had to but because we were starting to get close to the line.
So we've been making installment payments.
So all along the way in terms of long-term care and I think that's been prudent.
And the way that things have played out it's really prudent.
So we're in good shape I think.
Great.
Thank you everyone for joining us today.
And have a great rest of the day.
I'll turn it back to you Brad.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay anytime after 10:00 a.m.
Eastern today through August 9 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 226302.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the MetLife Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to read the following statement on behalf of MetLife.
Except with respect to historical information statements made in this conference call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements relating to trends in the company's operations and financial results and the business and the products of the company and its subsidiaries.
MetLife's actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including those described from time to time in MetLife's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
MetLife specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I would like to turn the call over to John McCallion Head of Investor Relations.
Thank you Greg and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MetLife's third quarter 2012 earnings call.
We will be discussing certain financial measures not based on generally accepted accounting principles so-called non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures and related definitions to the most directly comparable GAAP measures may be found on the Investor Relations portion of metlife.com in our earnings press release our quarterly financial supplements and in the other Financial Information section.
A reconciliation of forward-looking financial information to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is not accessible because MetLife believes it's not possible to provide a reliable forecast of net investment and net derivative gains and losses which can fluctuate from period-to-period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
Now joining me this morning on the call are Steve Kandarian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Hele Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will take your questions.
Also here with us today to participate in the discussions are other members of management including Bill Wheeler President of Americas; Steve Goulart Chief Investment Officer; Michel Khalaf President of EMEA; and Chris Townsend President of Asia.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
Before we discuss our financial results for the third quarter I want to express my condolences to those who have suffered great loss as a result of Hurricane Sandy.
At MetLife we are doing everything we can to help our customers cope with the impact of the storm.
Our claims associates are on the ground helping customers find shelter facilitating temporary repairs and issuing advance payments for immediate expenses.
We know there is still a tremendous amount of work to do before life returns to normal and our thoughts are especially with those who are hardest hit by the storm.
I also want to thank all of you for being on this call under these difficult circumstances.
Now let me turn to MetLife's financial performance.
I would like to begin this morning by discussing the goodwill impairment we recorded in the third quarter of 2012.
As we've indicated on previous earnings calls as well as during our interest rate call last November a prolonged low-rate environment might cause us to impair some or all of the goodwill in our U.S.
retail annuity business.
In the third quarter of 2012 we took a $1.6 billion after-tax goodwill impairment in this business to reflect the expected market impact of continued low interest rates changes in the regulatory environment and other market and economic factors.
MetLife delivered another solid quarter with operating earnings of $1.4 billion or $1.32 per share up 47% from the third quarter of 2011.
Adjusting for certain onetime items that depressed the results in the prior year quarter operating earnings still rose by 23%.
John Hele will discuss our third quarter results in greater detail in a few moments.
I would like to highlight a few aspects of MetLife's performance that tie to our enterprise strategy which we developed to address the external economic environment facing life insurers.
As you know one of our strategic goals is to refocus the U.S.
business by shifting our business mix from more capital-intensive and interest rate-sensitive products to simpler protection and fee-based products.
Our results and activities in the third quarter were consistent with this strategy.
Premiums fees and other revenues rose by 9% in our Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefit business on strong sales and on revenues from the TRICARE Dental contract.
Variable annuity sales in the United States declined by 46% from the prior year quarter to $4.6 billion in line with our plan.
We continued to manage the risk associated with this business.
During the quarter we launched a new product with lower withdrawal and payout rates.
In addition we limited the ability to deposit new money into a number of our existing contracts that have more generous guarantees.
In our Corporate Benefit Funding business sales of structured settlements and pension closeouts were both down reflecting the lumpy nature of this business segment.
We see tremendous opportunity in the pension closeout business especially as interest rates rise over time.
However as with any use of capital we are committed to ensuring that the new business in this segment clears our hurdle rate.
During the quarter MetLife also announced the creation of our new third-party asset-management business.
This fee-based business requires very little capital and leverages the strong investment expertise we've built up over the decades.
We have well-established business platforms for originating commercial mortgages investing in real estate equity and sourcing private placements.
We also possess the talent scale reputation and in-market presence to acquire high-quality assets with the potential for strong returns.
Finally I would point to our pilot project with Walmart to sell term life policies to the middle market.
While we are in the very early days and do not have reportable results we will continue to pursue these kinds of innovative approaches to selling simple protection products through new direct channels.
Another strategic imperative for MetLife is to grow our business in emerging markets.
The third quarter saw progress on this goal as well.
In Latin America sales rose 28% year-over-year led by large group life cases in Mexico.
And in EMEA sales rose 15% year-over-year driven by our acquisition in Turkey and higher credit life sales in Russia.
Regarding the sale of MetLife Bank 2 key developments occurred during the quarter: first we amended the purchase agreement to sell the bank to GE Capital Retail Bank which has submitted its application for approval to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
The key terms of the agreement remain unchanged.
And second MetLife received a letter from the Federal Reserve granting us an extension until January 5 2013 to file a revised capital plan.
Until our debanking process is complete we remain regulated by the Federal Reserve as a bank-holding company.
After our debanking process is complete we face the possibility of being named a non-bank systemically important financial institution or SIFI which would place us back under Federal Reserve supervision.
As we have said many times we do not believe regulated insurance activities pose systemic risk to the U.S.
financial system.
However in the event that MetLife and other insurance companies are named SIFIs the impact will depend on how the final prudential rules are written.
It will be important that the prudential rules be tailored for the life insurance business model which differs dramatically from that of banks.
Overall I am pleased with the results MetLife delivered in the third quarter.
Our continued solid operating earnings performance reflects the fundamental strength of our diverse global business.
Our focus on pricing discipline and risk management is especially important in this challenging economic environment which shows few signs of abating.
We will continue to monitor the external factors impacting our business and respond accordingly.
In the coming weeks we'll be finalizing our 2013 plan projections which we will share with you on our next Investor Day call this December 13.
Before I conclude I want to mention that this will be John McCallion's last earnings call as Head of Investor Relations.
John is becoming the CFO of our EMEA region and I want to thank him for his help in communicating our value proposition to MetLife's investors over the past 2 years.
John will be handing the reins to Ed Spehar who has covered the insurance industry for more than 20 years as an equity analyst.
It is now my pleasure to introduce John Hele our new CFO.
John has more than 30 years of experience in the financial services industry having worked for Arch Capital Group ING Group and Merrill Lynch among others.
His deep technical expertise of world markets -- knowledge of world markets and strong risk management skills are a welcome addition to our global leadership team.
With that I will turn the call over to John.
Thank you Steve and good morning.
I wish to add to Steve's comments of our concern for those still without power and/or heat and for those who have had damages or losses in this historical storm.
As for the potential financial impact to MetLife from Hurricane Sandy at this time it is too early to develop a reliable estimate.
Before I review our results in the quarter let me provide some color on the key macro factors impacting our financial performance.
Interest rates continue to remain low in the U.S.
assisted by another round of quantitative easing and also in most countries in which we operate.
While the 10-year Treasury yield was essentially flat in the quarter closing at 1.63% it is down nearly 30 basis points versus the year-ago period.
In addition and perhaps more significantly U.S.
corporate spreads further tightened in the quarter across most asset classes in which we invest generally by 10 to 50 basis points.
While asset spread tightening is not readily apparent in our product net spreads as provided in our quarterly financial supplement they do impact our new money rates and will pressure product spreads over time.
On the plus side the U.S.
equity market performed well this quarter with the S&amp;P 500 up 5.8%.
By comparison the S&amp;P 500 was down 14.4% in the third quarter of 2011.
This change in the S&amp;P 500 performance resulted in a positive year-over-year variance of approximately $120 million of after-tax operating earnings in our retail annuities segment.
With that as a backdrop let me now discuss our results for this quarter.
MetLife reported operating earnings of $1.4 billion or $1.32 per share up 47% over the third quarter of 2011.
This quarter's results included a few offsetting significant items.
However the prior year third quarter had several significant items which had a net negative impact on operating earnings per share of $0.17.
Adjusted for those items operating earnings were up 23% year-over-year.
In addition as noted in our 8-K filed on October 24 in the third quarter of 2012 we began to report all MetLife Bank operations as divested businesses.
This change in reporting positively impacted operating earnings per share in the quarter by $0.02 while lowering operating earnings per share in the prior third quarter by $0.02.
On a U.S.
GAAP basis MetLife reported a net loss of $984 million or $0.92 per share which includes a $1.6 billion after-tax goodwill impairment and net derivative losses of $467 million after tax.
As previously disclosed we perform our annual goodwill impairment testing in the third quarter.
This year the testing indicated a full impairment of the goodwill associated with the U.S.
retail annuities business resulting in a noncash charge of $1.9 billion or $1.6 billion after tax.
This includes $176 million of goodwill recorded in the Corporate &amp; Other segment representing tax benefits related to this annuity business.
Goodwill testing starts with the -- estimating the fair value of the business based on a market participant view.
While interest rates have been low for some time during the third quarter U.S.
Treasury rates hit their lowest point since World War II.
Also the Federal Reserve extended the time frame they see low interest rates being warranted until 2015 and also initiated Quantitative Easing 3.
These factors indicated that an extended period of low interest rates needed to be reflected in the fair value estimate particularly on the return to market buyer may assume associated with the fixed income portion of the separate accounts.
We believe buyers of an annuity business particularly a variable annuity block will be looking for a capital-efficient structure most likely one involving captive and/or offshore strategies.
Given the industry-wide inquiries on the use of affiliated captive reinsurers buyers may now discount the ability to fully utilize these structures.
These and other market conditions led to a significantly lower fair value for the business than in prior years.
And when you follow through to the measurement step in the goodwill accounting process this lower value resulted in full impairment of the recorded goodwill.
This charge does not have an impact on the bank holding company capital ratios which exclude goodwill from the calculations nor on our U.S.
statutory results.
As for the potential DAC and GAAP loss recognition impairments while we review these each quarter we conduct a comprehensive annual review of all the model assumptions in the fourth quarter which include interest rates equity returns policyholder behavior mortality et cetera.
We will need to complete our analysis before determining if there would be any impact in the fourth quarter.
As for the net derivative losses in the quarter it was primarily due to: one the impact on the value of embedded options in our VA hedging program as a result of MET's own credit spreads tightening in the quarter; two the rise in long-term rates; and three the weakening of the U.S.
dollar against certain currency such as the euro Canadian dollar and British pound in the quarter.
Next I would like to discuss some of the key financial metrics we focus on each quarter.
First as I mentioned earlier our investment spreads remain stable despite the low-rate environment and tighter corporate spreads.
As stated on prior calls there are several factors contributing to our stable spreads including our ALM discipline use of interest rate floors private asset originations and the performance of our variable investment income.
In the quarter pretax variable investment income was $260 million just above the top of our 2012 quarterly guidance range.
After taxes and the impact of deferred acquisition costs variable investment income was $165 million.
Next expenses remain well controlled.
Operating expenses in the quarter were $2.8 billion up only 0.4% over the prior-year period.
While the operating expense ratio did increase 30 basis points to 24.4% the increase was primarily driven by lower revenues as a result of pension closeout sales in the third quarter of 2012.
Excluding closeouts the expense ratio would have been unchanged at 24.8% between the 2 periods.
Turning to the top line revenue.
Premiums fees &amp; other revenues or PFOs were $11.6 billion in the quarter down 1% year-over-year.
Excluding the impact of foreign currency and lower pension closeouts PFOs were up 2% year-over-year.
Book value per share excluding AOCI was $47.70 as of 9/30/12.
This reflects growth of 2.6% year-over-year despite the goodwill impairment and net derivative losses discussed earlier.
And finally year-to-date 2012 operating ROE was 11.4% up 140 basis points as compared to the comparable period for 2011.
This improvement was driven primarily by higher operating earnings up $880 million on a year-to-date basis.
Now let's discuss the business segments starting with the Americas.
The Americas operating earnings were $1.2 billion in the quarter up 58% year-over-year with growth across all segments.
Retail life and other reported operating earnings of $204 million up $83 million year-over-year due to higher net investment income.
In addition the prior year third quarter results of this business included $29 million after tax of catastrophes in excess of plan in our retail property &amp; casualty business and $27 million after-tax charge to increase reserves in connection with the company's use of the U.S.
Social Security Administration's Death Master File to identify potential life insurance claims that had not been presented to the company.
Retail annuities reported operating earnings of $288 million up $195 million year-over-year.
As noted earlier $120 million of the variance was due to the initial market impact related to the performance of the S&amp;P 500 in their respective quarters.
In addition this business had an increase in separate account fees improved interest margins due to wider spreads on the general account and lower expenses.
Also I should note that variable annuity sales were $4.6 billion in the quarter down 46% year-over-year.
We continue to see sales trend down due to the pricing and derisking actions that we have taken this year.
We would expect to see sales continue to decline in the fourth quarter in line with our full 2012 guidance of $17.5 billion to $18.5 billion.
Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits reported operating earnings of $283 million up $130 million year-over-year largely due to the segment's prior year third quarter results which included an $82 million after-tax charge related to the aforementioned Social Security Death Master File and $20 million after-tax charge for catastrophes in excess of plan in our group P&amp;C business.
In addition this segment had favorable claim cost trends for dental favorable catastrophe and non-catastrophe experience in group P&amp;C as well as improved interest and expense margins and disability.
Corporate Benefit Funding reported operating earnings of $303 million up $31 million year-over-year due to higher interest margins as a result of general account asset growth and lower expenses.
Spreads remained stable for this segment.
Latin America reported operating earnings of $152 million up $11 million year-over-year and 15% on a constant currency basis.
The key drivers were growth in Mexico and direct marketing in the region; higher net investment income driven by growth in the general account; and a onetime tax-related benefit.
Moving to the top line.
The Americas' PFOs were $8.3 billion in the quarter down 2% year-over-year primarily due to lower pension closeouts and structured settlements.
Excluding closeouts and structured settlements PFOs would be up 3% year-over-year.
The next segment Asia reported operating earnings of $259 million in the quarter up $37 million or 17% year-over-year due to premium growth in Japan and Korea as well as higher net investment income driven by asset growth and higher yields.
PFOs for the region were up 7% or 9% on a constant currency basis.
On a reported basis Japan PFOs were up 9% due to an increase in life and A&amp;H sales and improved persistency while Korea's PFOs were up 11% due to higher fee income.
In the third segment EMEA operating earnings were $62 million in the quarter down $3 million year-over-year.
However on a constant currency basis operating earnings would have been up $10 million driven by our acquisition in Turkey and Russian credit insurance.
PFOs were down 10% year-over-year and flat on a constant currency basis.
The Turkey acquisition benefited the top line which is offset by weakness in Western Europe and Greece.
Finally let me discuss our capital position.
Cash and liquid assets at the holding companies at September 30 totaled approximately $5.7 billion.
This includes proceeds from the issuance of $750 million of 30-year senior debt which was completed in August which will be used to pay off maturing debt next year.
I should note the balance sheet excludes the $1 billion of proceeds received in October from the remarketing and settlement of our common equity units.
We also have $400 million of senior debt maturing in December which we would expect to repay at that time.
Lastly as we announced last week we will be paying approximately $800 million in common dividends in December.
Our preliminary U.S.
statutory after-tax operating earnings and U.S.
statutory net income for our domestic insurance companies for the third quarter of 2012 was approximately $1.1 billion and $1 billion respectively.
For the 9 months of 2012 U.S.
statutory after-tax operating earnings and statutory net income were approximately $2.8 billion and $2.9 billion respectively in line with our full year expectations.
With that I will turn it back to the operator for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Nigel Dally from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> These variable annuities still seeing very strong sales and net flows.
I think a lot of investors would've preferred to see the pace of sales decelerate at a faster pace.
Appreciate the comments that you made with regards to some of the steps that you're taking but why not get significantly more aggressive in putting in place quotas rate and prices over using guarantee rates? And then second on Corporate Benefit Funding one of your competitors are continuing to land large pension closeout transactions.
I think a lot of us have been surprised that MET hasn't been a participant as well.
So perhaps if you can explain to us why that's been the case.
These deals are not hitting your hurdle rate or are there other factors at play? Nigel it's Bill Wheeler.
Okay.
With regard to the VA business sales this quarter were $4.6 billion and that's probably a little misleading because we as both Steve and John alluded to we changed our pricing and adjusted some of our features this quarter and that resulted I would say in some many fire sales for lack of a better term.
And so sales were a little inflated.
We're -- our run rate in the fourth quarter is meaningfully below the $4.6 billion that we recorded in the third.
And so we are seeing changes in that number and that's why we're confident that we'll be at $18 billion.
With regard to Corporate Benefit Funding or the closeouts as we've talked about on a number of calls we are seeing more large closeout activity and I expect that to continue though the deals are lumpy and there won't necessarily be one every quarter.
We are competing for that business but we are being very disciplined about achieving our hurdle rates something that we're doing across-the-board in all our businesses and this is no different.
Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just had first some unsolicited feedback.
I think your disclosure changes I don't know any large company that changes its disclosure as often as you guys have done and no one really lumps P&amp;C products with the life insurance so they're actually making it difficult to analyze the performance of some of your business and track them over time because these are long-term businesses.
But when the disclosure changes every 3 4 quarters it's just hard to keep track of stuff.
But the question that I have is on the international business.
The results obviously have been moving around by division.
Europe hasn't been that great; Asia has been strong weak in other quarters.
But maybe you could talk about how the ALICO business has done since the acquisition and where it's done better than maybe what you would have expected and where it might have not done as well.
Because if you look at -- look back a year or so ago the Asian business seems like it's actually the earnings are emerging a little bit weaker than I would have thought.
And I have another question after that.
Jimmy it's Steve.
ALICO is tracking what we expected.
Obviously there are some pluses and minuses country-by-country but overall the transaction has come in very much on plan and we're still very encouraged about the prospects of those business long term.
It's now given us exposure to markets that obviously we weren't in before that have significant growth associated with them.
It increases significantly our exposure to the emerging markets.
We've mentioned before that we're now up to about 14% of our profits from emerging markets and we anticipate by 2016 that number will exceed 20% given its growth trajectory and our likelihood of doing at least some small transactions in those kinds of countries.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then another one just on interest rates.
You mentioned obviously overall you've -- in the past year you've mentioned or you've expressed comfort that you can -- your results can hold up despite the rate environment.
But as you indicated corporate bond spreads coming in new money yields probably dropping faster than you would have thought a few months ago.
How much of this do you expect overall to be offset by your hedges? And if you could just give us some details on when the hedges begin to run off is it more beginning in 2014 beginning in 2015? And then if rates do remain low just your level of comfort with the rest of the goodwill on the balance sheet.
I think it's around $10 billion and some of that relates to businesses that are interest rate-sensitive as well.
This is John.
The -- as you can see our spreads have held up well this year even though rates have been lower than say projected a year ago and that's -- you've seen the impact of the floors and the other hedges that are in place and that's helping quite a bit this year and our spreads are -- have been maintained.
So that's the good news.
As you point out over time those hedges will slowly wear off and I think there have been various projections in the past last year that tried to project that out at a level of 2% treasury rate.
And that -- those projections still stand.
The impact of the other side's thinner corporate spreads as well as other economic factors we'll have to take into account going forward.
And Steve can probably add a little more on how these wear off over time.
Jimmy it's Steve Goulart.
A couple of things.
One just on spreads let me add one thing.
Remember spreads are basically at their long-term averages right now.
Yes they've tightened significantly over the course of the year but that's from very very wide levels.
So we're not surprised at all at the levels of spreads and we continue to practice good ALM around that.
Regarding hedges also think back to the presentations that we made earlier this year and even last year where we did show you the fact that our protection runs out for a number of years in fact even into the next decade.
So we have a lot of protection in place and certainly for the next several years we're very well protected.
Lastly you had a question on goodwill.
In the third quarter we test all of our units with goodwill and applied the same logic and thinking that we applied to the retail annuity segment to the other segments that were also interest rate-sensitive.
The most sensitive one of all though is the retail annuity segment and that's why the market value or the fair value was most affected by it and the other units we still have some buffer on before we would have any issues there on the remaining $10 billion.
Your next question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to pick up on the goodwill question or issue again.
Can you give us a sense of sort of where you had been valuing the goodwill in terms of a multiple -- maybe multiple on book or something and kind of where you're valuing the business now? I just want to get a sense -- I know the write-down was $1.6 billion after tax but I just want to get a sense of how you're thinking about the valuation of that business.
Right.
Well we don't -- It's John Suneet.
We don't give out the details of this.
But in reviewing the prior year's goodwill analysis it was passing but not by a large amount so the price-to-book was just above from a fair value perspective and now it is below.
And in a goodwill test it's an assessment or trying to come with a fair value meaning what would a -- this block or this business transact in the current environment between a willing seller and a willing buyer.
It doesn't have to be a distressed price and it doesn't have to be literally at that month or even in that quarter.
But as you factor forward and think about it over the course of a year or 2 years you have to take into account reasonable transaction prices.
Given there haven't been any variable annuity blocks sold is another key factor that there's pressure on prices clearly even though there perhaps have been some willing sellers.
So you have to take all these into account and when we came up in really many different measures of it and ways of thinking about it really as if you were thinking of buying a block of business people use different techniques to value businesses including multiples price-to-book multiples price-to-earnings multiples actual appraisals.
We did all those and came up with a fair value that was less than our carrying value and thus the goodwill had to be written off.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean I guess to follow up on that if you're valuing the business below book value now which is I think what you said kind of getting back to what Nigel's line of questioning was I mean what does this say about your commitment to the variable annuity business and your willingness to put more capital in the business for growth when clearly the valuation of that business is not being recognized by the market? Well this is John again.
Let me just stress that the goodwill test is a market view.
It's a fair value and it's what we believe if we tried to sell that business today that you would be able to transact in the business today.
That can be different from our long-term assumptions and how we see value over a longer period of time.
There are 2 different tests.
They're somewhat related.
You have to make sense between the 2 but markets can over and under price true value which is I guess why we all buy stocks.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then just on capital management I realize that there's not a whole lot you can say on that but the converts that I guess converted earlier this quarter in the fourth quarter I think there was an expectation at some point that you'd be able to repurchase those or offset that dilution.
I just want to clarify I'm assuming that that potential is essentially the same as normal share repurchases so we should think about your not being able to offset that dilution unless you get out of bank holding company status and get permission from the Fed.
Is that a fair read? This is John.
Until we have clarification on the future as a bank and the future being a non-bank or debanking and the future of a non-bank SIFI as well as what the rules would be under that we can't give any guidance on capital.
Your next question comes from the line of John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Two questions if you will.
So following this goodwill impairment how much equity are you now allocating to the annuity segment and more specifically to the VA business? We don't give out equity by business line.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question is one more for Steve.
A few months ago I think most insurance executives including yourselves were getting perhaps more hopeful if I can characterize it that way that Fed officials and other key folks in Washington were recognizing some of these key differences between insurance companies and banks and thus it was looking like the stress testing for insurance companies SIFIs might be under a different methodology than what's been applied to banks and what's been applied to you as a bank holding company.
Steve just do you have any incremental thoughts as a couple of months have passed or on any sort of more recent observations that you can share around that? John no I think really not a lot has changed since that point in time when I made those statements.
Treasury and Fed officials have said in different settings both in speeches and before congressional hearings that they plan to acknowledge the difference in the business models between banks on one hand and other industries that might become non-bank SIFIs under their supervision.
So those words were encouraging.
But as we've mentioned the rules have not been written.
There is a draft out there.
Comments have been provided back to the Fed.
We provided comments others have as well.
And until this clarification around what those actual rules will be it's very difficult to provide any sort of clarity to you and others.
So we're really just standing by waiting monitoring.
We're in discussions where appropriate with federal officials but we certainly have to wait and see where all this comes out both as to whether we become a non-bank SIFI once we dispose of our bank and debank as a holding company and then what kinds of prudential rules they put in place to regulate non-bank SIFIs should we become one.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I can sneak one more in just thinking about Asia following up maybe a little bit on Jimmy's question.
On a year-to-date basis if I sort of take those results and annualize them it looks like Asia overall is tracking about 5% or more below your original guidance for 2012 for that segment at least from an earnings perspective.
Just curious as to what areas of pressure you might be seeing relative to what you were expecting and whether you expect that pressure to dissipate as you look forward.
It's Chris Townsend here.
If you look at the overall operating earnings for the quarter we're 17% up year-on-year.
You break that down to the key components which obviously are driven by Japan and Korea.
Japan's up 14% and Korea's up 52%.
So Japan's performed strongly in terms of PFO growth expense control and Korea's up in terms of equity markets and higher surrender value.
If you look at it sequentially which is I guess where you're going with this there's 2 key issues which have impacted the earnings this quarter.
One is some beneficial VII that came forward in the prior quarter.
And secondly there's a number of items which are really a true-up of lapse assumptions and expense items for Japan and Hong Kong which have impacted this quarter which are one-off issues.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So as we look out to the full year I guess the question is how do you expect the results to fare versus that original guidance? And do we just have to expect that there's a new baseline that's perhaps a little bit lower despite the strong year-over-year growth in Japan and Korea? Yes I think you need to look at the broader picture.
The PFO growth is very strong across the region we're up 7%; in Japan we're up 9%; in Korea we're up 11%.
And some of the other factors are quite beneficial for us particularly in terms of persistency.
We're up 1.5 points to 89.5 in Japan which is a consistency which we articulated to you at the Investor Day in Tokyo.
Your next question comes from the line of Randy Binner from FBR.
Research Division</strong> I have a couple of follow-ups.
First on goodwill just to hit that from one different angle you mentioned in the comments that buyers may have to discount using kind of a captive or an offshore structure and I just wanted to clarify why that would be the case.
Is that due to kind of regulatory concerns that are emerging around VA runoffs? Randy this is John.
There are various -- some states have launched investigations and are reviewing captives.
Although there's been no conclusions or points of view on this yet we think buyers would be more cautious.
Historically some transactions we know were viewed being optimizing fully the offshore structure and others take a range.
We at MET we do use an offshore captive but we allocate economic capital fully against all the risks in the company.
So we run at I would say on a conservative basis.
Other buyers may take different views.
And we think with these investigations underway that buyers would be more cautious now in terms of valuing these types of businesses.
Research Division</strong> Okay so it's more of the kind of a captive review.
It's not necessarily kind of regulatory concerns about the insolvency fund being on the hook or something like that? No not at all.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then if I could just a follow-up on the pension closeout conversation.
You mentioned that some of these large blocks that have gone -- have not met your hurdle rate objective I guess my question is if you could clarify for us what that hurdle rate objective is and if it may be subject to change given your low-for-long rate outlook.
Don't put words into my mouth Randy.
I didn't say -- I said we competed for that business and we have pricing discipline about and obviously we didn't win those closeouts but that's the way it goes.
I think there'll be more.
In terms of our pricing objectives and I think we actually talked about this on the last earnings call we view our cost of capital today domestically as 12%.
So that's our hurdle -- minimum hurdle rate.
So if we don't beat 12% we're not adding any economic value at all.
We generally are trying to price business with a target of a 15% return.
And you have to remember a lot of these liabilities are going to be around for a very long time and it's important that we -- if you price it poorly you're stuck with that for a long time.
You don't get an opportunity to change the numbers a couple years from now.
So that's why we're maintaining our discipline here.
Research Division</strong> Do you think as we look at these deals from the outside is there a good rule of thumb we can think of about like the capital you would allocate to a book as a percentage of assets and liabilities? I mean generally and I think annuity books are kind of like 5%.
I mean is that how we should look at the capital allocation to try and get to those returns? It's tricky.
I guess I'd hesitate to give you a rule of thumb because what we've seen already is that the mortality differences between these various blocks that have -- had transacted are quite material.
You think -- you would guess sort of they're generally retirees so they would be the same but they're not.
The mortality differences were quite different so -- and that has a pretty big impact on whether or not what the capital allocation would be.
So I guess I would hesitate to give you a rule of thumb.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Actually my first question is a follow-up for a comment or question that Suneet had.
And I guess I'm just curious back to the annuity business the original intent behind the sales target for the year of call it $18 billion was to be capital-neutral in terms of the statutory capital that was allocated at least that's my understanding.
And I guess I'm just kind of curious you've had a few quarters since that was put out you've had some market movements.
Equities up rates volatile.
Is that in fact holding out or are you continuing to add capital to the annuity business? This is Bill.
I think rate-neutral is still a fair assumption here or capital-neutral.
Obviously the business is performing better than planned mainly because of the market environment and our sales targets are basically where they -- we expected them to be so -- but I think neutral is still a good term for this.
Just if you pull back a minute obviously with this low interest rate environment the VA business especially the in-force block is not performing terribly well with regard to the exposure to interest rates and such.
On our new sales our new sales this quarter had a 14% ROI and that's with a full economic capital allocation using today's environment.
So we view that as pretty attractive business and so we're being tough-minded about annuities and making sure that our risk exposure there doesn't grow too much relative to MetLife overall.
But this business is profitable for us.
And certainly today's sales are profitable.
And this is a consumer need which is isn't going to go away and is a part of all our customers' financial planning as they deal with retirement.
And so this is a business we like.
We can't let it get too big relative to the size of MetLife.
I mean I think that's why you see the big pullback.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right that's helpful.
And then I guess still a few.
On Latin America constant currency growth may be a little bit late.
I think there may been a group case that was lost.
But could you just talk a little bit about the growth outlook in Latin America and what expectations you would have for that? Yes so Latin America on the surface looks like it had a pretty weak top line quarter.
But of course we did elude to the fact that sales growth was actually very good this quarter it was up 28% and we're seeing very strong sales.
Interestingly the strongest area of growth is in direct marketing in Latin America and that's in a number of different countries.
So top line is actually good.
The premiums fees and other income this quarter are -- certainly the currency adjustments hurt us and there were -- as you alluded to there were a number of sort of anomalous factors.
There were some group cases that didn't renew where the revenue was probably more important than the -- it was more impactful than the profits were.
We had a reinsurance adjustment which affected the top line but didn't have a bottom line impact.
So I view Latin America top line growth when you kind of parse through all that is something like 6%.
That's probably a little bit -- year-over-year.
That's probably still a little slower than normal.
I would think -- I think of Latin America in total of being sort of a high single-digit revenue grower.
We've certainly hit 10% in certain quarters.
We probably average to something like 8% or 9% and that would be my long-term outlook.
Your next question comes from the line of Joanne Smith from Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> So I want to go back to something that was stated at the ACLI's conference last week and that was with respect to the non-bank SIFI rules that have yet to be written there was a presentation where somebody characterized separate accounting assets as general account assets waiting to happen and that the capital ratios that some of these life insurance companies are putting up are not necessarily truly reflective of the real capital status of those companies.
And I was wondering if you could comment on that and how in your discussions with the Fed they are talking to you about separate account assets.
Joanne this is John Hele.
There are many discussions of course and submissions going on to the regulators about the future rules for non-bank SIFIs.
We're participating in that as is the ACLI and other people in the industry.
But as of right now we can give no feedback or guidance on where these will end up.
Research Division</strong> I guess just in terms of the comment that was made about separate account assets being general account assets waiting to happen how do you respond to something like that? I wasn't there and don't have the context for all those points.
The bank rules if you strictly apply bank rules today separate accounts are included as general accounts.
We are saying they should be excluded because it makes sense from a legal structure as an insurance company.
It's quite a different framework from the banking frameworks and the legal structures of banks.
And that's a key point that we are making continually to the regulators and we'll have to see where all this ends up.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Berg from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> My first question -- I have 2.
My first question is probably best directed to Bill Wheeler.
Bill why are these pension closeouts taking now -- taking place now? The reason I ask is that some plans have been underfunded for a while.
The supposed new accounting rules that create all this volatility on balance sheets and income statements I don't think are new they're 3 years old.
The Pension Protection Act which makes it harder for companies to maintain underfundedness was passed 7 years ago.
So why now on these pension closeouts especially given the extremely low level of interest rates which I believe will act as an impediment to them? That's a great question Eric.
We -- if you remember and I know you do we've been a big -- talking about large pension closeout opportunities for a long time and of course nothing happened until very recently.
And in talking to the treasurers of companies who have these large pensions one they're not being -- in most cases they're obviously not being used as a benefit anymore.
Their pensions are closed and the blocks that have been closed out are on retirees in any case.
so I think what's going on is even if -- I think companies have said you know what I can't wait any longer for interest rates to improve.
By the way I have a very large pension obligation here.
I can just start closing out pieces of it and maybe average into better interest rates over time.
I also think they recognize that being a first mover here is probably a good thing.
There is not an unlimited amount of capital today that's available to support pension closeout business and I think those who feel like they go early are probably going to get better deals than those who go late.
And who knows how that will play out.
But I know that's the sentiment out there.
So you're right.
In some cases you would think that this would not be an ideal time but I think what's happening is companies have decided they just can't wait any longer and they should get going.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And with respect to the goodwill write-off or I guess it's not a write-down.
You've written off I believe please correct me if I make an error here 100% of the goodwill assigned to the retail annuity business.
Why is the stock market entering into this in the sense that the stock market is -- the reason I asked the question again is that the stock market has pretty much recovered to its pre-crisis peak or is close to it.
We've got a good year.
Why is the current level of the stock market -- or maybe it had to do with when we've come to where we are.
Why has that depressed the value of the business? Eric this is John.
Yes the stock market's back up so the equity returns say in the variable annuity business within the retail annuity business overall has recovered.
When we speak of the market impact we're speaking of how buyers view if you had a pure annuity company a retail annuity company traded on the stock exchange what price to book would that be trading at today.
So it's the valuations that -- of retail annuity business that would have to purchase that business.
So when I refer to the market environment I'm referring to call it the high betas or the low price-to-books -- lower historical price-to-books that people have today and have been here for some time on these type of business.
And your final question today comes from the line of John Hall from Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I guess since Ed's probably not going to ask a question I might just ask a fill in about the risk-based capital for him.
Could you give that out John please? John I have to tell you that the risk-based capital calculations MET does annually and we'll be giving that in our December forecast.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right great.
For Steve Goulart the Baa assets have been moving up progressively in the fixed maturities portfolio over the course of the year.
Is that because of an allocation in that direction or are you just -- or is that a result of credit changes? No that's our own action as we've looked at portfolio opportunities in this market and we have modestly increased our BBBs.
We think that's a good place to gain extra yield and still be comfortable with credit.
LLC Research Division</strong> All right great.
And then just lastly Steve Kandarian you mentioned in your comments at the outset the agreement that you have with Walmart.
And it's an intriguing I guess venture.
Could you just describe a little bit more about what you're doing there and perhaps the cost that might be associated with that? I mean how are you going to be accessing the Walmart customer? John as you mentioned it's a pilot program so it's early days.
There isn't a great deal of capital associated with it at this point in time but that obviously could grow over time as sales increase.
And I really don't have much to mention at this point in time from a financial perspective because it is very much in its incipient stage.
I think the most important thing here is that MetLife is going to innovate.
MetLife's going to find new ways to get to market and provide these kinds of products to our customers.
And we know there's a tremendous need by people in the United States to get greater coverage and protection from life insurance products.
But perhaps we as an industry haven't made it easy enough historically for them to complete a sale and this is one of the ways we are looking to increase participation rates out there in the public in the arena of life insurance.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess what I'm asking is is this a direct effort off of their website? Is this a kiosk in the store that's automated? Is this a person who works for MET standing there selling policies? I mean what's the access point? It's in the store.
It's more of a kiosk sort of environment.
You walk in there you'll see displays with basically like a card on there that you can go when you check out at the counter.
It's prepaid and then there are a few questions that they answer and phone calls to be made by the customer to activate the life insurance.
John we'll walk you through one if you like.
We'll go with you.
Great.
Well thank you everyone for joining us today.
And if you have any follow-up questions feel free to give us a call in the Investor Relations and Ed Spehar will be able to answer all your questions.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the MetLife Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to read the following statement on behalf of MetLife.
Except with respect to historical information statements made in this conference call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements relating to trends in the company's operations and financial results and the business and the products of the company and its subsidiaries.
MetLife's actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including those described from time to time in MetLife's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
MetLife specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Ed Spehar Head of Investor Relations.
Thank you John and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MetLife's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
We will be discussing certain financial measures not based on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles or so-called non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures and related definitions to the most directly comparable GAAP measures may be found on the Investor Relations portion of metlife.com in our earnings press release and our quarterly financial supplements.
A reconciliation of forward-looking financial information to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is not accessible because MetLife believes it's not possible to provide a reliable forecast of net investment and net derivative gains and losses which can fluctuate from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
Now joining me this morning on the call are Steve Kandarian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Hele Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will take your questions.
Also here with us today to participate in the discussions are other members of management including Bill Wheeler President of Americas; Steve Goulart Chief Investment Officer; Michel Khalaf President of EMEA; and Chris Townsend President of Asia.
Before we begin I'd like to highlight that we will be including additional disclosures in our 2012 10-K on our variable annuity business and the sensitivity of earnings to a sustained low interest rate environment.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report fourth quarter 2012 operating earnings of $1.4 billion up 10% over the fourth quarter of 2011.
Operating earnings per share were $1.25 above the guidance range of $1.12 to $1.22 provided on the December 2012 guidance call and 7% over the fourth quarter of 2011.
For the full year 2012 we reported operating earnings per share of $5.28 up 21% (sic) [22%] from 2011 and an operating return on equity of 11.3%.
We are very pleased with these results given the challenging macroeconomic environment.
John Hele will discuss our financial results in detail.
I would like to highlight a few items.
First despite growing pressure in the U.S.
from low interest rates our investment spread margins were up in 3 of our 4 U.S.
business lines.
The strength of our investment spread margins reflects our prudent asset liability management and the benefits of our interest rate hedge program.
We continue to manage the risks of low interest rates and take actions as appropriate.
Second we continue to execute on the strategy that we outlined at our May Investor Day.
One of our cornerstone initiatives is to refocus the U.S.
Business which includes shifting our business mix away from market-sensitive capital-intensive products to our protection-oriented lower-risk products.
On February 4 we introduced a new living benefit variable annuity product GMIB Max V to replace GMIB Max IV which is no longer being sold.
The biggest change between the 2 products is a reduction in the rollup rate from 5% to 4%.
We believe that the new product will improve the risk profile of our VA sales and generate a higher expected return on economic capital.
These changes are important components of our plan to reduce U.S.
variable annuity sales from $17.7 billion in 2012 to $10 billion to $11 billion in 2013.
Consistent with our strategy to grow emerging markets another significant development is our agreement to acquire AFP Provida the largest pension provider in Chile from BBVA for $2 billion in cash.
MetLife is the #1 life insurer in Chile and the Provida deal will further strengthen our market position.
Employees in Chile are required to contribute a fixed percentage of their salaries to a mandatory pension system.
Pension companies such as Provida charge an administrative fee on contributions not assets under management.
As a result fee income does not fluctuate with market changes.
Provida is the #1 player in the market with a 29% market share.
With this acquisition MetLife's operating earnings from emerging markets are expected to grow from 14% today to approximately 17% which brings us closer to our 2016 target of at least 20%.
Also as a fee-based business Provida is consistent with our strategy of increasing our earnings from low capital intensity product offerings.
In addition to being an excellent strategic fit the Provida acquisition is very attractive on a financial basis.
As I've said before we strive to strike the right balance between growth profitability and risk.
We are acquiring Provida for approximately 10x projected forward earnings of roughly $200 million and anticipate that the transaction will be accretive to operating earnings by approximately $0.05 per share in 2013 and $0.15 per share in 2014.
While accretion from a cash acquisition is one metric to consider it does not necessarily determine if the transaction creates shareholder value.
Therefore we modeled the long-term EPS impact to Provida assuming we financed the transaction using a mixture of 75% equity and 25% debt.
On this basis we forecast that the transaction will be essentially neutral for EPS during the first few years and then become accretive.
This analysis gives us comfort that the return on this transaction is likely to exceed our weighted average cost of capital.
In addition I have also discussed our goal of improving the free cash flow generation of our businesses.
We estimate that approximately 70% of Provida's earnings will result in free cash flow available to our holding companies.
I think the merits of this transaction are clear.
It's important to note that the current regulatory restriction on our ability to repurchase shares was not the motivation to acquire Provida.
We are doing this deal because it makes strategic and financial sense for our shareholders.
I want to close my prepared remarks with a few comments on the regulatory environment.
We are pleased that our de-banking process has progressed with the closing of the sale of MetLife Bank to GE Capital Retail Bank and we look forward to no longer being a bank holding company.
However even after the de-banking process is complete substantial uncertainty will likely remain on the regulatory front as we face the possibility of being named a nonbank systemically important financial institution or SIFI.
I'm -- as we have said in the past we do not believe that our company poses systemic risk to the financial system and we will continue to make that case to policymakers.
However if MetLife is deemed to be systemically important it is imperative that the final prudential rules be tailored to the life insurance business model which differs dramatically from that of banks.
While it is our strong desire to return capital to shareholders we will need to assess the regulatory environment before finalizing any share buyback program.
The assumption of no share repurchases in our 2013 guidance reflects this regulatory uncertainty.
We were asked on our December guidance call about our confidence in the share buyback assumption built into our plan through 2016.
As I stated on the call I am not completely confident that we can do all of the assumed $8 billion of gross share repurchases to -- through 2016 since it is dependent on the -- on external factors that are beyond our control.
During our May 2012 Investor Day we provided our goal of achieving an ROE of between 12% and 14% by 2016.
I want to provide some guidance on the sensitivity to this range of share repurchases.
If we were to assume no share buybacks through year-end 2016 our estimated operating ROE target range for 2016 would be approximately 100 basis points lower than it is today all other assumptions held constant.
Although we cannot predict what the future holds in terms of regulation and interest rates we will continue to execute on our strategy and strike the right balance between growth profitability and risk.
Finally I want to assure you that our 64 000 employees around the world are working hard to deliver on our promises to our customers and to create value for our shareholders.
I am confident we will succeed.
With that I will turn the call over to John Hele to discuss our financial results in detail.
John? Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
Today I'll cover our fourth quarter results including a discussion on insurance margins investment spreads expenses and business highlights.
I'll give you some color on the interest rate disclosure Ed referenced and then conclude with some comments on our cash and capital.
To begin MetLife reported operating earnings of $1.4 billion or $1.25 per share up 10% over the fourth quarter of 2011.
This quarter included a few notable items which I highlighted during the -- our December guidance call.
These 4 items dampened operating earnings by a net $13 million or $0.01 per share better than the net $0.07 estimated in December.
Let me give you some detail on the 4 items.
The first was in our P&amp;C business.
Higher-than-budgeted catastrophe losses of $70 million after tax primarily due to Superstorm Sandy were partially offset by a favorable prior year reserve development of $13 million after tax.
The net impact was $0.05 per share.
The gross loss due to Sandy was approximately $150 million.
Adjusting for reinsurance recoveries and taxes the impact to operating earnings was $90 million.
Both the gross and net loss were within the estimated ranges provided in December.
The second notable item resulted from our annual assumption review.
The portion related to operating earnings was a net unfavorable $13 million after tax or $0.01 per share.
In December we'd estimated the assumption review would reduce operating earnings by $0.05 per share.
We had a net positive of $37 million from DAC unlocking and reserve changes.
The favorable unlocking related to our lower lapse assumption for VA was partially offset by negative unlocking for reductions in our general account and separate account return assumptions.
Also included is a onetime $50 million after-tax write-down in Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits of an intangible asset representing the value of customer relationships acquired otherwise known as VOCRA related to a small acquisition of a dental business in 2008.
I will provide an update of the below-the-line components of the assumption review in a few moments.
The third notable item was $23 million or $0.02 per share of reorganization costs.
Finally pretax variable investment income was $376 million reflecting strong private equity returns.
After taxes and the impact of DAC variable investment income was $242 million which was $80 million or $0.07 per share above the top end of our 2012 quarterly guidance range.
It's also $0.02 per share better than our estimated -- than our estimate provided in December.
Turning to our bottom line results.
Fourth quarter net income was $96 million or $0.09 per share and included net derivative losses of $855 million after tax.
The net derivative loss in the quarter was primarily due to the mark-to-market impact of our VA program including the update to our lapse assumptions of $342 million after tax.
Additionally the tightening of Met's own credit spreads during the quarter and the rise in long-term rates also contributed to the net derivative loss.
The net derivative loss was higher than we had estimated in December but this is a difficult item to forecast as it is highly sensitive to capital market movements.
As a reminder most of this impact is noneconomic as a large portion of the liabilities that are being hedged are at essentially book value.
The total impact on net income for the DAC and other assumption review was $752 million after tax which was within the $600 million to $800 million range provided in December.
Most of the charge or $739 million was outside of operating earnings.
As noted in our December call the charge relates primarily to changes in VA policyholder behavior lapse assumptions as well as general and separate account return assumptions for fixed income investments.
Book value per share excluding AOCI was $46.73 at year end below our December estimate largely due to the higher derivative losses and essentially flat year-over-year.
Operating ROE was 11.3% in 2012 up 120 basis points from 10.1% in 2011 and better than our 2012 plan of 10% to 10.6%.
Turning now to margins.
Underwriting was mixed but generally unfavorable this quarter.
The mortality ratio in retail life was elevated at 99% due to unfavorable experience in both V and UL and traditional life.
This result was higher than the target range of 85% to 90% and worse than the 81.1% ratio in the fourth quarter of 2011.
The mortality ratio in group life was 84.6% in the quarter slightly favorable to the prior year quarter of 85.2% and below the target range of 85% to 90%.
Excluding a positive reserve adjustment group life mortality was in the middle of our target range.
Group health morbidity experience was unfavorable in the quarter and I will provide some more detail on this line shortly.
As you heard from Steve investment spreads remained strong in 2012.
In the fourth quarter our investment spreads increased year-over-year and sequentially in Corporate Benefit Funding annuities and retail life and were down only modestly from the sequential quarter in Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits.
You can see in our QFS that the spreads in the U.S.
Business increased in 2012.
While variable investment income was strong last year our spreads excluding VII were mostly higher as well.
Spreads excluding variable investment income are not evident from our QFS so let me provide some detail.
Deferred annuities was 284 basis points for the full year of 2012 versus 258 basis points in 2011.
Variable and universal life was 167 versus 105.
Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits was 237 versus 250.
Finally Corporate Benefit Funding was 112 versus 105.
While we expect investment spreads will decline in 2013 the resilience of our investment margins in 2012 illustrates that this is a manageable risk factor.
As Ed referenced earlier there will be a new disclosure in our 10-K on the anticipated impact of sustained low interest rates on our financial results.
The low rate scenario in the 10-K is based on 1.69% 10-year Treasury yield for 2013 and 2014.
This scenario contrasts with our plan which assumes that 10-year Treasury gradually rises to 2.38% by the end of 2013 and then remains flat through the end of 2014.
The difference between the 10-K scenario and our plan translates to an estimated negative impact on operating earnings of approximately $45 million in 2013 and approximately $150 million in 2014.
The results for the 2013 low rate scenario are consistent with the guidance we provided on our December call and the new disclosure on 2014 highlights the relatively small incremental impact on earnings next year if rates remain low.
Turning to expenses.
The operating expense ratio was 22.4% for the fourth quarter and 23.8% for the full year of 2012.
This was better than our plan of 23.9% to 24.5% and our estimate in December.
Excluding the impact of pension and post-retirement benefits and close-outs the operating expense ratio was 24.5% for the fourth quarter and 24.1% for the full year of 2012.
This compares to the fourth quarter and full year of 2011 of 24.6% and 24.1% respectively.
I will now discuss some of the business highlights in the quarter.
Rather than go through every segment I want to focus on areas where our results may differ from your expectations.
Therefore my comments will be on number one retail annuities; two Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits; and number three Asia.
Retail annuities had operating earnings of $462 million an increase of $253 million from the prior year quarter.
Normalized earnings were 200 -- were $320 million in the fourth quarter after adjusting for a positive DAC unlocking of $133 million from our annual assumption review and variable investment income that was $9 million above plan.
On a normalized basis retail annuities earnings were up 30% versus the fourth quarter of 2011 due to growth in the business interest on economic capital lower DAC amortization and lower operating expenses.
Higher interest on economic capital reflects the increased amount of capital we're allocating to this business line.
Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits reported operating earnings of $167 million down 30% year-over-year.
After adjusting for above-plan catastrophe experience of $33 million the VOCRA write-down of $50 million and $36 million of other favorable items normalized operating earnings were $214 million down 11% versus the prior year.
The decline on a normalized basis was primarily due to an elevated group health benefit ratio of 91.6% which was 89.7% in the prior year quarter and the targeted range of 86% to 90%.
The primary drivers of the higher ratio were long-term disability and long-term care.
In disability we saw higher average reserves on new claims and lower net closures partially offset by lower claim incidents.
In long-term care the benefit ratio was above plan due to higher average reserves and new claims lower net closures and reserve adjustments.
Although long-term care earnings are under pressure we believe this suggests only a couple of pennies risk to our 2013 EPS guidance.
While the group health benefit ratio was elevated for the quarter the full year 2012 ratio was 88.6% and within our plan range.
With regard to statutory results we completed our asset adequacy testing for 2012 and we will have no reserve strengthening in long-term care.
New York requires us to have a segregated account for long-term care with stand-alone cash flow testing.
This is a more stringent approach relative to other states and should provide comfort to our investors regarding the balance sheet for this business.
Turning to Asia.
Operating earnings of $198 million in the quarter were down 24% year-over-year.
Asia had negative DAC unlockings of $62 million higher than we had estimated in December primarily due to changes in long-term lapse assumptions in Japan.
Adjusting for this normalized operating earnings were $260 million down 1% year-over-year.
I know analysts and investors have concerns regarding the recent earnings for Asia.
The current environment for the region most notably in Japan has some challenges.
Since we developed our 2013 plan the yen has weakened materially and interest rates are lower than we had anticipated.
Based on those 2 factors our current operating earnings expectation for Asia will be close to the low end of our 2013 guidance range.
Specifically with regard to currency we have hedges on our 2013 projected yen-exposed operating earnings at strike prices above JPY 90 to the U.S.
dollar.
These hedges are currency options which provide protection against the yen weakening above JPY 90 but allow us to participate in the upside should the yen strengthen.
However we are unhedged for the yen between JPY 90 and our average plan rate of approximately JPY 82.
It is worth noting that we remain disciplined in Japan.
There are more questions today on the profitability of various products and distribution channels in Japan with concerns relating to savings products and the bank channel.
In the fourth quarter our total Japan sales were down 1% and this was driven by a 34% decline in our bank channel sales.
Our decline in the bank channel resulted from a conscious effort to maintain margins.
Finally let me discuss our cash and capital position.
Cash and liquid assets at the holding companies were approximately $5.7 billion at year end slightly above our guidance call estimate due to the timing of certain cash flows.
We plan to use $2 billion from our existing cash and liquid assets at the holding companies to fund the Provida acquisition which is not contemplated in our guidance call outlook for 2013.
Moving to our capital position.
While we have not completed our risk-based capital calculations for 2012 we estimate our RBC ratio will be in the 450% to 475% range which is above the 425% to 450% range we provided on our December guidance call.
We estimate that our Japan solvency margin ratio will be at the high end of our guidance range of 800% to 900%.
Our preliminary statutory operating earnings and statutory net income for our domestic insurance companies for the fourth quarter of 2012 were approximately $1.5 billion and a loss of approximately $200 million respectively.
Fourth quarter operating earnings benefited from a favorable market while the net loss resulted from a new statutory accounting treatment for certain partnerships and joint ventures.
This accounting change caused a shift from an unrealized loss to a realized loss and was neutral for capital and surplus.
For the full year 2012 statutory operating earnings were approximately $4.4 billion and statutory net income was approximately $2.8 billion.
Our total adjusted capital is expected to be approximately $29 billion as of December '12 up 5% compared to the prior year.
And with that I will turn it back to the operator for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And first from the line of Jeff Schuman with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just wonder if you can give a little bit more color about the international growth outlook.
If we look at the fourth quarter or 2012 as a whole I think Latin America premium growth was pretty modest relative to your normalized expectations and yet I think you forecasted pretty big acceleration in 2013.
I just wonder if you can remind us why that is.
And I guess if you could touch on Asia a little bit.
But even before the recent devaluation your outlook there was I think for premium growth to decelerate quite significantly relative to what we've seen recently.
And so maybe you can remind us kind of what the factors are there please.
Jeff it's Bill Wheeler.
I'll talk about Latin America.
The -- so revenue growth on a constant currency basis was about 4%.
We are forecasting I guess on a constant currency basis too 10% for next year.
We had very good sales volumes.
Our sales volumes in Latin America were up to 26% year-over-year.
What held back the overall PFO growth rate was there's a couple of group cases that we have lost one in Mexico one in Chile that are large.
They weren't terribly profitable.
And so that's affected our top line growth.
Now we've -- I think we've said this before on other calls especially in the third quarter the comparison especially the one in Mexico we lost at the beginning of this year.
So that comparison will go away next year.
And Latin America except for noise like these group cases is I think more like a 10% grower.
And with regard to Asia -- this is John.
With -- our bank channel was down which has a large premium -- these are joint [ph] single premium products so it's quite an impact when you look at the premiums.
But we're seeing growth in the independent agency channels and other areas across Asia.
So we're pleased that we're remaining disciplined as we grow all of our channels.
Our next question is from Mark Finkelstein with Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of questions on Provida.
Should we assume that the 70% of GAAP earnings which I think you characterized as $200 million would you expect that to be fully dividended to the holding company? We expect that to be a good distribution.
It may go to the international holding companies because it's in the international operations but we expect that to be available.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a few quick questions.
The -- I think you characterized the returns on this as at least equal to your weighted average cost of capital.
I mean how should we think about the IRRs on this trade? I mean I would assume it would be above your weighted average cost of capital.
Should we look at this given growth et cetera as low-teens mid-teens high-teens? How did you -- what's the IRR that you're projecting on this? We're looking at this as a mid-teen return.
And we think given -- that's a good return given the Chilean economy and environment.
It's one of the best places to be investing in if you call it an emerging market.
It's a very stable government and economy.
So we're very pleased with that type of return.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe just -- I guess just going back to the comment about -- that Steve made on buybacks and an impact going out to 2016 if there were 0 buybacks.
Obviously the difference between 0 and $8 billion is a very wide range.
And I think it's helpful to frame out kind of what I would hope to be kind of a downside scenario but is there any feel for how we should be thinking about or moderating capital deployment expectations out to 2016? I mean is that -- I assume the answer isn't 0 but is there any feeling for maybe what management is kind of thinking about as a reasonable range? I can't give you a lot of guidance at this very moment.
As things unfold here in the coming months I think we'll be able to provide more clarity but we're still doing our analysis.
We're still trying to understand the regulatory environment and what the capital rules may be going forward for us.
So unfortunately I can't give you more than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one final question if I may.
With the Provida acquisition and the free cash flow generated from that is there any change in your view on the deleveraging that you're expecting it -- as part of your capital model looking out to '13? No not really.
I mean Provida will close sometime later on this year so -- and it's uncertain when that might close so it's hard to predict exactly the cash and earnings impact it would have in 2013.
The next question is from Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> First question was could you just remind us of your operating EPS sensitivity to the equity market? Because I think that the market is probably running 4% or 5% better than in your original assumption at this point.
For about 1% change in the S&amp;P 500 it's about $0.01.
LLC</strong> $0.01 annually? In our EPS? LLC</strong> Yes.
Off of EPS yes.
LLC</strong> Yes okay.
And then back to the group nonmedical health business.
When you gave the 2013 outlook did -- were you fully -- did you kind of have all the information on the fourth quarter and some of the weakness that occurred in -- was that factored into the outlook for '13? Well in terms of the group the full year was within our targeted range so we still believe our targeted range is appropriate for 2013.
Our next question is from Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> First question is just on the long-term ROE target without buyback the 11% to 13%.
I guess I'm pleasantly surprised that that's up from what you're doing -- what you did in 2012 at the midpoint.
So 2 questions on that.
First what is the interest rate environment that's predicated in that 11% to 13%? And then second in terms of the $8 billion of capital that you would not be buying back in this scenario what is the return that you're getting -- or the assumption for the return that you're getting on that capital? With regard to the first question I think that we've said that should rates remain generally flat we expect to be at the lower end of that 12% to 14% with the buybacks.
And now without the buybacks the 11% to 13% range we'll be at the low end of that range.
And could you say your second question again? I didn't get that.
Research Division</strong> Just on the $8 billion of capital that you would not be using for share buybacks what's the return assumption in this scenario? Or how is that capital being used? That's in a series of investments so it would be high-quality liquid investments...
Research Division</strong> But it's like a bond return as opposed to like a...
Yes yes shorter-term bond returns.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess the other question on the VA DAC.
I think at the guidance -- on the guidance conference call you characterized half of the roughly $700 million impact being related to a change in your fixed income return assumption your separate account growth model from I think it was like 7.5% to 7.25%.
So I guess first is that accurate? And then second how does that return compare to your assumption for equity? And then I guess related to that if that 7.25% maybe has to come down again because interest rates are rising and bond returns are falling could we be looking at another sizable DAC hit at some point down the road? So of the total charge about 1/2 was lapsed; and 1/4 returns; and 1/4 for other.
And with regard to the -- that's a separate account assumption which is a blended assumption which is an equity bond assumption weighting.
But people also have the opportunity to switch to a general account if bonds rise so if interest rates rise and bond funds go down.
So we're comfortable with this return.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just lastly on the comments that you made John about the year-end stat net income versus operating income does any of that change the cash flow roll-forward that you guys provided to us in terms of your outlook? The $3 billion to $3.5 billion of subsidiary dividends is that still in place? Or is this affected somehow by that net income loss? No this is within our range that we had expected.
Our next question is from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a few questions first on the Latin American business.
The reported earnings seem close to the level that they've been in recent quarters.
You didn't call anything out but it seems like there's a tax benefit because on a pretax basis the earnings are a lot weaker than they've been in recent quarters.
And then for Steve could you just discuss how ALICO is tracking versus your initial assumptions? Because if you look at Asia earnings they've been weaker than expected the last few quarters.
You ended up taking a reserve charge this quarter as well.
And then finally on just your capital deployment philosophy.
Assuming that you are able to de-register as a bank holding company would you want to wait for SIFI guidance before you do something with the dividend or buybacks? Or could one -- or could you raise the dividend even before the SIFI guidance comes out? How would you view that if you -- assuming that you are able to de-register as a bank holding company over the next few months? Yes I hope we got all these questions Jimmy.
On the Latin American business there was an $18 million tax benefit.
It's in Latin America but it's offset in corporate so it's not a total change to our normalized earnings.
If you could repeat the second question.
Research Division</strong> The second just views on like how the ALICO business is tracking versus initial assumptions given the weakness in Asia earnings recently.
So overall ALICO is tracking well.
There's ups and downs and there's some of the markets that we're in with ALICO that are tracking a little bit below our expectations some of the markets were above.
So overall the ALICO transaction is still very much on target for what we assumed going into the transaction.
We're very happy that we did the deal and think it's a very attractive transaction on many bases strategic as well as financial.
In terms of our dividend Jimmy I -- it's the same issue that we have around share buybacks.
We're going to assess all these factors regulatory factors.
We're going to talk our board obviously and get board approval before we make any changes on our dividends.
So that still is to come.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just following up on Latin America.
The -- on a pretax basis what drove the weakness there in earnings? Well we've been growing direct marketing and a lot of the new business channels moving to our multiple distribution channels throughout Asia -- throughout Latin America.
And that's had some higher costs associated with that.
Direct marketing doesn't get DAC-ed as much so you have just higher fixed cost in the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I did notice that you added the P&amp;C income statement so I guess we could thank Ed for that.
You can definitely thank Ed for that yes.
And next we go to Tom Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> A few questions for John.
Can you just explain again what was the driver of the statutory loss for the quarter and why with the loss RBC came in higher than expected? Was there something going on some moving parts there? Sure.
So this was for an investment that we had that had unrealized losses and that was deducted from capital.
And we -- there was a change in statutory accounting or an interpretation in statutory accounting.
We're now reflecting more of this through net income.
So we moved from an unrealized loss to a realized loss through net income but it was just a geography change to the income statement and had no impact on capital.
Research Division</strong> Did you say that was -- was that limited partnership investments? So what type of investments were those? It was a joint venture and limited partnership type investment.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And was that $1 billion? Or how big was that? It's a series of them and it was about that amount.
Research Division</strong> And then -- and how -- why did the RBC go up? Just from core favorable markets and good operating earnings.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So the impact of the loss was I guess -- was that already being factored in when it was an unrealized loss and so it wasn't much of a change on the RBC? I'm just a little confused as to why that wouldn't have...
Yes well because it's not in your capital.
It's not counted as part of your capital.
It's an unrealized loss.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
The other question I had for you was on the variable annuity policyholder behavior charge $342 million.
I guess just a general question on it.
How do we get confidence that you've taken enough on this? We don't have any parameters to really measure this around just that I guess you got more conservative you lowered the lapse rate.
Because we've seen other competitors of yours with similar product structure take multiple charges.
So is there any way you can give us confidence that we're not going to -- this isn't the first of a series of charges.
Okay well this was done after several years of study as customers who are in or close to the money get off of their surrender charge period.
And we've had a few years of experience now.
We also participated in an industry study of almost many of the major players and our experience is tracking very well or almost exactly to that industry study.
So I think we're pretty comfortable with where we are now both we've had a few years of experience of this and how people behave as they get close to the money.
When we looked at this our assumptions are pretty good when people are well out of the money and well in the money.
The curve for this dynamic lapse function where we had to adjust it was how people react when they get close to being in the money.
And people are a little more sensitive than we had all initially assumed.
We had benchmarked our original assumptions somewhat 10 years ago against people and we were pretty close to what others had done.
But we've now adjusted I think to be what the experience is truly coming out.
We had to wait until people get off their surrender charge period and also see people who might be closer in the money so you can really see the experience of how to calibrate this loss function.
But we've had not only experience of a few years but also industry experience.
Research Division</strong> But John hasn't the progression been worse meaning lapses have continued to decline on sort of a consistent basis? And if that -- are you assuming continued shrinkage of the lapse rate? Or how should I think about that? Well it depends how people move in and out of the money and what happens to the equity markets and interest rates so it is quite dynamic in how we price this and reserve for it.
So it's not a simple answer that I can give you but we have reflected our experience and I think we're comfortable right now with where we stand on this function.
Our next question is from John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I have a question for Steve.
I'm just curious if you could give us any color around what the process was like gaining approvals from -- in particular from the Federal Reserve for the Provida deal.
John we weren't required to actually get an approval from any federal regulator on this but we certainly talked to our regulators when there's any significant transaction we're engaged in.
So there was communication but there was not an approval process.
Research Division</strong> Yes I understand that.
I'm -- I guess I'm just wondering if there was any real back-and-forth real questions about -- or many -- any indication maybe as part of that dialogue as to what specific capital levels or specific ratios or items were of most concern to the Federal Reserve around this deal around your capital levels.
Yes I'm not -- I don't wish to speak about confidential conversations with federal regulators.
Probably not a good thing to do.
Research Division</strong> I figured I had to give it a shot.
The incremental disclosure around rate sensitivity in particular I guess around the annuities business.
I understand so the impact on an operating earnings basis when we look out the next couple of years is relatively modest but you didn't really speak to anything below the line as it relates to DAC charges or reserve adjustments or any such thing.
I was wondering is there any help you can provide there? Because I assume we'd see some impacts as well there.
Well below the line if rates stay lower our derivatives are going to be higher so we'd have gains from where we are now so it's hard to predict what.
Because a lot of this is noneconomic when you get to the net income side.
Research Division</strong> So I guess we should just assume that below-the-line impact to the 1.69% 10-year for the next couple of years will be essentially immaterial relative to your base plan? No I wouldn't -- the net income is quite sensitive to how markets move and most -- the vast majority of this movement is noneconomic in nature.
The dynamic lapse function change we did to VAs that was an economic change.
But the rest of it is really noneconomic in nature and it's -- I can't predict how that's going to move quarter to quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question is just thinking about the annuity segment in the core earnings.
If I look back at the last several quarters and then look at fourth quarter you're suggesting to us that the core earnings level for this segment has increased from the first 3 quarters of the year somewhere around $240 million average rates -- average quarterly earnings level to now $320 million in the fourth quarter.
And if we were to run-rate off of a $320 million that puts your guidance for the annuity segment for 2013 -- I think it clearly indicates that guidance would be very conservative.
So is there something still inside the fourth quarter core number that we should be thinking about as not something that's going to recur as we move forward? Well the retail annuity business has a lot of ups and downs.
It's sensitive to the marketplace and what goes on in that business.
So we're not updating our guidance on that at this time.
Research Division</strong> Well sorry I mean the first 3 quarters of the year though on a core basis the volatility in those earnings was not nearly as severe.
I guess to the extent that there's any help you can provide it would be appreciated.
We're not going to update our guidance at this time.
Our next question is from Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> So I guess you guys are doing a good job slowing down sort of the run-on of VA sales but curious if you're considering any strategies to accelerate the runoff of VAs either through buyout programs or if there are any structures or vehicles out there that you would explore.
Chris it's Bill Wheeler.
We aren't -- I think our strategies about VA is obviously we're driving down GMIB sales and we're making product changes to do that.
I think you'll see us make some announcements about new product introductions later this year and that will -- as we sort of change the character of that business.
In terms of buying out in-force I -- we've examined that.
We've looked at what others have done.
I don't think that's an option we're considering at this time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are you still committed to the GMIB product? Or would you consider other living benefit features? Well it -- I'm not sure this is well appreciated.
We sell more than a GMIB today.
We sell a healthy amount of lifetime withdrawal benefit.
And I think what you're going to see going forward is a much more diverse annuity new business model going -- in terms of what we're going to sell.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a one quick follow-up just on the returns of the new 4% rollup rate versus what you were selling before.
How much different are your expected returns? Well so GMIB IV with the 5% rollup rate but the lower dollar-for-dollar had an ROI in the fourth quarter of about 15.8%.
And GMIB V with the 4% rollup rate has our ROI modeled as over 18%.
So it's a meaningful jump.
Research Division</strong> And then one just quick question for John.
I guess book value x AOCI is up just $0.04 year-over-year and it's grown I guess just 3% since '08.
So what can be done to accelerate the growth in book? Or is your hedging strategy to protect economic capital versus maybe smoothing GAAP results really just put you at the mercy of below-the-line charges that are kind of out of your control? Well clearly it moves around a lot and we just have to continue to focus on it.
And it's one of those metrics I think that it's even hard year-over-year to look at -- you have to look at it over a long-term time horizon.
But we want to make sure that we have it in our sight and we are -- we will slowly over time we believe that this can improve.
Our next question is from Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Following up on the notion that book value ex AOCI is not growing much.
Your long-term ROE target is that impacted at all by book value perhaps being lower than where people were thinking about at the time of your Investor Day? No other than for the adjustments we've already announced in terms of the goodwill.
Okay.
Just in thinking about long-term care are we correct to think that if interest rates stay where they are and mortality and utilization is consistent with what you saw in the fourth quarter in that scenario there would only be a couple of penny impact to 2013 EPS? Yes.
The next go to John Hall with Wells Fargo Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> This question's for Steve.
As I think about the de-banking process I guess the way we think about it is it's ultimately going to occur and then you must also be planning in some fashion for it to occur.
So I guess the question has to do with do you have sort of a series of contingency plans about the de-banking process that when you get actual word of it you can move quickly depending upon when that word comes whether it's perhaps 2 weeks from now or 6 months from now? John we are obviously planning for it.
And there's still some work being done on our side in terms of assessing the regulatory landscape.
We do get insights on an ongoing basis.
That's why I'm reluctant at this point in time to make any pronouncements around share repurchases dividend changes and the like because the landscape does evolve.
And until we get to that point when we're able to take capital actions we don't think it's prudent for us to make pronouncements that may end up changing over time.
LLC Research Division</strong> Understood.
But say you got word in 2 weeks do you have a contingency plan to roll forward to the board on whatever your decision would be? We have ongoing conversations and have for many quarters with our board on these issues.
So it's not as if we're going to start with them in a few weeks to have this discussion.
But we're doing a lot of analysis internally around all kinds of measures that can impact us from a capital perspective and that has to be taken into account as we decide how we address the issue of capital.
And next we'll go to Eric Berg with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Two questions.
First admittedly the Europe and the Eastern Europe -- or Europe Middle East and Africa business is the smallest of your 3 international units.
But there too there seems to be a revenue issue in the quarter on a constant currency basis.
I think the revenues were flat or down there or very -- essentially flat.
What's happening there? And then my second question relates to Japan.
I'm just hoping you can provide additional detail on the nature of the products that are subject to this intense competition that you referenced.
Is it -- and the nature of the competition.
Is it pricing? Is it terms? And who is proving to be the troublemaker here? Is it indigenous companies? Is it foreign competitors? Let me answer the question on Europe.
We stopped selling in the U.K.
annuities so we're down $57 million year-on-year in PFOs on that and sales.
So that makes a difference.
We also have weakness in Western Europe but that's been offset by strong growth in Russia Turkey and also the AVIVA acquisition.
So it's kind of balanced out some negatives with some positives and that's why you're seeing it sort of flattish.
LLC Research Division</strong> Actually before we go on to -- I appreciate that.
Just one quick question about this premium fees and other that you referenced.
I'm just wondering given the transition that Met is effecting away from high capital-intensive products -- so let's just say given the transition that you contemplated that you're beginning here towards more let's say insurance products you continue to publish this statistic and highlight it which suggests to me that you think it's important but I'm just wondering whether you're giving thought to and whether you might go in the direction of looking at total operating revenues if investment income figures -- if in fact it will be the case that investment income will figure increasingly prominently in your revenue mix.
I just don't know and I'd like to know how you're thinking about that.
Well we'll take that under consideration but I think we're comfortable now with how we record our revenues.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now if you could just talk about Japan a little bit I would be grateful.
Actually I missed your question.
Could you repeat Japan? LLC Research Division</strong> Sure.
So earlier in the conversation there was the discussion about -- I think there was reference to certain competition in the bank channel.
And I was just looking for a little bit more detail about the specific products that are being subject to competition.
Is it explicit pricing? Is it other terms on the contracts that are the subject of the competition? And who are proving to be the troublesome competitors? Is it indigenous companies or is it your foreign competitors? Okay so what's still in the bank channel are mainly single premium style products both in yen U.S.
dollar and Australian dollar and some other currencies.
And of course as interest rates move throughout 2012 these products can become more or less attractive.
And you have to be very careful with these product lines.
You have to adjust your crediting rates quickly and if you don't you can get a large volume of lower ROE business.
And so we have been diligent in ensuring that the business that we do sell to the bank channel meets our profitability hurdles.
And let me just add to that.
It's Chris Townsend here.
So as John referenced the minus 34% in the bank channel earlier I think the way for you to look at Japan would be look at the breadth of distribution of product that we have.
So while the bank channel is down I assure you that we're growing very fast in terms of the A&amp;H products through the bank channel.
We grew at 76% for the quarter.
And we're selling A&amp;H through 40 different banks at the moment in Japan and also our independent agency grew at about 26% for the quarter.
So we've got different levers to pull to make sure we're adhering to the discipline that both Steve and John referenced earlier.
Eric let me just make one other comment.
This is Steve.
When we did our Investor Day in May of last year we did not give guidance on the top line and that was very intentional.
And that was a signal of a shift in thinking at our company about what we should be focusing on in the near term as we look at our strategic initiatives as we try to refocus our business on markets that we think will create shareholder value for us.
So it's not that we don't have internal targets on top line but we're trying to signal we're not going run this company based upon the top line drive sales that may end up being sales that come back later and with low ROEs for us.
And that is I think a cultural shift here.
And again we are looking to grow our business but we are looking to grow profitably are looking to get business on the books that is in excess of our cost of equity capital and that really is the driving force here for us.
Our final question will come from the line of Steven Schwartz with Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> If I could just quickly and then go into some other things.
Chris maybe you could touch on the A&amp;H business in Japan.
I think Aflac came out and said April 1 they're going to hold their rates steady.
I think Sumitomo said that they were going to lower rates 3%.
What's Met doing come April 1? We've promised a 15% EC [ph] ROI and that's consistent across all of our product range including A&amp;H.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay so no change there.
If I may Steve a little bit of a conflict I have here in my thinking.
Most companies would say "I've got $8 billion to deploy.
I'm going to deploy that through either acquisitions or through share repurchase."  You don't -- is it fair to say you don't see it like that that you don't think that $2 billion for Provida comes out of that $8 billion? I think it does.
I mean we have X amount of capital available to either make acquisitions with or to do share buybacks or to raise our dividend yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So I guess I don't get the downside guidance of if we don't do this $8 billion.
Shouldn't it be if we don't do this $6 billion? Well we did have baked into our guidance for -- through 2016 the plan some acquisition activity.
Some was in there.
It wasn't any super large deals but there were some ongoing acquisitions that we assumed in that plan.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
John if you could -- I don't know.
You guys haven't done this before I don't think but it might be worthwhile in this case if you're willing.
A point on the actual to expected in individual life what does that equal to in earnings? I think 1 point is about $2 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> 1 point is about $2 million okay.
And then finally the guidance that you gave it was a little unclear.
The guidance that you gave on the interest rate assumption that was cumulative so it was 45 in the first year going up another 95.
So that was a cumulative thing that wasn't another 150? 150 is the combined number.
Okay thank you very much for joining us.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the MetLife First Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to read the following statement on behalf of MetLife.
Except with respect to historical information statements made in this conference call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements relating to trends in the company's operations and financial results and the business and the products of the company and its subsidiaries.
MetLife's actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including those described from time to time in MetLife's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.
MetLife specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Ed Spehar Head of Investor Relations.
Thank you Greg and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MetLife's First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
We will be discussing certain financial measures not based on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles so-called non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures and related definitions to the most directly comparable GAAP measures may be found on the Investor Relations portion of metlife.com in our earnings press release and our quarterly financial supplements.
A reconciliation of forward-looking financial information to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is not accessible because MetLife believes it's not possible to provide a reliable forecast of net investment and net derivative gains and losses which can fluctuate from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
Now joining me this morning on the call are Steve Kandarian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Hele Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will take your questions.
Also here with us today to participate in the discussions are other members of management including Bill Wheeler President of the Americas; Steve Goulart Chief Investment Officer; Michel Khalaf President of EMEA; and Chris Townsend President of Asia.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
I know that capital management is of great interest to our investors and I trust you saw last week's announcement of a 49% increase in our common stock dividend the first increase since 2007.
Our new dividend results in a payout ratio of approximately 20% which is in line with our peers.
The dividend increase as well as our plan to internally fund the $2 billion acquisition of AFP Provida illustrates our commitment to making effective use of capital.
Nevertheless given prevailing regulatory uncertainty we continue to assume no share repurchases in our 2013 plan.
Turning to our quarterly results.
We are pleased to report that the year is off to a good start.
The first quarter 2013 operating earnings were $1.6 billion up 12% over the first quarter of 2012.
Operating earnings per share were $1.48 an 8% increase over the prior year period.
And operating return on equity was 12.7% on an annualized basis.
Our operating earnings were aided by strong equity markets favorable investment margins and good performance on expenses.
Net income for the quarter was $956 million.
The difference between net and operating income is primarily explained by derivative losses related to asymmetrical accounting treatment and noneconomic factors.
The first quarter included $411 million of after-tax derivative losses from economic hedges where the associated risk does not have the same GAAP accounting treatment as well as $269 million of after-tax derivative losses related to MetLife's own credit spread.
John Hele will discuss our financial results in further detail in a few minutes.
As I said on our December guidance call MetLife faces external headwinds that we cannot control such as low interest rates and regulatory uncertainty.
However we are focusing on mitigating the impact of these headwinds and executing our strategy in the areas we can control to create shareholder value.
A good example of this is our effort to reduce expenses.
We have said that the bulk of our expense saving opportunities are in the U.S.
and our results reflect solid progress in this market with total fixed operating expenses down 3% year-over-year.
We are extremely pleased with this performance especially considering that premiums fees and other revenues in the U.S.
were up 4% year-over-year and up 5% excluding pension closeouts.
This expense margin improvement contributes $0.05 to earnings per share on a year-over-year basis.
Expenses will fluctuate from quarter-to-quarter but it's clear that our cost-saving initiatives are translating to improve bottom line results.
Going forward we remain focused on achieving the full $600 million of annual pretax net expense savings discussed at our May 2012 Investor Day.
The consolidation of our U.S.
real estate footprint announced in March is an example of these efforts.
By moving 2 600 retail and technology jobs to North Carolina we are reducing labor and real estate costs enabling better employee collaboration and driving efficiencies.
Sales growth in emerging markets is another area of strategic focus to drive shareholder value.
First quarter results showed continued momentum on a year-over-year basis with sales in Latin America up 20% and sales in the emerging economies in Europe the Middle East and Africa up 40% driven by strong results in the Gulf Turkey and Russia.
The sales increase in emerging markets combined with a 29% decline in U.S.
variable annuity sales in the quarter reflects substantial progress on our efforts to shift our business mix away from capital-intensive market-sensitive products.
We remain on track to sell $10 billion to $11 billion of variable annuities this year which will be a decline of approximately 40% from last year.
Now let me turn to the current interest rate environment.
With the 10-year Treasury yield falling back to below 1.7% and the 10-year Japanese government bond yield at less than 60 basis points we recognize that investors and analysts are concerned about the potential impact of low rates on our business.
However our analysis suggests that a sustained low-rate environment is a manageable risk.
The current rate environment in the U.S.
is very similar to the interest rate stress scenario discussed in our 2012 10-K filing which assumes among other things a 1.69% 10-year Treasury through the end of 2014.
Based upon these assumptions operating earnings per share would decrease by $0.04 in 2013 and $0.13 in 2014.
In addition we see incremental earnings risk if rates remain at current levels in Japan but the estimated impact would be immaterial this year and less than $0.05 per share in 2014.
Next I'd like to spend a few minutes on the regulatory environment.
MetLife faces the possibility of being named a nonbank systemically important financial institution or SIFI which would place us under Federal Reserve supervision.
To date MetLife has not been notified by the Financial Stability Oversight Council that we have been moved to Stage 3 of the process for designating SIFIs although the conventional wisdom holds that we will be at some point.
That is why I am spending time in Washington participating in the debate on this important issue.
At a speech delivered at the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce last month I stated that the traditional business of life insurance does not present systemic risk to the U.S.
economy and that MetLife should not be named a SIFI.
My 3 main points were: one the life insurance business did not cause the financial crisis; imposing bank centric regulations on certain life insurance companies however well-intentioned would negatively affect the availability and affordability of financial protection for consumers; and three there's a better way for the federal government to regulate potentially systemic activities in the life insurance sector.
Rather than name a handful of life insurance companies as SIFIs regulators should target those activities that caused the financial crisis in the first place.
The Dodd-Frank Act defined a SIFI as a company whose failure could pose a threat to the financial stability of the United states.
The Financial Stability Oversight Council or FSOC clarified that such a threat only exists if there would be an impairment of financial market functioning that would be sufficiently severe to inflict significant damage on the broader economy.
There is no evidence that any traditional life insurance company is sufficiently interconnected with the rest of the financial system to meet that test.
To be clear I am not suggesting that MetLife could never fail.
What I am suggesting is that we cannot think of a single firm that would be brought down by its exposure to MetLife.
For example in our derivatives book counter-party exposure to MetLife net of collateral is insignificant as a percentage of counter-party total capital.
The average exposure in the event of a MetLife default is 0.25% of a derivatives dealer's total capital.
The largest exposure is 0.75% of total capital simply not large enough to create systemic risk.
An approach that focuses on activities is more likely to capture systemic risk regardless of the size of the firm.
An activities-based approach is also consistent with how regulation of a life insurance business is evolving internationally.
I am encouraged by the willingness of regulators and policymakers to listen to these perspectives and engage in a dialogue about these critical issues.
My hope is that regulators will take into account the fundamental differences between banks and insurance companies as the prudential rules for nonbank SIFIs are being finalized.
In closing we are focused on executing our strategy to create sustained value for shareholders over time.
Our strong first quarter earnings had a meaningful increase on our common stock dividend illustrate our ability to manage through external challenges.
With that I will turn the call over to John Hele to discuss our financial results in detail.
Thank you Steve and good morning.
Today I'll cover our first quarter results including a discussion on insurance margins investment spreads expenses and business highlights.
I will then conclude with some comments on cash capital and guidance.
To begin MetLife reported operating earnings of $1.6 billion or $1.48 per share up 12% year-over-year.
This quarter included 2 notable items.
The first was in our retail annuities business.
We had a nonrecurring benefit related to our assumption review for variable annuities and some of the models required adjustment to reflect the full impact of the lower lapse rates.
This increased operating earnings by $29 million after tax or $0.03 per share.
Second pretax variable investment income was $337 million reflecting strong private equity returns and higher bond prepayments.
After taxes and the impact of DAC variable investment income was $217 million which was $22 million or $0.02 per share above the top end of our 2013 quarterly guidance range.
Turning to our bottom line results.
First quarter net income was $956 million or $0.87 per share and included net derivative losses of $410 million after tax.
As Steve mentioned the net derivative losses in the quarter included a $680 million after-tax loss which is explained by 3 items: one the tightening of Met's own credit spread; two changes in currency rates driven principally by the weakening of the yen relative to the U.S.
dollar; and three an increase in interest rates.
These factors were partially offset by favorable VA hedge performance favorable market conditions and changes in the in-force.
Book value per share excluding AOCI was $47.37 at March 31 up 2% year-over-year.
Turning to margins.
Underwriting in the U.S.
was generally unfavorable this quarter.
The mortality ratio in retail life was 92.7% due to unfavorable experience in both VUL [ph] and traditional life.
This result was higher than the target range which is in the mid-80s and slightly worse than the 91.6% ratio in the first quarter of 2012.
The mortality ratio in group life was 91.3% in the quarter unfavorable to the prior year quarter of 89.1% and above the target range of 85% to 90%.
The increase in the mortality ratio was driven by more term claims and a higher average term life death benefit.
To give you a better sense of the earning sensitivity for retail life mortality a 1-percentage-point change in the mortality ratio equates to quarterly operating earnings impact of approximately $2 million to $3 million.
For group life a 1-percentage-point change in the loss ratio equates to quarterly operating earnings impact of approximately $8 million to $10 million.
The group health benefit ratio was 88.9% up 140 points from the prior year quarter of 87.5% but within the targeted range of 86% to 90%.
A 1-percentage-point change in the loss ratio equates to operating earnings impact of approximately $10 million on a quarterly basis.
Next let me discuss investment spreads.
In our QFS we now provide spreads including and excluding the variable investment income.
You will note that spreads remained healthy across all major product lines in the U.S.
although we did see some modest year-over-year tightening in deferred annuities and corporate benefit funding.
Overall investment spreads were better than planned in the first quarter.
However we do anticipate that investment spreads will decline for the full year but the earnings risk is relatively modest in 2013 and 2014 even if interest rates stay at current levels in the U.S.
and Japan.
Turning to expenses.
The operating expense ratio was 23.9% for the first quarter.
Excluding the impact of pension and post-retirement benefits and closeouts the operating expense ratio was 23.2%.
This compares favorably to the first quarter of 2012 which had an operating expense ratio of 24.9% and 24.3% excluding pension and post-retirement benefits and closeouts.
We are pleased with this performance as it reflects progress on our strategic goal to reduce net expenses by $600 million.
However results also benefited somewhat from the timing of expenses.
I will now discuss some of the business highlights in the quarter.
Rather than go through every segment I will focus on areas where our results may have differed from your expectations.
Therefore my comments will be on Retail Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits Asia and EMEA.
Retail reported operating earnings of $626 million a year-over-year increase of 33%.
Normalized operating earnings were $581 million after accounting for previously mentioned nonrecurring VA lapse adjustment of $29 million and variable investment income that was $16 million higher than planned.
This variable investment income was about $3 million in retail annuities and $13 million in retail life and other.
On a normalized basis retail operating earnings were up 17% versus the first quarter of 2012 due to higher net investment income lower ongoing DAC amortization annuities and lower operating expenses.
These positive items were partially offset by unfavorable underwriting results in life.
Normalized operating earnings for retail annuities were $340 million an increase of 21% from the prior year quarter.
Growth was driven by favorable ongoing DAC amortization and lower expenses.
We do not normalize for variances in separate account returns.
And earnings and retail annuities were $33 million higher than planned as a result of strong stock market performance in the quarter.
As a forward-looking rule of thumb a 1-percentage-point change in the S&amp;P 500 equates to approximately $1 million to $3 million of operating earnings in the current quarter and roughly $5 million of operating earnings in the next 12 months.
These are just rules of thumb and actual results will vary based on the equity bond mix in the separate accounts and the performance of other indices.
Due to these factors the market impact this quarter went slightly higher than the forward-looking rule of thumb.
This was a good quarter for retail annuities with normalized operating earnings higher than planned by approximately $80 million.
However the results in the quarter benefited from items that may not occur in future quarters and we continue to expect investment spread compression.
Normalized operating earnings for retail life and other were $241 million an increase of 13% from the prior year.
Earnings were as expected despite worse-than-expected mortality as both investment margins and expenses were favorable.
Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits reported operating earnings of $230 million down 5% year-over-year.
After adjusting for normalizing items in both periods which included variable investment income that was $4 million below plan in this quarter normalized operating earnings were down 1% year-over-year.
Higher interest margins expense management and favorable underwriting in the dental business were more than offset by lower underwriting results in group life and long-term care.
In long-term care the benefit ratio was higher than planned due to higher incidence and reserve adjustments.
Turning to Asia.
Operating earnings were $333 million in the quarter up 11% year-over-year and 12% on a constant currency basis.
After adjusting for normalized items in both periods which included variable investment income of $10 million above planned this quarter normalized operating earnings were up 12% from the prior year quarter.
This was due to higher fee income from the surrender of certain fixed annuity products in Japan and an increase in net investment income.
The higher surrenders were largely the result of customers harvesting gains in foreign currency-denominated fixed annuity products primarily those in Australian dollars.
We believe the intent was to shift assets into equities as a result of the strong performance of the nick high [ph] and the topics the early indication that surrenders will remain elevated in the second quarter.
Although we are only normalizing for variable investment income it is important to note that the first quarter results may not be indicative of future quarters earnings.
First excess surrenders added $29 million after tax and we assume that surrender activity will normalize eventually plus there is lost earnings associated with these surrenders; second there was a $10 million after-tax benefit from a loan repayment; third the initial impact from the strong equity market in Japan at an $8 million after tax; finally currency weakness could be a bigger negative in future quarters.
As we have stated previously we have hedges for our 2013 projected yen-exposed operating earnings at strike prices at around JPY 90 to the U.S.
dollar.
These hedges are currency options which provide protection against the yen weakening beyond JPY 90 but allow us to participate in the upside should the yen strengthen.
Our protection now extends in the first half of 2014 with currency options at around JPY 90 in place for the first quarter 2014 and at around JPY 95 for the second quarter 2014.
Let me reiterate that we still believe the low end of our 2013 operating earnings guidance for Asia is a realistic expectation even though our plan assumes a yen-dollar exchange rate of slightly less than JPY 82.
I'd like to close in Asia with a few comments on sales.
Our first quarter sales were down 13% year-over-year and below our plan largely because of the weakness in bank channel sales.
In Japan our sales through banks were down 60% on a year-over-year basis.
We are willing to trade business volume for business value as we remain disciplined on pricing.
Finally EMEA had strong operating earnings of $87 million in the first quarter up 21% year-over-year and 17% on a constant currency basis.
The fundamental strength in the first quarter was driven by credit insurance in Russia group medical in the Gulf and lower expenses.
But there are also a couple of onetime favorable items related to Greece.
These items were material for the segment but not the overall company.
I'd like to comment on a topic that I know is of great interest to our investors: cash.
Cash and liquid assets at the holding companies were approximately $4.8 billion at the end of the first quarter which is down from year-end but consistent with our plan given the anticipated timing of subsidiary dividends and holding company expenses.
Moving to our capital position the combined RBC ratio for our principally U.S.
insurance companies excluding ALICO at year-end 2012 was 466%.
Also as of December 31 2012 our Japan solvency margin ratio was 909%.
Our preliminary statutory operating earnings and statutory net income for our domestic insurance companies for the first quarter of 2013 was $793 million and $558 million respectively.
These results are lower than the prior year due to less favorable market conditions and underwriting.
Our total adjusted capital is expected to approximately be $29.5 billion at the end of the first quarter 2013 up 1% from December 31.
Let me conclude by reiterating Steve's comment that the first quarter was a good start to 2013.
By considering the outperformance in the quarter we are comfortable with the top end of our 2013 EPS guidance range of $4.95 to $5.35.
To help you think about the quarterly EPS run rate we would suggest you consider a few things.
Normalizing items aided first quarter operating EPS by $0.05.
The excess of the initial earnings impact from the strong equity market relatively ongoing benefit added about $0.05 to first quarter EPS.
The anticipated decline in our investment margins even with the interest rate increase we assume in our plan is expected to reduce quarterly EPS by more than $0.05 on average.
The timing of expenses added a couple of pennies per share to the earnings in the first quarter mostly outside of the U.S.
Also you should assume that the unfavorable impact from the yen weakness for the remainder of the year and some normalization of surrender activity in Japan may be largely offset by the accretion from the acquisition of Provida which is expected to close in the third quarter.
Finally we don't believe it's prudent practice to provide full year guidance on a quarterly basis especially after only one quarter.
And with that I will turn it back to Ed.
Thank you John.
Before we start Q&amp;A [Operator Instructions].
With that Greg if we could please take the first question.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to start with Steve if I could.
Yes I thought your comments around the presentation you made in Washington were helpful.
Could you provide any color on how the response has been and what the feedback was? Yes indeed.
I would say that the policymakers people in the Hill others in Washington are listening carefully to the arguments.
There is a lot of debate going on.
I think it's healthy.
I think having these views on the table is important to make sure we get it right.
This is an important industry.
It affects millions of Americans across our country.
And it's just really important that these financial protection products are still going to be available and affordable to people going forward especially at a time when the social safety net's under a lot of pressure in our country.
So I think people are being very thoughtful about the discussion are listening carefully and I'm hopeful that when things finally transpire here that we'll get a solution that makes sense.
Research Division</strong> And anything on the timing of when things may transpire? We don't have any clarity on that Suneet.
Having statements coming out of FSOC that they think that the first designations of nonbank SIFIs will be coming and the word they used was soon.
But obviously that word doesn't have really a great deal of specificity to it.
So we have to wait and see how that sorts out.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just a follow-up for John if I could on the holding company cash.
I think you said $4.8 billion down a little bit from year-end.
If we think back to that cash flow roll-forward that you provided in December and I know you had some items in there that were like placeholders for example the Dodd-Frank collateral.
I'm not sure if we had real clarity on what the run rate holding company expenses were.
But just sort of big picture is that cash flow roll-forward pretty much the same based on where you sit today? Or has there been any changes to it other than the dividend I understand that.
Sure.
The -- in the $4.8 billion is where we plan to be given the timing of our expenses and sub-dividends how we get them in the flows in and out.
We did have a placeholder as we mentioned for Dodd-Frank derivative collateral rules.
Those are still a bit influx.
The original rules that were specified last year in the U.S.
were somewhat onerous.
However the international rules had a longer phase-in period and were not as onerous.
There's still a discussion going on between which ones are going to be adopted.
I believe they're leaning very much on the international less onerous rules with a longer phase-in period.
But for now we're going to keep the placeholder in and we'll have to see how things develop throughout the year.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First question is of the $600 million of cost saves that you're targeting can you tell us where you're at on that? How much is in this quarter's run rate to date and how much is still on the come-through? I think Steve you guys had said the $600 million should be realized by the end of '14.
How much is still to come on that? We've gotten net and this is mainly heading to the U.S.
There's about $115 million but we have some onetime costs of about $40 million.
So the net to the bottom line is about $75 million.
Research Division</strong> And John is that $75 million per quarter is hitting the bottom line right now? Yes.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
So you're not -- sorry go ahead.
So it's really $115 million but there's a onetime cost of $40 million.
Research Division</strong> And you're not stripping out that one -- or are you stripping out that onetime cost from operating? No.
No it's included.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
So -- and that would be restructuring cost I presume? Yes.
Now the -- yes some -- but some of our reinvestment yes the $600 million is a net number.
So we plan to get to $1 billion with a $400 million reinvest over time when we get out there.
So the -- we'll start to have some more reinvest heading then in future periods as well.
Research Division</strong> So should I view that that you guys are more than half of the way there? Should I be netting that against the full year $600 million pretax number? Or should I be netting that against $1 billion? I just want understand how you're thinking about that $115 million in the context of your goal.
Yes I'd say we're about halfway there maybe 1/3 to 1/2.
The reinvestment timing is still going to be phased in but we've made good progress here.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the -- my follow-up is I just want to understand the yen sensitivity a little bit better at a higher level.
Can you tell us what percent of your Asia earnings are actually Japan because obviously Korea is a pretty big contributor.
So I want understand of the $330 million how much is Japan? And of the Japan how much are yen-denominated earnings versus U.S.
dollar-denominated earnings? Let me wait in that.
It's Chris Townsend.
Let me just wait in and give you the number in terms of the Japan proportion of the $333 million.
The Japan earnings overall for the quarter of $303 million part of $333 million and I think we're about 65% yen-based earnings on that.
Research Division</strong> Chris that's 65% yen-based of the $303 million? That's correct.
Your next question comes from the line of Nigel Dally from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> With capital it's good to see the dividend increase last week.
With buybacks I know said your plan doesn't include any buybacks for this year.
That said you do have the dilutive equity units coming up later this year.
Should we take it from your comments that offsetting the impact of those units is off the table? Or is that something you could still consider over the course of the year? Also I know you noticed that currently you didn't need the approval from the Fed.
But would it be correct to assume that you did consult with them before going ahead with the dividend rates? Nigel we think a strong dividend and buybacks are both important to our shareholders.
Those are 2 goals of ours going forward.
As you've seen we've increased our dividend by 49% for the second quarter and going forward.
And we've also mentioned today that there are no buybacks planned in 2013.
That's what we're working with as an assumption.
Clearly the regulatory environment is a key factor in terms of what we do in regard to buybacks and we're waiting for more clarity around that topic right now.
So I think it's as prudent on our part to take a wait-and-see attitude around how the regulations sorts out here over the course of the year before we make commitments about buybacks.
Research Division</strong> And with the dividends did you actually talk to -- with the Fed? No.
In terms of talking to the Fed as you know we sold our bank in January.
We legally de-banked in February.
We're no longer regulated by the Federal Reserve.
It wouldn't be appropriate for us to go to them at this point in time although I'll tell you that certainly we went through the stress test exercise in late 2011 early 2012.
We had $1.10 dividend request in that test and we already made that public.
Back in 2012 we made that public.
So the Fed certainly is aware of our desire to have $1.10 dividend.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And then just a second with annuities as you mentioned you had a positive impact this quarter from lower lapses on your DAC for variable annuities.
I guess my concern is that lower lapses can actually be a sizable problem for guaranteed minimum income benefit products.
Accordingly can you discuss what sort of lapse assumptions you're seeing in your statutory accounting for variable annuities and how that compares to the lapse activity that you're currently seeing? Well the -- this is John.
The lapse assumptions are consistent with what we communicated at the last quarter in terms of the changes to the lapse functions.
We had a slight model refinement in the calculating of the impact on operating earnings.
It had no impact below the line and statutory assumptions are the same as we used for GAAP.
Your next question comes from the line of Seth Weiss from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the pace of VA sales.
I know $3.5 billion is probably a little bit outsized considering that you still have the old product for the first month.
Could give us a sense of old product versus new products mix between that $3.5 billion? Yes most of the first quarter sales were old product because even if they actually stop taking new apps there was a lot of throughput that got processed ultimately through the quarters.
So most was old product.
The old products by the way still had an attractive ROI this quarter because obviously hedging costs have come down.
But now new -- sales for the remainder of the 9 months should be all GMIB Max V the new product.
And in terms of our ability to hit our run rate we're currently tracking at a weekly sales rate that we think we'll still be able to hit that sales goal comfortably.
Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar from JP Morgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a question.
You mentioned -- on interest rates you mentioned the EPS impact of lower rates through 2014.
Could you talk about potential for DAC or reserve charges over the next few years if rates remain at these levels especially in products like long-term care? And then also how should the impact of lower rates compound beyond 2014 if we're sort of in this environment for more than a year or so? Jimmy it is Bill Wheeler.
With regard to long-term care a couple things to keep in mind that we've added to statutory reserves over a long period of time which is of course where any likely reserve impact would be.
It would be a long ways away from GAAP adjustments.
The -- and I think we feel that with regard to what we're doing with regard to long-term care in terms of price increases as well as on the in-force as well as the fact that we've really built up reserves over time prudently make us feel that the likelihood of adjustments even with the low [ph] level of interest rates is pretty low.
Research Division</strong> And that goes for other products as well? Yes so we have given you some guidance here.
Steve gave you some operating earnings sensitivities to lower rates.
We still have a meaner version assumptions on very long-term contracts that do gear up over time and we are comfortable with that now and are comfortable for the foreseeable future.
We still have the Federal Reserve doing extensive bond-buying in the markets.
We're not certainly in normal situations.
I think we have to wait and see for some period of time how that would resolve and we would rethink about our long-term assumptions.
But for now and for '13 certainly and going into '14 we're comfortable with our long-term assumptions which is what drives the GAAP and DAC.
Research Division</strong> But you'd review on like -- and then you're assuming a slight increase in rates over time and it does not materialize over the first -- or it has an extended period of low rates than you just look at those on an annual basis I guess? We kind of look at this -- we look at this on an annual basis because we have very long-term contracts.
Long-term care is probably the longest of the liabilities so we have long liabilities.
The pension business the life insurance is all very long-term liabilities and you have to really think carefully about how you set these long-term assumptions given we're still in the aftermath of '08 with a lot of activity by federal governments looking at and working on interest rates.
So we will take it year by year and think it through carefully.
Research Division</strong> And then just on SIFI have you done any internal studies that would just assess what the -- what your balance sheet would look like if it was subjected to like a Basel-type capital standards? Because just if you do a big picture analysis it seems like as the insurance companies were subjected to bank-based standards they would be significantly short on capital.
Is that a correct assessment? Jimmy it's Steve.
The questions of being what Basel standards and we've heard from officials in Washington is it going to be Basel I for insurance companies? Will it be some other form of Basel? Will it not be Basel? It's really very much up in the air right now and that's why we continue to make the argument in Washington that whatever rules come forward for nonbank SIFIs should be tailored to the industry they're regulating and not relate to a bank or bank-like approach for regulation.
Research Division</strong> Yes but under Basel III the insurance companies' statements that have just given the capital charges on the various investments seems like the large insurance companies if they are subjected to SIFI they would be significantly undercapitalized.
I don't know if you've done an analysis of that internally.
A straight Basel 3 regime it would be a very difficult capital regime for us to operate under.
There's no question.
Your next question comes from the line of John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I have a question on Japan sales.
I think John that you mentioned that sales were down about 13% year-over-year but that was driven heavily I guess by the bank channel which was down 60.
I was wondering if maybe -- whether you or Chris could give us maybe a little bit more of a breakdown.
I'm unclear on what percentage of overall Japan sales actually come through the bank channel and maybe what some of the third sector and non-single premium whole life sales what kind of growth rates were you seeing there? Okay.
Let me have a shot at this.
First of all the bank business overall in Japan makes up about 15% to 20% of the total AMB for Japan.
Of that the fixed annuity foreign currency product that John referenced make up about 50% of the total there.
So overall we've seen that bank channel down 60%.
So a rather significant reduction.
And I think in terms of the surrenders you're seeing that John referenced you'll see those continue for all the way through the second quarter.
And we expect the channel -- the bank channel to be down about 30% to 35% for the full year.
In terms of the A&amp;H business we're down 6% for the quarter which is in line with the market.
And we expect to be flat on A&amp;H overall for the year.
So with all of these moving parts we would expect sales in Japan probably to be flat year-on-year.
And overall for Asia given all the other countries you got in the region we expect sales the AMB number for the year to be about 5% up year-on-year.
I would just caution you in terms of the bank sales.
The -- a good portion of our earnings in Japan come predominantly from the A&amp;H business and second from the life business which are in reasonably good shape.
And the big benefit of what we got there is the bundling capability on the A&amp; H where we intend to get about 60% to 65% of the life sales bundled with an A&amp;H product which gives us a good edge in that market overall.
Research Division</strong> That's very helpful.
And then I guess just thinking about interest rates a little bit more I was wondering if you could give us some sense for how much portfolio overall turnover you're expecting this year and next? Well I don't know that we've historically talked about portfolio turnover a lot John.
But I think our activities we make projections on what we expect.
I think the first quarter we probably had a little more portfolio turnover than normal just given the rate environment and some of the [indiscernible] and interest rates and the like.
But overall if we look at -- historically we look at the last several quarters I mean our turnover is pretty much in line with what we see for typical industry statistics.
Research Division</strong> And then just real quick any sort of outlook commentary you can provide with respect to variable investment income for the remainder of the year? I mean you've got a pretty wide quarterly range and always want to be careful about trying to model all the way at the upper end of the range which is what you adjust against.
But any commentary there would be helpful.
Sure.
Again there is a reasonable correlation between equity market performance and a good portion of our variable investment income so you have to take into consideration what happened in the first quarter.
We saw a very strong equity market so I think certainly the near term meaning the second quarter have to be strong.
And as we look forward for the rest of the year we're not projecting necessarily continued -- the continued same performance in the markets.
So we're back probably comfortable with the plan.
And overall I think that means we are -- we feel very comfortable with the VII plan right now.
We probably think we'll be closer towards the top of the plan.
But obviously anything can happen in the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> And then Steve just around that.
A lot of private equity firms the distributions are quite elevated and appear to be -- it appears that it's going to remain that way.
Are you reinvesting such that we ought to expect private equity investments in total to remain relatively stable as we look forward? Yes.
Yes we have ongoing commitments to private equity.
We like the sector and we'll continue to at least maintain our investment level.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein from Evercore Partners.
Research Division</strong> Can you just talk about the strategy on hedging the yen in Japan and maybe just give thoughts on an endgame? I mean you obviously kind of layered into the first quarter of '14 you layered into the second quarter of '14 at JPY 95.
Where do you expect to get to and what is kind of the longer-term strategy? Right.
This is John Mark.
Currency is always an interesting thing to think about.
We have decided we take it quarter-by-quarter.
We meet and decide do we want to take a position on the yen or not? We did so far with input from our investment group and thinking about our business there.
But again it is a quarter-to-quarter plan for us in terms of how we think about it.
And we've got the protection that we've told you about.
Research Division</strong> I guess would you expect to kind of build hedges that get you through '14 based on kind of current conversations? We haven't decided.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just I guess a follow-up question on Asia earnings and just thinking about the higher lapses maybe going back to kind of -- I think it was Nadel's [ph] question.
The -- should we infer from the commentary that the higher lapses that you've seen and that you are going to continue to see into to see into this quarter are not material to the overall earnings? Or should we be thinking about an earnings strain? And if so how much? It's Chris Townsend again.
Let me -- I guess the way you should think about this overall is that the surrender fees we're getting -- or the surrender penalties we're getting at the moment are the net of DAC and variable amortization in the market value adjustment.
So that $29 million you've got in the first quarter is effectively a prepayment to the profit for the life of the contract.
So what you're seeing is economically we're being made whole for our profit.
If the contract just stayed in place you'd probably see those earnings spread over over the life of the -- probably it's around 7 years the average amount of the contract.
So I think for the first 2 quarters of the year what you'd expect to see is earnings deficiency of about $2 million to $3 million per quarter for the life of the 7 years of the contract.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just would you expect the second quarter to kind of look like the first quarter in terms of that $29 million? We would.
As I said before we'd expect the same sort of surrender fee income at the moment.
Your next question comes from the line of Chris Giovanni from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I guess first question regarding the Provida transaction.
So one of your competitors did a large-claim pension deal pointing to better-than-expected earnings partly attributable to more customers that actually stayed in the plan post the deal announcement than what was expected.
So I'm curious if you can provide any insight around what you're seeing in terms of retention since the deal was announced  Chris it's Bill Wheeler.
So remember we won't close until sometime in the third quarter.
That's our expectation.
And I would tell you I think Provida's performance in the first -- for the first part of this year has been right on track.
And in terms of profitability and ongoing business I haven't seen a fluctuation one way or another.
So it's looking good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess regarding VA policyholder behavior there's certainly a lot of focus around lapse assumptions.
But I wanted to ask about sort of annuitization trends.
So your GMIB product I guess it's really at a point where you're likely starting to see some policyholder behavior trends on annuitization take-ups.
So I wanted to see if you can comment on those trends sort of relative to maybe your original expectations and then your current assumptions for reserves.
Yes sure.
My guess is we'll talk more about this at Investor Day but I'll give you some sense of what we're doing.
A very small portion of our GMIB block is available to be annuitized today so I think roughly 5% maybe even a little less than that.
So there's not a lot of data yet on the experience in terms of people deciding to annuitize.
That said the level of annuitizations right now is very low and even for even for products that are in the money they -- so we're seeing a quite low level of annuitizations.
But I think we haven't decided to react to that yet because it's very early days and not many people have had the opportunity to annuitize yet.
Your next question comes from the line of Sean Dargan from Macquarie.
Just getting back to the policyholder surrenders in Japan.
I'm just wondering if the yen is weakening why the policyholders would want to give up their exposure to policies denominated in foreign currencies? Yes what we're seeing there is the people are taking advantage of the significant rise in the equity markets in Japan and lock it in some of the foreign currency gains.
So you've seen all of these [ph] that most of them it's about 60/40 in terms of Australian dollar versus U.S.
dollars the mix of these fixed annuities.
But it's effectively taking the benefit and putting it into mutual funds in the equity markets.
Okay.
And then just is there any color on what's driving the sales growth in Latin America? You call out Mexico in direct marketing.
Is there anything to note there? No.
It's very consistent with our plan in terms of 20-plus percent sales growth year-over-year.
That was our expectation.
Look we're -- and a lot of that is driven by direct marketing but it's really coming in a lot of areas of the business as well.
The next question comes from the line of Steven Schwartz from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I want to follow up on -- I think it was Chris' question.
Bill while you haven't seen a whole lot of annuitization yet have you seen any changes in the usage of dollar-for-dollar withdrawals on the GMIB? No.
But we -- when we designed the product we assumed that there would be a certain level of dollar-for-dollar usage and there is and it has not changed.
Remember though that now in the new products the -- or the new GMIB the dollar-for-dollar benefit though it still exists is much less attractive.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Steve if I can follow up in your discussion about the dividend were you saying that you had basically run through the current dividend through the CCAR test that the Fed found you deficient on? No.
That -- that's not what I was saying.
I was asked a question earlier if we informed the Fed or ran by the Fed our decision to raise the dividend to $1.10 before announcing that.
So I said was because we're no longer regulated by the Fed it would be inappropriate for us to go them seeking approval or something of that nature.
But I noted that when we went through the stress test that was our -- part of our submission was having $1.10 dividend.
So they're certainly aware of our desire to raise the dividend to $1.10 for the common shareholder.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then one more if I may.
There was a -- I think there was a reference to a yen loss -- a currency exchange loss and I think it was the yen with regards to net investment income.
Is this akin to what prudential has reflected over the last couple of quarters with liabilities being treated differently from the asset? No.
We don't have that issue that prudential does.
We have multicurrency reporting and that we avoid that volatility that prudential has.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> With regard to the share buyback many of us are expecting that Met can resume share buybacks in 2014.
Is that a reasonable assumption? I honestly don't know.
We'll see what happens in 2013 in terms of regulation.
We'll have a much greater clarity.
It is our goal as I mentioned earlier to provide a good yield on our stock through an appropriate dividend and also to have share buybacks as part of our capital management process going forward.
But we have to see how things sort out here in the current year around regulation coming out of Washington.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching gears for John just so I understand that normalized run rate of operating earnings in the first quarter.
If you normalize for the items you outlined we get to a range of around $1.30 for the first quarter.
Am I thinking about that the right way? Jay you're good at math.
That's exactly what I would think.
Research Division</strong> I can still subtract.
You're still doing a good job I guess.
Research Division</strong> And then for Bill what implied volatility assumption are you using for variable annuities? Well you mean when we price is that what you're referring to? Research Division</strong> Yes.
Right around 100%.
Or excuse me not the implied volatility.
The implied volatility is the hedging cost in total we're assuming at about 100% when we priced.
Right now of course they're running at about 115% I think or that's where they were for the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what duration liability do you use for implied vol? I think it's the 5-year.
Your next question comes from the line of Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Just to make sure this was really is that.
With regards to the dividends when I listened to the last quarter's call it seemed like it was very cautious on any capital deployment before there was additional clarity from regulators.
So what exactly changed since that call and into the point that the dividend was increased by 50%? Yes I know that some people wanted me to make some statement as soon as we sold the bank.
But we're not at the point where we're going to declare the dividend for the second quarter yet and we have a process of course under normal corporate governance to go to our board and get approval for any sort of capital action of that nature.
So the timing just wasn't right for us to make any declaration at that point in time.
Your next question comes from the line of Joanne Smith from Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> Yes I just -- most of my questions have been asked and answered but I wanted to go back just to the capital management topic one last time understanding that there's no expectation for share repurchase in 2014 you've already taken action on the dividend you have a $2 billion Provida deal to close.
Where do you stand in terms of capital deployment with respect to additional acquisitions? Because it seems that there has been some increased activity in that market right now.
So could we look for potentially another deal this year? I mean we don't want to build it into our expectations but would that be a possibility? So I just wanted to make one correction.
I think you said 2014 may be you meant 2013.
Research Division</strong> 2013.
Sorry.
Yes okay so just to clarify that.
So no expectations of share buybacks in 2013 although as I mentioned the Provida deal $2 billion approximately will be a cash transaction so we'll be using capital in that sense.
I think that as a practical matter regulators look at acquisitions differently than share buybacks.
Acquisitions should be generating earnings and have assets involved and so on.
So we certainly will be looking at transactions over the course of this year as we always do.
There's nothing we can talk about at this point in time about a deal on the horizon but we certainly look at most anything that comes in the market that could make sense from us strategically.
And at that point in time we'll make a decision about how we finance it if there were to be another deal going forward.
Thank you everyone for joining us and we look forward to speaking with you on next -- at our Investor Day.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10:00 a.m.
Eastern Time today through May 9.
You may access the AT&amp;T TeleConference replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 277735.
International participants dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the MetLife Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to read the following statement on behalf of MetLife.
Except with respect to historical information statements made in this conference call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements relating to trends in the company's operations and financial results and the business and products of the company and its subsidiaries.
MetLife's actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including those described from time to time in MetLife's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including in the Risk Factors section of those filings.
MetLife specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Ed Spehar Head of Investor Relations.
Thank you Greg and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MetLife's Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
We will be discussing certain financial measures not based on generally accepted accounting principles so-called non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures and related definitions to the most directly comparable GAAP measures may be found on the Investor Relations portion of metlife.com in our earnings press release and our quarterly financial supplements.
A reconciliation of forward-looking financial information to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is not accessible because MetLife believes it's not possible to provide a reliable forecast of net investment income and net derivative gains and losses which can fluctuate from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
Now joining me this morning on the call are Steve Kandarian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Hele Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will take your questions.
Also here with us today to participate in the discussions are other members of management including Bill Wheeler President of Americas; Steve Goulart Chief Investment Officer; Michel Khalaf President of EMEA; and Chris Townsend President of Asia.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report another strong quarter with most financial metrics exceeding our plan.
Second quarter 2013 operating earnings were $1.6 billion up 11% over the second quarter of 2012.
Operating earnings per share were $1.44 a 7% increase over the prior year period and operating return on equity was 12.3%.
This quarter's results reflect the continuation of our strategic shift away from capital-intensive market-sensitive products to high-return lower-risk product lines as well as our strategy to grow emerging markets.
This shift was evident with variable annuity sales down 40% versus the prior year period while sales rose 28% in our Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits segment; 32% in Latin America; and 32% in the emerging markets within our Europe Middle East and Africa segment.
Our investment margins were favorable again in this quarter as a result of good variable investment income effective asset/liability management and income from derivatives many of which were purchased in the mid-2000s to protect earnings under a low rate scenario.
In the second quarter our average investment spread across all U.S.
product lines was the top end of the roughly 200- to 250-basis-point range experienced during the past few years.
To help you think about the impact of interest rates on earnings I refer you to the low interest rate stress scenario in our 2012 10-K.
We said that the continuation of the late 2012 interest rate environment in the U.S.
through year-end 2014 would reduce our operating earnings by $45 million in 2013 and $150 million in 2014 relative to plan.
In late 2012 the 10-year treasury yield was 1.69%.
Our plan assumed rates would steadily increase and reach to 2.38% by year-end 2013 and then remain at this level through 2014.
In addition credit spreads were tighter in late 2012 than assumed in our plan.
Today the 10-year treasury yield is approximately 2.6% or slightly above our plan assumption and credit spreads have widened which puts them roughly in line with our plan.
With a rate environment only slightly more favorable than our plan we did not assume investment margins will expand as a result of the recent increase in interest rates.
To be sure higher interest rates are a positive development but the benefits for MetLife are reduced risk of margin compression and balance sheet charges.
Now I would like to provide an update on customer centricity followed by some comments on the regulatory environment.
We continue to expand significant effort on the 4 cornerstones of our strategic plan because they are firmly within our control and critical to becoming a world-class organization.
Regulatory outcomes by contrast are only partially within our control but require no less effort given their potential impact on our long-term competitive position.
Customer centricity is an important element of our strategy and while it won't show up in the numbers overnight it can help create an enduring competitive advantage for MetLife.
I have noted in the past that MetLife and the life insurance industry have not done as good a job of delivering exceptional customer experiences as some other industries.
Simply put we are just too hard to do business with.
As a result of important simplification work we are doing around the globe we have early indications that enhancing the customer experience not only increases customer satisfaction but also reduces additional work and ultimately lowers cost for MetLife.
Results in several areas faster call handling improved self-service first-contact customer resolution and streamlined claims processing bear this out.
In Korea improved technology has dramatically reduced telephone wait times with 86% of calls answered in less than 20 seconds today up from 47% before the upgrade.
In the U.S.
simple fixes to our website tripled customer use of our online change of address process and virtually eliminated related customer complaints.
In the U.S.
and Mexico call center representatives newly empowered with better tools and technology are now resolving 60% of customer problems in a single contact up from 45%.
And in Poland a redesigned claims process including simpler forms reduced documentation requirements and proactive status updates to customers reduced life insurance claim payments turnaround times by 30% from 5.6 days to 3.9 days.
There is still much work to be done but I am encouraged by our early progress on improving the MetLife customer experience.
Now let me offer a few observations on the regulatory environment.
As you know on July 18 the Financial Stability Board designated MetLife and 8 other insurance companies as globally systemically important insurers or GSIIs.
Our understanding is that being named a GSII has no legal effect unless MetLife is designated a systemically important financial institution or SIFI by the Financial Stability Oversight Council.
If we are designated a SIFI MetLife would be subject to enhanced prudential standards promulgated by the Federal Reserve.
Furthermore the Fed will have to determine whether to subject U.S.-based GSIIs to additional supervision and prudential rules.
Two days before we were named a GSII FSOC voted to advance MetLife to Stage 3 of the SIFI designation process.
As I said at the time I do not believe that MetLife is a systemically important financial institution.
The life insurance industry is a source of financial stability.
Even during periods of financial stress the long-term nature of insurance liabilities protects against bank-like runs and the need to sell assets quickly.
For pure protection products the company makes no payment unless an insured event occurs so there's no way to accelerate the liabilities.
For products that include a savings component there are strong disincentives to surrender and cash out.
Not only can policyholders face surrender charges and tax penalties but they may find it difficult to purchase new policies if they had to be medically re-underwritten.
The existence of the state-based guarantee funds provides a further incentive for customers to hold on to their policies.
Importantly state insurance regulators have the ability to halt surrenders in the event of financial distress and have typically done so.
As a practical matter being moved to Stage 3 means that FSOC can request nonpublic financial information to examine a company's potential for systemic risk.
During the process MetLife is permitted to submit additional information to FSOC demonstrating that our business does not pose systemic risk.
It's unclear how long we will remain in Stage 3 of the designation process.
Our only frame of reference from the insurance industry is the experience of AIG and Prudential both of which spent more than 7 months in Stage 3.
After Stage 3 is complete a 2/3 vote of FSOC is needed for a proposed determination that a company is a SIFI including an affirmative vote by the chairperson who is The Secretary of the Treasury.
If a company receives a notice of proposed determination it has 30 days to request a nonpublic hearing to appeal the decision.
FSOC then has 30 days to hold the hearing and another 60 days post hearing to make a final determination which again requires a 2/3 vote of FSOC including an affirmative vote by the chairperson.
At that point a company may bring action in U.S.
district court seeking to have the determination rescinded.
The critical question for insurers designated as SIFIs is what the prudential rules will look like.
Will they be bank-like capital rules or rules appropriate for the business model of insurance? Senator Susan Collins of Maine helped put this issue in perspective in a letter to the federal banking regulators last fall.
For context Senator Collins sponsored a provision on the Dodd-Frank Act requiring capital standards for nonbank SIFIs to be no less rigorous than those that apply to banks.
In her letter she said "it was not Congress' intent that federal regulators supplant prudential state-based insurance regulation with a bank-centric capital regime." We strongly believe that insurance companies should be regulated differently than banks.
As I've said many times if life insurers are subjected to capital rules designed for banks MetLife's ability to issue guarantees would be constrained.
We'd have to raise the price of products we offer to consumers or stop offering certain products all together.
To be clear we strongly support prudential regulation of the life insurance industry.
After all we are financially liable for insolvencies to the state-based guarantee funds.
What is imperative is that the rules be tailored to the business model of insurance.
In closing while the regulatory environment remains fluid we are delivering strong financial performance today and executing on our strategy to generate increasing shareholder value over time.
With that I will turn the call over to John Hele to discuss our financial results in detail.
John? Thank you Steve and good morning.
Today I'll cover our second quarter results including a discussion of insurance margins investment spreads expenses and business highlights.
I will then conclude with some comments on cash capital and guidance.
As Steve noted MetLife reported operating earnings of $1.6 billion or $1.44 per share up 11% year-over-year.
This quarter included a few notable items all in our EMEA region.
The first relates to our pension business in Poland.
In June the government of Poland announced 3 proposals and any one of these 3 would materially change the country's pension system.
A change in the system is expected before the end of the year with implementation occurring sometime in 2014.
We expect that the economics of our pension business will be materially altered in Poland resulting in either a significant reduction or the elimination of our pension assets under management which were approximately $7 billion as of June 30.
Therefore we have written off the entire DAC and VOBA balance related to this business resulting in an after-tax charge of $26 million or $0.02 per share in the second quarter.
Going forward our preliminary estimate is that this change to the Polish pension system will reduce EMEA's operating earnings by $15 million to $30 million annually.
Also in EMEA we had a couple of onetime tax items this quarter.
The first was a tax benefit of $52 million as we made an APB 23 assertion for the region.
This was partially offset by a $30 million write-off of a deferred tax asset related to our U.K.
wealth management business due to regulatory changes that made future sales growth and profits less certain for this startup operation.
The net benefit of these 2 items was $22 million or $0.02 per share.
Turning to our bottom line results.
Second quarter net income was $471 million or $0.43 per share and included net derivative losses of $1.1 billion after tax.
The net derivative loss in the quarter was driven primarily by 3 items that we consider to be either noneconomic or a cause of asymmetrical accounting treatment.
These are: number one an increase in interest rates; number two changes in foreign currencies principally the weakening of the yen relative to the U.S.
dollar; and number three the MetLife-owned credit impact associated with our VA program.
Book value per share excluding AOCI was $47.20 at June 30 down modestly from March 31.
This slight decline was a function of modest net income due to the net derivative loss and 2 quarterly dividends declared in the quarter.
Turning to margins.
Underwriting was generally unfavorable this quarter.
The mortality ratio in retail life was 89.7% due to unfavorable experience in both variable and universal life and traditional life.
This result was higher than our expectation for the quarter and worse than the 85.6% ratio in the second quarter of 2012.
The mortality ratio in group life was 86.5% in the quarter favorable to the prior year quarter of 87.3% and well within the target of 85% to 90%.
The improvement in the mortality ratio was driven by lower Group Universal Life claims experience.
As a reminder a 1-percentage-point change in mortality ratio equates to quarterly operating earnings impact of approximately $2 million to $3 million for retail life and $8 million to $10 million for group life.
The Non-Medical Health benefit ratio was 89.5% up 210 basis points from the prior year quarter of 87.4% and at the top end of the targeted range of 86% to 90%.
The primary driver for the increase in the ratio was weaker underwriting results in long-term care due to higher incidence and to a lesser extent an increase in the average claim size.
However we are seeing an improvement in disability underwriting results as the overall claims incidence trend continues to be favorable.
As a reminder a 1-percentage-point change in the Non-Medical Health benefit ratio equates to an operating earnings impact of approximately $10 million on a quarterly basis.
In our P&amp;C business the combined ratio including catastrophes was 107.5% for Retail and 97.7% for group.
Retail was impacted by higher-than-budget catastrophes in the Midwest.
Overall catastrophes were higher than budgeted in the quarter by $16 million or $0.01 per share.
The combined ratios excluding catastrophes were higher year-over-year in both Retail and group at 86.1% and 92.1% respectively.
The increase was driven by elevated non-catastrophe weather-related losses and lower favorable prior year reserve development.
Next let me turn to investment spreads.
In our QFS you will note that the spreads remain strong and are higher versus the prior year quarter across all major product lines in the U.S.
driven by higher variable investment income and derivative income.
A simple average of the investment spreads in our U.S.
businesses were 244 basis points this quarter which compares to 231 basis points in the second quarter of 2012 and 235 basis points in the second quarter of 2011.
This progression illustrates the resilience of our investment margins despite a challenging interest rate environment.
In the quarter pretax variable investment income was $312 million reflecting strong returns from private equities and hedge funds.
After DAC and taxes variable investment income was $202 million or slightly less than $0.01 per share above the top end of our 2012 -- 2013 quarterly guidance range.
With regard to expenses the operating expense ratio was 23.5% for the second quarter.
Excluding the impact of pension and postretirement benefits and closeouts the operating expense ratio was 22.8%.
This compares favorably to the second quarter of 2012 which had an operating expense ratio of 23.7% and 23.4% excluding pension and postretirement benefits and closeouts.
We are pleased with this performance as it reflects progress on our strategic goal to reduce net expenses by $600 million.
Through the first half of 2013 gross expense saves were $248 million while net saves were $173 million after adjusting for reinvestment of $12 million and onetime costs of $63 million.
I will now discuss some of the business highlights in the quarter.
Rather than go through every segment I will focus on areas where our results may have differed from your expectations.
Therefore my comments will be on Retail annuities Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits Corporate Benefit Funding Latin America and Asia.
Retail annuities reported operating earnings of $368 million up $142 million or 63% versus the prior year quarter.
The earnings drivers were comprised of several factors including favorable market impact lower ongoing DAC amortization lower operating expenses and higher net investment income.
Variable annuities sales were $2.8 billion in the quarter down 40% year-over-year and 22% sequentially.
We continue to target full year VA sales of $10 billion to $11 billion.
Effective August 12 we are eliminating sub-pays for all GMIB Max and Enhanced Death Benefit Max products other than our current product GMIB Max V.
Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits reported operating earnings of $275 million up 3% year-over-year.
As I mentioned previously underwriting results were unfavorable in long-term care and property and casualty and this was a case both year-over-year and relative to our expectations.
However improved investments and expense margins were effective offsets to less favorable underwriting margins.
Turning to Corporate Benefit Funding.
Operating earnings were $350 million up 10% year-over-year.
The growth was driven by improvements in investment and underwriting margins.
Investment margins improved as a result of lower credit interest primarily on capital markets products and higher variable investment income.
The increase in underwriting margins was primarily driven by a mortality gain in the U.S.
pensions business.
In Latin America operating earnings were $125 million down 7% year-over-year and 11% on a constant-currency basis due to adverse mark-to-market investment results in Brazil and Mexico the impact of inflation in Mexico and Chile and higher expenses primarily due to business initiatives in the region.
While bottom line results were pressured underlying business growth in the region drove solid top line performance.
Premium fees and other revenues were up 12% year-over-year and 8% on a constant-currency basis driven by growth in worksite marketing in Mexico group insurance in Brazil and direct marketing in Argentina.
In addition total sales in Latin America were up 32% year-over-year with strong growth in all countries.
In Mexico sales growth was driven by increases in Retail and Group products.
In Chile the sales increase was driven by growth in the agency force.
In Argentina the increase was driven by direct marketing.
And finally sales growth in Brazil was driven by higher accident and health sales.
Turning to Asia.
Operating results were $330 million in the quarter up 18% year-over-year and 27% on a constant-currency basis.
Earnings were driven by underlying business growth; higher fee income from the surrender of foreign currency fixed annuity products in Japan; and strong equity market performance in Japan which resulted in a decline in variable life guaranteed minimum death benefit reserves that benefited operating earnings by $19 million.
This quarter we again saw higher surrender activity in Japan which was an item we've highlighted on our last call.
This is the result of customers harvesting gains in foreign-currency-denominated fixed annuity products denominated in Australian and U.S.
dollars.
We believe that customers have shifted assets into equities which continue to perform very well.
In the quarter surrender fees in excess of plan contributed $35 million to Asia's operating earnings.
We expect that surrender fees will decline significantly in the second half of the year.
In addition as a result of elevated surrenders in the first half of the year we would expect to see a reduction to operating earnings by slightly less than $15 million annually.
Finally Asia's second quarter operating earnings were $9 million lower than our plan as a result of yen weakness relative to the U.S.
dollar.
As we have stated previously we have hedges for our 2013 projected yen-exposed operating earnings at strike prices at around JPY 90 to the U.S.
dollar.
These hedges are currency options which provide protection against the yen weakening beyond JPY 90 but allow us to participate if the upside should the yen strengthen.
Our protection now extends to the third quarter of 2014 with currency options at around JPY 90 in place for the first quarter around JPY 95 in the second and in the range of JPY 95 to JPY 100 for the third quarter.
Now I will discuss our cash and capital position.
Cash and liquid assets at the holding companies were approximately $6.5 billion at the end of the second quarter.
The increase was driven primarily by $1.4 billion of subsidiary dividends as well as the $550 million release of capital from unwinding MetLife Bank as we mentioned at our May Investor Day.
Next I would like to provide you with an update on our capital position.
As you know we report U.S.
RBC ratios annually so we do not have an update for the second quarter.
With regards to Japan our solvency margin ratio was 1 033% as of the first quarter of 2013.
Our preliminary statutory operating earnings and statutory net income for our domestic insurance companies for the second quarter of 2013 were $614 million and $176 million respectively.
Statutory operating earnings were up $382 million from the prior year due to improved market conditions while net income was lower than the prior year primarily due to derivative and joint venture capital losses.
For the first 6 months of 2013 statutory operating earnings and statutory net income for our domestic insurance companies were $1.4 billion and $734 million respectively.
Total adjusted capital for our domestic insurance companies is expected to be approximately $27.4 billion as of June 30 down 6% from December 31 primarily due to subsidiary dividends paid to the holding company.
Excluding the dividends total adjusted capital would have been down 1% for the year due to unrealized losses driven by derivatives.
Finally let me provide some comments regarding guidance.
Considering the outperformance in the quarter and the first half of the year we now expect to exceed the top end of our 2013 EPS guidance range of $4.95 to $5.35.
We believe that our operating EPS will likely be lower in the second half of 2013 relative to the first half of 2013 primarily for 4 reasons: number one we still anticipate investment spread compression for the balance of the year despite recent increase in interest rates due to our expectation for lower variable investment income and lower core yields; number two we assume a less favorable market impact for the second half of the year; number three we expect that surrenders in Japan will return to a more normal level in the second half of the year which should mean a decline in surrender fee income relative to the first half of the year; and number four we project higher expenses in the second half of the year driven by key enterprise initiatives.
Partially offsetting these items is the anticipated accretion from the acquisition of Provida which is expected to close at the beginning of the fourth quarter.
And with that I will turn it back to the operator for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of John Nadel from Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Two questions unrelated issues.
The first is you talked and gave some good detail on the potential change in the -- from the pension reform in Poland.
I was wondering if you could sort of give us an update on your expectations.
There's been a lot of discussion about potential for reform in Chile so maybe you can talk about your current business there and then the potential impacts on Provida.
John this is Michel Khalaf.
Let me first of all just give you a little bit of the background around the proposed pension reform in Poland.
Poland was one of the best performing economies in the EU following the financial crisis.
However the economy slowed down significantly in the last year 18 months so GDP growth is expected to be under 1% this year.
In addition to that Poland has 2 major challenges.
One is around its debt-to-GDP ratio which under the Polish constitution must be maintained under 55% otherwise that would trigger austerity measures.
And the other issue that Poland faces is that the EU requires it to have its budget deficit brought down to under 3% and that budget deficit is currently close to 4%.
So given this economic background political situation with a government in its second term facing elections in 2015 the Polish authorities are intending to introduce changes to the pension system which is tantamount really to a partial renationalization of the system.
But the situation at this point is quite unique in the sense that Poland is facing these challenges and hence the proposed reforms.
Obviously we're disappointed at these developments.
We think that in the long run these measures will have detrimental effects especially as far as the development of capital markets in Poland and as far as participants in the pension system as well.
And we're working hard with the other participants in the market and industry and trade associations to hopefully convince the government to make some changes to those proposals.
So that's a little bit of the background on Poland.
Let me turn it over to Bill Wheeler to talk to you about Chile.
Thanks Michel.
So John a couple of things just to give you a little context about Chile.
Chile is a very attractive place to do business.
It has a AA- sovereign credit rating.
That's the highest in Latin America.
It's -- and obviously when we -- we took that into account when we announced the acquisition of Provida.
Just remember we think we bought Provida at a very attractive price relative to where other properties in that market have traded over the past couple of years.
So it's a transaction that we're still very excited about.
There is a presidential election campaign going on in Chile so there have been some comments about the AFP pension scheme.
Chile thinks they invented and I guess they did invent the private pension scheme 20-plus years ago.
They're very proud of it.
They think it's been a roaring success and I don't disagree with that.
The comments in the presidential election have come both from the contenders for the new job as well as the existing president Piñera.
Michelle Bachelet who is -- who was President of Chile previously and is now likely to be the winner in this coming election in November has made some comments.
And I would guess the comments are along the lines of she wants to see contributions increase from sort of 10% of salary to maybe something like 12%.
And also she wants to make sure that workers at sort of lower socio-economic levels sort of itinerant workers are covered more thoroughly by the existing pension schemes.
I would also say she has talked about a lot of reforms in a lot of areas of the country and so this is one of many things that she's focused on in her election campaigning.
When we step back and think about what's been said and sort of her track record remember she had been president before so she's a known quantity we're still very comfortable with the Provida acquisition and think it's going to be very successful for us.
Research Division</strong> And then the second question I just had John you mentioned in Corporate Benefits Funding that it was really -- the investment margins expanded largely because of lower crediting rates related to capital markets-type business.
Could you maybe give us more clarity there? Especially as it relates to -- is this a lower-level crediting rate that we should expect will continue? Or is it more tied to -- what is that tied to? Is it tied to LIBOR? Is it tied to rates at the longer end of the curve? Should those crediting rates jump back up? Right.
Well I would view this more as a onetime opportunistic excellent management performance by our investment team really in the quarter.
And also we've had good derivative income across all the lines.
This line also benefited from some good returns we had on our sec lending program.
So a lot of the assets that we've loaned out in the quarter were from this group and we had slightly higher margins than we've had historically.
So I would not put this for a full run rate.
Steve will add a little bit to this too as well.
Let me just add a little color.
It's Steve Goulart.
And we like to think of it more than onetime too because a lot of it was really related to just what's happening in the capital markets.
As we've been refinancing our funding agreement backed notes obviously those costs are coming down and they're down substantially.
If you look at what we refinanced in the first half of the year in the order of $6 billion worth it's down 100 to 150 basis points.
And our asset yields are just not coming down as rapidly so we're seeing good margins there.
Your next question comes from the line of Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Couple of questions first on cash.
At $6.5 billion even if we adjust for the Provida acquisition it seems like cash is tracking a little bit at the high end of what you've guided for the end of year.
So I want to see if maybe you had an update there.
We're tracking within the range we gave you on Investor Day.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on ROEs I think as of midyear you're already in the 12.5% range.
And thinking of previous guidance which I think was 11% to 13% x any buybacks and probably 11%-ish if rates remain low it seems like you're already exceeding that.
So do you have any thoughts as to do ROEs -- or do they maintain at this level? Do you expect them to come down a bit? Maybe think about the next step of the ROE story.
We've got a few impacts that will impact the future outlook for ROE.
As we said just on the call that we expect the operating EPS to be -- operating earnings to be slightly lower than the first half of the year going forward.
We also have our convertible equity units coming in this fall that will add to the denominator.
And of course we're building capital.
We're not doing capital management actions at this time and that will build up.
So ROE will be pressured without other actions going forward slowly over time.
Contrary to this will be our ability to grow revenues faster than our expenses which the implementation of our strategy appears to be executing so far this year.
Your next question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Research Division</strong> First question for Steve Kandarian.
First of all thanks for the timeline on the whole regulatory outlook.
It was helpful perspective.
But if I take what you said and I think about the precedent that you mentioned I guess AIG and Pru sitting in Stage 3 for 7 months and then 30 to 60 days of incremental wait time and I couple that with your comments around -- in the past around perhaps not doing anything more aggressive in terms of share repurchase until we actually know what the rules of the road are.
So can I take from that that as long as that time frame is out there 7 months-plus we're probably not going to see anything in terms of share repurchases? Suneet what I've done in the past on this type of question is just simply say "As of today this is where we are" because things come down the pike over time that you learn more about the process or where things are going so you could change your point of view based upon new information.
So I don't want to put a stake on the ground but as of now we don't think it's prudent to announce some large share buyback program in the face of the regulatory uncertainty that we have.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess a second question on Japan.
I just wanted to get your thoughts on the accident and health market there.
Obviously Aflac has announced a pretty big partnership with the Japan Post.
And I'm wondering if that will somehow impact your -- I think your target market which I think is a little bit more direct-to-consumer marketing which I would assume would be a little bit more in the rural areas.
So I guess how are you thinking about your growth potential in that market given that sizable transaction -- or sizable partnership that was announced? It's Chris Townsend.
Let me tell you first of all in terms of how our A&amp;H business grew in Japan for the second quarter.
We grew at 10% year-on-year and that was growth across all 4 channels so across the career agency independent agency DM and the bank channel.
So we have said to you a number of times before that the strength of our business in Japan emanates from the breadth of distribution we have and that's being played out in the numbers you're seeing here.
Interestingly enough the bank channel where we're challenged in terms of some of the fixed annuity business we grew 73% year-on-year in the A&amp;H channel and we're selling A&amp;H business to about 30 different banking partners now.
So we feel we've got a good reach across the country and reach across distribution which will allow us to continue to earn very good money out of the A&amp;H business.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So any comments on the Japan Post tie-up? The Japan Post business is an extension of an existing contract which that company has and it will I'm sure put them in good position for the cancer business.
We -- our A&amp;H business is slightly different to Aflac and they're 80-20 cancer to medical.
We're exactly vice versa in terms of 80% medical 20% cancer.
I would say that we actually launched today a new cancer product in Japan which is fairly revolutionary in terms of some of the types it covers that it offers and we're hoping for good things out of that product.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Maybe one last question for Steve Kandarian I guess.
You've talked to us about the -- some of the initiatives that you've highlighted the expense savings and the emerging markets.
But the other one that we haven't really heard a whole lot about is the global group benefits initiative.
So just wondering if there's any color that you can provide in terms of your progress there towards that I think $250 million of earnings by 2016.
Suneet it's Maria Morris.
Thanks for the question.
We're actually quite pleased with the progress we've been making in the group area across the globe.
As you know we are actually working with our global companies and we've seen sales increased year-over-year by triple digits which is phenomenal.
We've seen our multinational sales up triple digits in each of the 3 regions.
And our expatriate business continues to do well as well where sales in expatriates will be up over 50% for the year.
Research Division</strong> Is it moving the needle yet in terms of earnings? Or is that still to come? We've been making some investments as you're aware of.
We talked to you about those on Investor Day.
So we're investing in the early years.
We are seeing that we're above plan on earnings but our earnings were more tempered in the early years as we invest for the future.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First question for John just in terms of the -- your comments about second half earnings drivers.
On -- one of the things you mentioned Japan surrenders you expect to fall off.
Have you seen thus far into 3Q? I know we're a little -- we're what 1 month into the quarter but are you actually seeing that play out thus far? And then the other question on third quarter earnings would be you also mentioned you're assuming a lower variable investment income.
Because of the lag on private equity reporting I assume you had pretty decent visibility on that.
So should we be expecting something below plan or maybe middle of the plan in terms of near term where that trends? That's my first question and then I have 1 follow-up.
You asked 2 questions but I'll give you that on 1.
The second half earnings drivers with regards to Japan yes we've already seen a decrease tapering down in that.
So we do expect that to taper down for the remainder of the year.
With regard to VII we have -- some of the funds are on a 1-month lag some is on a 1 quarter so we're seeing it slightly less.
But who knows what the equity market is going to do in August and September and that's a key driver to these types of returns.
So we're basically assuming on plan right now for -- which is the midpoint of the range we've given.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay so midpoint.
And then just a question on long-term care you'd mentioned the weakness in results as one issue for the quarter.
Can you frame that a little bit? And are you still actually making money in long-term care even with the higher claims you're seeing? Is this an issue that we should be thinking about in terms of potential balance sheet impacts? Tom it's Bill Wheeler.
We make good money in long-term care.
The issue with long-term care is that we have to hold a lot of capital against it so the ROEs are not terribly attractive.
But even with these incidence rates long-term care is solidly profitable.
A little color on the incidence.
What we're seeing is higher reported claims and the approval rate of those claims is pretty high.
We're sort of digging into the issue now to make sure -- we recently moved some of the claims management and reporting and claims operations.
And whenever you do that in any insurance business you always can -- sometimes new wrinkles can cause some blips in terms of how the claims management is done so we're digging into that and trying to understand it better.
But it's -- in my mind this is a -- this did cause the non-health morbidity ratio to jump a little bit but it's not that significant.
Research Division</strong> So Bill still a lot of margin left? I'm sorry what's that? Research Division</strong> You still have a lot of margin left on the LTC.
In terms of balance this isn't -- wouldn't remotely size up to be a balance sheet issue.
Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First question for Steve on capital deployment you mentioned you'd -- probably the buybacks would be on hold until you get greater clarity on SIFI.
Does that apply to dividends as well? Because you did raise your dividend despite uncertainty on SIFI.
And then the other question is on just if you could give us a little bit more detail on the components of the derivatives losses.
How much of those is related to interest rates foreign exchange or the nonperformance risk? Jimmy I'll take the dividend question.
As you know we just increased our dividend early this year by 49% from $0.74 a share to $1.10.
And we announced the Provida acquisition for approximately $2 billion using cash on our balance sheet.
So we are deploying capital in a way we think is prudent in light of the regulatory overhang.
We don't think at this point in time engaging in share buybacks is the right thing to do.
So that is kind of where we stand right now on deployment of capital.
I don't rule out what happens late in the year in terms of changes to our dividend.
But as of now we're comfortable with $1.10 per year.
With regard to the net derivative loss it was about 60% rates 20% FX and 20% own credit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And the dividend I wasn't assuming that you'd raise it right now anyway but I think in a couple of quarters you're going to be at 4 quarters at a consistent rate.
So -- but you are implying that the buyback comments won't necessarily apply to dividends though.
Is that right? That's correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just following up on long-term care.
Are you thinking about like raising prices on the in-force business? And if you are doing that where you are in that process? And then finally several of your competitors have actually had success with variable annuity buyouts.
And wondering if you could just comment on your thoughts on part of your block that are perhaps a little bit more underwater.
So Jimmy this is Bill.
The -- with regard to long-term care price increases we've been raising prices on our long-term care in-force for I think 3 years now.
We've sort of been going block by block in terms of doing that and we've had very good success.
We announced another round of price increases or the new initiatives at the end of 2012 and we are going through the state approval processes now.
In our latest round of price increases 25 states have granted us approval.
Now before you get too excited these tend to be a smaller populations states.
The big population states where most of the block is are -- haven't opined yet.
So they're -- but we think it's going well.
And we actually frankly have a lot of experience in terms of getting these rate increases through the regulatory process and this one is going in a very similar fashion to what's happened to us before.
So that's sort of just latest on long-term care prices.
We are looking at what some of our peers have done with regard to variable annuity buyouts.
We're trying to analyze whether or not that makes sense for us.
We haven't made a decision yet whether it does.
Obviously the reality is if the stock market improves and interest rates move up our in-force becomes less and less in the money.
And our net amount of risk is a relatively small number and their in the money-ness is a relatively small portion of the in-force block.
So it's -- we haven't ruled it out but we haven't made a decision yet.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Berg from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just have 1 question for Steve Kandarian.
Steve I was intrigued by your comments that you were focusing intensely on improving the customer service experience.
That would seem to be a logical and normal thing for any business to do.
It's just that in the life insurance business I tend to think of it as having far fewer customer interactions than say the P&amp;C business.
In the car insurance business for example people's cars get in accidents their homes are hurt by damage and they're looking for claims-paying ability.
But on the life insurance business I tend to think of it as a business in which people sign up and sort of maybe occasionally make changes to addresses and what have you but don't have as many interactions as say in the property/casualty business.
So why are you focusing on -- in what you call the customer experience as much as you do? And how will you know whether the expenditures are paying off? That's my 1 question.
Eric we've looked at a lot of studies around the issue of companies being customer-centric.
And yes P&amp;C has more interaction than life but we still have a fair number of interactions with our customers even simple things like change of address or calling about some information on their product and their balances and so on and savings products.
And if we don't provide a good customer experience in those interactions people are not going to recommend us to family friends others who say "I'm thinking about buying this product or that product that falls to the life insurance category.
Who did you buy from? Did you have a good experience?" So the data is pretty clear that if you do a good job giving service to your customer your top line improves because referrals second sales and third sales to existing customers as well as if you design the process right in terms of interactions and how the products themselves are sold and how the information that goes to customers is articulated you'll get your cost down because all those customer complaints and second third phone calls and trying to move people around the system to figure out an answer to their question becomes expensive.
So again the studies in these are pretty clear that your top line and bottom line can improve over time.
It's not something that happens in the first 6 months or 12 months.
It is a process that will take a number of years.
We will track this.
We will have data over time but I don't have data for you right now.
The cost that we're talking about here is not enormous amounts of money for some of the fixes that we're talking about.
Simple fixes to websites to make them clearer make the process much easier for the customer to interact with us are not big-ticket items.
But it takes time and attention and takes a lot of people to focus on it.
I used to hear when I was -- at MetLife when I first got here a mantra about customer service that's good enough.
And I don't think that customer service that's good enough is good enough.
I think you have to have good customer service if you expect your existing customers to recommend you to others if you expect that your ability to deliver customer service over time will be at a reasonable cost.
So that's why we're engaged in this effort.
It is something that we're all focused on including all of us here at the executive group level who make phone calls to customers who have problems with their interactions with us where we can on a firsthand basis learn about those experiences and help us become more sensitized to what our customers face every day as they interact with us.
Your next question comes from the line of Mark Finkelstein from Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to go to the I guess the derivative losses in the quarter.
And I guess the question I want to ask is this obviously rates going higher is a positive thing but it does have that effect on earnings both statutory and GAAP.
And I guess what I'm thinking about is if you just take the assumption that rates will continue to migrate higher perhaps follow the forward curve if you will who knows where they go but how should we think about that in kind of future statutory dividends? Like does it -- because I mean I'm really thinking about a nonparallel accounting treatment.
Like is this meaningful? Well as we think -- our projections as we thought out to 2016 assume rates will be increasing.
Our plan this year was the 10-year treasury go to 2.38%.
We're in excess of that now but it will slowly be increasing.
And we factor all this in when we think about our cash and capital projections when we give you the ratios that we spoke about on Investor Day.
So I mean we do take this into account.
You have to remember that there is -- we generally have longer-dated derivatives so it's more tied to the longer end of the curve.
Today we still have very short-term rates very low short-term rates.
And I think as people think forward over the next few years that's where some of the more interesting pressure might come if the curve flattened some more.
So there's really 2 dimensions to the whole rising interest rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess I think you pointed out some key enterprise initiatives in the back half of the year as a driver of higher expenses.
I know there's been a lot going on with the company but you highlighted this specifically in the back half of the year.
Is there anything specific that we should be thinking about that you can talk about? We have some of the -- as we spoke about at our Investor Day in terms of the cost saves we also have some strategic expenses coming through.
They've been fairly light so far but they will be building throughout the remainder of the year.
And that's one of the aspects of the large investments in technology much related around to improving customer service as Steve mentioned.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally just thinking about variable annuity -- or I should say annuity earnings.
I know you had very wide fixed annuity spreads but you had a substantial gapping up of the kind of the ROAs on the block.
And I'm just thinking -- I mean are we at a new basing level if you just kind of back off some spread on fixed annuities? But just thinking about the level of annuity earnings.
I mean are we at a new basing level that we should be trending going forward off of? I wouldn't trend it off as high as what we have done this quarter because of the factors that I mentioned.
We are reinvesting as those annuities mature and the cash flows turn over in that business.
We're investing at a lower rate than what we have historically.
The derivative income has held up very well.
The investment teams have been able to keep those -- that derivative income up and that's been one of the big outperforms versus our expectations in the core spread.
We also had good VII that's allocated to that line of business.
So you have to put that piece down.
You also remember we've had very favorable equity markets in general in the annuity business and that drives -- we have larger assets from that so we get more fee income from that business line flowing through.
So the higher asset base and depending upon your views of equity market performance that will re-base higher obviously.
But this is pressure of the reinvestment narrowing down.
Okay.
Well we're at 9:00 so we're going to need to end the call.
Thank you very much for your interest in MetLife.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10:00 a.m.
Eastern time today through August 8.
You may access the AT&amp;T TeleConference replay system at any time by dialing 1(800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 277736.
International participants dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the MetLife's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to read the following statement on behalf of MetLife.
Except with respect to historical information statements made in this conference call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws including statements relating to trends in the company's obligations and financial results and the business and the products of the company and its subsidiaries.
MetLife's actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including those described from time to time in MetLife's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including in the Risk Factors section of those filings.
MetLife specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Ed Spehar Head of Investor Relations.
Thank you Marla and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MetLife's Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
We will be discussing certain financial measures not based on generally accepted accounting principles so called non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures and related definitions to the most directly comparable GAAP measures may be found on the Investor Relations portion of metlife.com in our earnings press release and our quarterly financial supplements.
A reconciliation of forward-looking financial information to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is not accessible because MetLife believes it's not possible to provide a reliable forecast of net investment and net derivative gains and losses which can fluctuate from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
Now joining me this morning on the call are Steve Kandarian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Hele Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will take your questions.
Also here with us today to participate in the discussions are other members of management including Bill Wheeler President of Americas; Steve Goulart Chief Investment Officer; Michel Khalaf President of EMEA; and Chris Townsend President of Asia.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report another good quarter.
Third quarter 2013 operating earnings were $1.5 billion up 6% over the third quarter of 2012 and operating earnings per share were $1.34 a 2% increase over the prior year period.
Growth on a per-share basis was dampened by the conversion of equity units issued in 2010 to fund the acquisition of ALICO.
Operating return on equity was 11.4% in the quarter.
Operating earnings exceeded our plan but were down from the level reported in the second quarter.
As anticipated certain favorable developments highlighted in the second quarter did not repeat in the third quarter.
For example we said on the second quarter earnings call that variable investment income was expected to decline in the third quarter.
Pretax variable investment income was $236 million in the third quarter versus $312 million in the second quarter a reduction in operating earnings of $0.04 per share.
Despite this decline investment margins were favorable again this quarter.
The average investment spread across all U.S.
product lines was 221 basis points which is in the middle of the approximately 200- to 250-basis-point range on the past few years.
MetLife's investment spreads have been resilient despite a prolonged period of low interest rates.
This performance has resulted from an effective asset liability management good variable investment income and income from derivatives many of which were purchased in the mid-2000s to protect earnings under a low-interest-rate scenario.
Our strategy to right size the variable annuity business and grow emerging markets was evident in the third quarter results.
Variable annuity sales were down 41% from the prior year period while emerging market sales rose 21% in our Europe Middle East and Africa segment and 4% in Latin America.
Growth in Latin America was below trend as a result of a large case sale in the prior year period.
Excluding this large case sales growth would have been 11%.
In addition to higher sales from existing businesses our grow emerging market strategy will benefit from 3 recent developments.
The first our acquisition of AFP Provida in Chile will have an immediate positive impact on earnings.
The other 2 a start-up operation in Vietnam and a representative office in Myanmar are consistent with our long-term strategy to expand MetLife's footprint in Southeast Asia.
We closed on the acquisition of Provida the largest pension provider in Chile on October 1.
Our accretion estimate is roughly $0.15 per share in 2014 consistent with the outlook we provided when the deal was announced in February.
Accretion in 2013 will be less than anticipated because the deal closed 2 months later than we had assumed.
As a result of this transaction MetLife's earnings from emerging markets are expected to increase from 14% of total company earnings to 17% putting us well on the way to our 2016 goal of 20%.
In late September we signed an agreement with the Bank for Investment &amp; Development of Vietnam or BIDV to establish a life insurance joint venture in Vietnam.
This joint venture with Vietnam's third-largest bank includes an exclusive bancassurance distribution agreement to sell MetLife products through BIDV's 120 branches and 500 transaction offices.
In addition on October 7 we received approval from the regulatory authority in Myanmar to establish a representative office in the country.
While these developments in Southeast Asia are immaterial for earnings in the near term we are excited about the long-term potential in these fast-growing Southeast Asian markets.
Let me now turn to a discussion of risk and return.
Without upward moves in equity markets and interest rates we have been asked recently if better return prospects and variable annuities increase our appetite for this business.
Given this question it is timely to provide perspective on how we think about risk and return overall at MetLife.
We know we must accept risk to earn an appropriate return for our shareholders but determining the type of risk is a critical management decision.
Relative to a few years ago we have been actively diversifying MetLife's risk profile.
Our strategy to grow emerging markets and shift the sales mix away from market-sensitive products to protection-oriented products should translate to a more balance risk profile.
Less concentration of risk and reduction in so-called fat-tail risk should result in a lower cost of equity capital.
A lower cost of equity capital coupled with targeted ROE improvement should be positive for our valuations over time.
We want to limit our exposure to any one risk factor even if current returns are attractive in the related line of business.
For example while we are pleased with new business returns in variable annuities we have to be mindful of the size of our in-force business when we establish our risk budget for future sales.
While balance sheet risk is a primary consideration for capital-intensive products such as variable annuities we think that earnings volatility is a primary risk factor for protection products and that political risk is a primary consideration for emerging markets.
For protection products policyholder claims will sometimes exceed pricing expectations and cause an earnings shortfall.
For example this quarter we had below planned underwriting results in Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits and a reserve increase on group disability contracts in Australia.
While protection-oriented businesses may miss earnings from time to time we believe that these businesses pose modest balance sheet risk relative to more market-sensitive capital-intensive products.
Furthermore returns are very attractive in a number of our protection lines of business.
For example Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits is one of our highest-return segments even with less favorable underwriting performance of this year.
For emerging markets political factors will sometimes generate earnings headwinds.
Recent examples would be the potential loss of future earnings related to proposed changes in Poland's pension system which we discussed on the second quarter earnings call and fiscal developments in Mexico which John Hele will discuss later on this call.
We're willing to accept political risk in emerging markets because we believe this risk is diversifiable and because the products sold in these markets generally have a more favorable risk return profile and growth outlook than products sold in developed markets.
Importantly a balanced approach to risk should produce better and more predictable free cash flow which is a critical driver of shareholder value.
Next I'd like to provide a brief update on U.S.
regulatory matters which impact the level and timing of capital management.
As we discussed last quarter MetLife remains under Stage 3 review by the Financial Stability Oversight Council for a potential designation as a non-bank systemically important financial institution or SIFI.
While we do not believe that MetLife is systemically important we continue to make the case to policymakers that applying bank-centric rules to the business of insurance will constrain our ability to issue guarantees and increase the cost of financial protection for consumers.
In light of Prudential Financial's decision not to challenge its SIFI designation in federal district court I suspect you may be wondering what MetLife intends to do.
Although it is too early for us to make that decision we were not ruling out any of the available remedies under Dodd-Frank to contest a SIFI designation.
Finally I would like to spend a few minutes discussing plans for our December investor call.
We are taking a different approach this year and will no longer give earnings per share guidance.
Instead the call will provide information that should improve the market's understanding of MetLife's businesses including our outlook over a multi-year period.
I do not believe that we should continue with the practice solely because it is the way it has always been done.
After careful study and deliberation we have determined the EPS guidance no longer makes sense.
Others in the financial services industry seem to share this view.
Half of our North American peers and most of our global peers do not provide earnings guidance.
In addition the largest U.S.
banks do not provide earnings guidance.
Our new approach for the December call will be consistent with our internal emphasis on long-term strategic and financial goals and then should shift the discussion to our business model which is the real driver of shareholder value over time.
Also it is difficult to predict earnings for life insurers with large capital-market-sensitive businesses.
So guidance has historically had limited value.
While we are rebalancing our business mix we will still have meaningful exposure to the capital markets for the foreseeable future.
We will continue to provide the investment community with our view of run rate earnings along with important earning sensitivities.
In addition we will increase transparency by expanding our discussion of key financial metrics and business drivers.
In total all of these inputs should create a more informed view of MetLife's future prospects.
In closing let me say that after several consecutive quarters of solid performance and results this year that are above plan we feel very good about our fundamental business prospects.
With that I will turn the call over the John Hele to discuss our financial results in detail.
John? Thank you Steve and good morning.
Today I'll cover our third quarter results including a discussion of insurance margins investment spreads expenses and business highlights.
I will then conclude with some comments on cash and capital.
As Steve noted MetLife reported operating earnings of $1.5 billion up 6% year-over-year and operating earnings per share of $1.34 up 2% year-over-year.
This quarter included 3 notable items.
The first relates to our group insurance business in Australia.
As Steve referenced we have strengthened group total and permanent disability otherwise known as TPD claim reserves in Australia which reduced operating earnings by $57 million net of reinsurance or $0.05 per share.
Our decision to increase the TPD reserve by 45% this quarter was based on the review of our own recent claims experience and consideration of the worsening trend for the industry.
We believe there are several factors driving this trend including economic stress increased claim size and greater awareness of benefits.
The second notable item resulted from our annual actuarial assumption review which we accelerated from the fourth quarter to the third quarter to be in line with our annual goodwill testing.
While there was no charge related to goodwill there was a modest above- and below-the-line impact from the assumption review.
The portion related to operating earnings was a favorable $28 million or $0.03 per share.
However the total impact including the favorable impact to operating earnings was a $69 million reduction of net income.
Although we had various assumption changes in the quarter the only meaningful update was in retail annuities.
Assumption changes in retail annuities resulted in a $41 million increase in operating earnings and a $48 million reduction of net income.
The positive impact above the line primarily relates to an increase in some of our persistency projections and lower expenses.
Higher persistency is a positive for operating earnings because of higher expected base contract fees but can be a negative for net income because of potential claim from living benefit guarantees.
We have made no further changes to our GMIB dynamic lapse function and emerging experience is still consistent with the change that we made last year.
The third notable item was in our P&amp;C business.
We had lower-than-budgeted catastrophe losses of $14 million after tax and a favorable prior year reserve development of $7 million after tax.
Therefore the total benefit to operating earnings was $21 million or $0.02 per share.
Turning to our bottom line results.
Third quarter net income was $942 million or $0.84 per share and included net derivative losses of $355 million after tax.
The net derivative loss in the quarter was driven primarily by 3 items that we consider to be either noneconomic or a cause of asymmetrical accounting treatment: number one an increase in interest rates; number two changes in foreign currencies principally the weakening of the U.S.
dollar versus the British pound and euro; and number three the MetLife own credit impact associated with our VA program.
Changes in interest rates in the quarter contributed about 60% of the net derivative loss while foreign currency and MetLife's own credit impact combined for most of the remaining balance.
Book value per share excluding AOCI was $47.99 at September 30 up 2% from $47.20 at June 30.
Turning to margins.
Underwriting was mixed but generally unfavorable again this quarter.
The mortality ratio in group life was 90.3% in the quarter unfavorable to the prior year quarter of 88.1% and at the top end of the target range of 85% to 90%.
The less favorable mortality was driven by large claims in Group Universal Life and Variable Universal Life.
The mortality ratio in retail life was 73.1% better than our expectation and the 91.3% ratio in the third quarter of 2012.
This result was due to favorable direct claims experience in both variable and universal life and traditional life.
However the benefit accrued more to reinsurers than MetLife in the quarter because of the nature of the claims.
We expect both the direct mortality ratio and the percentage of claims reinsured to return closer to plan levels in the fourth quarter.
As a reminder useful rules of thumb are a 1% point change in the mortality ratio equals to a quarterly operating earnings impact of $8 million to $10 million for group life and $2 million to $3 million for retail life.
Retail life underwriting margins in the quarter were not as favorable as the direct mortality ratio would suggest partially because of the reinsurance impact and adverse experience in individual disability.
The non-medical health benefit ratio was 90.5% up 2 percentage points from the prior year quarter of 88.5% and just above the top end of the targeted range of 86% to 90%.
The primary driver for the increase in the ratio was weaker underwriting results in group disability due to higher severity.
Incident rates were generally in line with the prior year quarter and plan.
As a reminder a 1-percentage-point change in the non-medical health benefit ratio equates to an operating earnings impact of approximately $10 million on a quarterly basis.
In our P&amp;C business the combined ratio including catastrophes was 92.6% for retail and 90.2% for group.
Year-over-year results were better in retail and somewhat weaker in group.
Overall as mentioned earlier catastrophes were lower than budget in the quarter by $14 million or $0.01 per share.
The combined ratios excluding catastrophes were 86.3% in retail and 87.5% in group.
Next let me turn to investment spreads.
As Steve noted investment spreads have remained strong and within the range of the past few years.
However we did experience a sequential decline in 3 of the 4 product spreads reported in our quarterly financial supplement with the simple average declining 23 basis points including variable investment income and 8 basis points excluding variable investment income.
In the third quarter pretax variable investment income was $236 million or $153 million after DAC and taxes slightly below the midpoint of our 2013 quarterly guidance range.
Variable investment income was down from the second quarter which was at the top end of our guidance range primarily due to weakness in hedge fund performance and a return to more normal private equity returns partially offset by higher bond prepays.
With regard to expenses the operating expense ratio was 24.3% in the quarter versus 24.4% in the year-ago period.
Excluding the impact of pension and post-retirement benefits and closeouts the operating expense ratio was 23.6% versus 23.8% in the year-ago period.
We are pleased with this performance as it reflects progress in our strategic goal to reduce gross expenses by $1 billion and net expenses by $600 million.
Through 9 months of 2013 gross expense saves were $394 million while net saves were $269 million after adjusting for reinvestment of $28 million and onetime cost of $97 million.
I will now discuss some of the business highlights in the quarter and focus on areas where our results seem to differ from analyst expectations.
Retail operating earnings were $659 million up 34% versus the prior year quarter driven by strong performance in both life and other and annuities.
Life and other reported operating earnings of $237 million up 16% year-over-year.
The primary drivers were lower DAC amortization and lower policyholder dividends.
These are partially offset by less favorable catastrophe loss experience from an exceptionally good prior year quarter and lower variable investment income.
Annuities reported operating earnings of $422 million up 47% versus the prior year quarter.
The drivers included higher fees from separate account growth resulting from strong investment performance lower ongoing DAC amortization and favorable assumption unlockings.
The initial market impact was favorable to operating earnings by $27 million after tax which was $3 million less in the prior year quarter.
As a forward-looking rule of thumb a 1-percentage-point change in the S&amp;P 500 equates to approximately $5 million to $7 million of operating earnings annually.
Variable annuity sales were $2.7 billion in the quarter down 41% year-over-year and 3% sequentially.
We expect full year VA sales to be at the top end of our $10 billion to $11 billion target.
As of September 30 the net amount of risk for all of GMIB riders was down to $931 million which compares to $2.5 billion at March 31 as presented at our May investor day.
The net amount of risk for all GMIB Max contracts is only $2 million.
In addition only 7.3% of total GMIB contracts were in the money as of September 30 which compares to 17.9% at March 31 which is also presented at investor day.
Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits reported operating earnings of $226 million down 20% year-over-year.
The primary drivers were weaker underwriting results in group life and disability higher expenses due to reinvestment in the business and less favorable catastrophe experience versus a favorable result a year ago.
Latin America reported operating earnings of $133 million down 13% year-over-year and 8% on a constant currency basis.
These results reflected the impact of favorable onetime adjustments particularly in the prior year higher expenses due to sales initiatives in the region and weaker underwriting results partially offset by net favorable market impacts.
Premium fees and other revenues were up 14% year-over-year and 17% on a constant currency basis driven by strong growth across the region.
Sales growth was only 4% but excluding 1 large group case in the prior year quarter growth would have been 11%.
I want to comment on 2 topics that are important to consider for future earnings for Latin America: Provida and fiscal policy changes in Mexico.
As Steve noted we closed on the acquisition of Provida.
With the completion of the tender offer on October 1 we currently own 91.4% of Provida at a cost of approximately USD 1.85 billion.
Provida is performing well and in line with our expectations.
Our ownership percentage is less than we had modeled but this is fully offset by a lower opportunity cost of funds.
In Mexico we are assessing the potential impact from fiscal policy changes currently being implemented.
We believe the annual impact could dampen operating earnings by approximately $25 million.
Turning to Asia.
Operating earnings were $257 million down 1% year-over-year but up 7% on a constant currency basis.
Operating earnings were dampened by the previously discussed reserve strengthening in Australia and an unfavorable impact from the assumption review partially offset by a tax benefit in Japan.
Adjusting for these items operating earnings were 17% driven by business growth and lower expenses.
While we were pleased with the underlying performance in the quarter we do not believe that 17% is a sustainable growth rate.
As anticipated surrender activity of non-yen fixed annuities in Japan returned to a more normal level in the third quarter.
We believe a more normal level of quarterly earnings for Asia is approximately $280 million to $300 million.
Finally in EMEA operating earnings were $85 million up 37% year-over-year and 28% on a constant currency basis driven primarily by business growth across the region especially in Russia Poland and Turkey lower expenses and certain onetime items.
This was a strong quarter for EMEA.
A more normal level of quarterly earnings is in the low to mid-$17 million range.
Premium fees and other revenues were 8% -- were up 8% year-over-year and 6% on a constant currency basis driven by strong growth in Russia and the impact of the Aviva acquisition in the third quarter of 2012.
Overall sales growth for EMEA was 10% driven by emerging market growth of 21% most notably in the Gulf Turkey and Russia.
Now I will discuss our cash and capital position.
Cash and liquid assets at the holding companies were approximately $4.8 billion at the end of the third quarter.
As you know we report U.S.
RBC ratios annually so we do not have an update for the third quarter.
In Japan our solvency margin ratio was 913% as of the second quarter of 2013.
For our domestic insurance companies in the third quarter preliminary statutory results are operating earnings of $720 million and net income of $475 million.
Statutory operating earnings were down $382 million from the prior year primarily due to higher taxes of $365 million in the current quarter as a result of various tax adjustments.
For the first 9 months of 2013 statutory operating earnings were $2.1 billion and statutory net income was $1.2 billion.
Total adjusted capital for our domestic insurance companies is expected to be approximately $27.6 billion as of September 30 down 5% from December 31 primarily due to dividends paid of $1.3 billion unrealized losses essentially offset net income.
And with that I will turn it back to the operator for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from the line of Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> I had a question about Health Care Reform.
Wondering how meaningful of an opportunity you think that could be for MetLife over the next several years and also what your strategy is to participate in private exchanges.
Ryan it's Bill Wheeler.
So there's a lot of aspects to Health Care Reform so I'd break it down in a couple of ways.
One is we are -- our dental product is on a number of the state exchanges that are up now or selling now.
Obviously our sales there are pretty nominal.
But -- and we have also put our products not just dental but a broad array of products on a number of private exchanges.
I think we are up to 10 private exchanges.
And our expectation has been for a number of years is that employers are going to start and employees are going to start using these exchanges to buy benefits and to give employees more choice in the type of voluntary worksite benefits they provide.
And so a big strategy for us which we've laid our previously is to expand our product set and our enrollment capabilities in the voluntary worksite aspect of the business.
And so we think that is a big opportunity for us and a big source of growth in our group area.
Now I guess I will also just say that the last thing that I think is happening right now is of course the Affordable Care Act is having a lot of difficulty and I think one interesting aspect is I believe that you're going to see a lot of employees really start to value their employee benefits and the benefits they get from their employer and I think be -- and value them more highly.
And I think in the long run that's going to be a really good thing for our group business.
LLC</strong> And just a follow-up in addition to your typical suite of group and voluntary benefits will you be looking to be a bigger player in supplemental health as well? Well yes.
So labels are -- let's be careful.
So we definitely will be a bigger player in critical illness and accident and health products.
But I would -- the true med supp kind of products I don't think we're going to be entering.
Next we'll go to the line of Chris Giovanni with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to first touch just on VA.
Obviously you and the industry have done a lot in terms of managing down sales done everything from increasing fees lowering guarantees et cetera and yet these things still kind of seem to stick and sell.
And you just saw a competitor look at doing a reinsurance transaction or announce a reinsurance transaction to keep capacity in the market.
I'm wondering if this is something you would consider potentially as you continue to work on customer centricity.
Chris it's Bill again.
Sure I mean I think we'll look at this transaction.
I mean this is -- and we obviously read that announcement with interest.
And the devil's in the details and we will try to understand the details of that trade.
Look we always look at ways to manage our capacity and capital.
But I think Steve made it pretty clear earlier in the call.
We've -- we're going to rebalance the risk profile of MetLife and that means we are going to stay in the variable annuity business but we're going to run it a certain way.
And I think that's -- and I think that way is working.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then one for Steve and maybe Chris.
If you can comment just on the operations in Japan.
I guess there's been some increased press and chatter around maybe some elevated turnover of management certainly changes in commission structures that you guys have talked about in the past.
So I just wanted to kind of get your assessment of the strategy for the reason -- in the region and what you guys are doing to kind of continue to accelerate growth while maintain good returns.
Sure.
Let me take that.
It's Chris Townsend here.
So first of all in terms of the management changes yes we have changed some of the management there.
The -- Sachin Shah is our CEO of that business.
He's been the COO of that business for approximately 3 years and has a very deep life insurance background and has good tenure in Japan as well.
The bench in Japan is very deep and we supplemented that in terms of some of the new areas we're looking to build capability in with some strong external hires.
So we're very comfortable with the management team we have in Japan.
If you look at the business overall in Japan we've said to you for a number of quarters that our bank sales are soft given the fact that the Nikkei and TOPIX have performed so well and all that volatility in the yen what that's led to is rather depressed sales in the fixed annuity foreign currency products.
That's actually bounced back this third quarter now.
Bank sales were up about 54% sequentially but they're still down 20% year-on-year.
And what that's meant overall is that Japan is down on sales about 4%.
What I would say is that A&amp;H sales in Japan are up and across the region we're up about 9% on A&amp;H.
So again we feel pretty good in terms of the mix of the business we've got.
The A&amp;H portfolio overall is competitive.
You'll hear that from a number of others who are approaching this market but we feel that the deep experience we've got plus that multi-channel platform which is rather unique for us in the Japanese market gives us a great ability to grow that business very well in terms of the bundling ratio we have across the other life products.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just new business returns any sense of kind of what you're pricing for or seeing? Yes we're pricing for a 15% EC ROI we -- as we've told you a number of times before and that's across the portfolio.
So clearly there's going to be some products which perform better than others in different cycles and we're continuing to tweak that portfolio in line with some of the volatile macroeconomic conditions.
So as interest rate changes reserve rate changes we'll tweak our portfolio.
But overall our portfolio is exceeding the 15% EC ROI.
And next we'll go to the line of Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First question for Steve just the decision to discontinue the explicit earnings guidance.
Can you give a little more color behind that decision in terms of why discontinue it? And relatedly are there any meaningful changes to the growth rates that you had previously discussed either domestically or internationally as we think about '14 '15.
Because that's obviously a logical question as part of what's behind us the fact that the news may not be as good.
We really looked at all the literature that was written -- that has been written on this issue of giving earnings guidance.
There's some literature that says you should give it.
There's a lot of literature that says you shouldn't give it and they give kind of the pros and cons and so on.
But the bottom line really from our perspective was if earnings guidance really provides information that's useful in investors and analysts better understanding our business and earnings for the coming year then we should give it.
And our view was because of the capital market sensitivity of our overall business and the impact of things like the equity market returns this wasn't all that useful to people to get our earnings guidance on a specific point or number for EPS in the coming year.
We thought that if we gave you further information more information on other parts of our business and sensitivities that people could build their own models based upon their view of let's say what the S&amp;P 500 will do next year or what interest rates will be or other factors that could influence the short-term earnings of MetLife.
There is some literature that says that those who drop earnings guidance do so in some cases because their prospects aren't as bright as they had been or they're going through some transition in their business model.
That is not the case for us.
This really was a fresh look at should we give guidance or not give guidance as if we were just starting off as an IPO.
Would you -- should you really do this in our business or not? We looked at our peers like we said in the script earlier that it's pretty split in the United States in terms of providing guidance in our industry.
In Europe most don't give guidance in our industry.
And then other financial institutions especially the larger banks that have the same kind of sensitivity to capital markets virtually none of them give guidance.
They give a lot of components that allowed people to come up with their own numbers.
We just thought that was a better way to do it and we thought if we were starting off today fresh that's what we would do.
Research Division</strong> Understood.
Yes appreciate that response.
The next question I had is for John or Bill.
The higher severity of claims in group life and disability is there a chance that this might continue that this might be a sign of some pricing actions you need to take? Any clarity there? Tom it's Bill.
Well when we have a chance to reprice cases we obviously look at the individual experience and I'm there'll be some cases we'll reprice and raise prices.
That's just the nature of the beast when the -- in the pricing cycle.
But because the underwriting results were really about incidents not -- or really about severity and not incidents that kind of tells you it's more than likely more random and -- than expectations.
And we do see this occasionally.
I guess we feel that -- and it was severity higher severity in both group life and disability.
So I think we feel that it's a sort of normal underwriting volatility if you will and doesn't cause us to think that we're going to have to significantly change our pricing expectations.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then just one last one.
The Mexico the comment on fiscal policy changes having a $25 million negative impact is that going to impact your goodwill related to that some prior acquisitions at all? Yes.
Tom this is John.
No we don't believe this would impact our goodwill.
Next we'll go to the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I just have a question for you on the regulatory front.
So recently the Fed among some others issued a proposal that looks like it's going to further increase the liquidity requirements for some of this -- or for the systemic banks.
But that proposal at least by our read seems to specifically exclude the -- this requirement for SIFI insurance companies.
And I guess my question is twofold.
Is that consistent with your read as well that it would exclude insurers? And second do you think it's going too far if we read into that exclusion of insurers and increasing recognition by the regulators of some of the key differences between traditional banks and insurance companies at least in terms of balance sheet and liquidity profiles? I guess I'm asking Steve you mentioned continuing to sort of work to educate regulators so do you feel like you're making any real progress in that front? We've read that rule as well and that is our interpretation that designated non-bank SIFIs in the insurance space would not be subject to that rule.
That's our interpretation of what we read.
It's consistent with what you said.
And in terms of what we should we interpret from that I think it's a positive.
I don't want to read too much into it but clearly regulators are looking at the differences in the business model of banking versus the business model of insurance.
There are significant differences.
Banks rely upon much more on short-term funding.
They have more asset liability mismatches as part of their business model and we rely upon largely longer-term funding sources.
Overall we match our assets and our liabilities and just kind of run on the bank issues that can exist in a crisis situation don't really apply to the insurance industries.
I think there's becoming greater recognition of the differences in the business model between our 2 industries in Washington.
And we worked hard as others have as well in the industry to try to provide insights and help in Washington in terms of understanding our business model and we have to all acknowledge that insurance has been regulated now for decades at the state level not the federal level.
So they're starting from a point in terms of overseeing our industry that's fairly new for them.
So it's understandable that there is kind of a education process going on.
I think this is a positive sign but again I don't want to read too much into it.
Research Division</strong> Yes I understand.
And then I just have one question on pension closeouts.
Given obviously some great equity market strengths and good investment performance and at least here recently some slightly higher longer-term rates it looks like funding status sort of across of the Fortune 500 defined benefit pension plans has really gotten much much better.
I'm just wondering maybe for Bill if that's helping to improve the dialogue and the opportunity set and what your outlook is there.
Well yes with regard to pension closeouts I don't think there's any doubt that the environment is getting better.
And so -- and we see that in our what I would call our normal business new business pipeline.
It's growing.
It's -- in terms of the amount of the transactions that are out there to do.
But they're not jumbo deals.
I mean the jumbo deals are -- I mean obviously by their very nature they're kind of one-off and we don't have visibility on big jumbo deals right now.
But I would say the more traditional smaller cases the pipeline is large.
And so we -- our expectation is is that there's going to be more volume there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So -- and that's what I was sort of most curious about as these funding gaps sort of get closer and closer to 0 or at least lower with company CFOs and Treasurers essentially decide "Hey look this is getting much better.
We don't need to pursue this." Or would they go the other way and it sounds like you're saying it goes the other way.
I think so.
We're seeing a number of transactions.
Sizes are getting a lot little bigger.
There's clearly a lot of activity.
And next we'll go to the line of Mark Finkelstein with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Wanted to ask a question about the annual assumption review.
John I think you talked about particularly on the VA business a good guide above the line and a $90 million kind of hit below the line.
I was wondering if you could just expand on really what drove maybe the $90 million.
And I assume it was the lapse rate assumption.
And does it in any meaningful way change kind of the all-in economics of the in-force VA block in your view? This assumption review we included some GMWBs that we have and some LWG  and we are now more experienced on those and looked at the lapses and installed a lapse function closer to what we did a year ago for the GMIBs.
We didn't have enough experience on this block until this year on that block and so it drove the same sort of structure where you saw more persistency expected over time which drives higher core fees in the business.
So you amortize over longer period of time but then you have higher cost of the benefit below the line which is where the fees the rider fees for these benefits feed below the line into net income to match against the derivative hedging that we do against it.
So we try to match the revenues in net income with the costs there and that's why there's a higher net present value of future costs for those withdrawal benefit costs.
Research Division</strong> I guess any change in how kind of how you view the economics of the business? No I mean this changes it a little bit but in terms of the overall book we view the new business as well priced.
the older book needs capital and has a lower ROE than the new business.
I would like to point out that in this whole assumption review across the U.S.
there wasn't any change to our thinking of long-term interest rates and we did adjust our maintenance expenses in the retail annuity business.
We're a little lower.
We've got a larger book and that helped a little bit.
The other major assumption that we haven't looked at yet that we spoke about at investor day is what we do with annuitization rates and we still -- although those are favorable we haven't made any assumption changes on those yet.
We're leaving that.
We need some more time before we would think about changing those.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Just a quick question on the Australian business.
I guess when you talked about Mexico you talked about a $25 million potential kind of hit to earnings going forward.
You took a charge in Australia similar to what others have seen.
I'm just curious what the delta on earnings of the Australian block kind of from what you've experienced to what you'd expect going forward will be.
We don't expect a dramatic change to the ongoing profits in Australia.
That makes $20 million $30 million a year.
And we did a reserve charge on this business.
This business has been around for a while.
It's a rider to people's pension savings programs and there's been an industry change in the incidents in this business.
We only had a few cases a handful of cases where we've had to adjust.
And 2 in particular drove most of the reserve change.
We've done an extensive work on this.
It's been reflected across the industry and we set the reserves appropriately.
Research Division</strong> So the $20 million to $30 million of contribution should still hold going forward essentially? Yes.
And next we'll go to the line of Seth Weiss with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question on spreads and thinking about kind of the modest declines on a adjusted basis.
Corporate Benefit Funding that's been a segment that's been a positive offset there.
Could you just remind us sort of the liability and asset structure of Corporate Benefit Funding in terms of why spreads there have positively increased over the last 4 or 5 quarters? Sure.
So Corporate Benefit Funding the liabilities are very long and they're often fixed in terms of the interest rate assumptions that are embedded in the liability.
So it's a very fixed-rate liability and it's long.
So the way the target investment portfolio there would have more variable investment income in it more private equity investments real estate et cetera so if those investments perform which they have obviously and we've had outsized performance in that particular part of the portfolio it will do well.
The other thing too is the only place where -- so we have the ability to invest very long and obviously match quite well and I think that's why that portfolio holds up much better than others which I think are shorter-term liabilities.
I'm going to add to that because we have quite a deal of assets in here we often use this for securities lending programs.
And so far this year we've had a pretty steep yield curve on the short end and that's benefited the additional benefit we get from securities lending in this portfolio.
So that's a function of just the very steep yield curve on the short -- on the very short end.
Research Division</strong> And just in terms of thinking about the volatility on the adjusted spread is that mostly from bond prepays this is looking across the 4 different units? Or are there other elements that could cause the adjusted spread that you now provide us to bounce around? It's Steve Goulart.
Just on -- if you look at the quarter John went through some of the details on VII but -- so we did see hedge funds and private equity kind of returning to normal or even lower than planned.
But bond prepayments have been strong for the year and particularly for the quarter.
And again because of the process the time it takes to complete a prepayment we actually have pretty good insight into what the fourth quarter will look like as well.
And so I think we're anticipating prepayments to be a good contributor to our of VII for the fourth quarter and why we'll probably be near the top of the expected range then as well.
And next we'll go to the line of Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> First question for John on holding company cash.
I think you said $4.8 billion down from $6.5 billion in the second quarter.
I'm guessing most of that is the Provida payment.
Just wondering as you look across the fourth quarter should we expect any big pluses and minuses with respect to the holding company cash.
We expect to be at the high end of our range we gave you on investor day.
So you're pretty close there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is there anything in particular that's sending you to the high end of the range or just better earnings? No there's -- no big -- there's some plusses and minuses always we have in cash in the company of this size so it just -- it trends along.
With dividends paying out we have cash coming in.
So it should end up to be at the high end of our range we had.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess more of a philosophical question for Steve on the divided.
Obviously earlier this year you increased your dividend I think to a payout ratio of around 20%.
As we think about what -- how you're thinking about dividend growth going forward should we anticipate that that dividend will probably grow in line with earnings meaning you'll kind of be at a stable payout ratio? Or do you anticipate that that payout ratio might start to climb in the future? Suneet Our goal is to increase dividends at a fairly steady pace over time along with our earnings.
But as we've mentioned before because of the uncertainty around regulation we have to take into account whatever it is we learn from potential new capital rules that might apply to MetLife in fact into our consideration in our judgment in terms of how to handle dividends going forward.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just the last question I wanted to follow up on I think one of Tom Gallagher's questions that I'm not sure you answered about the -- anything changing in terms of the guidance.
I guess if I think back to November of 2011 when we did the interest rate discussion you talked about sort of an 8% earnings growth rate in a normal environment maybe 4% excluding -- in a low-interest-rate environment.
I know we're going to get a lot more detail in December in terms of sensitivities but at a high level would you argue that that guidance would still be appropriate particularly given some of the changes you've made in the U.S.
business around shrinking the variable annuity business and making some adjustments on the UL with the no lapse guarantee? Well we're on track in terms of our strategy that we've outlined a number of times to you.
In terms of specifics around guidance we'll provide that shortly in the December call.
And next we'll go to the line of Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of questions.
First on the assumptions amendment embedded in your Australia charge you took a pretty large charge.
But what gives you the comfort that you're adequately deserved there? And the reason I'm asking is other companies have taken similar charges as well some before you guys and in many cases they've taken repeated charges.
So -- and then secondly you mentioned the $20 million -- $25 million impact from the fiscal changes in Mexico.
Can you just discuss this in a little bit more detail and the potential steps that you could take if there are any to mitigate the impact? Jimmy this is John.
So this has been an industry trend and of course some reinsurers who can see across the whole industry reacted last quarter.
As I said we only had a handful of cases although they were larger cases where we've been looking at this trend.
So we've studied it very carefully.
We've benefited from speaking to the reinsurers and thinking about this across the board.
We've done extensive studies on this and we believe we're adequate -- adequately reserved.
However if things change again in the future you can always -- you may have to relook at it again if trends change from where they are.
But we believe we've captured the current trends underway in Australia in this area.
Jimmy it's Bill.
With regard to Mexico what's going on there is they -- the Mexican Congress has been going through a series of fiscal reforms or approving a series of fiscal reforms announced by the Mexican President Peña Nieto.
And I guess I would say that we believe some of those changes with regard to taxes we can mitigate.
And some we probably will not be able to.
And the -- and so there are -- sort of our best guess but we're not done with our work yet.
Is it -- the impact might be $25 million after tax next year.
And it's -- there's taxes on corporate income.
There's taxes on dividends.
There's other government programs with which we participate in that might be changed.
So there's sort a package of things going on.
And my guess is is we'll give you a little more color on that in December.
Research Division</strong> And then maybe if I could ask just one more on guidance and I think there's always skepticism when a company withdraws guidance on whether it signals that things are getting worse at least in the short term.
And you gave reasons which are all valid but -- especially that it's difficult predicting where the markets are quarter-to-quarter and having to adjust.
So people could always use their own market assumptions anyway.
So that was the case even when you were giving guidance before.
And even though most of the banks don't give guidance most insurance companies do.
So I was wondering if there's anything more behind that.
Maybe like obviously if a company does give guidance and sort of forces management to focus on the short term a little bit just to be able to hold the results up to that.
So maybe discuss a little bit more why this is not a signal that things are getting worse and there were something else besides the items that you mentioned that went into your decision? I think you hit one of the items that is worth highlighting Jimmy which is sometimes giving a point estimate even a range for next year's earnings can make management teams and companies focus too much on short-term results.
So our goal here is to increase shareholder value over time and when I say over time I don't mean over a decade.
I mean over the next few years.
And we had to just make sure that that's our focus as a company.
We're going to give a lot of inputs for all of you in December on our investor day call to construct your own models in terms of your assumptions around interest rates equity values for next year and so on to create your own number that you come up with.
But as we look back and we look at our own earnings guidance numbers over the last decade and sort of how close were we to what the actual results turned out to be what did The Street come up with on their own after we adjusted of guidance.
And we weren't that great in terms of predicting frankly.
So our view as we're spending way too much time on factors that really are not within our control like equity values in the coming year and so on.
And rather than have that be such a big piece of the conversation let's kind of shift it to our business model our strategy the things that really matter the sensitivity analysis that we go through.
So I think you'll see in December we're going to give you more information you've gotten before from us but you're just not going to get a point estimate for next year's earnings.
Okay.
Well we ware past the 9:00 hour.
Thank you for your participation.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10:00 a.m.
Eastern Time today through November 7 2013.
You may access the AT&amp;T replay system at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 277737.
International participants please dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T TeleConference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen we like to thank you for standing by and welcome to the MetLife's First Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to read the following statement on behalf of MetLife.
Except with respect to historical information statements made in this conference call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements relating to the trends in the company's operations and financial results and the business and the products of the company and its subsidiaries.
MetLife's actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including those described from time to time in MetLife's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including the risk factors section of those filings.
MetLife specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Ed Spehar Head of Investor Relations.
Sir the floor is yours.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MetLife's first quarter 2014 earnings call.
We’ll be discussing certain financial measures not based on generally accepted accounting principles so called non-GAAP measures reconciliation of these non-GAAP measures and related definitions to the most directly comparable GAAP measures may be found in the Investor Relations portion metlife.com in our earnings press release and our quarterly financial supplements.
A reconciliation of forward-looking financial information to the most directly comparable GAAP measures is not accessible because MetLife believes it's not possible to provide a reliable forecast of net investment income and net derivative gains and losses which can fluctuate from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
Now joining me this morning on the call are Steve Kandarian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Hele Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will take your questions.
Also here with us today to participate in the discussions are other members of management including Bill Wheeler President of the Americas Chris Townsend President of Asia and Michel Khalaf President of EMEA and Steve Goulart Chief Investment Officer.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
We're pleased to report solid first quarter results with operating earnings of $1.6 billion which exceeded our plan.
Favorable investment margins and well-controlled expenses more than offset fluctuations in underwriting and $57 million after-tax charge to settle a licensing matter in New York.
We anticipate that underwriting margins will improve and consider the New York settlement to be an unusual item.
While operating earnings were better than our expectations results were down 5% from a strong first quarter last year.
Operating earnings in the prior year quarter benefited from a weaker dollar and stronger equity market returns.
Operating earnings per share were $1.37; a 7% decrease in the prior year period.
Performance on a per share basis was dampened by the conversion of equity units issued in 2010 to fund the acquisition of Alico.
The final $1 billion tranche of equity units will convert in October of this year.
Operating return on equity was 11.4% in the quarter.
First quarter operating earnings benefited from strong variable investment income driven by returns in private equity.
The operating earnings impacting variable investment income was $63 million above the top end of our expected range or $0.06 per share.
Investment margins had been resilient despite a prolonged period of low interest rates.
Our margins continue to benefit from effective asset liability management good global investment income and income from derivatives many of which were purchased in the mid-2000s protect earnings in a low interest rate environment.
Lower operating expenses had a positive impact on earnings in the quarter driven by expense control in all three geographic regions the Americas Asia and Europe Middle East and Africa.
We feel good that our cost savings initiatives are translating to improve bottom line results.
Underwriting margins were lower than expected in retail life and group voluntary and worksite benefit largely because of adverse mortality.
We believe underwriting margins will improve for two reasons.
First our analysis suggests that most of the adverse experience in the first quarter was a result of normal volatility.
Second there is seasonality in our business with underwriting margins typically weakest in the first quarter of the year.
Given the underwriting performance this quarter it is worth reviewing how we think about risk associated with protection oriented products.
Our strategy to shift the sales mix away from market sensitive products protection oriented products should translate to a more balanced risk profile and a reduction in so-called fat-tail risk.
For protection products we think the primary risk factor is earnings volatility as policyholder claims will sometimes exceed pricing assumptions.
We view the balance sheet risk associated with protection products as relatively modest.
This is true in group insurance where we have the ability to reprice the in-force book of business in the near-term.
Overall protection oriented product lines have a favorable risk profile in a relatively low cost of equity capital.
Although it may seem counterintuitive in this case low risk does not mean lower returns.
For example group voluntary and worksite benefits remains a high return segment even with the less favorable underwriting results experienced in recent periods largely because of relatively low capital requirements.
A healthy spread between ROE and the cost of equity capital is particularly important in the current environment were capital requirements remain uncertain.
Our strategy to shift MetLife's sales mix to a protection oriented products was clearly evident in our first quarter results.
Group voluntary and worksite benefits sales rose 18% and emerging market sales were up 14%.
Variable annuity sales were $1.6 billion in the first quarter down 54% year-over-year.
However the decline was only 4% sequentially even though first quarter sales are typically weaker than fourth quarter sales.
Since 2012 we're focused on rightsizing our variable annuity business to achieve an appropriate risk profile.
Consistent with the December outlook call we anticipate that variable annuity sales would decline this year.
Looking forward we are now in a position to pursue sales growth with our redesigned mix of products to have a more attractive risk return profile.
We remain committed to the annuity business as we see a substantial retirement savings opportunity in the United States.
Next I want to address the legal settlement in the licensing matter in New York which is related to our global employee benefits business.
Let me start by noting that I'm limited in what I can say the terms of the settlement agreement.
New York officials investigated whether companies we acquired for the 2010 Alico transaction were conducting insurance business in the state without a New York license.
The company's MetLife acquired are in a business that provides insurance to the non-U.S.
employees of multinational companies.
This insurance is sold through affiliates and partners that are licensed in the countries where the insurance policies are issued.
Under the terms of the agreement with the New York Department of Financial Services we can continue to have meetings and discussions in New York with multinational clients and prospects about the capabilities of MetLife's non-U.S.
affiliates and partners.
We're pleased to settle this issue with the Department of Financial Services particularly because our largest operating subsidiary is a New York regulated insurer.
Finally I want to close the discussion of required capital and capital management.
MetLife remains under states to review by the Financial Stability Oversight Council the potential designation as a non-bank Systemically Important Financial Institution or SIFI.
We believe the evidence clearly demonstrates that MetLife does not pose a threat to the financial system of the United States.
However if MetLife is designated a SIFI we will be subject to enhanced credential standards by the Federal Reserve because those standards have not yet been written there is uncertainty surrounding required capital levels for MetLife.
As a result we've been conservative on capital management.
Some shareholders have been frustrated by this cautious approach to returning cash.
We share their frustration.
Our philosophy is that excess capital belongs to our shareholders.
The challenge is to strike the right balance between adherence to our philosophy and recognition that record capital levels for MetLife remain unknown.
We had anticipated that proposed capital rules would have been known by now.
But recent comments from the Federal Reserve suggest that it will be 2015 before you'll see draft capital rules for life insurers designated as SIFIs.
We will continue to take the conservative approach to capital management until there is clarity on these matters.
But we also recognize the need to consider the timing of those rules as our capital base continues to grow.
The announcement last week of a 27% increase in MetLife's common stock dividend illustrates the importance that we place on returning cash to shareholders.
In closing 2014 is off to a good start.
The increase in the common stock dividend illustrates our confidence in the earnings power of the company.
By significantly increasing the dividend we are delivering on our commitment to take steps to enhance long-term shareholders value.
With that I will turn the call over to John Hele to discuss our financial results in detail.
John? Thank you Steve and good morning.
Today I'll cover our first quarter results including a discussion of insurance margins investment spreads expenses and business highlights.
I will then conclude with some comments on cash and capital.
As Steve noted operating earnings were $1.6 billion down 4% year-over-year and operating earnings per share were $1.37 down 7% year-over-year.
This quarter included two notable items.
First pretax variable investment income was $429 million reflecting strong private equity returns.
After taxes and the impact of DAC variable investment income was $274 million which is $63 million or $0.06 per share above the top end of our 2014 quarterly guidance range.
The second item was a legal settlement with New York which reduced operating earnings and corporate and other by $57 million after tax or $0.05 per share.
Turning to our bottom line results first quarter net income was $1.3 billion or $1.14 per share.
Net income included in investment loss of $343 million after tax from the previously announced sale of the U.K.
pension risk transfer business.
This was modestly below the $350 million to $390 million after tax range we previously disclosed.
In addition net income included net derivative gains of $223 million after tax.
The net derivative gains in the quarter were driven primarily by three items that we consider to be either non-economic or the result of asymmetrical accounting treatment.
Number one a decline in long-term interest rates number two changes in foreign currencies and number three the MetLife own credit impact associated with our VA program.
The decline in long-term interest rates in the quarter contributed approximately 70% of the net derivative gains while foreign currency and MetLife's own credit combined for most of the remaining balance.
Book value per share excluding AOCI was $49.34 at March 31st up 2% from $48.49 at December 31st.
Turning to first quarter margins underwriting in the U.S.
was less favorable than the prior year quarter and our plan.
The mortality ratio in Group Life was 93.6% unfavorable to the prior year quarter of 91.3% and above our annual target range of 85% to 90%.
First quarter mortality is usually higher due to seasonality.
We experienced an elevated number of large claims in determining group variable universal life which we believe was still – was in the range of normal quarterly fluctuations.
Retail Life also had unfavorable mortality quarter due to the three primary factors.
One two large claims in variable and universal life; two higher than normal incidence in traditional life; and three a reinsurance adjustment related to prior periods.
On the last point we'd incorrectly recorded policies that were term life conversions as reinsured over several years and as a result now had to reimburse reinsurers for claims that occurred between 2006 and 2011.
This catch-up adjustment reduced operating earnings by $16 million after tax in the quarter.
We're not normalizing for this reinsurance adjustment as we typically do not normalize for mortality related items.
In the quarterly financial supplement you will note a change in how we are showing mortality experience.
We have replaced the historical Retail Life direct mortality ratio with an interest adjusted benefit ratio.
The historical ratio reflected direct claims experience as a percentage of expected.
The new ratio measures claims experience net of reinsurance and changes in future policyholder benefits net of interest relative to premiums fees and other revenues.
We believe the new ratio will better demonstrate the relationship of mortality experience to premiums earned and prove your ability to model this business.
The interest adjusted benefit ratio for Retail Life was 56.9% in the first quarter which is unfavorable to the prior year quarter of 52.1% and our target range of 50% to 55%.
While we are changing the mortality metric we will discuss with you going forward there is no change in the expected mortality experience for our Retail Life business.
We've also changed the non-medical health benefit ratio in the QFS to an interest adjusted loss ratio.
The primary reason to the changes to provide a better indication of the underlying performance of our run-off launch and care insurance block of business.
On the old basis it would've been upward pressure on the benefit ratio as premiums declined and investment income increased and this upward pressure would have nothing to do with the underlying performance of the business.
The new ratio adjusts for this by removing the impact of interest on reserves and therefore provides a clear picture of morbidity margins.
The non-medical health interest adjusted loss ratio was 78.8% favorable to the prior year quarter of 79.6% and within our target range of 77% to 82%.
The 77% to 82% target range for the interest adjusted loss ratio is consistent with the old range of 86% to 90% on premiums.
General margins were favorable to prior year and plan due to lower utilization.
Disability underwriting results were unfavorable to prior year and plan due to lower net closures of existing claims.
As part of our normal review process we're pursuing modest price increases in disability.
However it is important to keep in mind that dental is the primary driver of our results in non-medical health.
Dental accounts for more than 60% of our non-medical health interest adjusted loss ratio while disability only accounts for 20%.
Long-term care which accounts for approximately 10% of the ratio had favorable underwriting versus prior year quarter and plan driven by premium rate actions and lower incidence.
In our P&amp;C business the combined ratio including catastrophes was 94.3% for retail and 98.2% for group.
The combined ratios excluding catastrophes were 89.3% in retail and 94.3% in group.
Overall P&amp;C underwriting results were unfavorable to the prior year quarter and plan primarily due to non-catastrophe launches as a result of the winter weather.
Moving to first quarter investment margins the simple average of the four U.S.
products spreads in our QFS was 233 basis points including variable investment income and 192 basis points excluding VII.
This result showed only a modest seven basis points decline versus the prior year quarter of 240 basis points including VII.
Excluding VII there was a 19 basis points decline versus the prior year quarter due to the low interest rate environment.
With regard to expenses the operating expense ratio was 24.1% in the first quarter as compared to 24.0% in the year ago quarter.
Adjusting for the New York legal settlement the normalized operating expense ratio was 23.6% better than plan than the prior-year quarter.
Gross expense saves were $200 million in the first quarter and net saves were $124 million after adjusting for reinvestment of $39 million and one-time costs of $37 million.
We are pleased with our expense performance as we remain on track to deliver gross saves of $770 million to $800 million in 2014 and $1 billion in 2015 and net saves of $600 million in 2015.
I will now discuss the business highlights in the quarter.
Retail operating earnings were $612 million down 2% versus the prior year quarter and up 1% when adjusting for notable items in both periods included in net positive DAC and reserve adjustment in the prior year quarter an excess variable investment income in both periods.
Life and other reported operating earnings of $244 million down 4% year-over-year and down 5% when adjusting for excess and variable investment income in both quarters.
The primary drivers were less favorable underwriting partially offset by lower expenses.
Annuities reported operating earnings of $368 million down 1% versus the prior year quarter.
Excluding a net positive DAC and reserve adjustment of $29 million in the prior year quarter an excess variable investment income in both periods operating earnings were up 5%.
The drivers included lower DAC amortization and higher fees from separate account growth.
Group voluntary and worksite benefits or GVWB reported operating earnings of $188 million down 18% year-over-year due to a less favorable underwriting in Group Life disability and property and casualty partially offset by improved underwriting results in dental and long-term care.
GVWB sales were up 18% up year-over-year with group sales up in the mid-teens and voluntary and worksite sales up more than 30%.
Even though we're modestly increasing disability pricing over the next year we believe that first quarter GVWB sales would generate an attractive return on investment.
Corporate benefit funding reported operating earnings of $355 million up 21% year-over-year driven by higher variable investment and return income as well as improved underwriting.
Latin America reported operating earnings of $183 million up 28% year-over-year and 43% on a constant currency basis.
These results reflected the ProVida acquisition which was in line with expectations and favorable market and tax impact partially offset by less favorable underwriting and higher expenses due to business initiatives inflation adjustments and volume related growth.
Premiums fees and other revenues were up 9% year-over-year 22% on a constant currency basis and 12% excluding ProVida on a constant currency basis.
The strong growth across the region was primarily due to higher annuity sales in Chile and worksite marketing in Mexico.
Sales were up 19% year-over-year and 15% excluding ProVida driven by growth in the agency sales force higher annuity sales direct marketing and group medical in Chile as well as group medical in Mexico.
Turning now to Asia operating earnings were $328 million down 2% year-over-year.
On a constant currency basis operating earnings were up 8% driven by business growth and lower expenses partially offset by return to more normal surrender levels in Japan.
While Asia operating earnings were strong this quarter they did benefit from the timing of certain expenses.
Premiums fees and other revenues were down 6% year-over-year but up 6% on a constant currency basis driven by business growth in Japan Korea and Australia.
Asia sales were up only 2% year-over-year dampened by results in Japan.
Japan sales were flat as a strong rebound in retirement products was offset by decline in yen life sales due to pricing actions we discussed on our fourth quarter call.
As a result the volume mix is favorable for expected returns.
Finally in EMEA operating earnings were $88 million up 1% year-over-year and 2% on a constant currency basis.
The prior period benefited by $8 million from unusual items increase.
Adjusting for these items operating earnings were up 12% on a constant currency basis driven by business growth across the region.
This was a strong quarter for EMEA and we would expect lower operating earnings in the remaining quarters of the year.
Premiums fees and other revenues were up 5% year-over-year on both a reported and constant currency basis driven by growth in Turkey Russia the Gulf and Poland.
Sales increased 4% driven by 9% growth in emerging markets led by the Gulf Turkey and Poland.
I will now discuss our cash and capital position.
Cash and liquid assets at the holding company were approximately $4.7 billion at March 31st.
As expected this decline from year-end was primarily due to the $1 billion of senior debt that matured in February.
Turning to our capital position the combined risk-based capital ratio for our principal U.S.
insurance companies excluding Alico at year-end 2013 was 450%.
Also our Japan solvency ratio was 945% as of December 31st.
For our U.S.
insurance companies preliminary first quarter statutory operating earnings were approximately $760 million down 4% from the prior year quarter and net income was approximately $666 million up 18%.
The year-over-year decline in statutory operating earnings was primarily due to higher taxes while the increase in net income was primarily the result of lower derivative losses.
Our total statutory adjusted capital is expected to be approximately $27 billion as of March 31st up 4% compared to December 31st.
In conclusion MetLife had a solid first quarter with operating earnings better than our plan.
Investment margins remain healthy expenses are well-controlled and we continued focus on generating profitable growth.
Although underwriting was weaker than expected in the quarter we expect results to improve during the balance of the year.
And with that I'll turn it back to the operator for your questions.
We are ready to take questions operator.
Ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the question-and-answer session of our conference.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from the line of Mr.
Tom Gallagher of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Steve first question for you just on your follow-up to your comments on the environment for capital rules and how you expect clarity around non-bank SIFI to be pushed out to 2015.
There is currently legislation running through both the House and Senate to clarify Collins' amendment.
If that legislation passes will that change your view in terms of having to wait or will that give you enough confidence that you'd be able to do something less conservative? That's my first question.
Hi Tom.
Yes.
There's legislation now proposed both in the House and the Senate and then there is Susan Collins from there's an amendment named in Dodd-Frank which is Section 171 of Dodd-Frank was interpreted by the Federal Reserve as requiring them to use no less than bank standards for non-bank SIFI such as insurance companies.
And there is now a bill that Susan Collins Sherrod Brown and Mike Johanns in the Senate have coalesced behind S.2270.
There is an identical bill now in the house HR 4510 again bipartisan support by representatives Gary Miller and Carolyn McCarthy.
That's all encouraging news but of course these be a vehicle by which this would turn into legislation not just a bill and to-date there has been resistance to any amendments to Dodd-Frank a bill that's been promulgated now for four years this summer.
So our hope is that there will be some softening of the position of not opening up Dodd-Frank for amendments.
And it's not unusual for a very complex bill to have technical amendments after some period of time.
And our hope is that Congress can find a way to navigate these issues and get these kinds of technical amendments or non-partisan excuse me bipartisan non-controversial through Congress and signed by the President.
That's our hope and we're working hard to try to support those efforts.
If such a bill were to pass that would be very favorable news but I don't want to over blow it either.
All I would say is to the Fed that you're not constrained you are hands are not tied in terms of opposing Basel rules on the insurance industry.
It doesn't say what rules they would apply but presumably they would be more tailored to the insurance industry I think that certainly would be a net positive so that would be a positive piece of information that we certainly would take into account as we thought about capital management.
So if it does pass positive directionally maybe maybe not enough for you to change your plan for now? Is that a fair way to characterize it? I wouldn't phrase it that way.
I think there would be positive news and certainly that we take that into account as we thought about capital management and that could have an impact upon how we would move forward.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just one I guess business question from the standpoint of so Met and the rest of the life insurance industry now this quarter have had pretty weak mortality results across the board.
We've seen more pockets of this over the last few years.
Any thoughts overall about whether this is truly just seasonality and randomness of more deaths this quarter? Or do you think we're seeing something more structural in terms of seasoning of more aggressive pricing years any help or color on that would be appreciated.
Tom hi it's Bill Wheeler.
So we ask ourselves that question when we have a quarter like this.
We look at the claims and the data our overall book we look at we always go back and look at the last five years or 10 years and say gee am I missing a trend here is there something I should be paranoid about in terms of our underwriting or pricing.
So we examine this really carefully.
And I think our conclusion after this quarter is there isn't a trend there isn't something that we need a deeper concern that we need to be worried about.
What we saw was some increases in severity both in the Individual Life block as well as Group Life.
And maybe just a slight increase in frequency in Retail Life which probably brought on by the weather.
And we know that happen right? We see quarters occasionally like this where you have a big pop in severity.
And of course this quarter in Retail Life which wasn't very good just remember the third and fourth quarter last year we're extraordinarily low in terms of mortality experience very good mortality experience.
So I think we just have to appreciate that this can be a volatile business.
And as Steve said in his prepared remarks it doesn't mean it's not a good business and with great returns on capital but mortality over the short-term can be volatile and so you've just got to take a little longer term view.
Got it.
So Bill no cohort years and anything along those lines as you vandalize the data to raise alarms? That's right.
Okay.
Thanks.
Next question comes from the line of John Nadel of Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Agee</strong> Hi.
Good morning everybody.
Steve I have a question about the recent CCAR results for the large bank financial institutions.
I'm just curious whether you and the Board and the rest of management have any real sort of learnings or takeaways from the recent CCAR process.
And maybe particularly with the focus on Citigroup's "failure" which appear to be at least this is my sense driven in part by sort of the global nature of their business.
And I'm just sort of wondering if you're incrementally thinking about implementing any changes or anything incrementally to your enterprise risk management as a result of what you saw? John I think you raise a good point which is we're in uncharted waters here.
Dodd-Frank passed in 2010; implementation really is in the very early stages everyone's learning how to work together both on regulatory side and in this case in the bank side.
I think people are going through the learnings of all this.
And I think as of now there's not a great deal of transparency in terms of how all these calculations get done on the regulatory side.
So I think people are trying to figure out how to operate within that environment.
And it's obviously been difficult in some cases and we're mindful of that.
And we are certainly building out our capabilities in case we are designated a SIFI on a final basis and regulated by the Federal Reserve.
So it is something that we've spent a great deal of time discussing internally at the management level with our Board.
And we certainly are taking steps at MetLife to make sure that we are prepared going forward should we'd be finally designated as a SIFI.
Agee</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
I mean obviously it was a little surprising right? And my sense is that management at a couple of these companies in particular Citigroup were also may be taken by surprise in terms of the result.
So I know you guys had a little experience with that.
The next question is more it's about Asia.
And I was just hoping we could get a little bit better detail on some of the underlying trends that more of the product level maybe first sector in Japan versus third sector what you like and what you saw on the sales side what you're sort of unhappy with you.
If you can just give us a sense there that would be great.
Sure Tom.
It's Chris Townsend here.
So the sales for Asia as John mentioned were up 2% year-on-year and they were down 34% sequentially.
So if I take that sequential plan of first of all we wrote a very significant account in Australia in the fourth quarter of 2013 plus there was some high sales of two yen-based life products before they were repriced.
It was repriced both of those products one in October one in December and then now at or above our return hurdle rate.
So what you've seen is following that repricing a significant reduction in terms of the first step the life sales and because of some of the packaging element which we spoken to you before about there has been a knock on impact in terms of the third sector as well.
The persistency overall is good revenues are up both sequentially and year-on-year.
The cancer product is selling very well.
We launched a new cancer product last August and we're just about at 100 000 new customers for that product now.
And the cancer sales overall are up about 120% year-on-year.
Going forward what you'll see is that we'll tweak slightly to – one of the short pay periods the life product and also in the second half we'll launch a range of new A&amp;H products and riders as well.
So that will lift sales towards the second half of the year.
I think Dave (sic) John the other couple points to mention here is that we've spoken a number of times about the multichannel benefits of our business in Japan.
And I would just like to point out that the bank channel sales of return significantly as we've got greater stability in the yen dollar and there's sort of a reduction and the increases in the Nikkei and the Topix.
We have seen that bank channel come back very strongly in 100% growth year-on-year.
And the final point here is collectively as you think the repricing of those actions have turned into very positive margin for us and we're up about 300 or 400 basis points quarter-on-quarter.
Agee</strong> That's really helpful.
And Chris maybe just one more quick one any expectation way I guess maybe sort of what's your view reading tea leaves if you will have any chance for in Japan for the government to make some changes incrementally to co-pays? I don't have a view on that right now.
Our next question will come from the line of Mr.
Erik Bass of Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
First can you provide an update on your thinking about the equity units? And I know you've been clear certainly that you don't want to do a buyback and then have to issue equity of capital requirements change but is your view on equity units at all different since you are essentially issuing equity if you don't offset the dilution? It was our intent when we issued those securities that we'll buy them back in the marketplace and we mentioned that before.
And again the capital considerations that we're analyzing because of the uncertainty of the rules which are not yet in draft form for us to review has resulted in us to date not buying back those equity units.
But certainly philosophically that is something that we had intended to do when we engaged in the Alico transaction back in 2010 and issued those securities.
Okay.
And then it's on the group business can you comment a little bit more on just to what's driving the strong sales so far in kind of current activity and pricing trends in the market? And I guess the strong sales is like coming more from new accounts or an expanded product offering? Eric it's Bill.
I would say that the answer is both.
Remember we talked a lot about our strategy of growing our group business but going down marketing growing at what I would call the middle market.
We have a very strong presence in the large company marketplace in the U.S.
and going down market with what I would say our broad product offering which means not only our base coverages but also all our worksite products.
And we're having a lot of success down there.
So we have seen increased sales and I would say the middle market as well as strong worksite sales and that's consistent with I think the strategy that we've laid out here in terms of shift to more protection product.
And in terms of just that I would say the tone of pricing the pricing environment is I would say relatively good.
I mean the guys who run that business are always sort of flinch when I say that because they always feel there's somebody out there who has been a little aggressive.
But I would say today the pricing environment is relatively attractive and for the worksite portion of the business we think it's quite attractive.
Okay.
Thank you for the color.
Our next question will come from the line of Mark Finkelstein of Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Actually sort of a follow-up to Erik Bass' question.
Steve in your opening remarks I think you addressed to palm kind of the evolution of the rules and some of the legislative actions.
But you also talked about draft rules not coming out until 2015.
And in your comments you actually used the words take into consideration the timing of the rules when you think about capital deployment.
So the question is I mean how was the timing influencing or how is your thinking evolving in terms of the timing in terms of those actions? Hi Mark.
Well I think you saw it with our dividend announcement.
I think that's fairly aggressive increase in the dividend given that we had a large dividend increase one year earlier.
And $1.40 a share for dividend for MetLife that translates to 2.7% yield and roughly a 25% payout ratio.
So I think you're seeing we're taking actions now that we think makes sense for us given the delay in the pronouncement of the draft rules of the Fed.
And when we first engaged in this analysis and discussion internally two years ago or more we anticipated that we would have greater clarity by now about capital rules.
So as time goes on and cash accumulates in the company if we're trying to find that right balance between making sure that we have adequate capital imposed rules by the Fed on one hand if we're finally designated.
And on the other hand making sure we're here to our philosophy of returning excess capital to our shareholders.
So the dividend increase I think is reflective of that consideration of the timing being pushed back and further accumulation of cash and again you saw effectively another capital action back last year in the fall when we acquired ProVida for $2 billion in cash without issuing any shares in that acquisition.
So we're trying to again strike that right balance.
And certainly in terms of what we're thinking about in the future we have to really look at all these things from a perspective of both timing how much cash we're accumulating merger and acquisition opportunities for us acquisition opportunities for us and our dividend levels and so on.
So everything is really kind of part of a more complex equation that we consider as we look at capital management.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just two very quick business questions.
In Asia you referenced favorable expenses.
How much did that positively influence the Asia earnings? And then in EMEA if you talked about maybe the run rate being lower.
How should we think about that as well? Hi.
This is John.
It's about $10 million for the Asia earnings on the expenses in the quarter as it's really just a matter of timing.
I'm sorry but I missed the second part of the question? A similar comment on EMEA that the run rate was likely should be going forward is a little bit lower? Just trying to frame out how we should think about EMEA earnings? Slightly lower.
Slightly lower.
Okay.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from the line of Chris Giovanni of Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks so much.
Steve you made the comment about VA where you think you now might be in a position to grow with the better risk product.
Is this still with 4% roll-up product? Are you looking to maybe re-risk the product to get back more in line with peers? And then and thinking about kind of the growth year I think one of the concerns you had with VA was uncertainty over the capital treatment for separate accounts the way the current bank framework is written.
So if you're looking to now grow VA again has this changed? What's changed I guess in terms of your confidence the bigger VA book won't be an issue in federal oversight? So Chris let me take the first part of your question regarding the capital treatment of VAs.
Then I'll turn it over to Bill for the business discussion about our strategy going forward.
Again the rules are not written so we don't know exactly how the Fed will treat separate accounts.
However I'd say conversations we've been having with them and others in Washington are encouraging from the following perspective.
I think they better understand today than they did a couple of years ago how our business now differs from that of a bank.
And I think they understand that the non-guarantee portion of VA is the true separate account component really it's not a risk to MetLife on its balance sheet.
And banks don't have this separate account situation on their balance sheet.
So there is even if the Collins amendment is not modified I think an opportunity for the Fed to say bank rules just don't apply in this particular instance about separate accounts.
So it is possible it's up to them obviously not me but it's possible for them to look at separate accounts and not assess significant capital charges or significant capital charges for the non-guarantee portion of that business for us.
And there's no indication by them one way or the other but I would simply say the conversations we've had indicate more and better understanding on their part about what the risks really are associated with that part of our balance sheet which is virtually zero if it's someone else's money that has been accounted for in our balance sheet.
So with that I'll turn it over to Bill for the business question.
Chris with regard to VA pricing and competitiveness I know you know this but obviously you've seen a real hardening of that market in terms of product features and investment options and the roll-up rate is an important consideration but it's really only one living benefit rider there is other things going on.
And I think the other thing that's happened of course is you've seen a lot of sales now much broader diverse group of sales where there is no living benefit rider where the main motivation is tax efficiency or other things.
And so our plan going forward is really to pursue all those of avenues not just oh we got to have a more aggressive living benefit rider it's we've got to make sure that we are in all the other kinds of variable annuity products to meet specific customer needs.
And so when we talk about our strategy that's a big piece of it.
Now we're always looking at how we can change our living benefit rider and my guess is we'll modify that as well but there is nothing to talk about at the moment.
But that kind of gives you a little color on our thinking here.
Okay.
Those comments helpful.
And then just one on ROE Steve you made the comment that the group business despite some of this adverse underwriting is still generating good returns.
And I know you don't want to get into kind of segmented allocation of capital.
But clearly you are focused on growing certain lines of business.
So how should we be thinking about the returns on kind of the in-force that you're generating on those kind of core businesses that you guys have? And then what's maybe the drag that you're seeing from those run-off blocks that you've clearly deemphasized around long-term care and SGUL? Well I'll give you a little color on that Chris.
Our protection businesses we're talking mid to high teens ROEs and they have always been that way honestly that's the – even in what I would say a tough underwriting period.
And obviously Group is really the leader there and it's quite attractive ROE business.
I would say the asset intensive businesses right now especially with the longer-term liability there go a long-term care and where there's been really low interest rates those ROEs are underperforming.
And that's our challenge going forward as to – sort of work on the risk profile of those particular products but at the same time grow the higher ROE business.
And I would say obviously another factors in emerging markets ROE there is protracted this way.
And Bill with those be point drags to ROE or basis point drags to ROE just speaking kind of an aggregate? You mean you're asking order of magnitude of the drags? Yes.
I mean thinking about long-term care in SGUL I mean clearly they are underperforming but is there kind of reducing aggregate ROEs by a point or are we talking basis points? Well the long-term-care block in and of itself isn't that big.
So it's relative to the size of MetLife.
So I'm sure that would be bps not full basis – full points.
But yes I would say in general sure those bigger – those more asset intensive long guarantee businesses have the impact on the ROEs point.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from the line of Mr.
Eric Berg of RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
The underwriting in 2013 was in some quarters quite challenging.
And now you have another quarter of it although you have said that really relates to – now being there’s no trend here.
That doesn’t necessarily tell you that you that you got things are okay you might have a broader problem.
My question is when will we when will you be in a position to sort of sound the all clear sign? If we have another quarter or two more quarters how many quarters how many quarters of normal underwriting results do you need before you can conclude that there is no problem? Thanks.
That’s my first question.
Yes.
Eric you broke up a little bit but I think I got the gist of your question which is group underwriting experience last year was a little soft and now we’ve had a soft quarter in the first quarter of 2014.
How long until we feel better about it? There is if you look back at our history especially in Group Life over time in the first quarter we often run a mortality ratio of 90% plus that’s not that uncommon.
This was a little worse than that obviously and so I would see this I kind of view the Group Life experience as really kind of a seasonal quarter but a tough seasonal quarter tougher than normal.
In terms of the future look we – our expectation is that our underwriting especially in Group Life should start should revert to the mean in the second quarter.
And if it doesn’t that’ll be another data point which would cause us concern.
But that's our – that's why we kind of view this really as a blip and there are definitely blips in these in this experience not a trend.
So I – my expectation is I should see improvement in the second quarter and if I don't I should be worried.
And so that's kind of our feeling.
Very helpful.
And Steve one follow-up question.
On a global basis it feels like the top line and by the top line I don't mean sales I mean premium fees and other deposits is growing at about 5% pace excluding the effect of currency.
Is that consistent with your expectations? And how do you feel about that level of top line growth? Are you satisfied with that? Or should it be better? Do feel it's appropriate given the markets in which Met is competing or do you feel it should be better still? Thank you.
Eric I think it's consistent with what our expectations are.
But I also would point you to the my remarks a little bit earlier talking about essentially us pivoting from trying to get the risk profile of right of the company to now focusing on growth going forward.
And I think that is – this is the right time for us to really think about those opportunities throughout MetLife's business platform meaning through geographies different products and so on and to press on the issue of growth going forward.
So we've spent the last roughly three years trying to make sure that we had a risk profile in the right place the products designed the way that we felt offered good value to our customers on the one hand but also a fair return to our shareholders on the other hand and didn't result in significant fat-tail risk in the future.
That was sort of step one of the strategy here in step two now that we're pivoting to what is is finding ways to further grow the business.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from the line of Mr.
Jay Gelb of Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
John can you give us a bit more insight on the sources of the net cost savings in 2015 the $600 million you broadly outlined? Sure.
So these costs are really throughout the entire company.
We've been focusing on many different aspects and taking out over the last few years layers of management particularly in the U.S.
as well as the reorganization we've done in retail in the United States and moving people to Charlotte.
In the technology side we've created a new center in Raleigh-Durham.
And so you're starting now to see some of these flowing through whereas in 2012 and 2013 we had more restructuring charges that were flowing through so the net basis was less.
You're starting to see these cost saves flow through the entire company not just in the U.S.
but also even in Asia and other areas we're seeing continued cost discipline.
I think this is something that is starting to stick in our company and you're starting to see the results in our financials.
Is there a certain metric we should focus on in terms of trying to track that level of improvement in 2015 and beyond? It's the expense ratio.
However you do need to adjust a little bit if we had some material moves in our mix of business.
So for example in Latin America by the acquisition of ProVida that runs at a higher expense ratio very profitable business but a higher expense ratio.
Without a mix change and for the whole company it takes quite a bit to really shift that.
So on a quarter-by-quarter basis you'll see that ratio be a very good measure.
But I just caution you to adjust your models for when we do major material changes in the mix different businesses have slightly different expense ratios.
Okay.
Then separate topic I guess more for Steve and Bill.
On variable annuity sales growth you mentioned the likelihood that you could start growing VA sales growth again now with the new product in place and the new mix and less reliance on living benefits.
Should we think about that as a low mid-single-digit growth opportunity or perhaps something larger? I think if you think about the overall revenue of the business yes I'd say it's I don't see this being a double-digit grower.
Obviously it somewhat depends on what's going on with the capital markets.
But assuming those are benign I don't expect it to be a double-digit grower.
Is that starting in 2015 though? Well I don't think we're – I think we’re a little ahead of ourselves in terms of kind of giving specific forecasts for 2015 yet.
But I think what we're trying to do is make sure it's clear that we're still committed to the annuity business.
Makes sense.
Thank you.
Okay.
We're at 9 o’clock.
Thank you all for your participation and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference call for today which will be available for replay from today at 10:00 a.m.
Eastern Time until next week May 8 at Midnight of that day.
You may access that conference by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 314838.
Once again that dial-in information is 1-800-475-6701 and the access code is 314838.
Once again that does conclude our conference call for today.
On behalf of today's panel I'd like to thank you for your participation in today's conference call and have a wonderful day.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the MetLife's Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference call is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to read the following statement on behalf of MetLife.
Except with respect to historical information statements made in this conference call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws including statements relating to trends in the company's operations and financial results and the business and the products of the company and its subsidiaries.
MetLife's actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including those described from time to time in MetLife's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including in the Risk Factors sections of those filings.
MetLife specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information further developments or otherwise.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Ed Spehar Head of Investor Relations.
Please go ahead sir.
Thank you Steve and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MetLife's second quarter 2014 earnings call.
We will be discussing certain financial measures not based on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles so called non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures and related definitions to the most directly comparable GAAP measures may be found on the Investor Relations portion of metlife.com in our earnings press release and our quarterly financial supplements.
A reconciliation of forward-looking financial information to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is not accessible because MetLife believes it's not possible to provide a reliable forecast of net investment and net derivative gains and losses which can fluctuate from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
Now joining me this morning on the call are Steve Kandarian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Hele Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will take your questions.
Also here with us today to participate in the discussions are other members of management including Bill Wheeler President of Americas; Steve Goulart Chief Investment Officer; Michel Khalaf President of EMEA; and Chris Townsend President of Asia.
[Operator Instructions] With that I'd like to turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
Last night we reported second quarter results with operating earnings of $1.6 billion.
Earnings benefited from strong investment margins in a favorable market environment but were negatively impacted by weak underwriting results.
Operating earnings were essentially flat relative to the second quarter of 2013.
Operating earnings per share were $1.39 a 3% decrease from the prior year period.
Performance on a per share basis was dampened by the conversion of equity units issued in 2010 to fund the acquisition of ALICO.
The final $1 billion tranche of equity units will convert in October of this year.
Operating return on equity was 11.4% in the quarter.
Investment margins were favorable in the second quarter variable investment income was strong driven by bond prepayment fees.
And recurring investment margins were stable even though interest rates were 50 basis points below what we had assumed at the beginning of the year.
Despite low interest rates investment margins have been resilient for 3 main reasons: effective asset liability management; good variable investment income; and income from derivatives many of which were purchased in the mid-2000s to protect earnings in a low interest rate environment.
Second quarter operating earnings were also helped by above average equity market returns.
Results this quarter highlight the value of our balanced business mix.
As strong investment margins and outperformance in market sensitive lines of business help offset unfavorable underwriting results in certain protection lines of business.
I'd like to comment specifically on disappointing underwriting margins and our Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits and Retail Life and other segments.
Second quarter earnings for Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits were below expectations.
The shortfall in this segment was primarily driven by results in disability and dental.
In disability claims severity and an operational issue at one claims management center location led to the underperformance this quarter.
Claim severity was 3% above expectations.
As for the operational issue we have brought in new leadership and additional resources to improve claims management.
We expect the issue to be corrected by year end.
In dental we believe that above normal utilization in the second quarter reflected the rescheduling of first quarter dentist appointments that were canceled due to the unusually harsh winter.
Please recall that we noted low utilization on our first quarter earnings call.
On a year-to-date basis dental utilization is in line with plan.
Weak underwriting margins were also an issue in Retail Life and other.
While the second quarter was characterized by adverse mortality the recent trend illustrates that mortality fluctuations can generate both positive and negative surprises to earnings.
For example Retail Life and Other exceeded our plan in the third and fourth quarters of 2013 when mortality was favorable but fell short of our plan the past 2 quarters due to unfavorable mortality after adjustments.
The timing of large life claims can create earnings volatility in this segment.
In the second quarter we had one large claim associated with the death from a tragic accident that reduced earnings by $13 million after-tax or $0.01 per share.
Moving to capital management.
I would like to provide an update on MetLife's program to repurchase up to $1 billion in common stock which we announced on June 10.
Through yesterday we have repurchased $135 million of stock at an average price of $55.46 per share.
Share repurchases were insignificant in the second quarter given the commencement of the program in late June.
As mentioned when we announced the repurchase program we will be an opportunistic buyer of our shares.
Finally I would like to comment on the regulatory environment.
Uncertainty surrounding potential new regulation is the biggest issue facing MetLife today.
However policymakers in Washington are increasingly aware of the need to tailor the prudential rules for insurance companies.
Our position on whether MetLife should be designated a nonbank systemically important financial institution and if so what rules should apply has been consistent.
First MetLife should not be named a nonbank SIFI by the Financial Stability Oversight Council because we do not meet the Dodd-Frank Act's criteria for designation.
While MetLife is a large financial institution financial distress at the company would not pose a risk to the financial stability of the United States.
We are simply not interconnected enough with the rest of the financial system.
Second for any insurer designated as a nonbank SIFI or otherwise regulated by the Federal Reserve the related rules should be appropriate for the business of insurance.
I am encouraged that members of Congress have shown broad bipartisan support for legislation to accomplish this goal.
On June 3 the U.S.
Senate unanimously approved a targeted amendment to Dodd-Frank clarifying that the Federal Reserve has the authority to tailor capital rules for insurance companies.
Companion legislation in the U.S.
House of Representatives already has 182 cosponsors: 103 Republicans and 79 Democrats.
In addition at a congressional hearing earlier this month Federal Reserve Chair Janet Yellen called the legislation useful and said that it would "allow us greater latitude in tailoring appropriate regulations." We are hopeful that -- we are hopeful that legislation will be enacted into law this year.
Imposing bank centric capital rules on life insurance companies would make it more difficult for Americans to buy products that help protect their financial futures.
At a time when government social safety nets are under increasing pressure and corporate pensions are disappearing public policies should preserve and encourage competitively priced financial protection for consumers.
In closing I would reiterate our view that MetLife's second quarter results highlight the benefit of the company's diverse business mix.
Strong investment margins and a favorable market environment help mitigate the impact of a challenging underwriting quarter.
We are also pleased to be repurchasing shares again.
Something MetLife had not done since early 2008.
We understand that returning capital is a key driver of shareholder value over time.
And while we continue to take a conservative approach to capital management in light of regulatory uncertainty I am encouraged by the growing appreciation that the Federal Reserve should have rules that are appropriate for the business of insurance.
With that I will turn the call over to John Hele to discuss our financial results in detail.
John? Thank you Steve and good morning.
Today I will cover our second quarter results including a discussion of insurance margins investment spreads expenses and business highlights.
I will then conclude with some comments on cash and capital.
Operating earnings in the second quarter were $1.6 billion essentially flat year-over-year and operating earnings per share were $1.39 down 3% year-over-year.
This quarter included 3 notable items.
First in Retail Life.
We had a reserve adjustment to correct the treatment of the disability waiver rider in a number of term life contracts.
This benefited operating earnings by $56 million after-tax or $0.05 per share.
Second in our P&amp;C business.
We had higher than budgeted catastrophe losses of $28 million after-tax which was partially offset by favorable prior year reserve development of $7 million after-tax.
Therefore the net decrease to operating earnings was $21 million or $0.02 per share.
Finally pretax variable investment income was $342 million reflecting higher bond prepayment fees.
After taxes and the impact of DAC variable investment income was $221 million which was $11 million or $0.01 per share above the top end of our 2014 quarterly guidance range.
Turning to our bottom line results.
Second quarter net income was $1.3 billion or $1.17 per share.
Net income was $255 million below operating earnings in the quarter.
Notable items that explain most of this difference are: number one charges of $104 million after-tax associated with asymmetrical accounting treatment for insurance contracts; number two net investment losses of $81 million after-tax; number three a loss of $62 million after-tax related to certain variable annuity guarantees where the hedge assets that are more sensitive to market fluctuations than the GAAP treatment for guarantee liabilities; and number four partially offset by derivative net gains of $71 million after-tax and other adjustments which reflects the decline in interest rates in the quarter.
Book value per share excluding AOCI was $50.14 at June 30 up 2% from $49.34 at March 31.
Turning to second quarter margins.
Underwriting in the Americas was less favorable than the prior year quarter and plan.
The mortality ratio in Group Life was 87.3% versus 86.5% in the prior year period.
Severity was up year-over-year but improved 6.3 points sequentially.
We believe results this quarter were within the range of normal quarterly fluctuations and are in line with the second quarter results over the past several years.
Retail Life also had an unfavorable mortality quarter due to severity.
The interest adjusted benefit ratio in Retail Life was 48.9% reflecting the 6.3 point benefit as a result of the disability wavier reserve adjustment.
Excluding this notable benefit Retail Life interest adjusted ratio was 55.2% unfavorable to the prior year quarter of 53.6%.
We believe second quarter results reflect normal earnings volatility for this business.
While the first 2 quarters of 2014 were characterized by poor mortality the last 2 quarters of 2013 had favorable mortality.
As a result our fourth quarter average is in line with our long-term mortality results.
Non-Medical Health interest adjusted loss ratio was 82.6% unfavorable to the prior quarter of 80.0%.
Disability underwriting results were unfavorable to the prior year due to the lower net closures of existing claims and slightly higher severity.
Dental margins were unfavorable to the prior year driven by higher utilization.
On a year-to-date basis we remain on plan for the dental business.
Underwriting in long-term care improved year-over-year primarily driven by premium rate actions.
In our P&amp;C business the combined ratio including catastrophes is 107.5% in Retail and 96.4% in Group.
The combined ratios excluding catastrophes were 83.6% in Retail and 86.8% in Group.
Despite the higher catastrophes overall P&amp;C underwriting results were favorable to the prior year quarter primary due to the lower non-catastrophe accident year losses and prior year development.
Finally in Latin America underwriting results were unfavorable due in part to notable items including the reserve -- a reinsurance true up and litigation reserve as well as some higher claims experienced in Mexico worksite marketing.
Year-to-date our Latin America business remains on plan.
Moving to second quarter investment margins.
The simple average of the 4 U.S.
product spreads in our QFS was 221 basis points which is down 23 basis points versus the prior year.
Product spreads excluding variable investment income were 195 basis points down 20 basis points versus the prior year.
Our investment margins have remained at attractive levels despite a multiyear period of low interest rates.
The current rate environment has been relatively consistent with the low rate stress scenario we discussed in our 2013 10-K.
However the negative impact on operating earnings in the first half of 2014 has been modestly smaller than what we would have anticipated.
With regard to expenses the operating expense ratio was 23.2% in the second quarter as compared to 23.4% in the year ago quarter.
Gross expense saves were $211 million in the second quarter and net saves were $149 million after adjusting for reinvestment of $15 million and onetime costs of $47 million.
We were pleased with our expense performance and remain on track to deliver gross saves of $830 million to $860 million in 2014 and $1 billion in 2015 with net saves of $600 million in 2015.
I will now discuss the business highlights in the quarter.
Retail operating earnings were $652 million up 12% versus the prior year and up 6% when adjusting for notable items in both periods.
The notable items include the reserve adjustment this quarter as well as excess variable investment income higher catastrophes and favorable prior year development in both periods.
Retail premiums fees and other revenues were $3.3 billion up 8% year-over-year due to separate account growth and higher income annuity sales.
Life and Other reported operating earnings of $253 million up 19% year-over-year and up 1% after adjusting for notable items in both quarters.
The primary drivers were lower expenses offset by less favorable underwriting.
Annuities reported operating earnings of $399 million up 8% versus the prior year.
The primary driver was higher fees from separate account growth due to favorable equity market performance.
Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits or GVWB reported operating earnings of $205 million down 25% year-over-year primarily due to less favorable results in disability and dental.
GVWB premiums fees and other revenues were $4.3 billion up 6% due to business growth and experience-related adjustments on participating group life contracts.
Corporate benefit funding reported operating earnings of $374 million up 8% year-over-year driven by higher investment margins as well as favorable expense margins.
Premiums fees and other revenues were $816 million up 29% year-over-year due to increased structured settlement sales and pension closeouts.
Latin America reported operating earnings of $160 million up 28% year-over-year and up 40% on a constant currency basis.
These results reflect the Provida acquisition which continues to perform well.
Operating earnings for Provida were above expectations this quarter primarily due to favorable encaje returns.
Adjusting for Provida operating earnings were down 10% year-over-year on a constant currency basis due to onetime items and unfavorable underwriting partially offset by growth in the region.
Looking ahead we expect tax reform in Chile to be passed in the third quarter.
As discussed at our June Investor Day the proposed tax rate change is an increase from 20% to 25% phased in over a 4-year period.
As a result we anticipate a onetime charge related to the reduction of the deferred tax asset.
This onetime charge is expected to reduce Latin America operating earnings in the third quarter by $40 million to $70 million.
In addition to the onetime charge we believe that 2014 Latin America operating earnings will be dampened by approximately $10 million with most of that reduction in the third quarter.
Premiums fees and other revenues were $1.1 billion up 16% year-over-year 27% on a constant currency basis and 18% excluding Provida on a constant currency basis.
The strong growth is due to higher premiums related to a government group life policy sale in Mexico higher annuity sales in Chile and direct marketing in Argentina.
Turning to Asia.
Operating earnings were $319 million down 3% year-over-year and down 1% on a constant currency basis primarily reflecting the weakening of the yen.
On a constant currency basis lower surrender fee income from foreign currency denominated fixed annuities in Japan essentially offset business growth in the region and favorable onetime tax items in the current quarter.
Premiums fees and other revenues were $2.3 billion down 5% year-over-year and down 2% on a constant currency basis also due to the lower surrender fee revenues in Japan.
Asia sales were down 12% year-over-year.
As pricing actions in Japan that we've noted on prior calls caused a decline in life sales and a related decline in accident and health sales as A&amp;H is often packaged with life products.
Sales were strong elsewhere in Asia primarily driven by A&amp;H sales in Korea and China.
In EMEA operating earnings were $93 million up 37% year-over-year and 41% on a constant currency basis.
The key drivers in the quarter were business growth across the region and onetime favorable items including taxes of $7 million and a $5 million benefit to operating earnings as a result of eliminating an accounting lag to adjust our businesses in Poland and Slovakia onto a calendar year basis.
We would expect a comparable benefit to EMEA operating earnings over the next couple of quarters as we eliminate the lag accounting in other countries.
Premiums fees and other revenues were $712 million up 3% year-over-year and 1% on a constant currency basis driven by growth in the U.K.
Russia Turkey and the Gulf.
Excluding divestitures mainly Belgium and the negative impact from the Poland pension reform PFOs were up 6%.
Sales for the region increased 3% with emerging markets up 10% driven by growth in Poland and Turkey.
Finally the loss in Corporate and Other was $213 million after-tax.
This line is volatile and we think that the second quarter loss was above a normal level.
As you model our results for the balance of the year I would suggest that you consider the average of the second quarter loss of $213 million and the first quarter loss adjusted for notable items of $156 million.
I will now discuss our cash and capital position.
Cash and liquid assets of the holding companies were approximately $5.5 billion at June 30 which is up from $4.7 billion at March 31.
The increase from prior quarter was driven by approximately $900 million of subsidiary dividends.
We issued $1 billion of tenure senior debt in the quarter to fund debt maturities and redemptions.
Also in the quarter we paid our quarterly dividend and funded the closing of the Malaysian joint venture as we discussed at our June Investor Day.
Next I would like to provide you with an update of our capital position.
As you know we report U.S.
RBC ratios annually so we'll not have an update for the second quarter.
For Japan our solvency margin was 966% as of the first quarter of 2014 which is the latest public data.
For our U.S.
insurance companies preliminary second quarter statutory operating earnings were approximately $1.1 billion up 72% from the prior year quarter and net income was approximately $900 million up fivefold.
The year-over-year increase in statutory operating earnings was primary due to changes in reserves included a portion related to the disability wavier higher separate account fees and favorable interest margins partially offset by lower underwriting results.
In addition to higher operating earnings the increase in statutory net income year-over-year was also due to lower derivative losses.
Our total U.S.
statutory adjusted capital is expected to be approximately $28 billion as of June 30 up 7% compared to December 31.
In conclusion MetLife had a solid second quarter investment margins remain healthy expenses are well-controlled and we continue to focus on generating profitable growth.
While operating earnings were dampened by weakness in underwriting we believe the results reflect the normal volatility in our business.
In addition our cash and capital position remains strong providing us with the flexibility to be opportunistic in managing capital as we seek to maximize shareholder value.
And with that I will turn it back to the operator for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question will come from the line of Mr.
Ryan Krueger of KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to touch on the group underwriting results.
I think for a variety of reasons they've been a bit soft for a few quarters now.
Certainly I heard your comments about looking to fix the claims management and disability.
I guess the question is that at this point do you still feel comfortable with the intermediate term outlook that you provided in December which I think called for the midpoint of your underwriting target ranges? Or should we be revising that to be slightly weaker going forward? Ryan its Bill Wheeler.
So we forecasted an improvement in underwriting results year-over-year at '13 to '14 and we gave those guidance ranges for Group Life and Non-Medical Health.
And my expect -- and obviously Group Life this quarter reverted back to the middle of the guidance range.
My expectation is that with Non-Medical Health while it was at the top end and just above the top end of the guidance range of 77% to 82% that it too will fall in the second half of the year and move back inside the guidance range.
Will get all the way to the midpoint? I'm not sure yet but I do expect the ratios to improve for the latter half of the year.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then a few weeks ago there were some proposed backstop capital requirements that were released for global insurance SIFIs which I know doesn't have direct supervisory authority but I would appreciate any reaction you had to those? Ryan this is Steve.
I think those proposed rules are encouraging they reflect the insurance business model and they dealt with the basic capital requirements that IAIS was proposing.
And our hope is that that approach is taken up as well in the United States in terms of putting together an approach that provides the right kind of capital standards for insurance companies using an insurance framework not a bank framework.
However I think we still caution people that there are other aspects to this kind of capital regime that is being -- which is evolving right now.
And there are these higher loss absorbency standards that will apply for globally systemically important insurers.
And we haven't really seen a lot on that yet so really more to come.
Our next question will come from the line of Mr.
Nigel Dally of Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on Latin America.
I understand you had the adverse mortality in Mexico a bit but it seems like our results this quarter were mostly still under some pressure so I'm hoping you can provide some additional data as to what's kind of driving that business.
Nigel can you just speak a little more slowly because it's breaking up on our side.
Research Division</strong> Sure so a question on Latin America.
I understand you had the adverse mortality in Mexico but still same slight results even excluding that we're under some pressure.
So hoping you can provide some details as to what's driving that? Is it a reflection of say more volatile markets spending on growth initiatives? Any color there would be helpful.
Sure Nigel.
So a little color on Latin America in terms of the underperformance.
So as John Hele mentioned we had both relatively weak underwriting in our Mexican worksite marketing business.
Now this is a business we've obviously been running for a long time and it's actually very steady.
But we do see some movement in volatility and mortality volatility.
And we had a blip up this quarter.
So that obviously was a big portion of the difference versus expectations.
As I think it was also mentioned we had a -- just a group of I would say smaller onetime adjustments things like a reinsurance true up a litigation reserve.
In total they would have been something in the order of $10 million to $15 million after-tax in terms of results.
So I think when you kind of reflect both of those variances in the quarter you realize that otherwise Latin America had a relatively good quarter or a quarter of near expectations.
And obviously a part -- a big part of that is Provida and Provida obviously is doing very well and had a very I don't know if I would -- how unusual I would call it but certainly a strong quarter with regard to encaje performance.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Then just a question on long-term care.
One of your peers saw a sharp increase in severity.
Yes I know that you actually had improvement in underwriting results from the previous year but any shift that you're seeing with regards to severity trends which potentially could emerge as a concern for your operations? Nigel could you repeat the last part of that question please? Research Division</strong> Sure.
Any shifts in severity that you're seeing in severity across your operations which potentially could emerge as a concern? This is John.
According to long-term care we've not seeing any major changes other than what we've been expecting as we have seen an increase in earnings and we are getting the rate increases that we had assumed generally that we had hope to get.
We don't get it in every state but it is according to our plans that we've laid out so far.
And so it's really where we had expected it to be.
Our next question will come from Mr.
Tom Gallagher of Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First just a quick question on the disability claims handling issue.
Steve you had mentioned that you would expect that to be corrected by the end of the year.
So does that imply that we're going to see margins overall and the group business remain on the soft side? Meaning are we likely to see disability loss ratios remain high there for the next couple of quarters here? Tom it's Bill.
I do think disability results will improve even in the third and fourth quarter.
Again they probably won't get back to our original expectation that we laid out last December though we didn't obviously mention disability specifically but there -- but I do think disability will probably improve in the third and the fourth mainly because of some IBNR reserves we put up in the first and second quarter and those won't recur in the third and fourth quarter.
And so given everything else that should be see some improvement our way.
But I don't -- but I think it's right that we -- in terms of the operational issue and then its impact on our financials you won't see an improvement really in probably until 2015.
Research Division</strong> And Bill how material were those IBNR reserves you've put up in 1Q and 2Q for disability? Well they weren't -- they don't -- they only -- they explain a part of the variance in our disability performance.
There -- I would say if you think of the 3 -- the other reasons that Steve laid out with regard to claims severity and also our operational issue there -- that would be the third to the 3 reasons.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just my follow-up is on the corporate side the loss this quarter was above the high end of guidance if you just spread it out and looked at it on a quarterly basis.
So I guess for John should we still take the initial guide that you put up in corporate and other to be a reasonable range? Meaning are we likely to see the corporate other experience in the loss shrink meaningfully from current levels or can you -- any help with that? Sure.
So corporate's a very hard thing to forecast obviously and there is a lot of pieces in there.
This quarter we said was above what we think is a normal run rate.
We had some onetime expenses with various cost-saving programs.
We had a tax booking in there that was more a timing issue.
So what I said in my text was that if you take the -- this quarter the 2013 and the first quarter adjusted of for notable items we talked about in the first quarter that would be $156 million and just sort of average that within that would be the more appropriate sort of run rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And actually if I could just sneak in one more for Bill Wheeler.
The -- a competitor of yours reported exceptionally strong sales in their group business last night.
Can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing on the sales front in the group business whether its life insurance disability or dental? Yes I would say that the environment is okay and it's constructive.
I don't think it's -- I would not say it was very aggressive.
Our sales levels in group have been good so far this season.
And so -- and where we need to get renewal increases we've been able to get them.
So I think it's -- I would view the overall environment as pretty good.
Our next question will come from the line of Mr.
Seth Weiss of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to just ask about Latin American sales and I know that was a big one timer in terms of group contracts sold in and I believe in Mexico but outside of that could you give us a sense of how sales growth looked like in Latin America? Sure Seth.
It's Bill again.
So we obviously had very high reported sales growth well north of 50% or I think the number actually might have been close to 80% sales growth.
But that was really driven by a very large government group contract in Mexico.
If you just adjust for that and nothing else then sales growth will look pretty flat.
It increased 3% year-over-year.
And so a couple of other data points I'd give you because that's -- obviously 3% is not our normal expectation but we didn't try to kind of smooth sales for any other lumpy sales we might have had either in this period or the year ago period.
In the first quarter for instance we had sales growth year-over-year of 13%.
And if you look at our revenue growth in Latin America year-over-year it's obviously very good and even when you would take out things like Provida and adjust for currency it's still double digit.
And that's our expectation in terms of top line growth in Latin America both sort of for sales and for revenues is that we would have double digit.
And even though this sales -- the quarter of this sales level was a little low adjusted for the big contract I think double digit is sort of the right level that we should get going forward.
We have a question from the line of Joanne Smith of Scotia Capital.
Research Division</strong> Yes in terms of the corporate expenses I just want to go back that for a minute.
What are you doing in terms of regulatory and compliance spend and in terms of gearing up to potentially meet the challenges of being a nonbank SIFI? Joanne this is John.
So within some of these numbers are some of our costs for this.
Right now of course we're still in stage 3 with the FSOC and they've asked us for a lot of information.
We've been providing that to them.
But that's really the extent of it.
We have a lot of planning underway of course if we are named but it's still early days right now for us to really understand the true cost impact over time.
We also have costs in there for FATCA and some other renew regulations that are taking effect right now as well.
But so it's -- it is included but as I said the $213 million this quarter is above our normal -- our current running rate for this year.
Research Division</strong> John have you looked at some of the spending at the banks to comply with the new capital regime? Because it seems to me that the expenses have been a lot higher than I think anybody had anticipated and they continue to go up.
So when you're doing your planning have you taken that into consideration? We're taking a wide range of thought into consideration.
It is unclear as to how much regulatory burden it will be for insurers compared to some banks.
I mean we're in different businesses.
It's different I think for banks even if you're in retail versus wholesale and it varies from bank to bank and from place to place.
So it's still a learning experience I think for all insurers who are SIFIs or who maybe designated as SIFIs.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I just wanted to go back to the disability issue real quick and just -- have you determined that there are any pricing or other underwriting changes that need to be made? I understand the claims issue but is there a pricing issue as well? Joanne it -- I wouldn't say there's a pricing issue per say but we're obviously at this renewal season where we have cases that are underwater and not performing at expectations.
We're seeking renewals that will alleviate that issue.
And I would just say in general we are being more aggressive about disability pricing this sale season than we have been in recent years.
Joanne this is John.
In our last call we had -- I had mentioned that we were putting through selective price increases in the disability line.
Research Division</strong> Okay but nothing beyond what you said in the last call? That's right.
Yes.
The next question will come from the line of John Nadel of Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> I just had a question.
Gosh I hate to beat up on corporate this much on your call but if we're averaging the first half of the year it looks like the full year is going to be at the upper end of your range in terms of loss.
I just want to clarify does that still include $160 million to $200 million of after-tax sort of onetime costs related to expense initiatives? Is that still your expectation for 2014? Well I would -- I think your calculations seem to be correct.
It's within the range.
It's why we gave a large range.
Corporate and Other does vary from quarter-to-quarter from year-to-year.
And it is the total inclusive of all the expenses and information that we put into Corporate.
So the answer is yes.
Research Division</strong> Yes -- no I just wanted to confirm that the $160 million to $200 million is still a good -- is still the reasonable number in terms of those onetime costs? Yes it's in that ballpark I mean and it's within the total range of what we had said.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe a bigger picture question coming back to the regulatory front.
The Wall Street Journal ran an article I think it was earlier this week might have been late last week that discussed maybe a hangup as it relates to tailoring rules for insurance companies that Dodd-Frank is essentially would prevent the use of ratings or rating agency ratings as a means of determining the risk associated with the fixed income holdings.
I'm just curious whether you guys think that that's a real issue.
And if so what kind of workaround that issue has been discussed with regulators? John it's Steve.
Dodd-Frank does limit the use by the Fed of third party rating agencies.
We do think that risk rating of assets is likely to be part of the model they use when they regulate insurance companies.
And we think there will be some sort of a workaround.
The banks have internal rating systems.
The Basel Committee is looking now at harmonizing these kind of systems across the bank regulatory regimes.
And I think there will be an evolution in this area that will occur over some period of time that will take into effect the risk weighting of assets.
It will surprise me if regulators didn't take into effect as they regulated entities for soundness and safety the riskiness of the assets that they were holding.
So I think there will be some way to address this issue that was raised in the article you noted.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean we did see during the financial crisis PIMCO and BlackRock were used a third-party source for some of the asset backed securities.
So that seems to me this can be worked around too.
And just a last quick one.
I don't suppose there's anything to announce in the conference call but there was speculation that FSOC was going to vote on Met either yesterday or today.
Is there any update you can provide? John we don't know when FSOC will vote.
They don't tell us that.
Our next question will come from the line of Suneet Kamath of UBS.
Research Division</strong> John in your prepared remarks I think you mentioned an earnings benefit from a true up of a lag.
I think some of your operations were on a -- I don't know if it's a 1 month lag or whatever.
So I'm just wondering if you can go through that again and then also are there any other significant operations that are still reported on a lag basis that might be trued up in the future? Yes.
So some of the businesses actually from ALICO are driven on a -- reporting on a lag a 1 month lag there.
It's small.
It's immaterial for the whole group.
We are working to move these through.
And we have seen it here in EMEA this quarter has a $5 million benefit and we expect the benefit in the next few quarters as we take more countries in EMEA off the lag.
Research Division</strong> Okay but there's nothing major in terms of regions that still on a lag that can be trued up? These ones are small.
So they're just -- it just flows through operating earnings because it's immaterial to the whole company.
The one remaining group that does -- or was still -- is still on a 1 month lag is Japan.
We expect that would be off for 2016 but that will flow through the balance sheet that change because it's a large amount.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
And then I think in your prepared remarks also John you'd mentioned that the impact from lower rates was smaller than what you would have expected in the first half of the year.
Is that simply because variable investment income was better? Or what were some of the drivers behind that? Well I think our sensitivity we published in the 10-K was 2.5% flat for the year and rates weren't 2.5 on average in the first quarter.
They were a little above that.
And so it wasn't quite as bad as we had put in our sensitivity.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And have you changed your outlook for rates in the balance of the year? I think your original expectation was that the 10 year would be -- I forget what the number was -- but 3 something by the end of this year.
Have you changed your thoughts around that? It's Steve Goulart.
You're right.
I think our original plan was based on Bloomberg consensus at that time which I think was 336 [ph] on the 10 year.
Obviously consensus has come down during the course of the year.
And we sort of reflect that as we go through our projecting process.
Our view has been that the consensus was probably a little bit more aggressive on rates rising than we thought would happen anyway.
So I'd say that we've been operating as we expected for most of this year and our outlook continues to reflect that.
Our next question will come from the line of Randy Binner of FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I want to go back to the disability issue.
I guess I may have missed this but the claims management operational issue that was referenced could you expand on exactly what that operational issue was and kind of what can be done to turn it around? It sounded like from the commentary that things turnaround pretty quickly.
So just trying to get some understanding of what that operational issue was.
Sure Randy.
So we manage group disability claims out of 4 locations.
And there -- and in one of our offices we've seen a real slip in and I would see our claims management metrics.
And we feel that this is operationally driven not underwriting driven or anything else.
And so what we've done is we've brought in our best claims management people in the company change the managerial structure there.
And I think we're just going to -- you're going to see a focus in terms of our procedures regarding claims management over the next 6 months.
We -- it's a manageable issue and our expectation is that it can be adjusted pretty quickly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So nothing outside of just folks not following I guess the best procedures so just kind of standard claim stuff nothing outside of that? Yes that's right.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to try one on just on buyback real quick if I can.
I heard the equity units' commentary in the opening description and there's 1 billion authorization.
I think that's ostensibly to kind of offset the dilution but I mean imagine that we continue to have regulatory uncertainty which seems to be a good assumption is -- can Met operate a buyback program kind of beyond just offsetting equity unit dilution? I mean this is capital management in the form of buyback something that can be explored assuming there's continued regulatory uncertainty? Randy as you know we were cautious and remain cautious in terms of capital management because of the uncertainty.
And we give -- the reasoning behind the program we have currently the $1 billion which we think is a modest program because of the delay in both the ruling around designation in MetLife potentially as a nonbank SIFI and also seeing a draft of the rules.
And at this point we really can't say much more because we again have not seen the rules.
We've not been designated as of yet.
And until we have more information it's been difficult for us to answer that question.
I will simply say that as I noted in my prepared remarks returning capital to shareholders is a high priority for us.
We had to do that consistent with the regulatory environment in which we find ourselves.
And as we learn more about that we'll have more to say.
Our next question will come from the line of Sean Dargan of Macquarie.
I had a question about the Japan sales outlook and the impact of the pricing increases? The Japan sales increase in what? I'm sorry the outlook for Japan sales was there a reference to the impact of a pricing increase in the prepared remarks? Yes there was.
And this is Chris Townsend for Asia.
So the reference that John made was just in repricing of our yen life-based products which was -- the actions were taken at the backend of last year and that will drag through this year in terms of the sales impact going forward.
So what you're seeing there is that sales for Asia are down about 12%.
We've had pretty good growth in non-Japan Asia particularly areas like China which is up about 30%.
But in Japan itself the actions we've taken have been not only of the pricing but we've also changed some of the commissions to make sure that the behaviors we want are representative in terms of long-term persistency of relationship with our clients.
So as the life sales are impacted because of that repricing there is an impact obviously in terms of the package and what you've spoken about before.
But going forward what you'll see and this will be about September time of this year we will relaunch one of the yen-based life products which will be more competitive and will be very much in the acceptable return area and also a range of A&amp;H products and medical products which will help the competitiveness and help some of the features and benefits.
So sales will drag through third quarter they will -- but they'll rebound by the end of the year and give us a good fast start into 2015.
And then just a question about EMEA.
Has there been any noticeable impact from the conflict in Ukraine and Russia? Sean this is Michel Khalaf.
So we have seen a drop in sales in Russia.
That's primarily due to the slowdown in the economy.
And that's reflective of the fact that our overall growth for the region is below the level that we expect it to be at.
So we are obviously -- and we have a diverse business in Russia and multiple channels and multiple product lines.
We are seeing an impact and -- but we're also able to adjust our expense structure.
So as long as the impact is short term it is not impacting our bottom line in Russia.
We are obviously monitoring the situation very closely.
And our next question will come from the line of Chris Giovanni of Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> PFC earlier talked about suggestions or proposals they're making on pension reform in Chile.
I'm wondering what your views are and what you're communicating to regulators on that topic? Chris it's Bill Wheeler.
So we're engaged in a very big -- along with Principal and the other members of the industry down there we're engaged in a big dialogue with the Chilean government.
They've convened I guess I'd call it a blue ribbon panel of experts both Chileans and from then the rest of the world to study issues regarding the pension system there which has really been a success but they're looking for ways to make it better.
And do things like improved coverage and making sure that all members of Chilean society participate and things like that.
And so this blue ribbon panel is in the middle of -- they're holding hearings.
We've recently testified before the panel giving our opinion about what should happen.
And what we think is -- it works and needs to improve.
And I think Principal did too as well as other members of the industry they're going to release a report in the fall sort of with sort of observations.
And then in January the expectation is that they will then release the report with recommendations which will form the basis of what the government might do in terms of making changes to the pension system.
So I think it's a thoughtful process and I think the Bachelet government based on the discussions we've had with them are they want to make sure that the pension system continues to be successful but they at the same time want to make sure that there are improvements.
I would not call this the Bachelet government's highest priority in terms of what they want to get through legislatively.
They have a number of other agenda items they want to work on.
So I don't -- this isn't a centerpiece of what they're focused on but it's -- that's the process that's going on.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then for Steve when you were a bank holding company you obviously were subject to stress testing and bank capital ratio metrics.
I know at the time you disagreed a bit in terms of where your internal ratios maybe came out versus the Fed.
But I'm wondering if you still update those estimates and if so how those bank ratios have maybe changed over the past few years? Well this is John.
We have our own internal stress testing system that we run from a government's point of view.
We used to have to provide this information when we were governed under the New York Fed when we had a bank.
We don't have a bank anymore.
We don't provide anything to them.
Basel I calculations don't make any sense for an insurance company and nor that Basel I is even used anymore.
So we have our own internal system but we've not done things that are in sort of a bank sense for the Basel III.
And we don't know what the capital rules will be that the Federal Reserve will be introducing nor when they might introduce them.
So we will have to wait and see when they come up with something.
Obviously if we become a SIFI we will start to do those calculations and see how all that works out but it's still too -- way too early to understand what's going on there.
Okay.
We are just about 9:00.
So thank you for your participation and have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen today's conference call will be available for replay from today at 10:00 a.m.
Eastern time until August 7 midnight of that day.
You may access that conference by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 314847.
If you're dialing in from an international location please dial (320) 365-3844 and please use the same access code 314847.
That does conclude our conference call for today.
On behalf of today's panel I'd like to thank you for your participation in today's conference call and thank you for using AT&amp;T.
Have a wonderful day you may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the MetLife Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to read the following statement on behalf of MetLife.
Except with respect to historical information statements made in this conference call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements relating to trends in the company's operations and financial results and the businesses and products of the company and its subsidiaries.
MetLife's actual results may differ materially from results anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including those described from time to time in MetLife's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including in the Risk Factors section of those filings.
MetLife specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Ed Spehar Head of Investor Relations.
Thank you Greg.
Good morning everyone and welcome to MetLife's Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
We will be discussing certain financial measures not based on generally accepted accounting principles so called non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures and related definitions to the most directly comparable GAAP measures may be found on the Investor Relations portion of metlife.com in our press release and our quarterly financial supplements.
A reconciliation of forward-looking financial information to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is not accessible because MetLife believes it's not possible to provide a reliable forecast of net investment and net derivative gains and losses which can fluctuate from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
Now joining me this morning on the call are Steve Kandarian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Hele Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will take your questions.
Also here with us today to participate in the discussions are other members of management including Bill Wheeler President of Americas; Steve Goulart Chief Investment Officer; Michel Khalaf President of EMEA; and Chris Townsend President of Asia.
[Operator Instructions] With that I'd like to turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Ed.
And good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report strong third quarter results.
Operating earnings were $1.8 billion up 22% from the third quarter of 2013.
And operating return on equity was 13.2% an increase from 11.7% in the prior-year period.
Notable items in the quarter were variable investment income above the top end of the normal quarterly range favorable catastrophe experience and prior year loss reserve development in property and casualty a positive impact from our annual review of actuarial assumptions and a modest net negative impact from tax adjustments.
These notable items increased operating earnings by $107 million.
Excluding notable items operating earnings increased 14% from the third quarter of 2013.
Favorable investment margins have been a consistent earnings theme in recent years despite low interest rates.
In the quarter the average investment spread for U.S.
product lines was 236 basis points or within the approximately 220 to 240 basis point range of the past few years.
Strong variable investment income more than offset the negative impact on investment margins from low interest rates.
While the 2014 interest rate environment has been close to the low-rate scenario we provided in our 2013 10-K the earnings impact has been more benign than we predicted largely due to management actions.
Investment margins in both Retail life and Latin America returned to normal levels in the third quarter.
Underwriting margins in Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits were the low end of the normal range but better than the prior year quarter.
Within group disability results improved year-over-year and sequentially.
We anticipate further improvement in disability results from the operational changes and targeted price increases that we shared with you on the Second Quarter Earnings Call.
Turning to expenses.
We continue to deliver on the cost savings outlined as part of MetLife's strategy.
The operating expense ratio of 23.0% in the quarter versus 24.3% in third quarter of last year.
Operating expenses also remained well controlled on an absolute basis up 2% from the prior year period compared to a 5% increase in adjusted premiums fees and other revenues.
Another key element of our strategy growing in emerging markets also showed progress in the quarter.
Compared to the prior year period sales in emerging markets were up 10% in Latin America 31% in EMEA and 20% in Asia.
On a per share basis operating earnings in the quarter were $1.60 a 19% increase from the prior year period.
Growth on a per share basis was dampened by the conversion of $1 billion of equity units into common shares in September 2013.
The dilutive impact of these conversions was partially offset by our repurchase of $438 million of stock in the third quarter at an average price of $54.19 per share.
Since we resumed our share repurchase program in late June of this year we have repurchased a total of $756 million of stock at an average price of $52.53 per share.
Our strong third quarter stands in contrast to our second quarter.
We are pleased to see underwriting results improve after the second quarter's adverse experience.
In addition the Corporate &amp; Other loss was modest largely as a result of tax benefits and well below the elevated level of the second quarter.
At the same time it's important to remember that this is a long-term business and quarterly results will fluctuate.
And as you have heard me say before paying too much attention to quarterly performance could lead us to take actions contrary to the future health of the business.
Running a business for the long term takes patience and a recognition that what managers choose not to do is often just as important as what they choose to do.
Consider MetLife's strategy in the pension risk transfer market.
As you know MetLife did not win either of the 2 large pension closeout deals announced recently.
We find the market opportunity in closeouts attractive and MetLife has been winning profitable business from small and mid-sized pension plans.
We will continue to bid on transactions of all sizes but will remain disciplined.
We believe our bids on recent large closeouts would have created value for MetLife's shareholders but the spread over our cost of capital was modest.
The competitive landscape for large closeouts leaves little margin for error.
Pension closeouts are long-dated liabilities that cannot be repriced so a negative surprise relative to assumptions could impact returns for decades.
We know that large closeouts can have a material positive impact on GAAP earnings.
However our philosophy is that near-term GAAP earnings accretion is not necessarily indicative of long-term value creation for shareholders.
I would now like to provide a brief update on regulatory developments.
As you know the Financial Stability Oversight Council voted on September 4 to make a proposed determination that MetLife is a systemically important financial institution or SIFI.
On October 3 MetLife requested an evidentiary hearing which is scheduled for November 3 to contest the proposed determination.
After the hearing FSOC has 60 days to make a final determination as to whether MetLife is a SIFI.
Under the Dodd-Frank Act if MetLife is designated the company has 30 days to decide whether to seek a judicial review of the designation in federal district court.
With regard to the capital rules for nonbank SIFIs the Federal Reserve announced on September 30 that it will conduct a quantitative impact study or QIS to "better understand how to design a capital framework for insurance holding companies and supervisors that has compliance with the Collins Amendment." Although MetLife is not under its supervision the Federal Reserve accepted our request to participate in the QIS.
It is important to note that the QIS assumes that the new rules will be compliant with the Collins Amendment which the Federal Reserve interprets as requiring it to impose bank capital standards on all nonbanks under its supervision.
We believe this underscores the critical importance of enacting the Insurance Capital Standards Clarification Act as quickly as possible.
We are encouraged that the House and Senate have already passed identical language providing the Federal Reserve with flexibility to tailor the capital rules for insurance companies.
And we urge Congress to finish the job during the lame duck legislative session later this fall.
To sum up I am pleased that in the face of economic and regulatory headwinds MetLife continues to perform well in those areas under its control including expense management pricing discipline and investment performance.
Performing well on the fundamentals is the clearest path to creating shareholder value over time.
With that I will turn the call over to John Hele.
Thank you Steve.
And good morning.
Today I'll cover our third quarter results including a discussion of insurance margins investment spreads expenses and business highlights.
I will then conclude with some comments on cash and capital.
Operating earnings in the third quarter were $1.8 billion up 22% from the prior year period.
And operating earnings per share were $1.60 up 19%.
This quarter includes 4 notable items which are highlighted in our press release and disclosed by business segment in the appendix of our quarterly financial supplement or QFS.
First variable investment income was $273 million after taxes and DAC which is $62 million or $0.05 per share above the top end of our quarterly guidance range.
Second we had lower-than-budgeted catastrophe losses and favorable prior year reserve development which increased operating earnings by $38 million or $0.03 per share.
Third we had 2 tax items that mostly offset.
The onetime impact from Chilean tax reform reduced operating earnings by $41 million or $0.04 per share and this was largely offset by a favorable tax adjustment of $32 million or $0.03 per share related to the filing of our 2013 U.S.
federal tax return.
Finally as a result of our annual actuarial assumption review there was a $16 million or $0.01 per share positive impact to operating earnings.
There were a number of small items that drove this result and most of the benefit was in Retail.
The total positive impact to GAAP net income from the actuarial assumption review was $105 million.
In total notable items included an operating earnings of $107 million or $0.09 per share.
Turning to our bottom line results.
Third quarter net income was $2.1 billion or $1.81 per share.
Net income exceeded operating earnings by $239 million.
The 3 most significant items that explain the majority of this difference are: one derivative net gains of $187 million after tax and other adjustments primarily from the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar; two an impact of $89 million after-tax from the portion of the actuarial assumption review that was not included in operating earnings; and three net investment gains of $71 million after tax.
Non-economic and asymmetrical accounting adjustments were $146 million of the $239 million difference between net income and operating earnings in the quarter.
Before I discuss margins and business segments I want to highlight new metrics for book value and ROE included in the QFS.
We are now disclosing book value excluding AOCI other than foreign currency translation adjustments or FCTA and tangible book value.
Operating ROE will now be calculated using these 2 measures of book value.
We believe operating ROE based on book value excluding AOCI other than FCTA is a better measure of performance than an operating ROE calculation based on book value excluding AOCI as the former includes the impact of foreign currency in both the numerator and denominator.
We are making this change because FCTA has become more significant and now distorts the ROE calculation.
Book value per share excluding AOCI other than FCTA was $49.69 as of September 30 up 7% year-over-year but below book value per share excluding AOCI of $51.62.
Operating ROE in the third quarter was 13.2% on book value excluding AOCI other than FCTA or 40 basis points higher than the 12.8% using book value excluding AOCI.
Tangible book value and tangible operating ROE are also new disclosures this quarter.
Tangible book value is calculated by excluding goodwill and other non-insurance intangible assets from book value excluding AOCI other than FCTA.
These intangible assets were $10.9 billion as of September 30 and the vast majority was goodwill.
Tangible book value per share was $39.95 as of September 30 up 7% year-over-year and tangible operating ROE was 16.7% in the third quarter.
We believe tangible operating ROE provides a better measure of the underlying business returns for MetLife.
Turning to third quarter margins.
Underwriting was favorable to the prior year quarter.
Highlights included a recovery in Retail and Latin America from a weak second quarter modest improvement in Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits on a sequential and year-over-year basis and strong results in property and casualty.
Retail life's interest-adjusted benefit ratio was 51.0% in the third quarter excluding the impact of the actuarial assumption review.
This ratio was in line with the prior year quarter and significantly better than the adjusted second quarter of 55.2%.
Large claims returned to a normal level in the third quarter from an elevated level in the second quarter.
In Latin America underwriting results were similar to the prior year quarter but better than the second quarter.
The sequential improvement was driven by Mexico worksite marketing claims returning to a normal level and the absence of negative onetime items.
The mortality ratio in group life was 89.9% versus 90.3% in the prior year period.
Results this quarter were at the top end of our 85% to 90% targeted range but only slightly above the 89.1% third quarter average during the prior 3 years when adjusting for the -- a onetime item in the third quarter of 2011.
The non-medical health interest-adjusted loss ratio was 79.0% favorable to the prior year quarter of 80.6% and down sequentially from 82.6%.
Disability underwriting results were favorable to the prior year quarter and improved sequentially largely due to lower claim severity.
Dental margins were unfavorable to the prior year driven by higher utilization.
On a year-to-date basis dental utilization is unchanged compared to the first 9 months of 2013.
In our P&amp;C business the combined ratio including catastrophes was 83.6% in Retail and 91.0% in group.
The combined ratios excluding catastrophes were 79.3% in Retail and 86.2% in group.
Overall P&amp;C underwriting results were favorable versus the prior year due to the -- due to lower catastrophe and non-cat losses as well as favorable prior year reserve development.
Moving to third quarter investment margins.
As Steve noted the average of the 4 U.S.
product spreads in our QFS was 236 basis points up 15 basis points both year-over-year and sequentially.
Product spreads excluding variable investment income were 191 basis points down 16 basis points versus the prior year and 4 basis points sequentially.
While we have experienced modest compression in our recurring investment margins this has been more than offset by strong variable investment income.
Overall we are pleased with our investment margins particularly in this persistent low rate environment.
With regard to expenses the operating expense ratio was 23.0% in the third quarter as compared to 24.3% in the year-ago quarter.
As Steve mentioned expenses were up only 2% year-over-year.
Adjusting for Provida as well as onetime regulatory and project costs expenses were below the prior year level.
Gross expense saves were $239 million in the third quarter and net saves were $162 million after adjusting for reinvestment of $29 million and onetime costs of $48 million.
While we caution against extrapolating any 1 quarter's results the annualized effect of the net saves has reached our targeted bottom line benefit of $600 million which was announced at the May 2012 Investor Day.
In addition to our expectation for a modest increase in gross expense saves we anticipate that over time the reinvestment spend will increase while onetime costs decrease.
I will now discuss the business highlights in the quarter.
Retail operating earnings were $699 million up 6% versus the prior year quarter and up 2% after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
Growth in Retail was driven by Life &amp; Other while -- which reported operating earnings of $350 million up 48% versus the prior year quarter and up 15% after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
The primary drivers were favorable expense margins and underwriting.
Annuities reported operating earnings of $349 million down 17% versus the prior quarter -- year quarter and down 6% after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
The primary drivers were negative net flows and lower core spreads partially offset by favorable markets and lower expenses.
Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits or GVWB reported operating earnings of $237 million up 5% versus the prior year quarter and essentially flat after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
Underwriting results improved in group life and disability partially offset by less-favorable dental results.
GVWB PFOs was $4.3 billion up 6% year-over-year.
GVWB sales increased 10% from the prior year quarter due to growth in group life and disability businesses.
Corporate Benefit Funding reported operating earnings of $408 million up 37% versus the prior year quarter and up 26% after adjusting for notable items.
Growth was driven by improved interest margins and favorable underwriting results.
CBF PFOs were $582 million up 2% year-over-year due to growth in structured settlements and income annuities partially offset by lower pension closeouts.
We remain active but disciplined in the pension closeout market and continue to see a good pipeline of small to mid-sized cases.
Latin America reported operating earnings of $152 million up 14% from the prior year quarter and 22% on a constant currency basis driven by the Provida acquisition and business growth across the region.
Chilean tax reform which resulted in a onetime charge of $41 million was a partial offset.
Latin America PFOs were $1.1 billion up 24% from the prior year quarter and 31% on a constant currency basis driven by growth across the region.
Turning to Asia.
Operating earnings were $306 million up 19% from the prior year quarter on both a reported and constant currency basis and down 3% after adjusting for notable items in both quarters.
Business growth and solid investment margins were muted because of positive onetime tax impacts in the prior year.
Asia PFOs were $2.5 billion up 3% from the prior year quarter and 5% on a constant currency basis primarily due to growth in Australia.
Asia sales were up 10% from the prior year period driven by strong growth in Australia and China.
Repricing of products in Japan explains an 18% decline in sales from the prior year quarter.
We continue to focus on value over volume in Japan as new business sales are generating attractive returns relative to the prior year.
In EMEA operating earnings were $96 million up 13% year-over-year and 20% on a constant currency basis.
The key drivers in the quarter were business growth in the Middle East a $10 million after-tax benefit from the annual actuarial assumption review and other insurance adjustments as well as an incremental $5 million benefit from the conversion of certain operations at calendar-year reporting.
EMEA PFOs were up 3% from the prior year period and 4% on a constant currency basis.
Total sales increased 12% with 31% growth in emerging markets including strong employee benefits sales in the Middle East.
Finally the operating loss in Corporate &amp; Other was $73 million as compared to $163 million in the prior year quarter.
The improvement in Corporate &amp; Other was mainly due to certain tax items.
These items include the previously noted $32 million benefit related to the filing of the company's 2013 U.S.
federal tax return a $31 million year-to-date adjustment to reflect lower estimated tax rate in 2014 and a tax benefit from the timing of certain dividend payments from non-U.S.
subsidiaries.
The Corporate &amp; Other line is difficult to predict on a quarterly basis and we think that the third quarter loss was well below a normal level.
We would expect Corporate &amp; Other loss to be between $175 million and $225 million in the fourth quarter and within our guidance range of $550 million to $750 million for the full year.
I will now discuss our cash and capital position.
Cash and liquid assets at the holding companies were approximately $6 billion at September 30 which is up from $5.5 billion at June 30.
The increase from the second quarter was driven by approximately $1.5 billion of subsidiary dividends less common stock dividends and share buybacks.
For our U.S.
insurance companies preliminary third quarter statutory operating earnings were approximately $1 billion up 43% from the prior year quarter and statutory net income was approximately $1.1 billion up 140%.
The increase in statutory operating earnings was primarily due to lower taxes and unfavorable mortality partially offset by lower separate account returns.
The increase in statutory net income was due to these factors and lower derivative losses.
Next I would like to provide you with an update on our capital position.
As you know we report U.S.
RBC ratios annually so we do not have an update for the third quarter.
Our total U.S.
statutory adjusted capital is expected to be approximately $28 billion as of September 30 up 6% compared to December 31.
For Japan our solvency margin ratio is 1 018% as of the second quarter of 2014 which is the latest public data.
In conclusion MetLife had a strong third quarter.
Investment margins remain healthy.
Expenses are well controlled and underwriting improved.
In addition our cash and capital position remain strong providing us with the flexibility to be opportunistic in managing capital as we seek to maximize shareholder value.
And with that I will turn it back to the operator for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar from JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> First I had a question on just your spreads overall.
They've been pretty strong throughout the year and even if you exclude variable investment income.
So if I think about your guidance I think you had talked about a 10-year Treasury yield of around 3.36% or so by the end of the year so we're considerably below that.
Just wondering how you think about that as you look into 2015 and look at your spreads and margins given the current interest rate environment.
Jimmy it's Steve Goulart on.
I'll start and in just thinking about rates.
I mean you're right that rates are a lot lower than the consensus.
And I think even when we look at the outlook I think the forecast within the year is 2 88 for the 10 year and 3 35 next year.
We're probably still more conservative about that but remember there are 2 legs to this too.
So we've had strong VII.
We continue to have good recurring income but we are continuing to reinvest or roll off at rates call it 100 to 150 below the assets that are rolling off.
So we're able to maintain the yield portion of this through strong VII and continued good ALM discipline but remember the other piece of it is also pricing and crediting rates on products too.
So a margin takes both pieces to work together and I think the other pieces work together.
And I don't know if Bill wants to add anything to that.
Well if you look at our businesses I mean it's in the disclosure: Our crediting rates have been flat for a long time because we've reached product rate minimums in many of our products.
And even though new sales generally have lower interest rate credit minimums they're -- it's only changing the mix slightly.
Therefore I think you're going to see investment spread compression continue barring some significant macroeconomic change in interest rates.
So I think that's it's been a very gradual decline in terms of spread compression.
And I think that will continue with maybe the same -- some offset from VII.
Research Division</strong> And on VII can you talk about what asset classes did better than normal? Obviously VII was a little bit higher than your -- the high end of your range.
And which asset classes outperformed those that underperformed? Sure.
The trend continues basically.
We've had strong private equity performance for most of the year and that happened again in the third quarter.
Prepayments continue to be a little bit ahead of our projections too both bond and mortgages.
And hedge funds have sort of underperformed to plan.
And I think in looking at the fourth quarter we generally expect that trend.
I don't think you'll see the same strong VII results in the fourth quarter but I would still expect this to be within our planned range of 2 25 to 2 75 maybe more toward the lower end just looking at what's happened in PE and hedge funds in the last couple of months.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First question for John just following up on your comment on corporate loss expectations going forward.
So if I start with the dollar -- adjusted $1.51 number stripping out the unusual items I would then I guess adjust corporate other by another $0.07 or so at least.
Any other adjustments that you would make when you think about run rate heading into 4Q? Yes so I gave the range for the loss in the fourth quarter between $175 million and $225 million and that's really getting out these tax -- mainly tax adjustments that we had in corporate in this quarter with some of it was from last year which is notable that was taken out.
And then the -- but there's still some catch-up in the tax rate that we made in this quarter to get at the effective tax rate for the year.
So I think it's within the guidance that I've given.
Research Division</strong> Okay but no -- and I heard Steve Goulart's comment about his expectation for VII so we can make that adjustment as well but any other -- anything else that you don't believe as necessarily trendable whether it's encaje returns within Lat Am or anything else certain FX adjustments that you would make that you feel like are notable enough to not extrapolate this quarter into next or to make any adjustments? Well Tom I think we have a policy that we don't give guidance other than for some specific items like Corporate &amp; Other and a few things and VII for the year.
So we've given those pieces but that's as far as we do.
Thanks.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just one follow-up I guess for Steve.
I saw the IAIS capital standard came out I guess it was earlier this week and was just curious -- or maybe it was late last week.
Just curious if this is something that you all have been analyzing.
And if so what are your thoughts on it? And do you think there's any -- should we be thinking about that impacting what the Fed might do in terms of nonbank SIFI framework? Okay Tom thanks.
I'm going to answer your question in 1 minute but it was brought to my attention that I misread one of the words in my remarks.
I had meant to say that underwriting margins in both Retail life and Latin America returned to normal levels in the third quarter and I guess I said investment margins.
I suppose that's a hazard of being a former Chief Investment Officer.
But so Tom in terms of the standards that just came out by the IAIS they talked about basic capital requirements which is where the starting point on which they will kind of develop higher loss absorbency requirements for global systemically important insurers.
They will be named GSIIs.
So that would include us.
Now I will say it's still early days but the key focus by us is on this HLL -- HLA standard higher loss absorbency and that has yet to be determined.
They've talked about some principles but it's still being worked on.
So we are working very closely with regulators across the globe and with groups like the IAIS; through the IIF the International Institute of Finance; and The Geneva Association; and others and we're quite engaged in this.
It's still early days I'd say.
And I think it's important to remember that these international bodies have no regulatory authority other than to make suggestions to the national or local regulators who either adopt or do not adopt the standards they ultimately come up with.
So it's a long way of saying we're still far from knowing what these standards will mean in terms of actual impact upon our company or the industry.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Berg from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just have one question.
As you think about your cost of equity capital and your discussion around pension risk transfer transactions and you indicated that participating in some of these larger transactions would have created value for you but modest value for your shareholders do you perceive -- as best as you can tell do you perceive your cost of equity capital to be materially different from that of other large insurers? It's Steve.
I don't really want to try to opine upon other people's cost of equity capital but I think we have a pretty good understanding of our cost of equity capital what impacts it.
And we've taken steps from our strategy work to try and reduce that as well as increase our returns.
And we look closely at all businesses including the pension closeout business to determine where we think we're creating shareholder value and where we're not.
And we'll bid on that kind of business but we'll be very disciplined as I mentioned in my remarks.
And we can't really speak to what others' thought process is or what they think their cost of equity capital is to simply make sure that whatever we do on our side is a value to our shareholders over the long run.
LLC Research Division</strong> One quick follow-up.
Is it that the smaller end of the market the smaller -- well let's say the mid-sized employer market for pension risk transfers is just less competitive and that has allowed you to achieve your targeted rates of returns where you weren't able to do so in the larger market? What's different about the markets where you have achieved success in terms of winning business? Eric it's Bill.
So we ask that -- we've asked that question a lot internally ourselves about geez there's something going on with expenses or implementation costs for smaller deals that -- versus large deals.
And the answer is it -- I think every transaction is a little different in terms of what we think the mortality experience is likely to be the assets that are getting transferred over and or not.
And so they're all a little different.
My -- I would've assumed at one time that -- larger-case deals because there are just less bidders because there are less bidders avail -- able to take the larger transactions on their balance sheet that those would have been somewhat less competitive.
That has clearly turned out not to be true at least in the last couple of years.
And we have experienced a lot more success in the small end of the market than the large.
And we were -- last year for instance in 2013 we were the market share leader in this category.
There were not any large deals last year.
And even after these 2 big deals were announced we won shortly right after that 3 smaller deals.
So it's hard to understand the competitive dynamics in terms of large versus big.
I would just say there's -- I don't think really there's much difference.
Your next question comes from the line of Seth Weiss from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
First just in terms of the ultimate goal for ROE if we look at the new book value standard.
It looks like it gives you about 30 to 40 basis points at least this quarter because of lower book value.
When you think about your ultimate ROE objective has that changed because of the rebasing of the book value? No.
This is John.
I mean the goal of our ROE was set out as a strategy which was a basic return goal of return over equity and you want to have that on the same basis.
Currency has moved quite a bit since 2012.
As I said this just was not really a major impact in prior years.
'13 it started to become more as continuing so we thought it was important to make this adjustment.
Most of our major competitors adjust for this already in how they quote and think about this.
So it truly is the economic return that's happening to get apples and apples on the numerator and the denominator.
So we think it's a better measure but we are returning with these measures we're publishing to the goals that we set out of the 12% to the 14% ROE.
Research Division</strong> And if I could ask just one question on PRT.
And Steve I appreciate your commentary on the conservatism of your pricing.
When you think about the sensitivity of your ultimate profitability of this business is interest rates the primary and the overall variable that's really driving the sensitivity? Or is it mortality and other assumptions that also causes a lot of the sensitivity of your profitability analysis? Well again we look at -- this is Bill Wheeler again.
We look at the -- anytime we -- a case of any size we have to look at the underlying mortality experience and extrapolate from that in terms of -- because remember the closeouts we're doing they're almost all retired lives.
They're not generally active lives.
And retired lives what's the age of the group? What -- there are lots of demographic issues which can change the mortality assumptions.
You have to make a good assumption there.
And then we have a target set of investments that we want to put up against these liabilities.
We have a standard set and that'll inform our investment spreads.
Those are the 2 big drivers.
It's really not administrative costs though we have a very efficient administrative platform.
Or it's not setup costs.
It's -- that's the 2 big factors are mortality experience and then the investment spreads you're going to earn.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bass from Citigroup.
Research Division</strong> You used to discuss the sales trends you're seeing in group benefits and the level of activity in the market.
I mean it's also -- are you starting to see any benefit from employment growth on plan enrollments? Yes Erik it's Bill again.
The -- so we're having a good sales year.
And I think John alluded to that that sales activity is up year-over-year.
We're -- we had a -- we've talked I think in previous quarters about exchanges.
The exchange numbers that sales numbers came in essentially where we think they're going to for the full year but the adoption there is pretty slow so I would say that's not a very big factor yet in the group marketplace.
The -- we're also -- I would argue I would contend we're having quite a good renewal season in terms of cases we already had that have come up for renewal pricing.
We are generally achieving our targets there and that's good.
So that means the market is -- it's competitive but not overly competitive.
And in terms of adding -- seeing increases due to payroll I would say right now that's modest.
And there is a little bit of growth there but it's not very material.
Research Division</strong> And then on just the underwriting results in group can you give a little bit more detail on where you saw improvement this quarter and where you see additional opportunities? Sure.
So there are 3 big drivers here.
It's group life disability and dental.
Group life a little better year-over-year right at the -- just under the top end of our guidance range so I would call it a so-so underwriting quarter.
I think there's improvement left there and I think you'll probably see that in the coming quarters the next year.
Disability pretty good improvement sequentially.
And I think -- and I -- we are working through our -- I think on the last quarterly call we talked about some operational issues in one of our claims management sites.
And we've seen some improvement in the metrics there and I think that will continue.
So I think there's opportunity for continued upside there.
As John alluded to in the call dental was soft this quarter.
We're still seeing a catch-up in utilization.
Remember in the first quarter we had a really poor weather.
Nobody went to the dentist and -- but they did eventually go see their dentists in the second quarter and also the third quarter.
So utilization now is just where it was at the 9-month period last year so I think we've had our catch-up.
And so my guess is dental will -- should improve from here as well.
So I see -- even though I think it was an okay improvement overall in group underwriting I think there's more to come.
Your next question comes from the line of Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> I had a couple of follow-up questions on interest rates.
So first if we think of the better performance than expected on the interest rate front given that interest rates have come down and spreads have not weakened nearly to the degree that you expected back when you provided the 10-K assumptions what else do you have? Are there any other things that you can do as you think of 2015 and a possibly lower rate environment there that could still mitigate the impacts from the declining rates? This is John.
And our strategy I think will continue that we have mitigated much of the decrease in the core spreads by variable investment income.
And of course we've been helped by good equity markets and other factors but also the diversification of our asset structure helps mitigate this as well as the derivatives that have been purchased some time ago.
Unfortunately as time wears on that impact from those derivatives will slowly start to wear off and we will be faced with declining spreads if rates stay at these low levels.
So it's there will be continued pressure on this and we are doing our best to mitigate it.
Research Division</strong> Okay and that leads me to my second question which really goes to -- back to the assumption review.
So clearly there was no real impact from a lower interest rate environment in the assumption review.
And I know that the company had lowered it's expected total returns a couple of years ago.
If rates remain kind of lower for longer at what point do you have to revisit your current assumptions? Or are you comfortable with where they are today regardless of kind of the rate environment that we currently see? Right.
So that's -- it's a very important question and something that we consider all the time.
Rates are low.
We even saw some quite low 10-year Treasury rates just a few weeks ago.
And so the question always is does that make you change your long-term assumption.
Our actuaries make assumptions that impact our business for the next 50-plus years sometimes even longer so you have to think about this over a very long time.
And we look at recent trends but we also look way back over 100 years or 50 years or 40 years.
And you think about your different economic cycles.
So you have to take all those into account.
We do target basically a 4.5% 10-year Treasury which is a basis of the Fed inflation target of 2% and then a long-term growth return for the U.S.
economy.
We still think that is appropriate for the long long term.
We do great into that from where we are today.
And we also have to remember that even though we have low rates we just saw the announcement that the Federal Reserve is stopping bond buying so an unprecedented buying within the market so that's never been seen before by both the Federal Reserve and the ECB which has a big impact on global markets.
And I think the Fed said that they will be buying more but they will keep their current balance the same so they will buy.
They will keep it up so they won't even see that going down.
And this has a large impact on what's happening to interest rates.
We've also seen some global economic concerns which there's always a flight to U.S.
Treasuries whenever that happens.
So I think you always have to take the current day's news quarter's news year's news into a total perspective and think about 40 and 50 years which is a hard thing to think about but that's what our actuaries have to do.
And we would have to see some continued time and really get a fundamental differing view long-term view on the U.S.
economy and inflation targets to fundamentally make -- to make some changes.
Your next question comes from the line of Nigel Dally from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Question on Retail.
While the earnings were on track sales came pretty soft on the life insurance and annuity side.
So to hit your longer-term targets I think we'll probably going to need to see that turn around.
So can you discuss what's driving the current weakness and where you stand on product introductions? Or are there distribution initiatives to help drive stronger growth? Nigel it's Bill.
So there are sort of 2 stories here.
Both life sales and annuity sales are down -- or variable annuity sales are down significantly year-over-year.
And I would say almost all of that is product driven.
We -- well if I take variable annuity sales we forecast all year.
Or when we gave sort of our outlook call last -- late last year we said that we expected variable annuity sales to be down and that '14 would sort of represent the dip year and then we'd see -- we'd start to see growth in '15.
And that's even probably more true than we estimated at the time.
I do expect to see growing VA sales but I think they're going to be timed very closely to the new product rollout that we expect over the next couple of quarters.
And we're not in a position to make product rollout announcements today but there will be new product rollouts coming.
And I think that'll strengthen our competitive position in that marketplace.
And so I would say it's product driven not distribution related.
With regard to life a couple things going on there.
Again the third quarter was a little soft and seasonally it's always going to be the softest quarter.
It -- we changed pricing in term life in the third quarter.
And I think -- when that got announced I think people waited for the new repriced term to come out and I think that probably made the sales look a little worse than we otherwise would have thought.
So I think there will be a recovery in the fourth quarter in term.
There is a new product in the competitive scene indexed universal life which is garnering a lot of sales.
We don't sell that product.
And of course what makes the year-over-year comparison a little more difficult is the sale of no longer selling universal life with lifetime guarantees.
There too we have had some new product introductions which I think have gotten a lot of interest.
And I expect to see sales momentum starting to build in Retail life as well over the next I would say 4 5 quarters.
So a bit of a dip this year given all the changes we've made in the Retail business.
And I don't think that's really surprising but we -- but I think we're on the upswing.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful.
Just a quick follow-up on the IAIS basic capital requirements.
We're hearing that bid rules are likely to be similar.
Interested to say whether -- or to hear whether you think that's right or it's just too early to tell.
Nigel could you repeat that a little bit -- a little slowly? Let me just -- yes.
Nigel did you say that -- the IAIS capital rules that it's expected the Fed will use these? Is that what you...
Research Division</strong> Yes it'd be along the same lines right.
It is unclear what the Federal Reserve will do.
Technically right now they're bound by the Collins Amendment which the Federal Reserve is interpreting to apply basically Basel III to anything that is similar in an insurance company that a bank has.
If the current bills in the House and Senate get reconciled and signed by the President then the Federal Reserve has the freedom they believe to adopt different set of rules but up to now the Fed has not given any guidance as to how much tailwind that they expect to do.
They have said that they will of course look at what the IAIS comes up with in a very similar way that the Federal Reserve looks at what Basel does for banks.
The Basel Committee passes basic global rules Basel III.
The Federal Reserve then looks to those rules interprets them and comes up with standards that they believe are at least as strong as what the Basel III rules are.
So I believe they'll be following a similar process when it comes to in rules that apply to nonbank SIFIs but exactly how that turns out and where it ends up is unknown at this time.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Krueger from KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on expenses.
So you've already achieved the $600 million net expense save target.
So trying to get a sense of as we look forward from here how do you think about additional opportunities to improve the consolidated expense ratio going forward.
Ryan it's John.
Yes as I mentioned we have realized our goal.
I did say and we do expect to be continually focusing on our expense ratios.
I think when we gave our long-term guidance last fall -- last December and we spoke about the various business lines in general the goal from here on in is to grow revenues faster than expenses to get that growing margin growth.
But the cost saves the major program that we started in 2012 we are basically there at a run-rate basis.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Is it -- I guess as a follow-up to that I think I definitely remember in the international businesses that the goal is in kind of each case to grow.
Do you expect expense growth to be lower than revenue growth? And it seemed like that might be less the case in the U.S.
Should we expect it mostly to be driven by international with U.S.
kind of seeing less opportunity for improvement from here? Yes well we had -- in the fast-growth markets we expect that to be better.
And we do expect a slight improvement in certain of the U.S.
businesses but in some of the larger ones really far less from this point forward.
Your next question comes from the line of Colin Devine from Jefferies.
With respect to where you stand in the regulatory front it's been a pretty busy year I guess with New York notwithstanding what's going on with the Fed.
Are there any updates you can give us on where things stand with respect to your use of captive reinsurance? Or how are you looking at reinsurance usage overall now given the changes from New York ditto on the XXX situation? And then also perhaps for Steve Goulart the NAIC is looking at a bunch of different changes to RBC capital requirements on the C1 charges both with the much broader range of bond categories commercial real estate.
How is that impacting your thinking about where you're going to be reinvesting next year even perhaps repositioning the portfolio but to keep the yield up? Colin this is John.
So when it comes to captives of course our variable annuity captive which is now based in Delaware will be merged into a set of statutory entities in November this year.
This is what we announced last year and we're on track for that.
We have all regulatory approvals to proceed.
So that means that sales of variable annuities will no longer be using any seeding to a captive.
They'll be in the statutory entities either the New York company for New York sales or the large non-New York company for non-New York sales.
Life captives we have existing ones in place but for New York we don't seed to captives at all.
And we don't sell universal life for secondary guarantees anymore which is what these captives are used for.
We don't sell those any place in the U.S.
so we have no real net use for the -- for the major use of these captives.
There's a small amount of term insurance non-New York that might be used for that.
And then I'll turn it over to Steve for the RBC question.
One question John before you do that.
Going forward when you refer to MetLife's RBC is it going to be just for the New York entity? Or will you start referring to it on a consolidated U.S.
basis? Not -- but the[ph] international operations obviously but [indiscernible].
Colin we don't really give it for -- on a consolidated U.S.
basis for our primary U.S.
statutory entities and that's the number that I quote on an ongoing basis.
And that will be reflecting -- post the merger of all these companies we'll then reflect the VA captive which used to be offshore in that number.
So our RBC at the end of this year will reflect all the VA business within the statutory entities.
Okay.
And is there any update on the -- what -- how that will impact your RBC? Is it still the sort of 60 bps there? We have -- gave some time ago guidance that we expected it to be of above 400% RBC and we still expect that to be the case.
Okay.
And Steve? Colin Steve.
A couple of comments I guess on that.
And obviously we're following what's going on in RBC and potential ratings.
It's always an important factor in our investment plan.
My understanding though is on the -- at least on the bond side I think there's still a lot of uncertainty on where the NAIC is going to come out on that.
The one positive is actually on the mortgage side where I think it looks like some of the re-ratings there are going to be positive.
And of course given the importance of real estate and mortgages to us that would be a benefit.
So you're specifically fine to to meet there [ph].
Is there -- what about also for owned real estate? I mean you've been very successful in it.
Does that give you -- if they're going to drop the capital requirement that meaningfully open up an opportunity to get back into that perhaps a bit more actively and also thinking that you don't face the same sort of mark-to-market fluctuations? Well I guess at this point I couldn't say it'll change our strategy.
Remember real estate equity has always been important to us and it continues to be a good component of our overall investing strategies probably more so than some of our peers.
So I wouldn't say it would necessarily increase that because you still have to think about overall risk-return and capital requirements.
Okay.
Thank you everyone.
We're at a little bit past 9:00.
Thanks for dialing in.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10 AM Eastern time today through November 6.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at anytime by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code 314848.
International participants dial (320) 365-3844.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the MetLife Fourth quarter 2014 Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Before we get started I’d like to read the following statement on behalf of MetLife.
Except with respect to historical information statements made in this conference call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements related to trends in the Company's operations and financial results and the businesses and the products of the Company and its subsidiaries.
MetLife's actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including those described from time to time in MetLife's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including in the Risk Factors section of those filings.
MetLife specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I’d like to turn the call over to Ed Spehar Head of Investor Relations.
Thank you Brad.
Good morning everyone and welcome to MetLife's fourth quarter 2014 earnings call.
We will be discussing certain financial measures not based on generally accepted accounting principles so called non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures and related definitions to the most directly comparable GAAP measures may be found on the Investor Relations portion of metlife.com in our earnings release and our quarterly financial supplements.
A reconciliation of forward-looking information to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is not accessible because MetLife believes it's not possible to provide a reliable forecast of net investment and net derivative gains and losses which can fluctuate from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
Now joining me this morning on the call are Steve Kandarian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Hele Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will take your questions.
Also here with us today to participate in the discussions are other members of management including Bill Wheeler President of Americas; Steve Goulart Chief Investment Officer; Michel Khalaf President of EMEA; and Chris Townsend President of Asia.
During the Q&amp;A session in fairness to all participants please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report solid results for the fourth quarter of 2014.
Operating earnings were $1.6 billion up 2% from the fourth quarter of 2013.
And operating earnings per share were $1.38 a 1% increase over the prior year period.
Full-year 2014 operating earnings were $6.6 billion a 5% increase over 2013.
In operating earnings per share we are up 2% from the prior year period.
Operating return on equity was 12% for the full-year 2014 and tangible operating ROE was 15.2%.
We believe tangible ROE is a better measure of the business returns for MetLife because it excludes purchase accounting adjustments primarily goodwill.
Our strong 2014 operating earnings came on top of above plan results for 2013.
And we once again achieved an operating ROE at the low end of our 2016 target of 12% to 14%.
I am even more pleased with MetLife's multi year performance which is a better measure of success in our long-term business.
MetLife's operating earnings increase at a compound annual rate of 12.1% from 2011 to 2014.
Over the same period operating EPS grew at a compound annual rate of 9.6%.
Operating return on equity averaged 11.8% from 2012 through 2014 only slightly below the low end of 2016 target range.
Close to double-digit operating EPS growth and 12% operating ROE during the past three years our noteworthy accomplishments given that the 10-year treasury yield has averaged 2.2% since the summer of 2011 and our capital management actions have been conservative due to regulatory uncertainty.
With a 10-year treasury yield now at 2% the low interest rate environment remains a challenge for life insurance -- for the life insurance business.
Over the long-term we believe the 10-year treasury yield should be 4% to 4.5% based on the Federal Reserve’s 2% inflation target and expectations for long-term economic growth.
However if interest rates remain low indefinitely there would likely be a downward reset in return expectations across asset classes.
Because equity returns are measured against a risk-free rate the spread between MetLife's operating ROE and the 10-year treasury yield is a key metric.
From 2012 to 2014 the spread between MetLife’s ROE and the 10-year treasury yield has averaged 9.6%.
This compares favorably to an average spread of 6.9% from 2000 the year MetLife’s initial public offering to 2011.
I’d now like to comment on capital management.
We repurchased $557 million of stock in the fourth quarter completing the $1 billion share repurchase program we announced in June.
For the year-to-date we’ve taken advantage of share price weakness and repurchased $693 million of the $1 billion program we announced in December.
Given where the stock is trading today it is likely that we will complete this $1 billion program soon.
While we continue to believe that MetLife is well capitalized uncertainties surrounding potential capital rules makes us cautious about share repurchases in excess of $1 billion in 2015.
Turning to strategy.
In 2014 we achieved two key elements of the strategy that we announced in May of 2012.
We have derisked the retail business which was a large part of our refocus the U.S business cornerstone of our strategy and we achieved net expense savings of $600 million pre-tax.
Our retail business has undergone a transformation during the past few years as we’ve worked to reduce risk create a more efficient operation and improve the productivity of our distribution force.
Derisking meant pulling back from the variable annuity market and exiting the lifetime secondary guarantee universal life market.
Both of these initiatives had a material negative impact on sales.
We believe that 2014 will prove to be an inflection point for annuity sales and anticipate profitable growth in 2015 and beyond.
In variable annuities I am pleased to announce that we will launch a new guaranteed lifetime minimum withdrawal benefit product Flex Choice on February 17.
The income benefit for this product meets the current expectations of the marketplace.
As we communicated on our December outlook call we anticipate more than a 50% increase in total annuity sales in 2015.
However a projected rebound in annuity sales does not mean we are changing our overall strategy which is to emphasize growth and less capital intensive protection oriented product lines.
First the projected sales increase is from a low base.
Variable annuity sales were $6.3 billion in 2014 down dramatically from $28.4 billion in 2011.
Second we estimate that retail annuities will count for a smaller percentage of enterprise capital over time.
Another key strategy milestone in 2014 was achieving our net expense savings targets of $600 million pre-tax.
Our gross expense savings were $910 million last year close to the $1 billion strategy target.
We are highly confident that we will realize the $1 billion gross savings target in 2015.
The difference between gross and net savings in 2014 was a combination of one-time costs and reinvestment in the business.
One-time costs will fade but there will be a substantial increase in the reinvestment spend which is largely technology related.
Expenditures that represent an investment in the future including much of the work we are doing to update our technology may reduce current period earnings but are necessary to drive profitable growth over time.
Turning to regulatory issues as you know MetLife has filed a legal challenge to its designation as a systemically important financial institution by the Financial Stability Oversight Council.
As I said when we filed the challenge last month MetLife had hope to avoid litigation in light of the substantial and compelling evidence we presented to FSOC demonstrating the company is not systemically important.
The Dodd Frank Act is clear that size alone does not make a company systemic and we believe FSOC erred in designating MetLife.
We believe we’ve a strong legal case to present to the court and look for to its eventual decision.
As a former regulator I want to emphasize that MetLife as always supported robust regulation for the life insurance industry.
It has operated under a stringent state regulatory system for decades.
However adding a new federal standard for just the largest life insurers while retaining a different standard for everyone else will harm competition.
This will drive up the cost of financial protection for consumers without making the financial system safer.
We believe the government should preserve a level playing field in the life insurance industry.
If additional regulation is necessary the government has a superior tool at its disposal an approach that focuses on potentially systemic activities regardless of the size of the firm.
FSOC has already embraced this activities based approach for the asset management industry.
Litigation takes time to resolve.
In the meantime the Federal Reserve is now one of MetLife’s regulators.
We are cooperating fully with representatives from the New York Fed as they carryout their supervisory duties.
At the same time we continue to discuss with regulators and lawmakers in Washington the need for capital rules that reflect the business of insurance.
With the enactment of the Insurance Capital Standards Clarification Act in December the Federal Reserve now has the flexibility it needs to properly tailor capital rules for life insurers.
In closing let me reiterate MetLife's commitment to creating long-term value for shareholders.
We are focused on maintaining the appropriate risk profile selling business at attractive rates of return relative to our cost of capital and most important improving free cash flow so MetLife can return additional capital to shareholders.
With that I'll turn the call over to John Hele to discuss our financial results in detail.
John? Thank you Steve and good morning.
Today I'll cover our fourth quarter results including a discussion of insurance margins investment spreads expenses and business highlights.
I’ll then conclude with some comments on cash and capital.
Operating earnings in the fourth quarter were $1.6 billion up 2% from the prior year period.
And operating earnings per share were $1.38 up 1%.
This quarter included 4 notable items which were disclosed by business segment in the appendix of our quarterly financial supplement or QFS.
First consistent with the guidance from our December outlook call we’ve strengthened our asbestos legal reserves in the quarter to reflect higher frequency and severity of claims.
This resulted in an after-tax charge of $170 million or $0.10 per share.
Second we had favorable one-time tax adjustments in Latin America and EMEA which increased operating earnings by $27 million or $0.02 per share.
Third we had lower than budgeted catastrophe experience and favorable prior year development which increased operating earnings by $16 million or $0.01 per share.
Finally we had three actuarial related items that increased operating earnings by a net $5 million or less than a penny per share.
The first actuarial related item a $66 million reduction in operating earnings was related to interest on unclaimed funds from life policies where we cannot locate the beneficiaries.
These unclaimed funds are held by state government and a multi-state audit determined that MetLife owed interest on these policies.
The impact was a $57 million in retail life and other and $9 million in group voluntary and worksite benefit.
The second a $48 million benefit to operating earnings was a reserve adjustment to correct the treatment of the disability premium waiver wider in a number of term life contracts in retail life and other.
You may recall we had a positive adjustment for this item in the second quarter of 2014 as well.
The third a $23 million benefit to operating earnings in Asia was an unlocking of deferred acquisition costs or DAC.
This unlocking resulted from a lower expense assumption for certain life products in Japan.
Adjusting for notable items in both periods operating earnings were up 5% year-over-year and 9% on a constant currency basis.
The key drivers on a constant currency basis were underwriting improvement business growth and lower taxes which were partially offset by less favorable equity market performance.
Turning to our bottom-line results.
Fourth-quarter net income was $1.5 billion or $1.30 per share.
Net income was $93 million below operating earnings in the quarter.
Four items that explain most of this difference are: number one charges of $140 million after-tax associated with asymmetrical accounting treatment for insurance contracts and other market value adjustments.
Number two derivative net losses of $40 million after-tax which reflects changes in foreign currencies partially offset by gains from lower interest rates in the quarter.
Number three a loss of $25 million after-tax related to certain variable annuity guarantees where the hedge assets are more sensitive to market fluctuations than the GAAP treatment for guaranteed liabilities.
And these were partially offset by number four investment portfolio net gains of $129 million after-tax as credit related losses continue to be modest in the portfolio.
Book value per share excluding AOCI other than FCTA was $49.53 as of December 30 up 5% year-over-year.
Tangible book value per share was $40.36 at year-end up 9% year-over-year.
In the fourth quarter operating ROE was 11.3% and tangible operating ROE was 14.1%.As Steve noted we believe tangible operating ROE provides a better measure of the underlying business returns for MetLife.
Turning to fourth quarter margins.
Underwriting results improved sequentially and year-over-year by approximately $0.06 after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
Year-over-year highlights include improvement in mortality and morbidity experience in the U.S.
as well as strong results in property and casualty.
Retail life's interest-adjusted benefit ratio was 53.9% in the fourth quarter and 53.0% after adjusting for the net impact of the notable items discussed earlier.
This result compared favorably to the prior year quarter of 54.2% and within our targeted range of 50% to 55%.
This marked the second consecutive quarter of normal claim activity for retail life after four volatile quarters.
The mortality ratio in group life was 88.4% and 87.4% after adjusting for the interest and unclaimed funds.
The adjusted ratio was favorable to 87.9% in the prior year quarter as well -- and well within the targeted range of 85% to 90%.
The non-medical health interest adjusted loss ratio was 77.4% favorable to the prior year quarter of 80.9% and the low end of the targeted range of 77% to 82%.
Disability underwriting improved while dental margins were favorable to the prior year as utilization returned to a normal level.
In our P&amp;C business the combined ratio including catastrophes was 85.8% in Retail and 92.3% in Group.
The combined ratios excluding catastrophes were 81.5% in Retail and 90.8% in Group.
Overall P&amp;C underwriting results were favorable versus the prior year due to the lower non-cat losses and expenses as well as favorable prior year reserve development.
Moving to fourth quarter investment margins the average of the 4 U.S.
product spreads in our QFS was 215 basis points down 26 basis points year-over-year and 21 sequentially.
Product spreads excluding variable investment income were 186 basis points down 13 basis points versus the prior year and five sequentially.
The sequential decline in spreads can be attributed to three primary factors.
First pre-tax variable investment income was $325 million at the top end of our 2014 quarterly guidance range.
After taxes in the impact to DAC VII was $211 million down $62 million sequentially due to weaker private equity and hedge fund returns.
Second core yields declined as a result of the low interest rate environment.
Average new money yields are running roughly 100 to 150 basis points below the average roll off yield on the portfolio.
And third there was a transfer of cash into retail annuity upon the completion of the four-way merger in November which accounts for the majority of the 20 basis point decline in deferred annuity spreads in the quarter.
We would expect to reinvest this cash in [indiscernible] securities over time.
With regard to expenses the operating expense ratio was 25.0% in the fourth quarter as compared to 25.3% in the year-ago quarter.
Adjusting for asbestos and other legal reserves in both quarters the operating expense ratio was 23.7% in the fourth quarter of 2014 and 23.6% in the prior year period.
Gross expense saves were $259 million in the fourth quarter and net saves were $163 million after adjusting for reinvestment of $33 million and one-time costs of $63 million.
I’ll now discuss the business highlights in the quarter.
Retail operating earnings were $683 million up 4% versus the prior year quarter and up 7% after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
Growth in Retail was driven by Life &amp; Other which reported operating earnings of $321 million up 13% versus the prior year quarter and 14% after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
The primary drivers were lower expenses and favorable underwriting.
Life &amp; Other PFOs were $2.2 billion up 2% year-over-year primarily due to growth in the open block and P&amp;C partially offset by the run-off of the closed block.
Annuities reported operating earnings of $362 million down 3% versus the prior year quarter and essentially flat after adjusting for excess variable investment in the prior year.
Annuities PFOs were $1.2 billion up 7% year-over-year primarily due to the higher income annuity sales.
Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits or GVWB reported operating earnings of $235 million up 2% versus the prior year quarter and 9% after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
Underwriting was the key driver with improved results in disability dental group life and P&amp;C.
GVWB PFOs were $4.2 billion up 3% year-over-year and sales increased 17% due to strong growth across all products.
Corporate Benefit Funding reported operating earnings of $374 million up 5% versus the prior year quarter and 10% after adjusting for notable items.
The key drivers were favorable underwriting and business growth.
CBF PFOs were $1.5 billion down 5% year-over-year due to lower income annuities and pension closeouts.
On closeouts we remain active but disciplined and continue to see a good pipeline of small to mid-sized cases.
Latin America reported operating earnings of $187 million up 8% from the prior year quarter and 26% on a constant currency basis.
Adjusting for the notable tax item in this quarter operating earnings were up 17% on a constant currency basis driven by business growth across the region partially offset by higher expenses.
Overall Latin American taxes were unusually low in the quarter even after adjusting for the notable tax item.
Latin America PFOs were $1 billion down 5% from the prior year quarter and up 6% on a constant currency basis driven by growth across the region.
Turning to Asia.
Operating earnings were $335 million up 3% from the prior year quarter and 9% on a constant currency basis.
After adjusting for notable items in both quarters operating earnings were up 7% on a constant currency basis.
Improvement in investment margins and business growth in the region were the primary drivers.
Asia PFOs were $2.3 billion down 3% from the prior year quarter but up 6% on a constant currency basis primarily due to growth in Japan Korea and Australia.
Asia sales were down 30% from the fourth quarter of 2013.
The decline was expected.
As the prior year quarter had a large group employee benefit sale in Australia and elevated yen life sales in Japan in advance of pricing changes.
Adjusting for these items Asia sales were up 1%.
In Japan total A&amp;H sales were up 21% year-over-year and 52% sequentially.
We have seen good traction from our two new medical products launched in September which we announced touring the 2014 Asia Investor Day.
In EMEA operating earnings were $85 million down 4% but at 9% year-over-year on a constant currency basis.
Adjusting for notable tax items in both periods operating earnings were up 7% on a constant currency basis due to business growth in the Middle East and a $7 million from the conversion of certain operations to calendar year reporting.
EMEA PFOs were up $671 million down 4% from the prior year period but up 3% on a constant currency basis.
Total sales increased 22% with 40% growth in emerging markets including strong employee benefits sales in the Middle East and A&amp;H across the region.
Finally the operating loss in Corporate &amp; Other was $316 million as compared to an operating loss of $278 million in the prior year quarter.
Adjusting for the increase in asbestos legal reserves this quarter the operating loss was $199 million which was within the $175 million to $225 million operating loss range that we guided to during our third quarter earnings call.
I’ll now discuss our cash and capital position.
Cash and liquid assets at the holding companies were approximately $6.1 billion at December 31.
In addition our 2014 free cash flow ratio was 44% better than our updated December estimate of approximately 40%.
Next I’d like to provide you with an update on our capital position.
While we have not yet completed our risk-based capital calculations for 2014 we estimate our combined RBC ratio will be in a range of 400% to 420%.
Our Japan solvency margin ratio which we file quarterly was 1 003% as of the third quarter and we estimate that our fourth quarter ratio will be comparable.
For our U.S insurance companies preliminary fourth quarter statutory operating earnings were approximately $2.4 billion and statutory net income was approximately $1.7 billion.
For the full-year of 2014 statutory operating earnings were approximately $5.2 billion and U.S statutory net income was approximately $3.8 billion.
U.S statutory operating earnings on a comparable basis were down $1.2 billion versus the prior year primarily due to less favorable equity markets and reserve strengthening.
We said in our December outlook call that we thought statutory insurance reserve increases at our New York subsidiary would be $400 million to $600 million more than we had initially contemplated.
Although we’re still finalizing year-end statutory statements we anticipate the increase in reserves will be in line with its revised expectation.
Even though the assumptions for cash flow testing reflected the lower interest rate environment since the December outlook call.
The year-end financials will also show capital contributed to our life insurance captives driven by low interest rates.
This increase in capital will be funded by $670 million of cash from the holding company with a $225 million contribution last year and a planned $445 million contribution in 2015.
Despite this cash contributions from the holding company free cash flow was better than our forecast in 2014 and we still believe a 45% to 55% ratio is a reasonable expectation for 2015.
We estimate that our total U.S statutory adjusted capital was approximately $28 billion as of December 31 up 13% on a comparable basis to the prior year.
In conclusion MetLife had a good fourth-quarter to close out a strong year.
Investment margins remain healthy despite pressure from low rates.
Expenses are well controlled and underwriting improved for the second consecutive quarter.
In addition our cash and capital position remains strong and we continue to successfully execute on our strategy as we seek to maximize shareholder value.
And with that I'll turn it back to the operator for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from the line of Ryan Krueger KBW.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
MetLife is unique among the public U.S life insurers in that your largest subsidiary is domiciled in New York and subject to some more conservative reserving standards.
We’ve seen a lot of life companies in the last couple of years take statutory charges in New York that they do not have to take in their other subsidiaries.
So I guess given that it seems like your 400% to 420% RBC ratio might not be directly comparable to the other company so I was hoping can you give us any sense of how much more is statutory reserve that you hold at this point because you’re domiciled in New York? Is there anything you can help us quantify there? Hi Ryan.
This is John.
Well as we’ve mentioned I think on prior calls New York we believe is more conservative than other states.
And we have had added reserves over the years.
We haven’t exactly quantified that for the market but suffice to say that our 400% to 420% we believe is quite strong.
Okay.
All right.
I guess second one on the variable annuity hedging strategy so -- now that you can got rid of the captive and you have to use traditional statutory VACARVM rather than the modified GAAP I think that you used in the captive.
Have you changed your hedging strategy at all because of that? Hi Ryan.
This is John again.
We’ve changed it slightly sort of to optimize for the VACARVM and how it moves.
But much of it remains the same with some regular delta hedging as well as some tail type hedging going on on an ongoing basis.
The overall cost of program has not materially changed.
We fine tuned it as we have done continuously since the start of the program.
Okay.
And is it accurate to say to think about it as the traditional statutory rules are less sensitive to interest rate movements than kind of a fair value GAAP approach? Yes that is true.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Hey good morning.
John you discuss the capital ratios in the subs can you comment on the holding company cash liquidity position capital that sits there right now? Hi Tom.
As I said we’ve got approximately $6.1 billion of cash at our holding companies and this is the amount that’s free and clear.
We have not given what is capital or required capital or excess capital; because we really don't know what the binding capital rules will be on us.
And so our strategy has been to be conservative when it comes to overall capital management and to have a good balance in cash at the holding companies.
And when you say that’s $6.1 billion that's free and clear.
Just remind us what your -- the buffer that you typically hold given interest coverage and debt considerations? Well prior to MetLife being considered to being a SIFI and now been a SIFI I believe sometime ago MetLife did give some numbers.
But since we’ve been under a review and now that we’ve been picked we’ve not given a target number because we really don’t know what the binding constraints will be we don’t understand the capital rules.
We of course do our own internal stress testing and we have some number in mind.
But to give you guidance on it would be misleading because we just don’t know where it’s going to be.
So with regard to that we have just been conservative in how much we hold both thinking through a strong capitalized position within all of our insurance entities as well as having a strong cash position at the holding companies.
Okay.
And just one follow-up for Steve though I guess the way you described the fact that you’re going to complete the $1 billion buyback program soon but then you’re cautious of doing more in lieu of uncertain regulation.
It’s a bit of a change in tones and maybe it’s just that.
But is there something new that’s occurred and obviously the law suite is out there.
But is there anything else going on behind the scenes that we should be thinking about if why there’s more caution now because I think the last couple of times you’ve described capital management its been somewhat more constructive.
Tom I think I’ve been pretty cautious right along.
We didn’t engage in share repurchases for some time.
Then given how long it took for the capital rules to come forward which they haven’t come forward yet.
We decided to do a relatively conservative share repurchase program in 2014 of $1 billion and we announced another $1 billion for 2015.
The completion of that program will probably occur faster than we had anticipated when you put that program in place because our share price had dropped in the marketplace or the drop in a 10 year treasury and that accelerated our purchases because we kind of -- our purchases are based upon our view of value in the marketplace of our stock.
So I think it’s really consistent what we’ve been saying to you.
I think its pretty consistent right along.
Okay.
And lastly is there any formality right now -- since the fed is you regulator now but you have this other issue going on.
Is there any formality that is required to execute on our capital return programs or you just share information with them at this point? What we share -- this is John with our fed regulator now all capital management actions we are planning to do and we’re in active discussions with them at all times.
So if we were to at some point consider doing capital management actions we will be informing them.
Okay.
Thanks.
Our next question comes from Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
A quick follow-up to Ryan’s question on the RBC; so first of all -- so what's now in that RBC? Is it basically everything that you have in the U.S.
x the XXX and AXXX captives? That’s my first question.
Yes it would be everything in the U.S.
with the exception of the XXX or AXXX life captives and -- well everything material there may be some immaterial little about there but it’s everything that is material U.S.
business.
Okay.
And then the 400% to 420% just based on your comments about the conservatism in New York should we just -- should we assume that that’s a level that you’re comfortable running with.
I know a lot of companies talk about a 400% minimum but then tend to hold more than that.
But should we expect you to run at 400% to 420%? We do try to target about 400% so that’s where we are.
But we do also think about the strength of the overall balance sheets that we have in particular having the New York Company.
Okay.
And then I guess for Steve I just wanted to get a sense of where you’re going with your commentary in your prepared remarks about ROE versus 10 year treasury.
You kind of gave us two numbers the 2012 the ’14 and then the 2000 and 2011 and then there is obviously a delta between those.
So I’m not sure if you’re trying to suggest that we should be thinking about the 2000 to 2011 range relative to the 10 year or the ’12 to ’14 range.
Just want to get a sense of where you’re going with that? Suneet my comments really were not MetLife specific.
They were really more in terms of what investors should be thinking about in terms of return expectations by any asset class right now.
I think people have now locked into certain numbers of ROE expectations for equities that may have made sense in a different environment than where we’re in today.
If you have low interest rates for a long period of time those expectations should come down.
That was really my comment.
Okay.
But not reflective of your ROE I guess that was my mistake.
No it would be reflective I think of every ones ROE.
The all asset classes that’s my point.
Okay.
I mean I guess so if we’re in 4% to 4.5% 10 year treasury world then using your guidance I guess we should expect 14% to 14.5% kind of returns? We said 12% to 14% in a normal 10 year treasury environment and 4% 4.5% treasury yield when there is 2% inflation which is the feds target.
And I would say roughly 2.5% underlying real GDP growth would result in that kind of a level of a treasury.
And then you expect something like 12% to 14% for MetLife a large life insurance company with a diversified group of businesses but still a large business in the United States which is a moderately growing market.
All right.
Thanks.
And we do have a question from the line of Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thank you.
I just wanted to come back to the interest rate disclosure you’ve given in your outlook presentation where you show the potential present value GAAP interest rate charge of $3 billion if rates stay at 2% forever.
Just had two questions there I guess first how narrowly do you define interest rate impact and is it just the direct impact of low rates on reserves or do you also include DAC and second derivative impacts like policy holder behavior? And then secondly how sensitive is that number to a drop in interest rates below 2%? Hi Erik it’s John.
So that number is total GAAP impact.
It would include DAC.
It would include any GAAP reserve strength in that might be required.
Policy holder behavior is I don’t know how people annuitize more or less or enact their rights more or less depending upon where the 10 year treasury is.
We haven’t seen any indication of that so far in our experience.
So that’s something that we would just have to see how things develop on that.
And we haven’t given more sensitivities to this than the two it’s highly complex to do calculation and get all this done.
We think this is pretty good disclosure giving you a sensitivity.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And I guess just the one follow-up.
How do movements in interest rates affect your expected free cash flow generation in 2015 and I know you reiterated the 45% to 55% target range.
I believe in the past there has been some fluctuation based on kind of derivative marks and other things that have had an impact.
So is this how should we think about that? Well clearly a big piece of our free cash flow comes in particular from our U.S.
statutory entities and the statutory accounting the operating earnings is more sensitive to movements in interest rates due to derivative movements than say GAAP is.
So that does impact it.
It impacts at the following year though because our dividend capacity is based on your earnings in a year and that’s how much you can take up the next year.
So it’s kind of a bit of a delayed item.
So in any one year interest rate moves will have an impact on the following year.
That’s why we give you a range around this but over a two or three year period we believe these things average out.
Once you have the derivative gain or loss if rates stay the same then you don’t have that repeating.
But as we’ve seen rates have gone up and gone down in the past few years.
So there’ll always be some fluctuation with regard to this and that’s why we give you a range.
Got it.
But the 45% to 55% is still a pretty comfortable range for 2015? Right.
As I said we are even with the reserved strengthening that we’ve taken due to low rates.
We are still at the 45% to 55% for 2015.
Great.
Thank you.
And we do have a question from the line of Jimmy Bhullar with J.P.
Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
I had a couple of questions on your group business.
First if you can just discuss your comfort with your GAAP and stat reserves for the long-term inner block.
We have seen a number of companies take actions recently.
And then second on the disability business it seems like your non-medical claims margins were actually pretty good.
So maybe if you could talk about claims incidence and recovery trends in that market -- in the disability business? Hi this is John.
I’ll do reserves and turn it over to Bill for the claims.
So we have a closed block of long-term care and we in stat the reserves are significantly higher than the GAAP reserves due to conservatism typically from the New York accounting and how we have to abide for this.
The stat reserves do not assume future rate increases other than what have been already approved in the states.
The GAAP assume a best estimate where we do expect to get some rate increases but it’s not really a very material amount compared to the enforced reserves from the rate increases.
And we have reserve adequacy in both the stat and GAAP reserves as of year end 2014.
And the interest rate and assumptions embedded in those; are you assuming a pick up in rates over the next few years? Our GAAP reserves do assume a mean reversion and the stat reserves of course are subject to cash flow testing that have a range of interest rates.
Jimmy it’s Bill Wheeler with regard to kind of what's going on in -- long-term disability group disability the number itself is quite good this quarter.
It’s much better than we have had for really any quarter in the last over a year.
And I guess I would describe the pieces of it are incidence is stable claims revolution is much improved as you would hope given the changes we put in place regarding our claims operations because I think I talked about it couple of quarters ago.
And so that’s good news.
Its somewhat offset by social security offsets are soft.
And they have been soft for a while now and I think that has a lot to do with what's going on in the social security administration more than it does with MetLife.
So those are kind of it that I would say the big pieces that are moving around.
But the net result is it’s -- it was a good number this quarter.
And pricing in that market as you’ve gone through the renewal season for the beginning of the year like how were overall pricing trends? Very favorable.
We asked for significant renewals obviously based on our experience we thought that was appropriate and I would say our achievement of those renewal rate increases was very successful with very modest lapse rates.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we do have a question from Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I have a follow-up question for Steve on the interest rate environment and kind of thoughts on ROE.
I think in the past you had said that in the low ROE -- in the low interest rate environment there’s a 12% to 14% long-term target really moves down to 11% to 13%.
Is that still the way we should be thinking about it? Hello? Hi.
This is John I’ll just answer that.
Yes we had tried to give you some guidance that if rates stayed low for a long period of time that it would be slightly lower by 2016.
All right.
Can you quantify that? It was about a 100 basis points.
Okay.
Thank you.
And we do have a question from the line of Nigel Dally with Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Great thanks.
On annuities can you provide some more details on your new Flex Choice product with high guarantees; is it fair to say that it has a lower return than your previous product? And if that’s true if can you discuss where those anticipated returns come out? Nigel I’m sorry.
Can you just do that one more time? Sure.
With your new Flex Choice product with a high guarantee is it fair to say that it has a lower return and if that’s true can you discuss where those anticipated return to come out? Well Nigel its -- so we are raising the underlying roll up rate from 4% to 5% obviously on the 4% was our old [ph] GMIB and this is a withdrawal benefit.
It does not -- we have not compromised the return on our variable annuity products.
This product as you would hope meets our return expectations because there are a bunch of other features in the product which allow us to lower the capital charge and so we’re excited about it.
With the GMIB as you know there are the policy holder has more choices about what he wants to do.
And of course we have to make assumptions about policy holder behavior and hedge accordingly and that’s really not the case with the GMWB.
There is less optionality in the product and therefore the hedging is much more straightforward.
And so and that contributes I think to the improvement in the return to lower capital allocation to the product.
Great.
Thanks.
And we do have a question from the line of Seth Weiss from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
A question on the asset adequacy testing you mentioned in line with expectations.
Can you give us any color by products how that asset adequacy testing looks? Hi Seth.
Well I’m sure our actuaries would love to give you all sorts of details on this.
But for the second time New York requires us to do cash flow testing separately for long-term care because it is a closed block and that’s driving some of the numbers that I mentioned at our December outlook calls having to raise reserves due to the asset adequacy -- the reserve testing.
But we do this across all of our businesses.
We use the New York seven scenarios not only in all non New York companies but even our life insurance captives and that again -- I mentioned some more capital that we are putting up there for lower interest rates.
We did use rates that were actually lower than where we saw year end 10 year treasuries.
But it’s a little more complex than that because it’s not just a 10 year treasury it’s the shape of the yield curve and the reinvestment curve.
And actually compared to few years ago we actually have a flatter curve and the 30 year treasury is actually lower than we saw even a couple of years ago when we saw low interest rates prior.
So that has impacted the asset testing because of these long dated contracts it’s a very long reinvestment fund so it does have an impact.
So as we mentioned the testing that we’ve now just completed for yearend does reflect some more recent conditions and it’s within the range that we had talked about in December.
Okay great.
And to clarify the 400 to 600 that’s on top the 200 that you expected right? So 600 to 800 is the range we should think about? Yes exactly.
Right.
Thank you.
And we do have a question from the line of Eric Berg with RBC.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
So I just wanted to return to an earlier question and clarify the response of share repurchase.
Is the point Steve that you have announced two share repurchases each for $1 billion and that its your intention at this point to complete both but that with respect to the second it would be unrealistic to expect sort of an increase on top of that.
Second share repurchase is that what I heard? Hi Eric.
What we said is that we are going to remain cautious given the capital rules have not been drafted yet or issued by the fed.
So we have not completed the second $1 billion repurchase program.
So we haven’t made a final determination.
We’ll see when that program concludes what we know more about the capital rules at that point in time.
But I was signaling that we’re going to remain quite cautious here until the capital rules come out.
And my best guess is those rules will not be out before the second program concludes.
Thank you.
End of Q&amp;A And at this time there are no further questions in queue.
Please continue.
Okay.
Thank you much for your participation.
Have a good day.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10 AM today through February 19.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at anytime by dialing 800-475-6701 and entering the access code 344928.
International participants may dial 320-365-3844.
And those numbers again are 800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844 and again entering the access code 344928.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the MetLife First Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to read the following statement on behalf of MetLife.
Except with respect to historical information statements made in this conference call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements relating to trends in the company's operations and financial results and the business and the products of the company and its subsidiaries.
MetLife's actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including those described from time to time in MetLife's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including in the Risk Factors section of those filings.
MetLife specifically disclaims any obligations to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Ed Spehar Head of Investor Relations.
MetLife Inc.</strong> Thank you Brad.
Good morning everyone and welcome to MetLife's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
We will be discussing certain financial measures not based on generally accepted accounting principles so-called non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures and related definitions to the most directly comparable GAAP measures may be found on the Investor Relations portion of metlife.com in our earnings release and our quarterly financial supplements.
A reconciliation of forward-looking financial information to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is not accessible because MetLife believes it's not possible to provide a reliable forecast of net investment and net derivative gains and losses which can fluctuate from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
Now let me call to your attention four new disclosures in our quarterly financial supplement this quarter.
First expenses and sales for our non-US businesses Latin America Asia and EMEA.
Second business segment returns on both allocated and tangible equity as discussed on our December outlook call.
Third operating earnings and premiums fees and other revenues on a constant currency basis.
And four an earnings (02:30) table for corporate and other which was previously only available in our 10-Q and 10-K filings.
We believe these additional disclosures provide greater transparency for our businesses and address some of the questions that we have received from the investor community in the past.
Now joining me this morning on the call are Steve Kandarian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Hele Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will take your questions.
Also here with us today to participate in the discussions are other members of management including Bill Wheeler President of Americas; Steve Goulart Chief Investment Officer; Michel Khalaf President of EMEA; and Chris Townsend President of Asia.
After prepared remarks we will have a Q&amp;A session.
In fairness to all participants please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Steve.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report good results for the first quarter of 2015.
Operating earnings were $1.6 billion up 4.8% from the first quarter of 2014.
And operating earnings per share were $1.44 a 5.1% increase over the prior year period.
Growth in the quarter was dampened by broad-based weakness in foreign currencies.
Premiums fees and other revenues or PFOs were essentially flat versus the prior year but up 4% on a constant currency basis.
In Latin America reported PFOs were flat versus the prior year but up 13% on a constant currency basis.
And in Asia reported PFOs were down 6% but up 6% on a constant currency basis.
Earnings were also negatively impacted by the strong dollar.
Operating earnings grew 5% on a reported basis and 10% on a constant currency basis.
We believe MetLife's global platform should deliver attractive growth and returns over time but currency translation can be a source of volatility.
The increase in operating earnings in the quarter was driven by business growth and a rebound in underwriting margins.
As you may recall underwriting margins were below normal in the prior year period.
Investment margins remain healthy in the quarter with an average investment spread of 211 basis points for U.S.
product lines.
However the spread was at the low end of the 210 to 240 basis point range of the past few years.
Margin pressure from low interest rates was only partially offset by variable investment income.
Expenses as a percentage of PFOs continue to trend downward.
The operating expense ratio was 23.5% in the first quarter versus 24.1% in the prior year period.
Our goal is to grow overall revenues at a faster rate than expenses and we have sharpened our focus on expense control to help offset the drag on earnings in the current economic environment.
However we will not forego the investments necessary to become a more customer-centric company simply to boost GAAP earnings in the near term.
Accordingly we plan to reinvest $225 million this year to modernize the company's infrastructure and make it easier for customers to do business with us.
We believe these improvements will generate additional savings and make customers more willing to recommend us to others.
Just as becoming customer-centric is a key element of our strategy so too is growing sales of capital efficient protection-oriented products.
We made good progress on this initiative in the first quarter.
For example accident and health sales outside the U.S.
increased by 24%.
Involuntary accident and health and non-life product sales in the U.S.
grew by 57%.
I would now like to discuss return on equity.
Operating ROE was 11.7% in the quarter and tangible ROE was 14.4%.
However low interest rates and the impact of regulatory uncertainty in capital management are challenges for ROE going forward.
I want to remind you what we have said over the past three years about return on equity and provide you an updated outlook.
We introduced our new strategic plan in May 2012 with a 2016 operating ROE goal of 12% to 14%.
Since that time we have provided sensitivities for ROE related to interest rates and share repurchases.
We have said that persistent low interest rates would bring down our 2016 operating ROE to the low end of our 12% to14% range.
Unfortunately the 10-year Treasury yield has averaged 2.2% since May 2012 and our current plan assumes rates rising less than we initially assumed.
We have also said that our strategic plan contemplated $8 billion of share repurchases from 2012 to 2016 and that no buybacks over this period would reduce ROE by 100 basis points.
We have been cautious on share repurchases because capital requirements remain unknown for non-bank systemically important financial institutions.
We have not yet seen draft capital rules and there is no clarity on when those rules will be issued.
As a result it is likely that share repurchases will be substantially lower than we had assumed in our strategic plan.
In the first quarter we completed the $1 billion buyback program announced in December 2014.
As an opportunistic buyer we took advantage of price weakness to aggressively repurchase shares at an average price of $49.56 per share.
Given regulatory uncertainty our overall approach to share repurchases remains conservative.
Since May 2012 buybacks have totaled $2 billion or one-fourth of the total contemplated in our 2016 ROE target.
Below-plan M&amp;A activity has also had a negative impact on returns.
The acquisitions we have made have contributed approximately $200 million to earnings or half of what was contemplated in our strategic plan.
MetLife has consistently been a disciplined buyer and we will not relax our acquisition standards simply to boost ROE in the short term.
The 10-year Treasury yield has been hovering around 2% the regulatory environment remains uncertain and it is unlikely that M&amp;A will contribute as much to earnings as we had hoped.
With only eight months to go until 2016 we believe it is appropriate to reflect these realities in the ROE outlook.
As a result we estimate that MetLife's operating ROE will be approximately 11% next year.
An 11% operating ROE would mean a return that is approximately 9 percentage points above the current 10-year Treasury yield.
A 9 percentage point spread over the 10-year would be close to the pre-financial crisis levels while the quality of MetLife's ROE has improved largely due to lower leverage and derisking in the U.S.
business.
Despite macro and regulatory challenges we are optimistic about MetLife's prospects.
This optimism is underscored by our board's willingness to increase the common stock dividend.
As you know on April 28 we announced a 7% increase in the quarterly common stock dividend per share.
With this increase our annual common stock dividend will be $1.50 per share and based on MetLife's current share price the dividend yield will be 2.9%.
We have now raised the common stock dividend for three consecutive years resulting in a cumulative increase of 103%.
Going forward it is our goal to increase the common stock dividend as our earnings grow.
Turning to regulatory issues I would like to begin by restating one of the core principles that guides our thinking on these matters.
Simply put it is that regulators should preserve a level playing field for all of the companies in the life insurance industry.
Regulators in the United States and Europe correctly point out the virtues of competition in an antitrust context.
We believe that same commitment to robust competition should apply to insurance regulation and for the same reason.
Competition provides consumers with the best products at the best prices.
We were pleased when the Federal Reserve recently made clear that it will develop a single capital standard for all of the insurance companies it supervises through a formal rule-making process.
If the Fed had elected to establish prudential standards for insurers by order rather than by rule the result could've been different orders for different companies with potentially harmful effects on competition.
Developing capital standards through a rule-making process will address one threat to competition by holding all federally-regulated insurance companies to the same standard.
However there's still a risk that these additional capital rules for federally-regulated insurers will put them at a competitive disadvantage to companies regulated exclusively at the state level.
So it will be important for regulators to ensure consistency across multiple and potentially conflicting capital regimes.
In closing MetLife had a good quarter especially considering the pressure from low rates and the strong dollar.
Looking forward we believe MetLife will continue to generate attractive risk-adjusted returns on equity.
Finally I am pleased that we have been able to offer higher current income to shareholders by more than doubling our common stock dividend over the past three years.
With that I will turn the call over to John Hele to discuss our financial results in detail.
John? Thank you Steve and good morning.
Today I'll cover our first quarter results including a discussion of insurance margins investment spreads expenses and business highlights.
I will then conclude with some comments on cash and capital.
Operating earnings in the first quarter were $1.6 billion and $1.44 per share both up 5% from the prior year period and 10% on a constant currency basis.
This quarter included one notable item in our P&amp;C business.
We had higher than budgeted catastrophe experience partially offset by favorable prior-year development which decreased operating earnings by $16 million or $0.01 per share.
Adjusting for the notable items in both periods as disclosed in the appendix of our Quarterly Financial Supplement or QFS operating earnings were up 6% year-over-year and 11% on a constant currency basis.
The key drivers were business growth and underwriting improvement partially offset by lower variable and recurring investment income.
Turning to our bottom-line results.
First quarter net income was $2.1 billion or $1.87 per share.
Net income was $490 million above operating earnings in the quarter.
Three items that explain most of this difference are number one derivative net gains of $394 million after-tax which reflects changes in foreign currencies and gains from lower interest rates.
Number two investment portfolio net gains of $113 million after-tax as credit-related losses continue to be modest in the portfolio.
And these were partially offset by number three charges of $35 million after-tax associated with insurance contracts and other market value adjustments.
Of the total $490 million difference between operating earnings and net income we attribute $455 million to asymmetrical accounting and noneconomic adjustments.
Book value per share excluding AOCI other than FCTA was $50.45 at March 31 up 6% year-over-year.
Tangible book value per share was $41.32 at March 31 up 9% year-over-year.
With respect to first quarter margins underwriting results improved year-over-year by approximately $0.05 per share after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
This was primarily due to improved mortality and morbidity experience in Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits or GVWB as well as better underwriting in Corporate Benefit Funding.
These favorable results were partially offset by adverse claims experienced in Retail Life.
Retail Life's interest-adjusted benefit ratio was 59.3% unfavorable to the prior year quarter of 56.9%.
Results this quarter were negatively impacted by higher than normal accidental deaths particularly accidental falls which we believe is related to this adverse winter weather.
The Group Life mortality ratio which now includes AD&amp;D was 90.7% in the quarter.
This was favorable to the prior year quarter of 91.9% driven primarily by lower Term Life claim severity.
The Group Life mortality ratio is seasonally high in the first quarter.
Therefore we would expect the mortality ratio to be toward the top end of the 85% to 90% annual range.
The non-medical health interest-adjusted loss ratio which now excludes AD&amp;D was 77.0% favorable to the prior year quarter of 79.9% and at the low end of the targeted 77% to 82% range.
Dental had favorable margins compared to the prior year and plan due to lower utilization.
We believe lower utilization was a function of adverse winter weather and anticipate some increase in utilization similar to what we saw last year.
Disability was in line with the prior year period and we expect improvement for the balance of the year.
In property and casualty the combined ratio including catastrophes was 89.3% in Retail and 101.2% in Group.
The combined ratios excluding catastrophes were 79.4% in Retail and 89.7% in Group.
The more favorable Retail P&amp;C combined ratio reflects less exposure to the Northeast which experienced particularly severe winter weather.
Overall P&amp;C underwriting results were favorable versus the prior year due to lower non-CAT losses partially offset by higher CATs.
Turning to investment margins please note annuity spreads in the QFS are now based on total annuities.
The total annuities spread which includes deferred annuities and single-premium immediate annuities better depicts investment margins for the business than our prior disclosure of deferred annuities only.
While investment margins have been resilient we have seen some modest decline in spreads.
The average of the four U.S.
product spreads in our QFS was 211 basis points in the quarter down 17 basis points year-over-year and one basis point sequentially.
Product spreads excluding variable investment income were 181 basis points down six basis points versus the prior year and two basis points sequentially.
The year-over-year decline was primarily due to lower variable investment income and core yields.
Pre-tax variable investment income was $371 million within our 2015 quarterly guidance range of $325 million to $425 million.
After taxes and the impact of DAC VII was $241 million down $33 million versus the prior year due to weaker private equity returns partially offset by higher prepays.
Core yields declined as a result of the low interest rate environment.
Average new money yields are running roughly 100 to 150 basis points below the average yield on assets rolling off the portfolio.
With regard to expenses the operating expense ratio was 23.5% favorable to the prior year quarter of 24.1% and slightly favorable to 23.6% after adjusting for a legal settlement with New York in the first quarter of 2014.
Gross expense saves were $244 million in the first quarter and net saves were $180 million after adjusting for reinvestment of $31 million and one-time cost of $33 million.
I will now discuss the business highlights in the quarter.
Please note that our segment earnings in the current and prior year period reflected the changes discussed on our December outlook call.
Retail operating earnings were $653 million up 3% versus the prior year quarter and up 8% after adjusting for notable items.
Growth in Retail was driven by favorable separate account performance in annuities and partially offset by unfavorable underwriting in Life.
Life and other reported operating earnings of $203 million down 20% versus the prior year quarter and 14% after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
The primary drivers were tighter core spreads higher corporate expenses and lower closed block earnings.
Underwriting while below expectations was only modestly unfavorable to the prior year quarter as adverse mortality and life was mostly offset by favorable P&amp;C experience.
Life and other PFOs were $2.0 billion essentially flat year-over-year as growth in the open block was partially offset by the runoff of the closed block.
Core Retail Life sales were up 23% year-over-year driven by increases in Whole Life and Term.
The performance this quarter supports our view that Life sales bottomed in 2014.
Annuities reported operating earnings of $450 million up 18% versus the prior year quarter and 22% after adjusting for excess variable investment income in the prior year.
This strong performance was primarily due to separate account returns which were 2.7% in the quarter and lower expenses.
Variable annuity sales were flat year-over-year.
As you know we introduced our new VA-guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit rider FlexChoice on February 17.
As the application process is typical for one month VAs FlexChoice had little impact on first quarter results.
GVWB reported operating earnings of $228 million up 20% versus the prior year quarter and 27% after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
Growth in the quarter was driven by underwriting improvement in most products.
GVWB PFOs were $4.4 billion up 3% year-over-year and sales increased 5% due to strong growth in voluntary products.
Voluntary sales accounted for 16% of GVWB sales in the first quarter of 2015 and we would expect this percentage to grow from this level.
Corporate Benefit Funding reported operating earnings of $369 million up 9% versus the prior year quarter and 14% after adjusting for notable items.
The key drivers were favorable underwriting and business growth.
CBF PFOs were $543 million up 27% year-over-year due to pension closeout and structured settlements.
On closeouts we continue to see a good pipeline of small to mid-sized cases.
Latin America reported operating earnings of $131 million down 17% from the prior year quarter and 3% on a constant currency basis.
Business growth and underwriting improvement were offset by lower inflation higher taxes and higher expenses in U.S.
Direct.
Latin America PFOs were $1 billion essentially unchanged from the prior year quarter and up 13% on a constant currency basis driven by business growth across the region.
Sales were up 11% on a constant currency basis driven by Brazil Mexico and U.S.
Direct.
Turning to Asia operating earnings were $327 million down 2% from the prior year quarter and up 8% on a constant currency basis driven by business growth.
Additionally effective April 1 2015 the government of Japan enacted a tax reform plan that would lower the Japanese tax rate by approximately 2%.
As a result the company expects to record a one-time benefit of $170 million to $180 million which includes an increase in Asia's second quarter operating earnings by approximately $60 million.
In addition we expect this tax law change will favorably affect our estimated annual effective tax rate for 2015 by approximately 0.2% as compared to 2014.
Asia PFOs were $2.2 billion down 6% from the prior year quarter but up 6% on a constant currency basis driven by business growth and solid persistency in core markets.
Asia sales were 4% on a constant currency basis driven by a 32% increase in accident and health sales in Japan.
In EMEA operating earnings were $70 million down 1% but up 35% year-over-year on a constant currency basis driven by business growth as well as favorable underwriting and lower expenses both of which were better than expected for the quarter.
Going forward we believe underwriting margins and expenses will be closer to expectations.
EMEA PFOs were $629 million down 14% from the prior year period but up 2% on a constant currency basis.
PFO growth was dampened by certain product and accounting reclassifications in 2014 which had no bottom-line impact to earnings but did impact the growth rate.
Adjusting for that underlying PFO growth was approximately 8% on a constant currency basis driven by strong employee benefit sales in the last two quarters.
Total EMEA sales increased 14% on a constant currency basis due to strong growth in employee benefits and A&amp;H sales.
As Steve noted we had strong growth in A&amp;H.
In the quarter A&amp;H sales outside the U.S.
were $1.2 billion which was 23% of total combined sales in Latin America Asia and EMEA.
I will now discuss our cash and capital position.
Cash and liquid assets at the holding companies were approximately $5.7 billion at March 31.
This amount reflects the completion of our buyback program the issuance of senior debt to fund an upcoming debt maturity cash contributions to our life insurance captives which we discussed on our fourth quarter earnings call and the payment of our quarterly common dividend.
Turning to our capital position the combined risk-based capital ratio for our principal U.S.
insurance companies excluding Alico at year-end 2014 was 410%.
Also our Japan solvency ratio was 1036% as of December 31.
For our U.S.
companies preliminary first quarter statutory operating earnings were approximately $1.2 billion and statutory net income was approximately $1.3 billion.
Statutory operating earnings were up 53% from the restated prior year quarter primarily due to separate account returns and improved underwriting.
We estimate that our total U.S.
statutory adjusted capital was approximately $30 billion as of March 31 up 7% from December 31.
In conclusion MetLife had a good first quarter.
Investment margins remained healthy despite pressure from low rates.
Expenses are well-controlled and underwriting improved for the third consecutive quarter.
In addition our cash and capital position remains strong and we continue to successfully execute on our strategy as we seek to maximize shareholder value.
And with that I will turn it back to the operator for your questions.
And our first question will come from Seth Weiss with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning and thank you for taking the question.
I wanted to just ask some questions on the updated guidance first the new 11% guidance for 2016.
In terms of a interest rate assumption does this contemplate the 3.5% yield that you assume is part of your business plan for 2016 that you've laid out in the 10-K? Or does it assume flat interest rates through the end of the year – or through the end of 2016? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Seth.
We've assumed lower rates as I mentioned than our original plan that we put out in 2012.
For 2015 we're assuming 2.46% for the 10-year Treasury and for 2016 3.11%.
Okay.
Thanks.
And if we think about also M&amp;A you mentioned that accretion from M&amp;A was roughly half of what was assumed back in that original plan.
When we think about more limited M&amp;A than what was planned is this a function of the regulatory uncertainty or a function of availability of opportunities in the market? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The main thing is remaining a disciplined buyer.
The regulatory uncertainty has some impact upon that as well in the sense that as a designated non-bank SIFI we're mindful of considerations in terms of that designation related to our business model.
So there's some things we'd probably be less likely to pursue in that environment than if that environment didn't exist.
But the main reason why we did not to-date acquire businesses with earnings of the $400 million we were assuming in our original plan of 2012 really relates to being a disciplined buyer looking at the marketplace.
We've reviewed a number of transactions that were of interest to us but the pricing that was attractive to us to move forward on did not ultimately end up being the pricing that the transactions went for.
They went for higher numbers.
So that's the main driver there.
And let me just mention on the interest rate numbers I gave you those were year-end assumptions for the 10-year Treasury.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
My first question is just on capital deployment.
And I think Steve you had mentioned last time on the call that you given the regulatory uncertainty might not consider doing an immediate buyback after the current one at the time had been completed.
So now that it's done what's your view on potential buybacks through the remainder of the year? Are you ruling those out or would you still consider them at some point later this year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Jimmy we have not made a decision yet as to whether or not we would do more share repurchases this calendar year.
What I said before is that the most recent program was completed more rapidly than we anticipated because we were buying more shares at – when the price of our stock was lower below certain levels.
So that program concluded more rapidly than we had anticipated and we're going to take a pause for a while and reassess things further on in the year.
Okay.
And then just one question on the Japan business.
You had pretty strong sales in A&amp;H.
Can you discuss what drove this? Is it the new products you introduced last year or something else? And to what extent do you view the results as an ongoing trend versus an aberration? So yes Chris Townsend here.
The A&amp;H results for Japan were up 32% and that helped lift all of Asia from an A&amp;H perspective up 25% for the quarter.
So we did bring in new products called Flexi Plus and Flexi Gold (34:08) a little over six months ago and the performance has been very strong since we launched those products.
So we expect to see continued good growth through the second and third quarter but the fourth quarter will be more challenging from a comparison perspective because we had a very strong fourth quarter 2014 given that we launched these products right at the start of that fourth quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Tom Gallagher with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Steve just one question.
Why the update on the ROE guidance right now? Is it simply you're close enough to 2016 or – I'm just curious why now? That's the first question.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Tom I think you answered it.
We are now only eight months away from the start of 2016.
And we have more visibility obviously not only to this year but our 2016 plan and given where rates are given our view of where rates are likely to be given the M&amp;A issue I'd mentioned before given what's realistic in terms of share repurchases in the current environment related to our SIFI designation.
As you rerun those numbers staying in that 12% to 14% range it doesn't look likely.
And certainly analysts on the Street have already baked that into their projections for 2016 ROE.
I think the average that we've seen out there is 11.1% for 2016 ROE for MetLife.
So I think it's pretty well understood how the math works given all these factors most of which are not within our control here at MetLife.
Right.
And I guess Steve that was going to be my point too.
I was just looking at where consensus numbers are and I think most people have figured that out.
So it clearly doesn't look like that estimates look out of whack.
But the other question just as a follow-up to that did you say the interest rate assumption for year-end 2015 is 2.46% and year-end 2016 is 3.11%? Those are year-end figures? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I have to correct myself.
Those are actually average 10-year rates.
Okay.
Those are average 10-year rates.
And then one my follow-up is I guess for Chris Townsend.
Your strong Japan sales particularly in A&amp;H was followed by – Aflac also had very strong A&amp;H sales growth as well.
Is the A&amp;H market growing again? Or are you all taking share from the domestic competitors? Can you give a little color for what's happening there? Sure.
The products we launched were launched after fairly detailed customer insights so they're pretty focused customer-centric products.
They're effectively hospital cash products with a range of surgical benefits and the way they work is that we have some very low-cost options for certain types of customers and we have some products which are more appropriate for the more discerning customer which have some more specialized covers of.
So I think the products are fairly broad in terms of their offering which helps to drive growth overall.
So probably the market for the A&amp;H business is growing at about 3% to 5% overall.
So as have been indicated we've got well-positioned products which we're distributing through that multichannel approach which we've spoken to you about previously.
Okay.
And not a sense for whether it's coming from share – share is being taken from the domestics or otherwise? Yes I think the market's grown probably about 3% to 5%.
We're clearly outpacing that growth at the moment but they're a new range of product.
So we're comfortable with where we're at and we'll continue to drive pretty good growth out of these products for the rest of the year.
Thanks.
And our next question will come from Erik Bass with Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Thank you.
Can you just talk about how you're thinking about capital return relative to the free cash flow that you're generating? And should we view all free cash flow generated as being potentially available for redeployment? Or does your ROE guidance assume that there's some additional capital build at the holdco? So this is John.
And we view ultimately other than an appropriate buffer at the holding company when we find out what the capital rules are that we will be living under that that would be truly free cash flow.
It is for common dividends for buybacks or for acquisitions.
So that's why we're quantifying that for you now on a regular basis and once we finally know the capital rules we can come up with an appropriate capital management plan.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
But I guess your revised ROE guidance does that assume that there is further capital build at the holdco? We are assuming a consistent conservative nature of capital in our projections.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And then maybe one question just quickly on Latin America.
Can you quantify the size of the loss related to the U.S.
Direct business? And how we should think about the investment being made there in 2015? Sure.
Erik this is Bill Wheeler.
So remember our U.S.
Direct business is now being reported inside the Latin American segment.
And the total loss for the quarter was up about $6 million year-over-year $5 million I guess.
Just keep in mind that that's different.
We've now – all the direct activities that MetLife was pursuing in the U.S.
are now pulled together under one management organization and being reported in Latin America.
So that was a small reason for the decline in Latin American performance.
But we expect losses in that segment as we're sort of investing in growth for the remainder of 2015.
Sales growth is very good there and we don't have the ability to capitalize the acquisition cost quite like we do in our more traditional businesses.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Got it.
Would you expect the kind of expenses to continue at a similar run rate or increase as sales volumes pick up? My guess is if anything they'll decline a little bit in terms of – the acquisition costs will be steady I think throughout the year.
But the bottom line losses will probably drop a little bit.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Ryan Krueger with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
The $225 million of reinvestment spend that Steve mentioned is that in addition to the $400 million per year that you've already guided to? Or is that part of the $400 million? That is within – this is John.
That was within the $400 million long-term that we're seeking for.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then on the interest rate assumptions you gave the 10-year assumption.
I assume there's also some change in the shape of the yield curve which could impact your Corporate Benefit Funding business? Can you give any color there on what you're assuming? We haven't given exact details but we are assuming a flattening of the curve.
If you look at – we based most of this on consensus outlooks and you see the short end coming up throughout the next 18 months or so up to the end of 2016.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then last one if I could just revisit the question I asked last quarter now that the year-end statutory statements are finalized you've been talking about the statutory capital impact over the last couple of years from being domiciled in New York.
Can you give us any more detail on what the cumulative statutory capital or RBC impact has been to MetLife from the stricter New York insurance rules? Sure.
This is John.
For those of you who enjoy reading blue books you'll see on page 19 of MetLife Insurance Company there's a table that lists versus NAIC with the prescribed practices required by New York create the difference in reserves.
And there's about a $1 billion difference between those two printed numbers.
However if you look at as we've analyzed the impact of New York and other requirements that they request we follow the total number is actually $3 billion difference in statutory reserves.
This would include about $700 million in reserves because of the fact we did not use life captives.
So that's within that $3 billion.
The other point I would tell you on this is that the $3 billion difference in statutory reserves has very little tax impact not very tax effective reserves.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Very helpful.
And our next question will come from Sean Dargan with Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
Looking at the group non-medical health loss ratio 77% I'm wondering how LTC did within that business.
Was the I guess underwriting performance in line or better than you would've expected? Sean it's Bill Wheeler.
Yes LTC did perform better than expected.
That was one reason that medical health overall loss ratio 77% was quite good.
I think another probably equally important reason is dental utilization.
If you recall last year the first quarter because of bad weather we saw low utilization in the dental area and then a catch-up for the remainder of the year.
And I think it's going to happen the same way this year where we saw low utilization because of poor weather especially here in the Northeast.
And there'll probably be a catch-up for the remainder of the year.
So that's – look I think the ratio would've been – the non-medical health ratio would've been good in any case.
But these are the two factors that made it especially good.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And just one follow-up on LTC in terms of maybe some strategic options because you did write all that business out of a New York company and you're probably better reserved than most and we saw a private capital transaction recently for an LTC block.
Is this something that you would consider selling even if maybe the purchase price wasn't particularly high just to make it go away and never have to talk about it again? Well I would never exclude anything.
I wouldn't put anything off the table.
But I don't think that's likely or in the cards.
Our block is significant.
That transaction was quite small.
And there's a lot of – in terms of if you think about price increases that we've been asking for through the state regulatory process we're having a lot of success there.
That's helping the block become I think more attractive over time and so there's a lot of state of play there.
And I wouldn't expect us to leave that on the table and transact anytime soon.
Inc.</span></strong> All right.
Great.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from the Yaron Kinar with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning and thanks for taking my questions.
So first question going back to the ROE target the revised ROE target now as it pertains to M&amp;A so I just want to clarify the $200 million of earnings as opposed to the $400 million that was expected that is from M&amp;A that was expected from 2012 on so it has no bearing on the Alico acquisition or how that's performed? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's correct.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We were assuming $400 million of additional earnings by 2016 from acquisitions when we put the plan together in 2012.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And Steve you said that the non-bank SIFI designation has maybe dampened the appetite for some deals that you would've otherwise considered or some businesses you would've otherwise considered.
Can you give us maybe a couple of examples of businesses that you find less attractive with this designation? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I won't give you specific examples but you can imagine things that would be considered in the process of designating a company as a SIFI those kinds of factors went into our thinking in terms of what we would consider acquiring and there were certain businesses and blocks of businesses that were for sale particularly in the United States that we were impacted by that factor.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And last question Steve given that the initial target of 12% to 14% by the end of 2016 has come up against a few headwinds that were clearly not foreseen in the beginning of 2012 have you and the board have you had any discussions over the retirement age of 65 which I think would've probably brought to a change at the helm around the end of 2016? Have you considered maybe extending your tenure? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The policy you're referring to is a internal policy for senior management executive management of age 65.
Again it's not in our bylaws so it's something the board could waive if it chose to do so but no decisions have been made.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
And our next question will come from Randy Binner with FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Thank you.
Just on buybacks and kind of the regulatory piece.
I understand the comments that your authorization's complete because you still are unsure what will happen with the rules.
But I guess the question is aren't things kind of going in the right direction? You got the Collins fix the bank-centric draft rule that was a risk seems off the table now from the Fed.
It seems like it's possible you're not going to know what these final rules are for some time so I'd be interested in getting a sense of your increased confidence to maybe have to make decisions on capital deployment if you don't have kind of a final answer on the rules maybe by the end of this year.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That has factored into our thinking to date.
In other words we had said we weren't going to do repurchases several years ago when SIFI designation was still being determined for us.
And then because the rules were delayed in terms of being promulgated by the Fed we took actions in two separate cases of each $1 billion of share repurchases.
And we did that because the timeframe had shifted on us in terms of our expectations of knowing the rules.
So I've said this before it's art more than science when you don't know what the numbers are going to be and there's no indications that you can rely upon in terms of what the capital standards ultimately are that you live under.
So we have taken I think a measured approach in terms of both share repurchases and the issuance of a higher dividend on our common stock in light of what you just said which is the delay in the timing that we were all expecting for knowing the rules.
But I guess the core of the question is I mean do you think things are going in the right direction? Or are these wins with the Collins fix and kind of making progress with the Fed is that not material enough to change your decision-making process? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The amendment to Dodd-Frank that you're referring to that occurred in December of last year is encouraging.
It gives the Fed the flexibility to write rules appropriate for the insurance industry as opposed to their interpretation of the Collins Amendment which they thought required them to use no less than bank standards in this case Basel III standards even on non-bank SIFIs.
So that is encouraging.
But all that does is give them the flexibility to write rules they think are appropriate for the insurance industry.
We don't know yet what that methodology will be.
We don't yet know how those rules may differ from state rules that we live under today.
We don't know yet how the rules they come up with may impact us differently than the state rules because they may look at certain aspects of our balance sheet differently than the state rules than the ASC (51:53) rules look at those assets and liabilities today.
So there's no way for us to really have a good estimate of the amount of capital we need to hold under a regime the Fed has yet to put out even in draft form.
All right.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from John Nadel with Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks.
I just had one quick question for you this morning.
If we look at the core adjusted for unusual items in the annuities segment the after-tax ROA if I look back over the past maybe three four five quarters it's been averaging somewhere in the low to mid-70%s.
In 1Q it's – I think if my calculation's correct it's about 85 or 86 basis points.
It's a huge stair-step.
Just a question for you what drove that? Is that sustainable? Is there some outcome there on the expense side or otherwise that we should believe is trendable from here? John it's Bill Wheeler.
So I wouldn't think that that's a run rate $450 million of earnings.
And there's a couple reasons for that.
Annuities had a number of smaller positive factors this quarter.
One was separate account performance.
Even though the S&amp;P 500 growth was pretty modest this quarter separate account performance was much stronger.
The broader stock indexes did much better.
The bond market did much better.
Remember a big percentage of our assets now in the separate accounts are actually fixed income.
Yeah.
So separate account performance was 2.4% and that obviously helped.
The second thing is investment spread you noticed that actually picked up a little bit this quarter and there were some I would say some more unusual investment income which we don't think is repeatable.
But there's also – part of the reason the investment margins went up is when we collapsed our variable annuity captive or Bermuda captive last year there was a pool of cash which is now being redeployed into longer-term investments.
So yields are up so that's part of the reason but the other part is some investment earnings which are not sustainable.
So I think the right run rate's a little lower than $450 million but overall the annuity business is performing pretty well.
Thanks very much.
And our next question will come from Humphrey Lee with Dowling Partners.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Just a quick question on LatAm – in the press release you mentioned that there's some earnings sensitivity to low inflation and I was just wondering if you can help us to kind of quantify the impact of low inflation in LatAm and how that affect the earnings outlook if inflation remained low in the region? Yeah so a little background here.
Obviously certain Latin America economies historically have been prone to high levels of inflation and it's a risk that we need to take into account when we develop an investment strategy in those countries.
Because in a couple of countries we do sell longer-term immediate annuities especially Chile.
And so in Chile there is a portfolio of assets where the yields on the bonds is linked to the official inflation rate.
And the inflation right now in Chile is quite low and so that means that the yield on those bonds is near zero and the overall impact – it was actually probably the biggest driver of under-earning performance in Latin America was this low-inflation phenomenon.
I'm trying to get the exact number here.
Well it's roughly $8 million after-tax is what it cost us in terms of the inflation rate in Latin America.
So this isn't just a Chile issue but it's mainly in Chile.
Okay.
Got it.
And then in terms of the annuity sales outlook you talked about there's a little bit of a timing issue when the FlexChoice product was being launched.
How (56:30) the application process to date and the overall sales in the second quarter year-to-date as you reported today has been trending? Yes so applications are good.
The product is getting good market acceptance.
We had forecast in 2015 a pretty meaningful increase in our annuity business sales and a piece of that growth was driven by FlexChoice.
It wasn't the whole reason for growth but it was a big piece of it.
And so we're seeing apps trending and we're seeing a lot of good sales coming out of that and a lot of I would say recapturing of sales where our own sales force was selling third-party business and now instead they're using FlexChoice as their key living benefit rider product.
So no change to your kind of 50% increase for 2015? We still think that's a good projection.
All right.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I was hoping you could update us on what the current benefit you're getting from the interest rate hedges through – and investment income and how are you thinking about that trending going forward? Hi.
This is John.
We haven't given out that specific amount.
I would say that they've held up quite well historically and into this year.
We expect next year to see somewhat of a slight drop-off but we have hedge protection on this going off well into the next decade so into the early 2020s timeframe.
Okay.
And then just one more on the ROE.
I'm just trying to reconcile the interest rate sensitivity on the ROE to what you have in the 10-K? Maybe I'm not thinking about it right but if I look at the business plan that you have in your 10-K and where the rates are versus a 2% 10-year Treasury assumption it looks like a bigger decline obviously relative to your current lowered interest rate assumptions but even if I use that 10-K sensitivity it seems like you're pointing to an operating earnings impact of $5 million which for a company of Met's size is de minimis.
So I must be missing something on the interest rate sensitivity in terms of why it's putting so much pressure on the ROE.
Okay.
So this is John.
The 10-K update we give at the end of the year and that's an outlook what happens if rates stay kind of at a low level versus what we assume in our plan.
Our plan had already been adjusted down as Steve had indicated to reflect a lower consensus already.
And the other thing that's going on there which you'll see in the segment sensitivities is compared to our plan which assumes a more flattening of the yield curve which reduces sec lending earnings the scenario that's given assumes a steeper yield curve so the long end stays down but so does the short end and so that causes a net benefit compared to the plan.
So you'll notice that in the sensitivities we give and CBF is actually a positive in the rest of the plan.
So there's really a combination of things.
It's a lower long end rate in that sensitivity but the lower short end rate is a net positive when it comes to the sec lending book of business.
Okay.
Got it.
And then just one quick follow-up for you John.
I think in response to Ryan's question when he was asking about being regulated by the New York regulator I thought in your comments you had said that part of the differential is that you don't use life captives.
Were you specifically referring to the VA or are you talking about XXX and AXXX as well? That is not including any assumptions for variable annuity captives.
It's only life insurance captives for AXXX and XXX.
Okay.
So you were just referring to the VA.
In other words the differential's not because you don't use life captives.
You do use life captives.
We are limited in New York as to how much we can do in life captives.
So if we were a non-New York-domiciled company we estimate that the statutory reserves could be $700 million lower by the use of captives for Universal Life and Term Insurance that takes into account XXX and AXXX reserves.
All right.
Thanks.
Thank you.
MetLife Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thank you very much for your participation.
Have a good day.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10:00 today and running through Thursday May 14 at midnight.
You can access the AT&amp;T executive playback system by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 344932.
International parties may dial 31-320-365-3844.
Again that number 1-320-365-3844 with the access code 344932.
Those numbers again 1-800-475-6701 or 1-320-365-3844 with the code 344932.
This does conclude our conference for today.
Thanks for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the MetLife Second Quarter 2015's Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to read the following statement on behalf of MetLife.
Except with respect to historical information statements made in this conference call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws including statements relating to trends in the company's operations and financial results and the business and the products of the company and its subsidiaries.
MetLife's actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including those described from time to time in MetLife's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including in the Risk Factors section of those filings.
MetLife specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Ed Spehar Head of Investor Relations.
Thank you Greg.
Good morning everyone and welcome to MetLife's second quarter 2015 earnings call.
We will be discussing certain financial measures not based on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles so called non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures and related definitions to the most directly comparable GAAP measures may be found on the Investor Relations portion of metlife.com in our earnings release and our quarterly financial supplements.
A reconciliation of forward-looking financial information to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is not accessible because MetLife believes it's not possible to provide a reliable forecast of net investment and net derivative gains and losses which can fluctuate from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
Now joining me this morning on the call are Steve Kandarian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Hele Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will take your questions.
Also here with us today to participate in the discussions are other members of management including Bill Wheeler President of Americas; Steve Goulart Chief Investment Officer; Michel Khalaf President of EMEA; and Chris Townsend President of Asia.
After prepared remarks we will have a Q&amp;A session.
In fairness to all participants please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report strong results for the second quarter of 2015.
Operating earnings were $1.8 billion up 11% from the second quarter of 2014.
And operating earnings per share were $1.56 a 12% increase over the prior year period.
Operating return on equity was 12.5% in the quarter and tangible return on equity was 15.3%.
Second quarter results were negatively impacted by the strong dollar.
Operating earnings grew 11% on a reported basis and 16% on a constant currency basis.
Favorable tax items improvement in both investment and underwriting margins and growth in this business more than offset the negative impact from foreign currency translation.
Investment margins remain healthy in the quarter with an average investment spread for U.S.
product lines of 227 basis points versus 215 basis points in the prior year period.
This spread has been in the range of 210 to 240 basis points during the past few years which highlights the resilience of our investment margins despite a multiyear period of low interest rates.
Underwriting margins were also favorable in the quarter.
After adjusting for notable items this is the fourth consecutive quarter that underwriting margins have improved versus the prior year period.
In the second quarter underwriting margins were better in Retail Life Group Life Group Non-Medical Health and Property Casualty.
Turning to regulatory matters I will begin with a brief update on our appeal of the government's designation of MetLife as a Systemically Important Financial Institution or SIFI.
Tomorrow the Financial Stability Oversight Counsel will file a brief opposing MetLife's motion for summary judgment and supporting its own position.
On August 21st MetLife will file a final reply brief.
At this time the judge has not informed us whether she will be holding an oral hearing.
And the timing of a final decision is difficult to predict.
With regard to capital rules the passage of the Insurance Capital Standards Clarification Act late last year provided flexibility for the Federal Reserve to develop rules appropriate for the business of insurance.
The Federal Reserve is working on the required standards and I am hopeful that those deliberations will lead to a suitable proposal.
Developing an appropriate insurance capital standard in the United States is also important to informing the development of global capital standards.
While the timing for producing a domestic capital standard remains uncertain we believe global standards should not be finalized before a domestic standard is developed.
Upon completion both standards should be tailored for the insurance business model.
We are supportive of legislation that has been introduced to encourage greater transparency and increased congressional oversight of U.S.
participation in the international standard-setting process.
Another policy issue MetLife is following closely is the proposed fiduciary rule in the Department of Labor.
While proponents argue the rule will help individuals save for retirement we believe it will have the opposite effect by reducing choice increasing cost and limiting access to financial education and investment advice.
Wealthier investors may not be significantly impacted by the rule because their assets generate sufficient fees to pay for investment advice.
However assets of middle income investors are unlikely to generate fees sufficient to offset the higher costs of offering advice under this rule.
Consequently those consumers could find it difficult if not impossible to receive face-to-face investment advice.
The proposed rule is particularly problematic for individual annuities which are the only products that provide consumers with a variety of benefits including guaranteed return income they can never outlive.
The proposed rule effectively makes it a conflict of interest to sell your own products.
Without substantial modifications the proposal could force companies such as MetLife to choose between manufacturing individual annuities and distributing them.
It is unclear what public policy goal is served by making it more difficult for companies to provide guaranteed retirement income to consumers.
MetLife submitted comments on the proposed rule to the labor department last week and the department will be holding public hearings from August 10th through August 12th.
We are confident that policymakers can find a way to protect the interest of consumers while still preserving access to much needed retirement advice.
I would now like to comment on cash.
As I said in MetLife's most recent annual report we need to do a better job of generating free cash flow which is the most important metric in determining a company's ability to return capital to shareholders.
I am pleased that the ratio of free cash flow to operating earnings has been on a upward trend since 2012.
And we remain confident in our target of 45%-55% for 2015 to 2017.
Increasing the amount of cash generated by the business is an enterprise-wide imperative at MetLife.
Our focus on cash is an extension of a strategy that we announced in May 2012 which centered on improving our return on equity while also reducing our cost of equity capital.
We have successfully repositioned our business to achieve higher returns with lower risk.
And are now working diligently to make sure the products we sell strike the right balance between returns and cash generation.
I have three observations I would like to share with you related to this initiative.
First we are conducting a granular analysis of the cash and capital characteristics of our business.
And in each segment that we have examined we have identified opportunities for improvement.
Second our goal is not maximum fee cash flow today as that would mean foregoing attractive investment opportunities in the business.
Our goal is to grow free cash flow over time.
Third while we are working toward a business model that will produce compelling growth in free cash flow we also have the potential to optimize our balance sheet if MetLife's SIFI designation is overturned or the new capital requirements are reasonable.
Finally I want to recognize the contributions of Bill Wheeler to the success of MetLife.
As most of you know this is the last earnings call for Bill MetLife's President of the Americas region.
As we announced in April Bill is retiring next month after 17 years with the company.
I want to take this opportunity to thank Bill personally for all that he has done to help MetLife and me over the years.
Bill has contributed in numerous ways to MetLife's success.
As Treasurer he played a critical role in taking MetLife public in 2000.
As CFO he helped guide the company safely through the financial crisis.
And as President of the Americas he restructured the U.S.
retail business and led our acquisition of Provida.
When I joined MetLife as Chief Investment Officer in 2005 Bill did more than anyone else to help me learn the insurance business.
Especially the liabilities side of the balance sheet.
During my time as CEO Bill has been a strong partner in developing and executing on our strategic plan.
Bill on behalf of our employees our customers and our shareholders thank you for all that you've done to make MetLife one of the greatest life insurance companies in the world.
In closing MetLife had a strong quarter with double-digit operating EPS growth despite ongoing pressure from low interest rates and a strong dollar.
We continue to face regulatory uncertainty but remain hopeful the outcomes will be manageable.
Finally we are focused on improving the cash flow characteristics of the business.
An effort that we believe is necessary to maximize shareholder value.
With that I will turn the call over to John Hele to discuss our financial results in detail.
John? Thank you Steve and good morning.
Today I'll cover our second quarter result including a discussion of insurance margins investment spreads expenses and business highlights.
I will then conclude with some comments on cash and capital.
Operating earnings in the second quarter were $1.8 billion up 11% from the prior year period and up 16% on a constant currency basis.
Operating earnings per share were $1.56 up 12% from the prior year period and 17% on a constant currency basis.
This quarter included one notable item in our Asia business.
As discussed on our first quarter earnings call effective April 1st the Japanese corporate tax rate was reduced from 31% to 29%.
As a result we've recorded a one-time tax benefit of $174 million in the second quarter.
The operating earnings portion of the one-time benefit was $61 million or $0.05 per share.
We estimate that the current year tax benefit from the rate reduction will be approximately $24 million in 2015.
Adjusting for notable items in the current and the prior year period operating earnings were up 10% and 16% on a constant currency basis.
The key drivers of growth on a constant currency basis were favorable investment margins business growth lower taxes and under writing improvements.
Higher expenses were a partial offset to these favorable items.
Turning to our bottom line result second quarter net income was $1 billion or $0.92 per share.
Net income was $723 million less than operating earnings primarily because of derivative losses.
These losses were driven by higher interest rates and weakening of the U.S.
dollars against certain currencies.
The second quarter variance between operating earnings and net income includes asymmetrical and non-economic accounting of $856 million after tax.
Net income adjusted for asymmetrical and non-economic accounting was above operating earnings primarily due to the portion of the onetime tax benefit in Japan not reflected in operated earnings.
Book value per share excluding AOCI other than FCTA was $50.73 as of June 30th up 4% year-over-year.
Tangible book value per share was $41.73 at June 30th up 8% year-over-year.
With respect to second quarter margins we continue to see a good rebound in underwriting results which were up approximately $0.03 per share after adjusting for notable items in the prior year quarter.
Underwriting improvement was primarily due to better mortality experienced in Retail Life which returned to a normal level after adverse claims experience in the first quarter.
Retail Life's interest adjusted benefit ratio was 53.0% within the expected range of 50%-55% and favorable to the prior year quarter of 55.2% after adjusting for a one-time benefit related to a disability waiver reserve.
Average net claims from large based policies declined from an elevated level in the first quarter.
The group life mortality ratio was 86.1% or toward the low end of the expected annual range of 85%-90%.
The ratio was favorable to the prior year quarter of 86.9% due to the lower claims experienced across several products.
The non-medical health interest-adjusted loss ratio was 80.5% favorable to the prior year quarter of 82.8% and within the targeted 77%-82%.
Disability results improved year-over-year due to the lower incidence and severity as well as higher net closure.
In Dental as anticipated we saw higher utilization following low utilization in the first quarter.
We believe the low utilization in the first quarter was a function of adverse winter weather.
In Property and Casualty the combined ratio including catastrophes was 100.1% on retail and 96.0% in group.
The combined ratios excluding catastrophes were 80.2% in retail and 85.5% in group.
Overall P&amp;C underwriting results improved versus the prior year due to the lower cat losses and more favorable prior year development.
Turning to investment margin the average of the four U.S.
product spreads in our QFS was 227 basis points in the quarter.
Higher recurring net investment income benefited from a conversion of the securities accounting system for the U.S.
general account.
And this contributed approximately 5 basis points to our product spread.
Excluding this adjustment the simple average was 222 basis points up 7 basis points year-over-year due to higher variable investment income.
Pretax variable investment income was $427 million slightly above our 2015 quarterly guidance range of $325 million to $425 million.
After taxes and the impact of DAC variable investment income was $278 million up $57 million versus the prior year quarter due to good performance across asset classes.
Product spreads excluding variable investment income and the accounting system conversion were 182 basis points down 8 basis points versus the prior year quarter.
Core yields declined as a result of the low interest rate environment.
Average new money yield continued to run roughly 100 to 150 basis points below the average yield in the assets rolling off the portfolio.
With regard to expense the operating expense ratio was 24.3% unfavorable by 110 basis point to the prior quarter of 23.2%.
Approximately half of this increase in the ratio was attributable to lower operating revenues from single-premium product.
Sales of these products can fluctuate materially from quarter to quarter.
Expenses were elevated in the quarter due to higher costs within MetLife's employee benefits program and higher regulatory costs.
Expenses can be volatile for both of these categories.
We would expect to see operating expense ratio improvement in the second half of the year relative to the second quarter.
Gross expense saves were $262 million in the second quarter and net saves were $194 million after adjusting for reinvestment of $33 million and one-time cost of $35 million.
I will now discuss the business highlights in the quarter.
Retail operating earnings were $690 million up 2% versus the prior year quarter and up 6% after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
Growth in Retail was driven by favorable underwriting and higher variable investment income.
Life and Other reported operating earnings of $278 million up 5% versus the prior year quarter and 16% after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
The primary drivers were favorable underwriting primarily in life and higher variable investment income.
Life and Other PFOs were $2.1 billion essentially flat year-over-year as growth in the open block was offset by runoff of the closed block.
Core Retail Life sales were up 4% year-over-year driven primarily by an increase in Term life.
Annuities reported operating earnings of $412 million essentially flat to the prior year quarter.
Higher variable investment income and lower taxes were offset by lower core spread higher expenses and a less favorable initial market impact.
Variable annuity sales were $1.9 billion in quarter up 16% year-over-year and sequentially.
We are seeing good traction with our new VA-guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit rider FlexChoice which was launched in February.
We expect to see FlexChoice sales continue to grow in 2015 but at a less rapid pace than we had expected.
Also sales of single-premium immediate annuities are below our plan.
As a result we are lowering our expectation for total annuity sales growth in 2015 from more than 50% to more than 20%.
GVWB reported operating earnings of $231 million up 11% versus the prior year quarter and 9% after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
Growth in the quarter was driven by underwriting improvement and business growth.
GVWB PFOs were $4.4 billion up 2% year-over-year.
Sales were down 13% year-over-year as we were seeing an impact from an increasing competition particularly in Dental.
Sales of voluntary products increased 22% due to growth in Accident &amp; Health and Property &amp; Casualty.
Corporate Benefit Funding reported operated earnings of $406 million up 12% versus the prior year quarter and 19% after adjusting for excess variable income in the prior year quarter.
The key driver was an increase in investment margin.
CBF PFOs were $455 million down 44% year-over-year due to lower pension closeouts and structured settlement annuity sales.
On closeouts we continue to see a good pipeline of small to mid-type cases.
And we wrote a contract in July with over $500 million of premium.
Latin America reported operating earnings of $116 million down 15% from the prior year quarter but up 3% on a constant currency basis.
U.S.
Direct which included Latin America's result had an operating loss of $20 million versus $8 million in the prior year quarter.
The loss this quarter was higher than expected due to business strain from strong sales up 70% and claims volatility in the quarter.
We expect losses to moderate in the second half of the year.
Excluding U.S.
Direct Latin America operating earnings were up 13% on a constant currency basis driven by business growth partially offset by a less favorable market impact.
Latin America PFOs were $1.1 billion down 3% but up 13% on a constant currency basis driven by business growth across the region.
Total sales were down 40% on a constant currency basis primarily due to a large contract in Mexico in the second quarter of 2014.
Excluding this contract sales were up 4% versus the prior year quarter.
Turning to Asia; operating earnings were $425 million up 31% from the prior year quarter and up 45% on a constant currency basis driven by lower taxes as a result of the Japan tax rate change and strong business growth across the region.
Asia PFOs were $2.2 billion down 4% from the prior year quarter but up 9% on a constant currency basis driven by a strong growth across all key markets.
Asia sales were up 1% on a constant currency basis due to growth in Japan and continued growth in the A&amp;H sales across the region offset by a decline in retirement sales.
EMEA operating earnings were $50 million down 31% year-over-year and down 7% on a constant currency basis.
Adjusting for favorable tax items of $7 million in the prior year quarter operating earnings were up 6% on a constant currency basis driven by business growth particularly in the Gulf and the U.K.
EMEA PFOs was $658 million down 8% from the prior year period but up 10% on a constant currency basis.
Total EMEA sales increased 7% on a constant currency basis due to strong growth in employee benefits and A&amp;H sales across the region.
I will now discuss our cash and capital position.
Cash in liquid assets at the holding companies were approximately $6.2 billion at June 30th which is up from 5.7 billion at March 31st.
This increase reflects subsidiary dividend the repayment of senior debt and the payment of our quarterly dividend.
We also refinanced our $1.5 billion Series B Preferred Stock during the quarter.
The lower dividend would generate approximately $19 million as savings on a full-year basis during the first 5-year fixed term of the securities.
Turning to our capital position; we reported U.S.
RBC ratios annually so we do not have an update for the second quarter.
For Japan our solvency margin was 957% as of the first quarter of 2015 which is the latest public data.
For our U.S.
insurance companies preliminary second quarter statutory operating earnings and statutory net income were approximately $900 million.
We estimate that our total U.S.
statutory adjusted capital was approximately $28 billion as of June 30th which was comparable to December 31st.
In conclusion MetLife had a strong second quarter.
Investment margins remain healthy and underwriting improved year-over-year for the fourth consecutive quarter.
In addition our cash and capital position remain strong and we continue to successfully execute on our strategy as we seek to maximize shareholder value.
And with that I will turn it back to the operator for your questions.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Eric Berg from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
John you have indicated that because of Met's status as what I believe is the only listed New York-domiciled life insurance so the only listed large New York-domiciled life insurer the other big New York companies are mutuals of course that you've accumulated substantial additional reserves above and beyond what would have been the case if you were say a New Jersey company or domiciled in any other state.
What is the status of your efforts to -- not to release but what is the schedule under which you would release these reserves in connection with the rise in interest rates? As a New York company and other NIC companies we do annual cash flow testing.
And these are typically done under the NIC guidelines set by the actuaries of the company and the chief actuary of the company signs off on how these reserves are tested.
These are done every year at the -- based on the yields at the end of the year and there are shocks down from there based on typically prescribed rates.
New York through prescribed letters they send to us each year suggest more conservative reserves often than our actuaries would set on a normal basis.
And this is some of the additional reserves that we hold in New York.
Of course as interest rates rise slowly over time and we continue to do the cash flow testing some of the reserves that have been set up for lower interest rates would be released.
But it depends each year on how New York suggests to us to set our assumptions for those reserves and it would be released over time.
Because often the reserve increases are over a period of time or they could be immediate so it depends on the type of testing that we are doing.
So slowly over time the answer is how we would expect that some of this would be released as interest rates rise.
One question for Steve to wrap up; Steve you've said publicly that and I won't quote you I don't remember exactly what you said but I think the spirit of what you said is that I think you said at one of the conferences where you gave a presentation that you're feeling better than you have been feeling about the tone coming out of Washington and the general outlook for that you were hopeful about a reasonably positive outcome for Met and others with other systemically important financial institutions regarding capital requirements.
What exactly is happening? What's the basis for your optimism or increasing hope that we're going to get a favorable outcome here? And am I characterizing your position your thinking correctly? Thank you.
Eric we've been working closely with policymakers and regulators over the last several years since Dodd-Frank was passed.
And the nature of our conversations and tone of our conversations provide me more optimism than I had let's say three or four years ago.
But again we try to be cautious in our optimism because obviously if we were to be too aggressive on capital management and the rules were disadvantageous to us we would not want to have to go to the marketplace and raise large amounts of equity to meet rules that again we don't have yet in draft form.
So I am more optimistic that the conversations have developed over the years where I think there's a better understanding of the insurance business model as compared to the banking model that regulators in Washington have historically been involved with.
But the optimism is tempered by caution on our side in terms of being certain that we are well capitalized as these draft rules finally do come out at some point in the future.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Krueger from KBW.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Steve in the last call I think you said that you would evaluate potential buyback again in the back half of this year.
Can you give us an update on how you're thinking about that? Sure Ryan.
If you recall the second repurchase program that we've announced for the last year or so was announced in December and began in January in terms of execution.
So when we put that plan in place we had an expectation that it would be completed by the fall of this year.
As we had said when we announced the plan we would be opportunistic buyers of our stock.
And you may recall that in the first part of the year our stock dropped a fair amount and was below $50 a share for a period of time.
So that program was completed in three months roughly versus the time period we expected which was really off into the fall.
So our view now is that we will look at this again later in the year as you mentioned.
We'll have a conversation with our Board in the fall and we'll make some decisions at that point in time.
Okay thanks.
And then a question for Bill on the Group business it seems like growth has decelerated a little bit.
Can you talk about the dynamics there and your outlook for growth? Sure Ryan.
Well I think there's a couple of things going on one is in certain segments of the market especially I think the dental business I think the competitive environment has gotten more challenging.
And I think that therefore our wins on new businesses are lower than they otherwise might be.
Secondly remember we've been being pretty aggressive about renewals and new business in our disability area feeling that we needed to kind of catch up a little bit on our pricing.
And I think that's depressed sales a little bit in disability.
You can certainly see it in numbers.
Our disability new sales are pretty low.
Renewals are good in terms of we're getting our price on renewals but the new business we're getting is pretty low.
So I think those two factors are causing the premium growth in the group business to be a little lower than you might otherwise expect.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar from JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
The first question is just on interest rates.
I think when you had given guidance or targets for the various businesses you had assumed a 10-year treasury yield of around 2.8% by the end of the year.
So assuming if rates stay where they are through the next few months of the year how much of a downside risk is that to your targets? And are there things in the business that are going better than expected that maybe might help offset some of the weakness? And then also I had a question on the hedge for Asia earnings.
I think last time you had mentioned that about two thirds of the 2015 income was hedged at a rate of JPY107 to the dollar.
But I wanted to see if there's a change in that.
Let me do the -- it is John.
Let me do the Japan hedges first.
We've actually increased our hedges.
So we're now a 100% and for 2015 the strike is at 107.
And we've extended it out to 2016 as at 108 and the 2017 is at 122.
And we've fully hedged all Yen earnings from Japan.
Through 2017? Fully hedged through 2017 you said? Oh well as we get further out it maybe between 85 to 100.
Okay.
Yes.
And I'm sorry your first question you wanted interest rates… So just on interest rates how much of a risk is the current level of rates if we stay here through the end of the year versus your guidance or target that you had assumed of 2.8% how much of a risk is that to your returns overall? Well we gave some sensitivities in our 10K.
That shows by segment how things moved compared to a stress down compared to what our plan is at.
So I would point you towards that.
Let me also point out it's not just the long end moving up we are sensitive a bit to the short end because we had a very steep short yield curve and so we benefited over the last few years from better earnings and securities lending.
And that's impacted where we have asset intensive businesses in particular.
We've seen a benefit from that in CBF over the past few years maybe slightly higher earnings than people had thought but that's because the short end of the curve was down.
So it really depends on what's going to happen here but I point you back to the 10K because there would be some sensitivity there for you to analyze.
Okay.
And lastly Steve you mentioned the DoL standard briefly besides the annuity business is there risk in other parts of the business because of at least what the preliminary standards look like? Jimmy it's largely the annuity business that we're focused on in terms of the DoL rule.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
John your comment that you're now targeting variable annuity growth of greater than 20% from the old guidance of greater than 50% what's driving that? Is that DoL fiduciary standards related? Can you give some color there? Tom it's Bill I'll take that one.
It doesn't have anything to do with the DoL.
It really is just the pace of adoption of the new product versus what we had assumed in our plan for this year.
Remember this is a different type of rider right? It's not just that we've tweaked the features a little bit.
It's the withdrawal benefit versus a GMIB.
And so I think that that's causing adoption to be a l slower than we had assumed as producers get more comfortable with the product.
We've seen this phenomenon before with our indexed annuity product called Shield.
Sales were lower for a while than we had originally thought and now they are seeming to accelerate now that we have had the product out for a little over a year.
And we probably should have been a little smarter about how the pace of adoption here.
We do and I think John alluded to this we do expect to see increasing sales of FlexChoice in the latter half of 2015.
Okay and Bill just a follow-up on that related to DoL so if the proposal does get past without any we will call it meaningful changes how big of an impact do you see this being for the VA industry overall from a sales standpoint? Is it a game changer? Do you see it being meaningful or manageable? It's hard to make that call.
It's obviously going to be meaningful.
A lot of it will ultimately depend on what exemptions the DoL allows down the road.
Remember a lot of their rulemaking is really built on exemptions to existing policies.
And it's hard to know if this is at the end of the day more of a disclosure issue or how behavior is really going to change.
Okay thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Seth Weiss from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you good morning.
Steve I wanted to follow-up on your comments on cash flow and capital.
You commented on granular analysis of improving capital characteristics in certain segments.
Could you give a little bit more color on some of the specific areas for improvement that you have already identified? That was still in the early stages of the analysis and what we'll be doing as a company is looking at various parts of the business and then making some decisions and tradeoffs meaning some parts of the business we'll try to accelerate other parts of business we'll have to redesign some products to make it more efficient from a cash perspective.
So the work that we're doing really is interactive between all parts of the company.
And we're not yet at the point where it made found decisions about any one part of out business.
So it would be premature for me at this point to say what we'll be doing in terms of specific products and essentially signal something before we really have completed our analysis.
Other companies have engaged in this type of analysis before and particularly European companies.
It was a multiyear process that they went through.
We're trying to accelerate that process kind of learning from what others before us have done to shorten the timeframe but it's not something that gets done in one or two quarters.
Okay thank you.
And then on comments in terms of if SIFI either is overturned or rules come in less onerous than feared you commented on maximizing the balance sheet.
Just curious if this specifically means more share repurchases as we all think about it or if there are other tools in terms of maximizing the balance sheet beyond simply share repurchase increased dividends.
Well we look at share repurchases we look at dividends we look at acquisitions as all valid uses of any excess capital that we hold.
And at the point in time when we have greater clarity about the found decision on our judicial appeal in the capital rules for non-bank SIFIs we'll look at the landscape at that point in time and make a decision about where we utilize our capital.
Okay so this is utilization of capital not really structure of the balance sheet? Hi Seth this is John.
It may also be how we think about our balance sheet.
We have been over the past few years essentially de-leveraging.
We've had less debt equity ratios.
And that's been improving each and every period.
And the question will be if we were free of the SIFI what is the best balance sheet and that could include debt it include preferreds.
I mean we have to rethink all that.
We've been conservative so far.
So we have maximum flexibility kind of what the SIFI rules are because there could be Tier II and it could be more complex and might be different so that we've been deliberately being a little underlevered [ph] compared to some of our targets so that we have this flexibility.
But when we're out of this one way or the other we'll optimize our balance sheet for the best returns for the shareholder with a conservative for our safety for all of our customers.
Great thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bass from Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Hi thank you.
Can you talk a little bit more about the sales trends in Latin America? It looks like even adjusting for the Mexico Group case growth has slowed a bit there.
And maybe also put into context how much the U.S.
Direct business is contributing to sales? Yes sure.
Erik it's Bill I'd hate to just look at any one quarter and add a context in Latin America and say "Geez it's look like things are slowing down." I don't really think that's the case.
For instance the sales were a little suppressed this quarter relative to what we would normally expect our sales growth is.
But if you look underneath what you'll see is our Mexican AFORE which is the private pension system in Mexico is sales are much lower there.
There have been certain sales practice changes which makes switching between accounts much less prevalent for AFORE providers.
And so gross sales I'd say are much lower but at the same time retention rates are higher.
Maybe a better indicator of sort of what's really going on in Mexico or in Latin America is just PFOs.
On a constant rate PFO growth this quarter was 13%.
And that's right where we would expect it to be.
Things will move up and down in Latin America over time but I'd say the growth trend is still in place.
Got it.
And then on the Direct side or that's probably still small piece of sales now but if you can talk about how that's trending? I think you said that the level of investment spending will go down in the second half of the year and then obviously off the variable cost as sales come through.
Yes so Direct is a start-up.
It's still I'd say this is a -- I'd call this is a transitional quarter in that we had some small reserve adjustments.
They had a couple of bad homeowner's claims.
We do sell Auto and Homeowners direct through that channel.
And we clearly had some growth strain because year-over-year premium growth or sales growth is 70% which obviously I don't think we're going to continue to grow at that rate but we're growing this business.
We think that in the second half of the year there will still be operating losses but they will be much less than what we reported in the second quarter.
And the other thing I'd say is this business is just -- if the model is coming together in that we're seeing our mortality experience begin to improve our retention rates are beginning to improve so I think the trends are all in the right direction.
All right thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of John Nadel from Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning and thanks for taking the question.
Maybe Bill just a follow-up on a response to an earlier question about increasing competitive pressure in the Group Insurance side I think you mentioned certain segments -- is it fair to assume that you're talking about the large case market given that's where I think Met's prevalence is or is there more to add there? Yes well I think I talked about the Dental business.
Dental business is actually well what we would mid case.
I think the rest of the industry calls that large case but we're talking under between 1000 and 5000 lives.
We're seeing just a little context here John.
MET is the largest for-profit dental insurer provider in the United States.
So we're the market share leader.
People come at us from time to time.
We're currently seeing that in the mid-market.
We tend to just be very disciplined about this.
Dental margins are generally pretty thin to begin with.
So we'll let that business go and it will probably come back around within a year or two.
Got it.
And then bigger picture on the Group Insurance side you guys are the largest non-medical insurer in the U.S.
I think by just about any metric.
I'm curious what opportunities do you believe may develop given the ongoing consolidation that we're seeing amongst the largest medical insurers in the US.
Are you seeing any ramifications from that currently in the market? And I guess over the next couple of years as this all figures its way out do you think it will result in any strategic opportunities for MET including the potential to acquire non-medical operations from these medical providers? Well most of these big medical carriers do sell life disability dental and it's a bit of a -- it's obviously not the remaining focus.
So the logic has always been maybe they'll as they continue to get more focus on the medical side of the benefits equation that they'll potentially divest.
We haven't really seen much of that happen though that's always been the theory.
So I guess the potential is always there that there might be some strategic opportunities but I think we're just going to have to wait and see.
Okay so nothing yet.
And in terms of the immediate response in the market is there anything really coming up as a result of this? No other than I think the intermediaries are all very distracted right now dealing with all the consolidation both in health insurance and in commercial line.
Got it thank you.
And then just a real quick one for you Steve; given Bill's retirement next month I was wondering if you could update us on what kind of management structure you expect to have in place over the Americas.
John we haven't made any decisions on that.
Okay thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
I was wondering if you could give us your thoughts on potentially reinsuring out guaranteed living benefits on the variable annuity portfolio given what we've seen in terms of trends in the marketplace among some other major annuity writers.
Hi Jay it's John.
So up till now the deals that have been done have been on WBs not on IBs.
So much of our in-force and we had been selling until recently are IBs.
We look and evaluate these.
I think they share 50% of the risk to the reinsurer on this.
And of course we're always evaluating the cost benefit of all of these ideas.
We haven't done a transaction as of yet.
Okay.
And then a separate issue for you John.
How should we think about the share count for the full year? So if you make a simplifying assumption that there's no more share buybacks for the remainder of 2015 can you given the exercise or issuance of stock-based compensation where would you see share count ending out for the year on a fully diluted basis? Well I think if you go back over the past years and look at the issuance of share account and the timing of that by quarter to see how the large amounts are exercised and are issued for our employee benefit programs and of course individual exercising is hard to predict if that makes some material difference usually it doesn't.
And then we've got any buyback activity which again Steve's mention would be reevaluated and looked at and discussed with the board this fall.
But you can look back to historical patterns.
I don't have it at the top of my head.
But you can see it year-by-year.
It's typically way towards 4Q right? I don't think so I think it will be more in the first half of the year when we do our big awards but again you just go back and check.
You can see it quarter-by-quarter.
Will do.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Steve you had mentioned looking at free cash flow optimization and I guess considering the fact that we've seen a lot of appetite coming in from overseas insurers for U.S.
businesses.
Would you consider selling U.S.
businesses if you deemed them not free cash flow friendly or not free cash flow oriented? Well again Yaron we haven't made any firm decisions but everything is on the table in terms of how does analysis comes out.
Certain things will want to do more of.
Some things will do less of.
Some businesses will have to redesign their products.
And we don't rule out selling businesses.
Okay.
And then you had mentioned that Dental utilization was a bit high in the second quarter just catching up on weather in the first quarter.
I think that last year we saw a similar pattern but that also [technical difficulty] where utilization was still a little bit high.
Do you see that being the case this year again? Yaron I'm not sure if it will or not.
It looks very similar to the experience we had last year where of course we had two bad winters in a row.
I will say this Dental utilization if you look at the first six months is right on plan.
And so my expectation is that it will –-- the third quarter will probably moderate.
But you can't get surprised here a little bit.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Kovac from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking the question.
Just wondering going back to the Department of Labor fiduciary standards if the rule is passed in a way that it looks today what sort of impacts would you expect on the way that you compensate producers for variable annuities that you're selling? And then also on that can you give us a sense of the percent of variable annuities that you sell in retirement versus non-retirement? Sure.
I think what you meant in your second question is how much your variable annuities do you sell on qualified plans.
It's all retirement right? That's right.
But it's about 70% of our VAs today are sold in group qualified assets.
And so it's an issue for us.
Today we have already changed our compensation policies a couple of years ago to I'd say equalize comp between proprietary and non-proprietary annuities for our producers.
That's kind of a bridge we've already crossed.
With that said we might still have to make other compensation adjustments to our producers based on how the DoL rule comes out.
But I think we feel like we've already made -- we've already climbed part way up that hill.
Great thanks.
And then John mentioned conversion of a securities accounting system contributed about I think five basis points was the number.
Can you describe in a little more detail what's going on there and if there's any continuation from that going forward? Hi this is John.
Yes we convert over to a new accounting system from investment portfolio.
And we do it for the U.S.
portfolio this past quarter.
As you can imagine with the size of our U.S.
portfolio small little rounding and different slight different impacts in amortization can have an impact.
The impact we mention this quarter is a one-time event.
Great thanks.
Yes thanks and good morning.
I just want to come back to the DoL proposal one more time.
And I'm just wondering what the proposal if enacted as proposed would do to lapsation rates in variable annuities? And where I'm going with this is that perhaps contract holders are not turned into new contracts when the penalty period expires as often.
Is that something that you're concerned about? We probably have mixed feelings about that Sean.
Obviously we like as a general rule we like low lapse rates.
There is some of the in-force where the guarantees are relatively high and some of our competitors from time to time have actually tried to buy out that business with policyholders.
We've not done that by the way.
A little bit of it will depend I think in terms of the macroeconomic factors.
If interest rates go up we feel a lot better about our GMIB in-force.
And I'd think in general we would then think lower lapse rates would be a pretty clear in that positive for the annuity business for Met.
So I don't think that's going to be a big driver for us.
I don't that will end up being much of an issue.
Okay thanks.
And just one follow-up about your focus on cash and cash flow generation is that at odds or is that on the same page with how the Fed is thinking to the extent that you've had discussions with the Fed about your strategy to focus on cash flow? This is unrelated to the Fed.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Humphrey Lee from Dowling &amp; Partners.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Just a question about the spread compression that we're seeing in annuities the base spread came down around 27 basis points and my understanding is that's in part because of some of the interest rate protection rolled off in the quarter.
How should we think about the rolling off schedule of your interest rate hedges and this kind of 20 basis point impacts that we've seen in the second quarter would that be an ongoing thing? I guess in a sense how are those kind of interest rate hedges contracts were staggered throughout over the next several years? Humphrey I apologize.
I'm not sure I got all your question but I think I got the just of it.
So yes there was an investment margin decline in the annuity business this quarter.
And yes it was driven by the maturity of a particular interest rate floor.
MET had well over a decade ago or roughly a decade ago had invested a lot of interest rate floors for just the kind of scenario that we've gone through.
Those are starting to mature now and therefore -- because interest rates are still low our margins are starting to decline as they lapse.
So we had a decent-sized one that was supporting the annuity business lapses mature this quarter.
So that investment margin that we lost there is permanent right? It's not going to come back.
And these things will continue to mature over the next number of years.
So depending on what happens to interest rates that will obviously -- could have an impact on our interest margins in another part of the company.
So you've had [technical difficulty] matured in this quarter but [technical difficulty] going to be every quarter we'll see a 20 basis point impact but more like depending on the schedule.
And then in that case can you maybe give us a sense of how like when will we see maybe another big one that will be maturing? I don't remember when the next one comes.
We know there's not another one coming up this year for instance.
There's not going to be any more maturities of floors coming up this year I think.
I can't quite recall when the next one is coming up.
Okay thanks.
And then just one quick follow-up on John's comment earlier about high expenses in the quarter related to regulatory expenses.
Can you give us a sense of how much was that in the quarter? Well as I said about half of the higher ratio was due to lower PFOs and single premium sales and either half was due to expenses.
But in terms of that expenses is what portion is related to regulatory-related expenses versus other things? There were some pieces within that and they're all split between three different items.
Okay thanks.
Okay.
We are past the top of the hours.
Thank you very much for your participation.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the MetLife's Third Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session; instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to read the following statement on behalf of MetLife.
Except with respect to historical information statements made in this conference call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the federal securities laws including statements relating to trends in the company's operations and financial results in the business and the products of the company and its subsidiaries.
MetLife's actual results may differ materially from results anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including those described from time to time in MetLife's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including in the "Risk Factors" sections of those filings.
MetLife specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Ed Spehar Head of Investor Relations.
MetLife Inc.</strong> Thank you Greg.
Good morning everyone and welcome to MetLife's third quarter 2015 earnings call.
We will be discussing certain financial measures not based on generally-accepted accounting principles so-called non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures and related definitions to the most directly comparable GAAP measures may be found on the Investor Relations portion of metlife.com in our earnings release and our quarterly financial supplements.
A reconciliation of forward-looking financial information to the most directly-comparable GAAP measure is not accessible because MetLife believes it's not possible to provide a reliable forecast of net investment and net derivative gains and losses which can fluctuate from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
Now joining me this morning on the call are; Steve Kandarian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Hele Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will take your questions.
Also here with us today to participate in the discussions are other members of our management team.
After prepared remarks we will have a Q&amp;A session.
In fairness to all participants please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Steve.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
Last night we reported third-quarter operating earnings per share of $0.62 which included a pre-announced non-cash charge of $0.70 per share related to the tax treatment of a wholly-owned UK-based investment subsidiary.
Adjusted for this and other notable items operating earnings per share were $1.36 in the quarter which compares to $1.51 on the same basis in the prior-year period.
Adjusted for notable items operating return equity was 10.7% and tangible ROE was 13.1% in the quarter.
While operating EPS adjusted for notable items we're down this quarter our nine-month results on the same basis were up 3% with an operating ROE of 11.5% and tangible ROE of 14.2%.
Macroeconomic factors foreign currency equity markets and interest rates explain the year-over-year decline in third-quarter operating earnings per share adjusted for notable items.
Broad-based strength in the U.S.
Dollar reduced operating earnings for international businesses by $0.09 per share with significant weakness in the Mexican and Chilean Pesos the Aussie Dollar and the euro.
Equity market performance relative to the prior-year quarter hurt operating earnings by $0.04 per share.
Most of the negative impact was in retail annuities.
The poor equity market performance also hurt the co-investment related earnings from ProVida AFP.
The persistent low interest rate environment remains challenging and reduced operating earnings adjusted for notable items by $0.03 per share relative to the third quarter of last year.
Investment margins have been resilient in recent years as a result of affected asset liability management low interest rate hedges and variable investment income.
However we face ongoing headwinds from new money yields that are 100 basis points to 150 basis points below the portfolio yield and from the gradual expiration of derivative protection.
From a balance sheet standpoint we believe low interest rates are a manageable risk.
For example we completed our annual actuarial assumption review in the third quarter and the negative impact from low rates on net income was less than $180 million.
A key driver of this charge was an assumption change on how long it would take for the 10-year treasury yield to reach a normalized level.
We are now assuming it takes 11 years for the 10-year treasury yield to increase to our normalized assumption of 4.5% versus three years previously.
Turning to regulatory issues we recently received a clearance indication to date regarding the Federal Reserve's thinking on capital rules for federally regulated insurance companies.
In a speech delivered in late September Federal Reserve Board Governor Dan Tarullo commented on the importance of a liability side of insurance company's balance sheet when constructing capital rules.
He said "Traditional insurance liabilities argue for lower capital requirements that might be required for hypothetical bank holding a similar portfolio of assets." These are welcome comments made possible by the enactment of the Insurance Capital Standards Clarification Act in December of last year.
At the same time Governor Tarullo said the balance sheets of many large life insurers contain liabilities that he does not consider traditional.
Our takeaway is that while the Fed clearly recognizes the difference between the bank business model and the insurance business model we still need to see draft capital rules before we can draw any firm conclusions about the impact on our business.
On a parallel track international regulators are developing capital rules for global systemically important insurers.
Here too the news is mixed.
On October 5 the International Association of Insurance Supervisors released its proposal for higher loss absorbency capital requirements or HLA.
While MetLife holds capital comfortably above the levels prescribed by the IAIS we have two concerns with the methodology.
The first is that the required capital levels in the international framework are pro-cyclical and potentially volatile because they are based on a mark-to-market approach that ignores the ability of insurers to hold assets for the long term.
The second is that the IAIS proposes to apply higher capital charges to so-called non-traditional non-insurance activities.
Certain products with guarantees such as variable annuities are deemed non-traditional while other products with similar guarantees sold by competitors elsewhere in the world are deemed traditional.
This highlights the risk that MetLife has consistently identified in determining what is systemic that regulators will inadvertently pick winners and losers in the life insurance industry.
The good news is that the IAIS has said the higher loss absorbency rules will be subject to revision before the target effective date of 2019.
In fact the IAIS is launching a review this month of the definition of non-traditional insurance.
It has said that any changes will flow through to the HLA rules.
Another regulatory issue MetLife is following closely is the Department of Labor's proposed fiduciary rule.
As drafted the rule would make it significantly more difficult for life insurance companies to sell variable annuities.
MetLife has shared its concerns with the DOL in comment letters.
And a majority of members in both the House and Senate had asked the department to make changes to the rule.
In addition several members of Congress are beginning to work on a legislative alternative to the DOL proposal which underscores the growing awareness that the proposal will harm consumers by reducing choice and limiting access to financial education and investment advice.
I would now like to comment on cash distributions to shareholders.
As you know on September 22 we increased our share repurchase authorization from $261 million to $1 billion.
We are comfortable with this authorization given our current capital position which we continued to maintain above historical levels because of uncertain capital rules.
Since the announcement we have repurchased $261 million of stock including $107 million in the third quarter and we plan to remain an opportunistic buyer of our shares.
In the first nine months of 2015 our total payout to shareholders was $2.3 billion with roughly an even split between share repurchases and dividends.
This total payout equals approximately half of our nine-month operating earnings adjusted for notable items and is in line with our guidance of a 45% to 55% ratio of free cash flow to operating earnings.
MetLife's philosophy remains unchanged.
Excess capital belongs to our shareholders.
In my annual letter to shareholders this past March I said that free cash flow generation has become an enterprise-wide imperative for MetLife one that will form all of our major business decisions in the months and years ahead.
As mentioned during our second quarter earnings call we've undertaken a granular analysis of the cash and capital characteristics of our business.
This ongoing work is helping us improve our capital allocation process which we expect will drive more value for shareholders over time.
In closing this morning I want to provide an update on the management structure of our Americas region.
MetLife is taking a deliberative approach to find the right leadership for the Americas.
While our search continues we have named Eric Steigerwalt as interim head of the U.S.
business reporting to me.
In addition to retail Eric will oversee our other U.S.
businesses: Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits Corporate Benefit Funding and U.S.
Direct.
Oscar Schmidt will continue in his role as head of our Latin America business also reporting to me.
Both are strong leaders focused on generating long-term value for MetLife's shareholders.
I will now turn the call over to John Hele to discuss our financial results in detail.
John? Thank you Steve and good morning.
Today I'll cover our third quarter results including a discussion of insurance margins investment spreads expenses and business highlights.
I will then conclude with some comments on cash and capital.
Operating earnings in the third quarter were $705 million or $0.62 per share.
This quarter included five notable items which were highlighted in our news release and disclosed by business segment in the appendix of our quarterly financial supplement or QFS.
First we had a previously announced non-cash charge of $792 million or $0.70 per share related to the tax treatment of a wholly-owned U.K.
investment subsidiary of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.
Second as a result of our annual actuarial assumption review and other insurance adjustments we had an after-tax charge to operating earnings of $92 million or $0.08 per share.
The total after-tax charge to net income was $210 million.
Retail accounted for $228 million partially offset by modest positive earnings impact in Asia and EMEA.
The impact in retail was mainly due to the change in our assumptions to reflect the persistent low interest rate environment and our current view that rates will remain below normal levels longer than we had originally assumed.
As you heard from Steve we are now assuming that it takes 11 years for the 10-year treasury yield to reach 4.5% versus three years previously.
We've also lowered our long-term earned rate assumption for annuities from 5.25% to 5%.
Our long-term earned rate assumption for life insurance is unchanged at 5.75% and our long-term separate account return assumption remains 7.25%.
Third variable investment income was $174 million after taxes and DAC which was $37 million or $0.03 per share below the bottom end of our 2015 quarterly guidance range.
Fourth we have favorable one-time tax items in the Americas which increased operating earnings by $72 million or $0.06 per share.
Finally we had lower than budgeted catastrophe losses in favorable prior-year reserve development which increased operating earnings by $21 million or $0.02 per share.
In total notable items included in operating earnings were $828 million or $0.73 per share.
Turning to our bottom line results: Third quarter net income was $1.2 billion or $1.06 per share.
Net income was $492 million higher than operating expenses primarily because of derivative and investment portfolio net gains.
The derivative net gains were driven by lower interest rates and strengthening of the U.S.
dollar against certain currencies.
The investment portfolio net gains were mainly the result of real estate sales.
The difference between net income and operating earnings in the quarter included a favorable impact of $568 million related to asymmetrical and non-economic accounting after tax.
Book value per share excluding AOCI other than FCTA was $51.11 as of September 30 up 3% year-over-year.
Tangible book value per share was $42.21 as of September 30 up 6% year-over-year.
With respect to third-quarter margins underwriting primarily in the U.S.
was less favorable than the prior-year quarter by $0.03 per share after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
Retail life and other and property and casualty were the primary drivers of the year-over-year result.
Retail life's interest-adjusted benefit ratio was 53.4% excluding a 4% point impact from the actuarial assumption review.
The ratio was less favorable than the prior-year quarter of 51.0% on a comparable basis but within the expected range of 50% to 55%.
Average net claims from large based policies were higher than the prior-year quarter but within the normal range of expectations.
The group life mortality ratio was 86.1% or toward the low end of the expected annual range of 85% to 90%.
The ratio is favorable to the prior-year quarter's 87.8% due to better claims experience.
The non-medical health interest-adjusted loss ratio was 80.7% approximately in line with the prior-year quarter of 80.5% and within the targeted range of 77% to 82%.
In property and casualty the combined ratio including catastrophes was 90.9% in retail and 97.7% in group.
The combined ratio excluding catastrophes was 84.0% in retail and 92.7% in group.
Overall P&amp;C underwriting was unfavorable versus the prior-year quarter.
We experienced higher non-catastrophe claim costs primarily due to higher frequency and severity in our auto business as well as higher catastrophes.
Turning to investment margins; the average of the four U.S.
product spreads in our QFS was 202 basis points in the quarter down 28 basis points year-over-year.
Pre-tax variable investment income was $267 million down $157 million versus the prior year quarter due to weak hedge fund performance and lower prepayment income.
Product spreads excluding variable investment income were 172 basis points down 13 basis points year-over-year.
Lower core yields accounted for most of this decline as a result of the low interest rate environment.
With regard to expenses the operating expense ratio was 24.2% unfavorable to the prior-year quarter of 23.0%.
There was an interest-related component of the non-cash tax charge that flowed through expenses.
Excluding this item the operating expense ratio was 21.4% or 160 basis points better than the prior year primarily driven by strong pension closeout sales.
I will now discuss the business highlights in the quarter.
Retail operating earnings were $523 million down 33% versus the prior-year quarter; and down 10% after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
Life and other reported operating earnings of $183 million down 50% versus the prior-year quarter and down 14% after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
The primary drivers were lower expense margins less favorable underwriting primarily in P&amp;C and lower recurring investment income.
Life and other PFOs were $2.1 billion down 3% year-over-year as growth in the open block was more than offset by runoff of the closed block.
Core retail life sales were up 36% year-over-year primarily driven by whole and term life.
Annuities reported operating earnings of $340 million down 19% versus the prior-year quarter and down 8% after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
The key drivers were less favorable initial market impact higher expenses and taxes.
The separate account return was negative 6% in the quarter.
Total annuity sales were $2.4 billion in the quarter up 20% year-over-year.
We continue to see good momentum with our index-linked annuity Shield Level Selector and we expect this product to exceed $1 billion in sales this year.
Also our new VA guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit rider FlexChoice continues to gain acceptance in the market and drove VA sales to $1.8 billion this quarter an increase of 15% year-over-year.
Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits or GVWB reported operating earnings of $238 million down 1% versus the prior-year quarter and essentially flat after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
Business growth in the quarter was offset by less favorable underwriting in P&amp;C primarily in the auto business.
GVWB PFOs were $4.4 billion up 2% year-over-year.
Sales were down 12% year-over-year as we continue to see an impact from increased competition in life and dental.
Sales of voluntary products increased 24% due to growth in property and casualty.
Corporate Benefit Funding or CBF reported operating earnings of $326 million down 17% versus the prior-year quarter and down 13% after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
The key driver was lower investment margins.
CBF PFOs were $1.7 billion up significantly year-over-year due to strong pension closeout sales in the quarter.
Excluding closeouts PFOs were down 15% due to lower structured settlement sales.
Latin America reported operating earnings of $176 million up 44% in the prior-year quarter and 100% on a constant currency basis.
After adjusting for notable items in both periods primarily Chile taxes Latin America operating earnings were down 4% on a constant currency basis.
The key drivers were less favorable underwriting and unfavorable market performance partially offset by growth in the region.
U.S.
Direct which is included in Latin America's results had an operating loss of $7 million versus $15 million loss in the prior-year quarter reflecting lower expenses.
Latin America PFOs were $940 million down 18% and essentially unchanged on a constant currency basis as growth in ProVida and Argentina was offset by lower single premium immediate annuity sales in Chile.
Total Latin America sales increased 3% on a constant currency basis primarily due to direct marketing across the region partially offset by lower 40%s (22:59) sales in Mexico and single premium immediate annuity sales in Chile.
Turning to Asian.
Operating earnings were $338 million up 9% from the prior year quarter and up 26% on a constant currency basis.
Adjusting for notable items in both periods operating earnings were up 22% on a constant currency basis driven by favorable business growth $21 million in investment income from a loan sale and an unusual low tax rate.
Asia PFOs were $2.1 billion down 13% from the prior-year quarter but up 3% on a constant currency basis driven by higher A&amp;H in Japan.
Asia sales were down 10% on a constant currency basis due to two large group cases in Australia in the prior-year quarter.
Excluding these cases sales were up 6%.
A highlight in the quarter was a 23% increase in Japan A&amp;H sales as we continue to benefit from a refurbished product portfolio.
EMEA operating earnings were $66 million down 15% year-over-year but up 14% on a constant currency basis adjusting for notable items in both periods.
Operating earnings were up 25% on a constant currency basis driven by business growth particularly in the Gulf and the U.K.
and favorable tax items.
EMEA PFOs were $618 million down 15% from the prior year period and down 1% on a constant currency basis.
Excluding the impact from the conversion of certain operations to calendar year reporting in the prior year quarter PFOs were up 4%.
Total EMEA sales declined 8% due to strong employee benefit sales in the Middle East and the conversion of certain operations to calendar year reporting in the prior year quarter.
Adjusting for these items sales were up 3% driven by A&amp;H partially offset by lower than expected life and retirement sales.
I will now discuss our cash and capital position.
Cash and liquid assets at the holding companies were approximately $5.5 billion at September 30.
The decrease from the previous quarter was driven primarily by the payment of our quarterly common dividend interest expense and share repurchases.
Turning to our capital position we report U.S.
RBC ratios annually so we do not have an update for the third quarter.
For Japan our solvency margin was 959% as of the second quarter of 2015 which is the latest public data.
For our U.S.
insurance companies preliminary third quarter statutory results are an operating loss of approximately $900 million and a net loss of approximately $700 million.
As previously disclosed on a statutory basis the non-cash tax charge was $911 million in the quarter.
Of this charge $972 million (sic) [$792 million] (25:57) went to the statutory earnings and $119 million directly into surplus.
In addition earnings were negatively impacted by the stock market decline in the third quarter.
Our strategy is to under-hedge for smaller market moves and accept the resulting volatility while ensuring we have sufficient hedges to protect against extreme shocks.
We estimate our total U.S.
statutory adjusted capital was approximately $29 billion as of September 30 which was comparable to December 31.
In conclusion third quarter operating earnings had several notable items that negatively impacted results and market factors were unfavorable relative to the prior year.
However quarterly volatility is to be expected.
While we were short of analysts' expectations in the third quarter we exceeded expectations in the first two quarters of the year.
We are striving to create long term sustainable growth and value and improvement in our free cash flow generation and material increase in distributions to our shareholders highlight this commitment.
And with that I will turn it back to the operator for your questions.
Thank you.
One moment please for the first question.
Your first question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Steve I would like to start with the comment that you made about – and I guess it was a backward-looking comment how you were indicating you have returned roughly 50% of normalized GAAP earnings to shareholders through buybacks and common dividends.
Is that a reasonable expectation going forward from here? Because you obviously still have uncertainty with regard to the lawsuit with the government and SIFI rules but is the plan in place that you have and the expectation that we should have that 50% type distribution while you are in this state of limbo? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Tom let me answer you in one second.
But John just wants to make a quick correction to his comments.
Yes.
As I was going through my script I said one number slightly backwards.
Of the statutory charge in the quarter of the $911 million of the charge it's $792 million went to statutory earnings.
I believe and it was pointed out to me I said $972 million.
So it's $792 million went to statutory earnings and $119 million went directly into surplus President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Tom things – obviously I'm moving around as we hear from policymakers in Washington around the capital rules.
As of now there's no draft capital rules out for us to look at and consider with respect to our business.
So while we thought these rules would be out well before now we're still waiting.
And our decision a couple years back was to begin returning capital to shareholders excess free cash flow and we built up what we believe is a good buffer but again it's uncertain and we don't know how this will all play out.
So right now it's a little bit of a judgment call.
And we are in this year looking to return to shareholders the free cash flow that the business generated.
I think if nothing changes in the external world that'd be the pace we'd be on going forward in 2016 as well but I have to put some caveats in here because there could be a change in the environment that we learn about at some point in the future but that is our current thinking.
Okay.
So the 50% if nothing else changed let's say it continued to be delayed for whatever reason you'd be comfortable with the 50% based on what you know today? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We'd be comfortable with what we're generating in terms of free cash flow and we are targeting at the 45% to 55% levels so assuming we achieve that that would be a fairly good number to think about and if draft rules come out next year that could impact our thinking of course.
Okay.
And then the changes or the charges that you had this quarter related to both the tax item as well as the change in RBC coming from some adjustments to the variable – the onshoring of the variable annuity business so the impact from that would that affect the way you're thinking about returning capital and cash flow or no? Hi.
This is John.
Our guidance of the 45% to 55% is still within the RBC and the tax charges that we've already spoken about.
Okay.
And then one last one if I could sneak it in the cash flow project can you comment on what should we be thinking related to this? I presume the goal is to move it higher but are we talking about from the 45% to 55% are we talking about potentially moving it meaningfully or do you think it's going to be very marginal in terms of where this might go? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Tom we're in the process of finalizing our analysis on this so it's too early to say how that number would be impacted.
But the goal clearly is to raise the number and we are looking at all of our businesses by product by geography by customer.
There's a great deal of very granular analysis that's ongoing and we are looking at a number of factors as we think of our businesses including quicker paybacks on our products.
So the goal here is to improve free cash flow and I should mention that companies that have undergone this process in the past and primarily in Europe took a number of years to go through this process.
We are trying to condense that to a shorter period of time but it's not an exercise that one could go through in a couple of quarters.
So we'll have more to say about it clearly next year but you can be assured that we are working very hard on driving higher our free cash flow ratio and as we learn things along the way here with our analysis we're making adjustments on an ongoing basis.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
So the first question I had is just on yours spreads.
Even if we exclude the variable investment income spreads came down a lot especially in the corporate benefit funding business I think they are 117 basis points versus almost 150 basis points in the second quarter and the third quarter of last year; so what drove the decline and is this the normal base that you are looking to grow off of or was there something abnormal in the second quarter that would have pressured your results beyond the variable investment income impact? Hi Jimmy.
This is John.
So CBF spreads look in our quarterly financial supplement do bounce around quarter to quarter.
We had in December 2014 in our guidance call said our spread outlook would be between 150 basis points to 170 basis points with 30 basis points to 40 basis points from VII if you look at it for the nine months we're at 173 basis points with 39 basis points from VII.
But the third quarter was at the low end at 149 basis points with 32 basis points from VII so you can see how this moves around quarter to quarter a lot of VII second quarter.
Remember we pointed out an accounting change that we did to also give a boost to the second quarter of CBF but within this guidance it still makes sense for the 150 basis points to 170 basis points.
And then on the $900 million statutory charge from foreign tax credits I think you mentioned previously that the impact on your dividend capacity for 2016 would be around $90 million.
Should we assume a commensurate impact in future periods as well beyond 2016? This is a one-time charge remember statutory dividends are determined a year after the fact.
The reason why it is not a larger impact is we are up against the lesser than rule of the New York which is dividends are the lesser of 10% of surplus or your earnings in the year.
So this did affect as I said our statutory earnings but it did not affect the dividend capacity for next year because we are bumping up against a 10% number the 10% limitation.
Okay.
Thank you and just lastly on variable investment income the weakness this quarter I'm assuming it's hedge fund driven and maybe the other private equity and prepayments were somewhat normal but maybe if you could give us some color on what drove the downside this quarter? Hi Jimmy.
It's Steve Goulart.
In looking at variable investment income for the quarter most of the decline relative to plan in our range was in hedge funds.
I think if you just look at what's happened in the market hedge funds had a pretty weak quarter and we saw it come through.
I think John mentioned prepayments in some of his remarks but prepayments were still in line with plan they were just down from a high quarter on a year-over-year basis.
So it's really all about hedge funds and VII.
And as we look forward to the fourth quarter we are comfortable that we will be back in the range that we have set out the $325 million to $425 million per quarter that we gave originally.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Suneet Kamath from UBS.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Just a question John I was writing down numbers pretty quickly did you say – can you go over the stat earnings in the quarter again on an operating basis? Happy to.
Let me just look at that page.
For our U.S.
insurance companies our statutory results were an operating loss of approximately $900 million and a net loss of approximately $700 million.
And of course this has the non-cash tax charge it was $911 million on a statutory basis $792 million went through statutory earnings and $119 million directly into surplus.
So if we think about that $900 million loss so you got $792 million of it from the charge so then there is a $108 million loss beyond that.
I mean is that – essentially are all the stat earnings being offset by the fact that you have under-hedged on the equity side? Yeah that was one of the major impacts and it's not under-hedged we don't fully hedge on smaller market moves but we have a macro hedge that protects against larger market moves so we're trying to be cost-efficient in how we do this.
We're willing to take some statutory volatility quarter to quarter to have an economical return on this product line but we're well protected if larger shocks kick in.
Okay.
And then my second question for Steve I guess is in the press release you talk about the ROE ex AOCI and other FCTA of 10.7% and I know you don't give guidance on ROE but as we think about kind of the trajectory of this does it feel like the ROE is sort of bottoming at this level or could we see some continued pressure on that ROE? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Suneet obviously the external pressures on us are significant and we've discussed that.
I'd say in the near term given current interest rates and the macroeconomic factors in that high 10% 11% range is probably what we're looking at.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Seth Weiss from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Steve I wanted to return to your comments regarding Fed regulations specifically Tarullo's comments on non-traditional activities.
I know earlier in the summer you spoke about funding agreements commercial paper securities lending and guaranteed investment contracts in terms of an area that the Fed may be looked closer at.
If these were deemed non-traditional and were holding you up for the SIFI designation how quickly would you be able to exit these businesses and would you consider doing that if it would have a substantial regulatory benefit? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Those are short duration businesses and liabilities.
So we could move pretty quickly.
What we would do is once the capital rules came out we would look at the cost and benefits to the company overall and we have to make a decision based upon that analysis.
So until then it's hard to say what we actually would do but in the day it ended up being a fairly straightforward analysis for us.
Okay.
Great.
And regarding variable annuities do you have any hints if this is something the Fed considers non-traditional similar to how the international regulators are looking at it or is this something that the Fed has perhaps shown some comfort around? Hi.
Seth it's John.
The Fed has given no guidance as to what they're considering to be weighted in different ways.
They're looking at all aspects of the insurance business and the industry is in discussions with them but they really have given us no indication at this time as to how they'll view any line of business.
Okay.
Thanks for the comments.
Your next question comes from the line of Jay Gelb from Barclays.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
With regard to the pushing out the long-term 10-year treasury rate assumption to 11 years from three years what are the implications on that for future margins? It seems like it would be less of a drag going forward.
Hi Jay.
When we say less of a drag I mean it's just a slope takes longer.
We think a GAAP charge in that today as you can see and then it just – the earnings flow through over time.
So I guess maybe I could follow up if you clarify your question a little bit? Inc.</span></strong> Sure.
It seems that if the assumption was – previously it was going to be three years to get there and now we're talking 11 years there might be less additions to reserves going forward? Is that – am I thinking about that the right way? Well it would be now set if interest rates go up exactly according to this slope then you'd have normal profits coming through and no changes to DAC amortizations.
This is primarily a DAC change.
You have less profits in the future so you need to adjust your DAC today and the patterns go out in a consistent manner.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then on the – I guess a follow-up on the ROE comment if I plug in 11% return on equity I guess around $6.0 in earnings next year that seems to be perhaps a little bit less than consensus was expecting.
Any potential offsets to that that we should be thinking about? MetLife Inc.</span></strong> Hi Jay.
Well as I'd like to remind you we don't give forward guidance.
We've given you our views and I guess you can do your calculations so thanks.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Krueger from KBW.
Please go ahead.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I had a question on the higher P&amp;C auto claims.
It seems like you are experiencing the same issue some others in the industry are going through.
Is this something that you'd expect to recur for a period of time before you can get rate increases pushed through? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut</span></strong> Hi.
It's Eric.
We probably are.
I think it's fair to say we're experiencing reasonably what the rest of the industry is.
You've heard from other companies that they've been talking about more miles driven as a result higher accidents.
You heard John say that overall our results frankly in both group and retail is slightly higher frequency and severity.
So we're not sure if this is going to continue for quarters and quarters and quarters.
We are all over price increases.
When we feel we have to take them as we have in this year we will.
And over time we'll let you know what our decisions have been going forward.
So right now we don't see anything far out of line with what we've been expecting.
But if we continue to see pressure then you can be assured that we will take increases.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And then for John; do you have any preliminary expectations for the impact of year-end statutory asset adequacy testing? Well that would be done at the end of the year.
It depends on where interest rates end up and other factors.
So I can't give you I can't predict where interest rates will be at the end of the year.
And that's one of the most sensitive points.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I got it.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bass from Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning.
Thank you.
In the past you've talked about a potential present value GAAP hit from sustained 2% rates is I think $3 billion.
Are there any changes to that expectation or should we just think about the rate adjustment this quarter of the approximately $180 million is just subtracting from that amount? Hi.
This is John.
That would be correct.
We view the changes we made this quarter were consistent within that overall guidance that we've given.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks.
And then on Japan just one question.
You mentioned the third sector sales being up 23% this quarter.
Can you comment on the competitive trends in that market and how long of a sales cycle you see for the new products that you introduced? Yeah.
Sure.
Chris Townsend here.
So we introduced those new products in the beginning of the fourth quarter last year.
And as you can see we've had pretty good growth right through the first three quarters of this year.
So overall third sector was up 23%.
We've got a tough comparison coming up against the fourth quarter of 2014 but I think overall the prior guidance we've given you in terms of sales in the third sector was that we would grow it mid to high single digits this year.
Given the performance we've had so far we can lift that guidance now to a full year at about 10% to 12%.
So the new products are progressing really well.
They give customers good choice.
They're simple products they got segmented pricing.
And all four of our key distribution channels are up so we feel pretty good about that third sector right now.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
I actually want to follow up on Erik's question on the assumption review.
So looking at this $3 billion in present value that you had talked about in the past from the low interest rate environment forever and comparing it to the $180 million in losses we saw this quarter I was under the impression in the past that you had expected to see a lot of the charges coming in the first three years to five years.
And in that sense I was a little surprised to see a relatively small impact from the new assumption this quarter and just wanted to square the two.
I think what we had said before when we gave this guidance about $3 billion most of it is in DAC.
And as you change your assumptions that tends to be immediate of course on your DAC amortization.
There's also U.S.
GAAP loss recognition testing that if you need to increase those that's done over time.
What I had said was I didn't expect to change assumptions immediately.
To go right down to flat 2% forever would take some time for us ever to change our view on that as the world might change.
Because for 10-year treasuries to remain at 2% forever means either no inflation or there's very little growth in the U.S.
economy.
We don't believe long term that that is the case but we now believe it will take a lot longer to get there from where we are today.
So that's the assumption change.
And as I said the calculations we have done are consistent with the prior year guidance that I've given.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay then that's helpful.
And then turning back to P&amp;C for a second I was just wondering what was causing the more elevated or the greater deterioration I guess in group P&amp;C versus retail bearing in mind the industry trends that we're seeing in frequency and severity? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Are you talking about – we didn't quite hear your question.
Are you talking about the differential between group and retail? Was that part of your question? Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
That's right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
So buried in there as we add a little IBNR change so that's why the subtlety of my previous answer might have been missed but if you think about it if I were to normalize that IBNR change I would say that the hit to group and retail was roughly the same and completely driven by as we already said miles driven both frequency and severity in both businesses.
So that's a little bit more of a normalized answer there.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I appreciate it.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Kovac from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
With the equity market volatility clearly you saw the impact in the annuities segment for you and your peers.
I am wondering if you can discuss some of the moving pieces particularly around how managed volatility products and your hedge program performed in the third quarter versus both your expectations and maybe some other market downturns? Hi Michael.
This is John.
As I said the separate accounts were down about 6%.
Our managed vol funds actually did a little better than that but were still negative.
They were just around 4.5% – was about the amount for the target vol funds.
So target vols are supposed to be better but to react in a quick quarter like this it's harder for these so they did perform a bit better than what the S&amp;P did which is down about 7% and our separate account returns in total were down about 6% but not flat or anything.
It was a pretty rough quarter for the equity markets.
And then as you think about variable annuity sales going forward I know you had guided to 50% and then 20% in this quarter came in about 15%.
Any thoughts on the outlook? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer MetLife Insurance Company of Connecticut</span></strong> Yeah this is Eric.
The number that I've been looking at – so you are quoting the pure variable annuity number.
When I look at VAs and our Shield product in the third quarter we were up 26% and that is quite a good result.
Our Shield sales continue to increase quarter-over-quarter after quarter sequentially and I think we are going to see the same thing generally in VAs.
Certainly as we moved from 2014 – frankly from the 2012 through 2014 period of decreasing sales 2015 was that inflection point and honestly very hard to project.
So we are below what we had thought we would be able to do.
There is a number of reasons for that.
This quarter obviously volatility in the equity markets state approvals throughout the year play a big part; certain key states came a fair amount later than we had thought they would.
However at this point sales are looking pretty good the Flex product continues to take hold both in our captive channel and in all of our independent channels.
So I am confident going forward that we will see good sales results certainly double-digit sales results.
Your next question comes from the line of John Nadel from Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead Hey.
Good morning everybody.
A lot of questions asked and answered.
You have a wide range for the loss expected for the corporate segment for the full year.
I think if we make all of your normalizing adjustments you're around a $420 million loss but you have a range of I believe it was $550 million to $750 million.
Can you give us some help on what end of that range or where in that range you expect to end the year given you have got just a few months left? I'd still stick with that range.
We have timing of preferred dividends now.
We refinanced one of our preferred dividends and there's a gain this quarter because it's now a semi-annual dividend and it'll hit the fourth quarter so there's going to be some bumpy timing as we look quarter to quarter now.
The old preferreds that we took out were quarterly dividends so it's smoother.
The new piece that we did it is a net savings to us by doing this but it'll be more bumpy.
Okay that is helpful.
And then I wanted to think about the – on a normalized basis the Asia segment has seen a reasonable amount of volatility in earnings for a business that I think should generally versus more of your capital markets sense of the businesses I would expect it to be a bit more stable and predictable.
That range is pretty wide on a quarterly basis.
So just thinking about second quarter and third quarter here in particular which one of those normalized numbers do you think is a better true indication of the earnings power of that business that you're annualizing? Hi.
It's Chris Townsend here.
We gave some guidance previously in terms of the range.
It was a low single to sort of high single to low double digit earnings rates on a constant rate basis for Asia and we're still sticking with that in terms of the year for 2015.
If you look at this quarter for instance obviously last quarter we had that very high one-off tax issue in Japan which threw the numbers out.
But for this quarter the constant rate growth is 26% and there's three main items in that.
One is business growth which accounts for about 11% or 12% of that.
One is favorable investment income of $21 million which is about 7% and then there's a couple of one-off tax items.
So you should probably think about 310 to 320 (54:53) plus or minus 5% is the sort of average run rate for the Asia business.
That's very helpful.
Thank you Chris.
And your final question today comes from the line of Eric Berg from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much for including me at the end here.
A couple of quick questions.
The increase in the number of years that you expect to be 10-year to reach 4% I think in the quarter from 3 years to 11 years strikes me as a major change.
And so my question is at least it strikes me that way.
So my question is is this something that you have decided recently that you have been thinking about for a while? And given that interest rates have actually risen this year treasury yields are flat but credit spreads have widened.
As you think about what has happened in the world what has prompted you to make what seems to be such a dramatic change in your outlook for interest rates? Thanks.
Thanks Eric.
This is John.
So obviously where interest rates go long-term is very important for us in how we price how we think and how we account for our business.
We spend a lot of time thinking about 4.5% is still the correct long long-term assumption and when I say long-term we're putting liabilities in the books today that may last for 100 years given life expectancies of young people.
So it's a very long-term assumption.
So that we think about that and the question is how fast will we get there and I would say currently and we talked to a lot of economists and academics on this and looked at the global economy I think given this year compared to even a few years ago where there was much more optimism about the recovery of the world economies we see a much slower growth for now and for the foreseeable future.
And that's why we put a longer slope going out on the treasury rate which is the risk-free rate.
When it comes to credit spreads we really normalize those over the entire credit cycle and the fact they're up in the quarter or down in the quarter doesn't really impact our thinking over a very long-term cycle.
And we study credit spreads over decades and that's how we set these long-term assumptions and we're lucky we have experience of credit cycles over decades and have very good experience in this.
So that's of our thinking and behind how we set these assumptions.
Thanks John.
And there are no further questions.
MetLife Inc.</strong> Okay well thank you very much for joining.
Have a good day.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the MetLife Fourth Quarter 2015 Earnings Release Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to read the following statement on behalf of MetLife.
Except with respect to historical information statements made in this conference call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws including statements relating to trends in the company's operations and financial results and the business and the products of the company and its subsidiaries.
MetLife's actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including those described from time to time in MetLife's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission including in the Risk Factor section of those filings.
MetLife specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Ed Spehar Head of Investor Relations.
Thank you Greg.
Good morning everyone and welcome to MetLife's fourth quarter 2015 earnings call.
We will be discussing certain financial measures not based on generally accepted accounting principle so-called non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures and related definitions to the most directly comparable GAAP measures may be found on the Investor Relations portion of metlife.com in our earnings release and our quarterly financial supplements.
A reconciliation of forward-looking financial information to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is not accessible because MetLife believes it's not possible to provide a reliable forecast of net investment and net derivative gains and losses which can fluctuate from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
Now joining me this morning on the call are Steve Kandarian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Hele Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will take your questions.
Also here with us today to participate in the discussions are other members of management.
After prepared remarks we will have a Q&amp;A session.
In fairness to all participants please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up.
With that I'd like to turn the call over Steve.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
Last night we reported fourth quarter operating earnings per share of $1.23 which compares to $1.38 per share in the fourth quarter of last year.
The year-over-year decline in operating EPS was primarily explained by variable investment income or VII which contributed $0.06 per share to operating earnings in the fourth quarter of 2015 versus $0.18 in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Variable investment income can be volatile largely because it's driven by returns on alternative asset classes.
These asset classes have provided strong returns to MetLife shareholders over time.
In addition to a challenging quarter for VII broad-based strength in the U.S.
dollar remained an earnings headwind.
Foreign exchange rates hurt operating earnings from our international businesses by $0.05 per share in the fourth quarter versus the prior year period.
MetLife repurchased $822 million of shares in the fourth quarter.
With an additional $70 million of buybacks in early January and the $107 million of repurchases in the third quarter we have completed our latest $1 billion repurchase program.
As you know on January 12 we announced a plan to pursue the separation of a substantial portion of our U.S.
Retail business.
Until we are in a position to disclose details of the separation plan we are not able to repurchase shares.
While the separation plan has a negative impact on capital management in the near term we are confident it positions MetLife to be a more compelling capital management story over the long term.
Exiting a business that has been central to the company since its founding in 1868 highlights our willingness to take bold actions to maximize shareholder value.
Two factors drove our decision to pursue this plan: our strategic focus on businesses with capital requirements in higher cash generation and the potential impact of capital requirements on the variable annuity business if it remained part of a systemically important financial institution or SIFI.
On the first point as I have said on prior calls we have learned a great deal about the cash and capital characteristics of our major business lines as a result of our Accelerating Value strategic initiative.
One of the key early learnings from this effort was that the capital requirements and potential volatility of cash flows from the VA businesses do not fit well with our overall goal to deliver predictable recurring free cash flow.
Following the separation we anticipate that MetLife will generate a free cash flow to operate earnings ratio above our current target of 55% to 65% and with less volatility.
In our view the market does not give us appropriate credit for our higher multiple businesses because of concern about the potential risk profile of VAs.
By separating out of a substantial portion of our U.S.
Retail operation we are addressing this valuation overhang on MetLife.
On the second point we believe that regulatory risk is significantly diminished as a result of this plan.
The Federal Reserve has made encouraging comments on capital rules for so-called traditional insurance lines but we are concerned that the Fed could view variable annuities as non-traditional which is how this product is currently categorized by international regulators.
Since we believe the standalone U.S.
Retail business would not be a SIFI separation mitigates the risk of onerous capital rules for the VA business.
MetLife continues to challenge its SIFI designation in court and does not believe any part of our business poses systemic risk.
However we also recognize that the judicial process could take a considerable period of time especially if either party appeals the District Court's decision.
In the meantime adverse capital rules for VAs could put MetLife at a competitive disadvantage.
Finally as we said in the press release announcing the separation plan we believe a standalone U.S.
Retail business will be more nimble and competitive benefiting from greater focus more flexibility in products and operations and a reduced capital and compliance burden.
We know you want more information on what the new company will look like including specifics on strategy and capital.
However we are able to provide only limited information prior to finalizing the form of the separation.
Turning to regulatory matters I would like to report on two developments in New York that will improve MetLife's ability to return excess capital to shareholders.
First in late December 2015 New York changed the law for calculating ordinary dividend capacity for life insurers creating a more level playing field with other states.
Previously an ordinary shareholder dividend could be distributed annually if it did not exceed the lesser of either 10% of statutory surplus or the statutory net gain from operations in the prior year.
The legislation adds a greater-of test which is consistent with the existing standard in the majority of states.
We had assumed that our New York subsidiary Metropolitan Life Insurance Company would distribute meaningful capital to the holding company under the old law.
However that assumption was heavily dependent upon extraordinary dividends which are subject to regulatory approval.
While the new law means more predictable less volatile dividends it does not change MetLife's commitment to keeping our businesses very well capitalized.
Second the New York Department of Financial Services [New York State Department of Financial Services] is unique among state regulators in mandating certain actual assumptions and reserve requirements through an annual Special Consideration letter.
For year-end 2015 financial statements Metropolitan Life Insurance Company is permitted to aggregate all three lines of business life annuity and health to meet the requirements.
Previously health insurance was excluded.
Largely because of this change we anticipate a reserve release of approximately $1 billion based on current capital market conditions.
While New York's standards remain very conservative relative to other regulatory regimes the change will make us more competitive with insurers domiciled in other states.
In conclusion we are committed to making the right decisions to produce substantial and sustainable shareholder value.
And we are willing to execute bold moves to achieve this goal.
Our separation plan will allow MetLife to focus on businesses that have lower capital requirements and greater cash flow generation potential while creating a more nimble and competitive U.S.
Retail franchise.
I will now turn the call over to John Hele to discuss our financial results in detail.
John? Thank you Steve and good morning.
Today I'll cover our fourth quarter results including a discussion of insurance margins investment spreads expenses and business highlights.
I will then conclude with some comments on cash and capital.
Operating earnings in the fourth quarter were $1.4 billion or $1.23 per share.
This quarter included three notable items which were highlighted in our news release and disclosed by business segment in the appendix of our quarterly financial supplement or QFS.
First variable investment income was $71 million after DAC and taxes which was $137 million or $0.12 per share below the bottom end of our 2015 quarterly plan range.
Second we had higher than budgeted catastrophe losses partially offset by favorable prior-year reserve development which in total decreased operating earnings by $9 million or $0.01 per share after tax.
Third we had a one-time tax benefit in Argentina which increased operating earnings by $31 million or $0.03 per share after tax.
This tax benefit was a result of Argentina's currency being devalued by 40% in December which required the remeasurement of U.S.
dollar-based reserves into pesos and resulted in an increased tax deduction.
Turning to our bottom line results the fourth quarter net income was $785 million or $0.70 per share.
Net income was $591 million lower than operating earnings primarily because of derivative net losses and losses related to certain variable annuity guarantees where the hedge assets are more sensitive to market fluctuations than the GAAP treatment for guarantee liabilities.
The derivative net losses were primarily driven by higher interest rates.
The difference between net income and operating earnings in the quarter included an unfavorable impact of $305 million after tax related to asymmetrical and non-economic accounting.
Book value per share excluding AOCI other than FCTA was $51.15 as of December 31 up 3% year-over-year.
Tangible book value per share was $42.22 as of December 31 up 5% year-over-year.
With respect to fourth quarter margins underwriting primarily in the U.S.
was less favorable than the prior-year quarter by $0.06 per share after adjusting for notable items in the both periods.
Property &amp; Casualty Corporate Benefit funding and Retail Life were the primary drivers of the year-over-year result.
In Property &amp; Casualty the combined ratio including catastrophes was 96.1% in retail and 99.8% in group.
The combined ratio excluding catastrophes was 89.4% in retail and 96.4% in group.
Overall P&amp;C underwriting was unfavorable versus the prior-year quarter.
We experienced higher non-catastrophe claim costs primarily due to elevated frequency and severity in our auto business as well as higher catastrophes in homeowners.
We continue to increase prices in Auto which should drive improvement in our loss ratios over the next several quarters.
In Corporate Benefit Funding or CBF the less favorable underwriting result versus a strong 4Q 2014 was due to lower mortality experience in our payout annuity business and higher claims in our life products.
Fourth quarter underwriting results were within the expected range and CBF full year 2015 underwriting margins were in line with our expectations.
Retail Life's interest adjusted benefit ratio was 54.9% which is less favorable than the prior-year quarter of 53.9% and 53.0% in 4Q 2014 after adjusting for a one-time notable item.
The year-over-year variance was due to higher average net claims.
The fourth quarter benefit ratio is high relative to our full year 2015 target of 50% to 55% because of seasonally high premiums and the related increase in reserves.
Finally the Group Life mortality ratio was 86.8% and the Non-Medical Health benefit ratio was 77.7% both within their respective ranges.
Turning to investment margins the average of the four U.S.
product spreads in our QFS was 170 basis points in the quarter down 42 basis points year-over-year.
Of this decline 27 basis points was the result of lower variable investment income.
Pre-tax variable investment income or VII was $109 million down $216 million versus the prior-year quarter due to weak private equity and hedge fund performance.
For the full year pre-tax VII was $1.2 billion which was below the bottom end of our 2015 targeted range of $1.3 billion to $1.7 billion.
Product spreads excluding variable investment income were 168 basis points this quarter down 15 basis points year-over-year.
Lower core yields accounted for most of this decline.
With regard to expenses the operating expense ratio was 24.4% unfavorable to the prior-year quarter of 23.7% after adjusting for notable items in the prior-year quarter.
The higher operating expense ratio in the quarter was primarily due to lower pension risk transfer sales as well as higher expenses related to one-time items and timing.
I will now discuss the business highlights in the quarter.
Retail operating earnings were $582 million down 19% versus the prior-year quarter and down 10% after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
Life and Other reported operating earnings of $195 million down 41% versus the prior-year quarter and down 26% after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
The primary drivers were less favorable underwriting primarily in P&amp;C and higher expenses.
Life and other PFOs were $2.1 billion down 2% year-over-year as growth in the open block was more than offset by runoff of the closed block.
Retail Life sales were up 9% year-over-year primarily driven by Term Whole Life and Universal Life.
Annuities reported operating earnings of $387 million up 1% versus the prior-year quarter and up 3% after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
The key drivers were improved investment margins as well as favorable lapse experience which were partially offset by higher expenses and negative fund flows.
Total annuity sales were $2.5 billion in the quarter up 23% year-over-year.
We continue to see good momentum in our index-linked annuity Shield Level Selector.
Shield sales were $361 million in the quarter which were almost triple the sales in the prior-year period.
Also our VA guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit rider FlexChoice continues to gain acceptance in the market and drove VA sales of $1.8 billion this quarter an increase of 13% year-over-year.
Group voluntary and worksite benefits or GVWB reported operating earnings of $214 million down 10% versus the prior-year quarter and down 5% after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
The primary drivers were less favorable underwriting in auto and lower investment margins.
GVWB PFOs were $4.3 billion up 3% year-over-year.
Sales were up 14% year-over-year with growth in core and voluntary products.
Corporate Benefit Funding or CBF reported operating earnings of $286 million down 21% versus the prior-year quarter and down 18% after adjusting for notable items in both periods.
The key drivers were low investment and underwriting margins.
CBF PFOs were $886 million down 39% year-over-year due to strong pension risk transfer or PRT sales in the prior-year quarter.
Excluding PRT sales PFOs were up 39% due to strong sales in structured settlements and institutional income annuities.
Latin America reported operating earnings of $150 million down 1% from the prior-year quarter but up 24% on a constant currency basis.
After adjusting for notable items in both periods Latin American operating earnings were up 14% on a constant currency basis.
The key driver was business growth.
U.S.
Direct which is included in Latin America's results had an operating loss of $8 million versus a $22 million loss in the prior-year quarter reflecting lower expenses.
Latin America PFOs were $1 billion down 2% but up 17% on a constant currency basis with growth across the region despite the challenging environment.
Total Latin America sales increased 3% on a constant currency basis primarily due to direct marketing in the region.
Turning to Asia operating earnings were $290 million down 15% from the prior-year quarter and down 9% on a constant currency basis.
Adjusting for notable items in both periods operating earnings were up 6% on a constant currency basis driven by favorable business growth and lower taxes primarily due to a change in the Japan tax rate from 31% to 29%.
Asia PFOs were $2 billion down 11% from the prior-year quarter and down 3% on a constant currency basis.
Adjusting for the withdrawal of single premium A&amp;H products in Japan which do not meet our hurdle rates in the current interest rate environment premium fees and other revenues increased 2% on a constant currency basis.
Discontinuing the sale of single premium A&amp;H products is a good example of our focus on cash return on capital and payback periods more so than GAAP metrics.
We estimate the statutory IRR on single premium A&amp;H is 7% with a 14-year payback period assuming mean reversion for interest rates.
The product looks even worse if we assume current low rates persist.
While these products could contribute meaningful revenue in operating earnings on a GAAP basis the economic returns are unattractive.
For full year 2015 Asia PFOs were up 4% on a constant currency basis.
Asia sales were down 1% year-over-year on a constant currency basis representing the net impact of management actions taken across the product portfolio to improve value creation and growth in targeted markets.
In Japan 2015 third sector sales were up 11% versus 2014.
Our expectation is for Japan's third sector sales to be down 10% to 15% in 2016 as a result of actions to improve value including the impact from suspension of our single premium A&amp;H products.
Excluding the impact of these actions our expectations underlying growth in Japan's third sector sales will be consistent with our prior guidance of mid to high single digits.
EMEA operating earnings were $54 million down 16% year-over-year and down 2% on a constant currency basis.
Adjusting for a one-time tax benefit in the fourth quarter of 2014 operating earnings were up 32% on a constant currency basis primarily driven by business growth particularly in the U.K.
and the Middle East.
EMEA PFOs were $625 million down 7% from the prior year period but up 3% on a constant currency basis.
Excluding the impact from the conversion of certain operations to calendar year reporting in the prior-year quarter PFOs were up 10% driven by Gulf Turkey and the U.K.
Total EMEA sales declined 11% on a constant currency basis due to strong employee benefit sales in the Middle East and the conversion of certain operations to calendar year reporting in the prior-year quarter.
In Corporate and Other I would like to remind you of the timing of our preferred dividend payments.
With our refinancing discussed on our second quarter 2015 call we now pay dividends on our $1.5 billion Series C preferred stock on a semiannual basis.
As a result you will see preferred dividends paid in the second and fourth quarters of approximately $40 million related to this security.
On an annualized basis the lower dividend will generate a net savings of approximately $20 million during the first five-year fixed term of the security.
I will now discuss our cash and capital position.
Cash and liquid assets at the holding companies were approximately $6.4 billion at December 31 up from $5.5 billion at September 30.
This amount includes inflows from our subsidiary dividends and the issuance of senior debt offset by share repurchases the payment of our quarterly common dividend and other holding company expenses.
In addition our 2015 free cash flow ratio was 63% of operating earnings after adjusting for the third quarter non-cash charge of $792 million after tax.
Next I would like to provide you with an update on our capital position.
While we have not completed our risk-based capital calculations for 2015 we estimate our combined U.S.
RBC ratio will be above 450%.
For Japan our solvency margin ratio was 936% as of the third quarter 2015 which is the latest public data.
In conclusion fourth quarter operating earnings were below expectations as a result of lower investment margins primarily due to VII ongoing pressure from foreign currency less favorable underwriting and higher expenses.
While the current environment remains challenging we are confident that our strategy will drive improvement in free cash flow and create long-term sustainable value for our shareholders.
And with that I'll turn it back to the operator for your questions.
Thank you.
Your first question comes from the line of Seth Weiss from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Steve I'd like to just first ask about the comment that you can't buy back stock until more details of the spin are provided.
I just want to clarify is this the registration statement with the SEC in the next six months or are there other events that we need to wait for before buyback can resume? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Seth.
We are in possession of material non-public information regardless of the form of the transaction so we are unable at this point in time to engage in any further repurchases.
Could you just give us an indication of either what events or timeframe we should be waiting for for when you will no longer be in possession of this? What's the trigger I guess is the question? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Seth we're working hard toward determining the form of the separation and until we have determined that we won't be in a position to do share repurchases.
I don't have a specific timeframe for you.
The form of the separation could be a public offering.
It could be a spinoff.
It could be a sale of the business or some combination of these options.
And it's still too early to determine which of those it will be.
Okay.
And then maybe just to follow up on the spin and specifically on comments you made in your December outlook call about no longer needing to build the capital buffer does those commentaries – and understanding that you're unable to buy shares now – but independent of that did that comment contemplate the need to potentially capitalize a spin company and does this alter your view of your HoldCo capital position and adequate capital buffer? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That wasn't the reason for the comment and we'll still have to wait to see how the form turns out of the separation before we know the capital positions of both remaining company and the new co.
Okay so...
This is John.
Want to just add to that that we are as Steve said last December for our total business we are comfortable with our capital buffers that we have here.
But there's a lot to calculate out depending upon the transaction and the form of separation.
So that's work that has to be done and that is underway and we're working on that.
But it doesn't change our view of the total capital we have for our total business.
Okay.
So just to clarify just want to not run the risk of extrapolating any statements here the comments that you don't need to build a capital buffer related to MetLife as a combined entity and does not contemplate a potential spin and actions that might need to be taken for that? Well that's right Seth.
Because we have said there are three – there's various forms that we're looking at.
It could be a spin.
It could be an IPO with a spin.
It could be a sale.
So all those have kind of different capital implications for both the separated company and the remaining company.
So that's work that has to be done.
But we are comfortable with our total capitalization that we have for our total business.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Jimmy Bhullar from JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
On the U.S.
Retail separation it seems like many of the details like the nature of the separation branding haven't really been finalized as you mentioned.
So just want to get an idea on your timing of when you announce – made the announcement why did you make it when you did versus waiting till you had decided on some of these items? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Jimmy we did a lot of work before making this announcement to pursue a separation of much of our retail business U.S.
Retail business.
But more work had to get done to answer some of the questions you just raised and many others.
And to do that would require a much larger group of people both within the company and outside the company to make those determinations.
And as a practical matter it would have leaked out to the public that we were engaging in this plan to pursue a separation.
So our view was once we made the initial determination that a separation was desirable and we were going to pursue that plan now we're able to bring in many more people to do the analysis that will lead to the answers to the questions you just raised.
Okay.
And then can you give us an idea on the expected timing of the separation? Because it seems like an IPO or a sale would be difficult in this environment.
So obviously spin is an option but how do you try to balance doing it in a timely fashion versus maybe being opportunistic and maximizing what you're able to get from the business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> We're not in a position to give any guidance at this point in time in terms of the timing.
I can only tell you that we've been working hard on our strategy for over a year now.
We made this announcement about the plan to pursue a separation and we are working very rapidly on answering all the questions that we need to answer to determine the form of such a separation and we've moving as quickly as one can.
Okay.
And then maybe if I can just ask one on the business.
Your alternative investment income obviously as you mentioned was pretty weak in the fourth quarter.
So just give us some insight into what drove that whether it's private equity hedge funds.
And how – what's your view on some of those asset classes on how they're performing as it relates to the first quarter? I think you should have some insight given the reporting lag on private equity and on hedge funds.
Jimmy it's Steve Goulart.
Just recapping the fourth quarter I mean certainly we were disappointed in the performance of the alternatives portfolio both private equity and hedge funds materially underperformed our plan and that's been somewhat unusual.
But anyway that's really what happened.
Prepayments were still very strong in the fourth quarter.
And as we look forward to this year you talked about first quarter.
Obviously the market sort of came out of the gate on the wrong foot perhaps a lot more volatility than expected.
We don't see any reason to change the plan yet.
We'll see how it unfolds.
Obviously there's a lag in the portfolios one quarter on PE one month on hedge funds.
So you can sort of look at what has transpired.
But I'd also remind you that when we look at correlation while there's kind of a directional correlation the correlation isn't really that high in trying to compare it exactly.
So we're sort of sticking with the plan for now.
I would also say though that we've engaged in some repositioning in the portfolio during the course of the latter half of last year.
We reduced the alternative portfolio by about a billion dollars split between the hedge fund and private equity portfolios really concentrating on the managers and strategies that have been the longer-term stronger performers for us and that we feel are confident are going to deliver that performance going forward.
Like Steve said in his opening remarks this is a portfolio that has provided strong returns for us and for our shareholders over some period of time.
We expect it will continue to do so.
Obviously we're managing it and monitoring it very closely just given what we did late last year.
And then particularly the hedge funds they're a little bit in the spotlight just given the last couple years of underperformance there.
So (34:42) And specifically on private equity is it more sensitive to the level of market because that drives the marks or is it more sensitive to IPO activity? Because I can understand fourth quarter being really bad because the S&amp;P was down like 7% in the third quarter but it bounced back and was up almost 7% in the fourth quarter.
So is it more the ending level of the market than the previous quarter or is it actual IPO activity that influences your private equity returns more? Yeah like I said we've studied a lot of different correlations and it's hard to really tie any of them.
So I think directionally it's a little bit both of what you said.
Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Tom Gallagher from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
First question Steve is just based on what you have proposed so far in terms of the split and what remains with Met which I'll refer to as RemainCo it looks like close to 20% of the earnings in RemainCo which would be retail would essentially be a closed block if I'm understanding it correctly.
How should we think about that conceptually? Is that a business that you also might be open to divesting or should that be considered a closed block with the remaining business or is that one still up in the air? That's my first question.
Hey Tom this is John.
It's something that's still under review that we're looking at.
And as we develop future plans on this we'll let you know.
Okay.
And then the next question is a broader one.
Steve is the ultimate goal here really to de-SIFI? I mean I realize you're still not done with the court case but let's just assume for a minute that you don't win that.
Is the plan here to still get out of SIFI? How critical is that to you? Or do you believe the split kind of eliminates the need to de-SIFI here? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Tom the decision to separate the U.S.
Retail business a significant portion of it was really driven by two factors.
One our strategy work that we have talked to you about as well as the regulatory component.
And when we do our strategy work regulatory environment business environments within markets are very central to that analysis.
So those two things in combination led to the decision for the separation in pursuing the separation of the U.S.
Retail business.
In terms of overall our view on the SIFI designation we continue to believe that we are not a SIFI under Dodd-Frank.
We are pursuing our appeal rights in the District Court of the District of Columbia.
There's a hearing next week Wednesday February the 10th on the case and we look forward to the judge's decision.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of John Nadel from Piper Jaffray.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
So John I appreciate the commentary on the risk-based capital ratio or at least the estimate as of year-end 2015.
So it looks like a pretty significant increase on a year-over-year basis from something I think the adjustment was slightly under 400% for the U.S.
at year-end 2014.
Can you give us some sense for what the risk-based capital ratio looks like for the three entities that are part of the spin? I believe those entities were somewhere just north of 400% at year-end 2014.
Should we think about a similar kind of boost in year-end 2015 for those entities? Hi John.
It's John.
I really can't until we finish our cash flow testing and the actuaries sign off on their statements and we follow our blue books to really give you any details.
And you'll see that all when it all gets published.
You know because of the impact of the change of the SCL (38:56) that Steve mentioned that's helped our total ratios our total combined ratios where we're moving up higher.
But that's until we get all that work done we can't really give any details such as you're asking for.
Okay.
You know what we're announcing a week earlier this year than we did last year so that's why the timing is a bit off here.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
I guess my second question is a bigger picture question around Japan.
Obviously you guys have taken some action around product offerings given the interest rate environment.
I'm wondering given the Bank of Japan's actions last week and the significant shift in JGB yields across the curve whether there is something more specifically that has to be done now in response to those actions.
I mean I think there's negative yields all the way up to nine years on the JGB at this point.
Hi.
It's Chris Townsend.
Let me respond to that.
So in the short term the falling interest rates are going to have a negative or sorry have a positive impact on the SMR (40:06) as the asset values will appreciate but a potential negative impact on our U.S.
GAAP earnings due to lower investment income.
And that's very manageable.
It's immaterial in the bigger picture of things.
Over the long term a continued lower rate situation you can accredit drag on earnings impacted by reductions to NII earnings and distributable cash but as those Japanese yen yields reduce foreign currency products may become more popular supporting our existing strategy to move away from the yen products the foreign currency products.
On the yen products themselves we've taken significant action on our portfolio well in advance of the recent DOJ announcement.
So what we've done is to de-risk or to reduce the focus on our Yen life portfolio by reducing commissions in that area doubling the ticket size continuing to focus on packaging of A&amp;H products to enhance the returns and also to incentivize some of the FX life products.
And we took that action at the back end of the third quarter and if you see from the sales results in terms of the life business in Japan for the fourth quarter it was up 2% year on year for the fourth quarter and the mix of that underneath that is quite interesting because the foreign currency life is up and the Yen life is down which is exactly what we wanted to happen.
And I think you'll see that play out as we go into the rest of 2016.
Your next question comes from the line of Ryan Krueger from KBW.
Please go ahead.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Hey.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I wanted to follow up on Seth's question on I guess the capital buffer.
Is it – I guess Steve is it fair to say that when you talked about holding a capital buffer for non-bank SIFI risk that a fair amount of the buffer was related specifically to the variable annuity business? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well we don't know what the capital rules will be.
The Federal Reserve has not released anything yet.
There are some international draft rules out there but they've already said they'll be changing those.
So it's really just a level of comfort I think that we have to have.
We do a lot of stress testing ourselves.
We have an economic view of our risks and feel that this size buffer was sort of where we should be knowing what we know at the time we make that call.
And we reassess this on an ongoing basis.
As capital rules get announced we will know what it is.
We do know that variable annuities have been discussed by many regulators as being a product that may attract higher capital requirements.
So that clearly is one of the larger say capital risk products out there which makes the separation quite compelling.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Understood.
On the RBC ratio obviously you talked about the $1 billion reserve release that certainly contributed to the increase in the year-over-year RBC ratio.
Were there any other big key factors that you can help us understand at this point? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> That's probably the most major one.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then just lastly can you guys give us an update on your energy portfolio and where that stands at this point? Sure.
Ryan it's Steve Goulart.
Just to update on the energy portfolio.
We did take the opportunity most of last year to start reducing that portfolio.
We sold almost $2 billion out of it.
It ended the year just under $12 billion.
And again 86% of that is investment grade.
It's tilted more towards sort of the defensive sectors in the portfolio mid-stream refiners that sort of thing.
So I think we're comfortable.
We're obviously sort of – we run it through constant stress tests just given the energy environment and I think at year-end there was an unrealized net loss of about $220 million on the portfolio.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Eric Berg from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Thanks very much.
You said that on a company-wide basis you're comfortable with the level of cushion you have but you've also said that – I don't know whether it was unexpected but regardless you had a $1 billion increase in your statutory surplus as a result of the change in New York State accounting rules.
Should we infer from these two statements when we think of them together that some of this $1 billion is going to be above and beyond what you consider to be your adequate capital cushion and that therefore some of this $1 billion could become available for redeployment? Hi Eric.
We view capital on a total holistic basis...
Sure.
Whether it be at the holding companies within the regulated companies.
We had always viewed this amount that was in these reserves as really capital but they were in a reserve that would be paid out over time of course.
So I think the best way to think of this is this is capacity that we have as we think about our total capital position and we will have to see in terms of redeployment as Steve said we can't make any decisions on that until we get further along with the separation.
I have one question related to operations.
Because of the decision to pull back in Japan it seems like even on a let's call it just apples-to-apples basis adjusting for notable items adjusting for currency adjusting for the withdrawal of the single premium product that well – that growth is quite slow right now in terms of premiums fees and other revenues.
And I guess my question is once you get through this let's call it transition period – product transition period what do you – how do you think of the sustainable growth rate for the whole Asia region given that you have sort of cross currents there? You have a very mature market in Japan but you are rapidly growing markets in Southeast Asia.
So on sort of an overall basis how should we think about the sustainable growth rate once we get through this transition period for Asia? Thank you.
So it's Chris Townsend.
Let me respond to that.
So first of all there is no change to the guidance we provided in December across all of the key metrics for Asia.
And we gave you some I think fairly clear guidance in terms of earnings and revenue in the medium term.
And we're sticking by that guidance overall.
In terms of Japan we're doing the right thing in terms of creating value for our shareholders in terms of the product portfolio.
And those items I responded to one of the prior questions on in terms of Yen life (47:40) will definitely increase the value of our business.
If you look at A&amp;H and the third sector where we make some very solid margins we gave earlier guidance of mid to high single digits.
We updated that guidance to a range of 10% to 12% and we came in at 11%.
So I think we've delivered well in terms of that business for this year.
And John gave some fairly clear guidance in terms of his prepared remarks as to what's happening with that portfolio overall.
So I actually think we've had a fairly solid year in the Asia region overall with our normalized constant rate earnings of 15% or 16% which is again ahead of guidance.
So in conclusion we're sticking with the prior guidance we've given.
Your next question comes from the line of Humphrey Lee from Dowling &amp; Partners.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I have a question regarding your auto business.
Can you provide some color in terms of claims experience in the quarter excluding cat and prior-year (48:44) development versus 3Q? And also with 4Q in the books does it change your view for the outlook for 2016 in terms of the loss ratio expectations? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Humphrey were you (48:59) talking about the auto business? Yes.
U.S.
Business MetLife Inc.</span></strong> Hi Humphrey.
It's Eric.
We took about I would say in 2015 roughly 2% rate throughout the year 2015.
Going into 2016 we'll slightly more than double that.
Auto was clearly up in Q4 2015 versus Q4 2014.
We actually – if you want to talk about total combined ratio homeowners in Q4 2014 was fabulous frankly so that was up in Q4 2015.
Still a very good result.
On the auto side like many of our peers or at least one peer that's reported so far we're still seeing elevated severity and frequency.
As I said in the third quarter – and obviously I'm talking about just retail here.
In a minute I'll let Maria comment on group.
In the third quarter I mentioned and I think so did some of our peers that miles driven is up.
I would also add – and I may have mentioned it in the third quarter as well – that claim costs are up as well which shouldn't be surprising.
So even though we saw elevated experience in the fourth quarter on the auto side we're pretty comfortable that the rate we're going to take in 2016 will offset those results and we should be right about where we want to be as we get near the end of 2016.
Maria? Hi.
This is Maria Morris.
And with regard to the group business we see the exact same trends as we saw in our retail business so obviously both frequency and severity up.
Eric talked about a lot of the trends underlying that.
I would mention one thing on severity we do notice that with a lot of new cars on the road that the cost of actually repairing those is up with the computerization and other things in new cars.
So in addition to obviously more miles driven we've got also the issue with regard to severity.
And we've been taking rate as well so – in the mid single digits.
And I would note that in group even as we're taking rate we still have double digit sales increases year-over-year.
So we're focused just as we are in retail on continuing to take rate throughout 2016 and we're bullish on the prospects for growth.
Got it.
And then shifting gears to Latin America the U.S.
Direct business continued to be an earnings drag for the segment.
How long do you expect the unit to turn profitable? Is it a matter of scale or is it – are there some levers that you can pull to drive improvements in that particular business? Sorry.
So you're referring to currency or to the growth of the business? No just from the earnings perspective.
Right.
Well as you know we have been facing to start saying (51:56) currency issues in Latin America the impact is around 20% during the last year.
But if you think about growth excluding that and excluding the U.S.
Direct business and adjusting for notable items in the current and fourth (52:15) quarter (52:16) were flat year-over-year.
But strong growth of approximately 11% happened adjusting for all that.
We gave you guidance of upper single digits and we continue supporting that despite from (52:32) currency.
We see further deterioration of local currencies against dollar but not as big as we saw before.
So in the core business in local currencies we sustain our high single digits.
All right.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Yaron Kinar from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning everybody.
I want to go back to the separation plan and the announcement regarding the buyback cessation for the time being.
So first Steve I think in your comments to Tom's question you said that really the separation plan is not just regulatory driven it's also part of the strategic work you've done.
So with that in mind why go through the court challenge at this point if ultimately even if the challenge let's say was accepted you'd still go through the separation plan? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yaron as we've said many times we don't believe we are a SIFI under Dodd-Frank.
80% percent of the company remains after the separation if it were to occur and that remaining 80% will be impacted by whatever capital rules the Federal Reserve comes out with as well as the number of other matters related to compliance that will relate to being designated a SIFI.
So there's still a significant potential burden that'll be placed upon the remaining company that would put us potentially on a unlevel playing field with our competitor who are not SIFIs.
Inc.</span></strong> So why not file the challenge after the separation plan if you're still designated then? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> You have one chance to file a legal challenge to a District Court and that is within 30 days of being designated which is what we did.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then the credit rating agencies came out with a few negative outlooks after the plan was announced.
Could you comment on those and maybe what you can do in order to alleviate their concerns? Sure.
Often I think you'll see whenever a firm announces a significant transaction where they're buying something or selling or just separating something the rating agencies put you on Watch or Outlook just until they get more details and can sort out exactly what's going to happen.
We announced a plan to pursue a separation.
We have to sort out a lot of details including how this will all work.
And we will present that to the rating agencies when we have that work completed and then they'll be able to have an appropriate view.
So this is – we're in a transition period a holding period with the rating agencies until such time as we can get them more information.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then finally I guess this is more a comment than a question on my part.
In the December outlook call you basically said that you'd be increasing the capital deployment given a changing in strategic view and given the buffer that you'd built.
I would have thought that at the time you knew that you were going to go through the plan or announcing the plan of a separation and it just creates a lot of back and forth here I think in terms of how investors think of the buyback program and the timing thereof.
So I just – I would have thought that this could have been handled differently.
And I guess that's my comment and want to see if you had any reaction to that.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> What we are doing throughout our work on strategy is to find ways to maximize value for our shareholders.
We've talked about a focus on cash and growing businesses that threw off (56:30) more free cash flow and returning any excess capital to our shareholders.
We also look at all of our businesses in terms of their viability longer term and how best they may be viable in the marketplace.
And it was our determination after a great deal of work that the U.S.
Retail business would be more viable long term as a separate entity.
So once we made that determination we made that announcement that we'd be pursuing a plan to separate.
And as I've said earlier in the call a great deal of work has to still be done to effect that plan and to determine which avenue we take to separate that business.
But all this is done through the lens of creating shareholder value.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Erik Bass from Citigroup.
Please go ahead.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi.
Thank you.
In retail you mentioned higher direct expenses.
Can you just discuss the drivers in the quarter? And also should we expect to see any increase in spending in either retail or at a corporate level in anticipation of the separation? U.S.
Business MetLife Inc.</span></strong> It's Eric.
I'll start out.
It was kind of across the board.
Corporate overhead was higher including some advertising costs.
We had some legal reserves set up in there.
Generally fourth quarter is higher.
So this isn't really out of line with what we would expect.
Going forward I would expect in the first quarter you'll see something that looks more like a normal first quarter.
But maybe I'll let John or Steve comment if they want to add anything.
Just want to add about do we expect to have some expenses to do the work on the plan to pursue the separation.
Clearly there will be some cost.
But the costs will vary depending upon what ultimate form we take so it's still too early to give you any guidance on that piece of it.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And then Eric just a question with the prospect of a final DOL rule seemingly pretty close can you just talk about what steps you're taking to prepare and maybe if you've had any discussions with third party distributors about their comfort selling products under the current Best Interest Contract Exception (sic) [Exemption] (58:45)? U.S.
Business MetLife Inc.</span></strong> I'm sure you've heard this from others as well.
We're thinking of every angle based on what was previously put out by the DOL.
But as you know we don't have anything.
It's – the regulation is with OMB now.
We would expect to see it let's call it 40 days to 70 days something like that.
So we're thinking about the various forms that it could take again based on what we saw previously.
We have talked to a number of distributors.
I don't think it would be appropriate for me to share some of those conversations.
But suffice to say we are considering all potentialities from both a product perspective and how you distribute and anything else that would result from the actual regulation coming out.
So more to come.
And obviously all of us will be able to add to this dialogue when we see it sometime in the March/April timeframe.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I just want to say at the end of the call here that the key message I want to leave with all of you today is that management is doing everything possible to unlock value for our shareholders.
And the things you've heard about recently from us in terms of the U.S.
Retail separation and the strategy work we're doing with Accelerating Value is driven by that desire.
And that brings us to the top of the hour so we're going to end the call.
Thank you very much for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 10:00 AM Eastern Time today through February 11.
You may access the AT&amp;T TeleConference replay system at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 370602.
International participants dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers once again are 1-800-475-6701 or 320-365-3844 with the access code 370602.
That does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the MetLife Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Release Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
Before we get started I would like to read the following statement on behalf of MetLife.
Except with respect to historical information statements made in this conference call constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Federal Securities Laws including statements relating to trends in the company's operations and financial results and the business and the products of the company and its subsidiaries.
MetLife's actual results may differ materially from the results anticipated in the forward-looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including those described from time to time in MetLife's filings with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission included in the Risk Factors section of those filings.
MetLife specifically disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future developments or otherwise.
With that I would like to turn the call over to Ed Spehar Head of Investor Relations.
Thank you Gail and good morning everyone.
Welcome to MetLife's Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
We will be discussing certain financial measures not based on Generally Accepted Accounting Principles so called non-GAAP measures.
Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures and related definitions to the most directly comparable GAAP measures may be found on the Investor Relations portion of metlife.com in our earnings press release and our quarterly financial supplements.
A reconciliation of forward-looking financial information to the most directly comparable GAAP measure is not accessible because MetLife believes it's not possible to provide a reliable forecast of net investment and net derivative gains and losses which can fluctuate from period to period and may have a significant impact on GAAP net income.
Now joining me this morning on the call are Steve Kandarian Chairman President and Chief Executive Officer; and John Hele Chief Financial Officer.
After their prepared remarks we will take your questions.
Also here with us today to participate in the discussions are other members of management including Bill Wheeler President of Americas; Steve Goulart Chief Investment Officer; Michel Khalaf President of EMEA; and Chris Townsend President of Asia.
With that I'd like to turn the call over to Steve.
Thank you Ed and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report strong fourth quarter and full year results for 2013.
Fourth quarter operating earnings were $1.6 billion up 14% from the fourth quarter of 2012; and operating earnings per share were $1.37 a 10% increase over the prior year period.
Growth in the per share basis was dampened by the conversion of equity units issued in 2010 to fund the acquisition of Alico.
Operating return to equity was 11.5% in the quarter.
Full year 2013 operating earnings were $6.3 billion an 11% increase over 2012; and operating earnings per share which were also affected by the conversion of equity units were up 7% from the prior year period.
Operating return on equity for the full year 2013 was 12% or at the low end of our 2016 goal of 12% to 14%.
Operating earnings benefited from the favorable capital markets environment last year.
Equity market performance added 50 basis points to return on equity in 2013 and above planned variable investment income added 40 basis points.
In addition to strong variable investment income recurring investment margins were above our expectations with the favorable variance equating to 50 basis points on 2013 operating ROE.
Together recurring investment margins and variable investment income explain the resilience of MetLife's investment spreads despite a prolonged period of low interest rates.
Recurring investment margins have benefited from effective asset liability management and income from derivatives many of which were purchased in the mid-2000s to protect earnings under a low interest rate scenario.
However there were also factors that depressed operating ROE in 2013.
The combination of weaker-than-anticipated underwriting results elevated legal costs and some pressure from currency weakness exerted a drag on ROE of almost 100 basis points.
While MetLife's results benefited from a favorable capital markets environment in 2013 achieving the low end of our 2016 operating ROE target 3 years early is nevertheless a noteworthy accomplishment.
MetLife's financial performance last year highlighted the strength of our diversified business model.
In addition I believe the quality of MetLife's operating return on equity has improved because the upward trend in ROE has been accompanied by a decline in balance sheet leverage.
Operating return on equity increased from 9.8% in 2010 to 12% in 2013 while the ratio of common equity to assets increased from 8.1% at year end 2010 to 9.9% at year end 2013.
This ratio which excludes separate account assets and the impact of accumulated other comprehensive income is one way to look at leverage.
We believe it is appropriate to exclude separate accounts from the leverage calculation because the investment risks and rewards of these assets are borne by the contract holders.
To the extent there is a guarantee in these contracts the associated reserves are held outside of the separate accounts.
These reserves and the related capital are included in the leverage ratio calculation.
We have taken a cautious approach to balance sheet leverage because of uncertainties surrounding potential capital requirements if MetLife is designated a nonbank systemically important financial institution or SIFI.
In particular we are concerned about the risk of bank-centric capital rules.
MetLife remains under Stage 3 review by the Financial Stability Oversight Council for potential designation as a SIFI and the timing of the decision from FSOC remains unknown.
We believe the evidence clearly demonstrates that we do not pose a threat to the financial system of the United States.
At the same time we continue to make the case that if designated applying bank-centric capital rules to the business of insurance would constrain our ability to issue guarantees and increase the cost of financial protection for consumers.
Turning to our strategy.
We made significant progress in 2013 on our efforts to shift MetLife's business mix away from capital-intensive market-sensitive products to our protection-oriented products.
Our full year 2013 variable annuity sales of $10.6 billion were down 40% and were consistent with the $10 billion to $11 billion target we provided in December of 2012.
In contrast emerging market sales which consist predominantly of protection-oriented products rose 28% in our Europe Middle East and Africa segment and 18% in Latin America.
2013 was also a good year for our strategy to grow emerging markets.
In addition to a significant increase in sales we expanded our geographic footprint through partnerships and acquisitions in Asia and Latin America.
In December we reached a deal to acquire a stake in the insurance business of AMMB Malaysia's fifth largest bank.
The deal complements agreements reached earlier in the year to enter fast-growing markets in Vietnam and Myanmar.
In Latin America we successfully completed our acquisition of Provida the largest pension plan administrator in Chile.
The earnings contribution in the quarter from Provida which closed on October 1 was in line with our plan and our outlook for earnings remains $190 million to $210 million for 2014.
The acquisition of Provida is a great example of what we believe is a prudent approach to capital management given the uncertain regulatory environment.
We used cash to acquire a fee-based business with limited market sensitivity and strong free cash flow.
We priced the acquisition to create value based on our stock price in the high-30s so the assumed cost of capital was higher than it is today.
I also want to provide a framework for how we think about share buybacks versus dividends during this period of regulatory uncertainty.
We are not repurchasing shares at this time because we want to avoid the potential need to issue equity if there is an adverse regulatory outcome.
With regard to the dividend however an increase typically represents a much smaller dollar commitment than a share buyback.
For example even though we increased our dividend almost 50% last year a sizeable move because we have not raised the dividend since 2007 the incremental annual capital outlay was only $400 million.
It is our practice to review MetLife's dividend policy with the Board of Directors annually.
Finally I want to comment on recent concerns about volatility in emerging markets and the potential impact on MetLife's earnings.
Recent turmoil in certain emerging markets does not change our view of the long-term attractiveness of our emerging markets business.
Nothing has changed regarding the key macro drivers of middle-class growth and low levels of insurance penetration.
Also we believe that reforms instituted since the crises of 1990s should lead to less volatile economic cycles in emerging markets.
These reforms include floating currencies more independent central banks and better banking regulation.
In addition we believe emerging market sovereign debt is less risky today as a result of reduced external ownership more longer-dated maturities and less reliance on foreign currency denominated funding.
Volatility in emerging markets could mean more currency translation risks in the near term but we expect the immaterial earnings impact relative to our plan for 2014.
Our exposure to a diversified basket of currencies explains a limited risk from recent moves in exchange rates.
For example the largest currency exposure in EMEA is the euro which has strengthened modestly relative to the U.S.
dollar for the year-to-date.
As I said in the third quarter earnings call we know we must accept risk to earn an appropriate return for our shareholders but determining the type of risk is a critical management decision.
On balance we believe the emerging market risk is acceptable for MetLife because it is diversifiable and the products sold in these markets generally have more favorable risk return profiles and growth outlooks than those sold in developed markets.
In closing let me reiterate that 2013 was a strong year for MetLife.
Full year operating earnings were up 11% which followed the increase of 22% in 2012.
Operating ROE improved from 9.8% to 12% over this 2-year period.
While regulatory uncertainty remains a challenge we feel very good about our fundamental business prospects.
With that I will turn the call over to John Hele to discuss our financial results in detail.
John? Thank you Steve and good morning.
Today I'll cover our fourth quarter results including a discussion of insurance margins investment spreads expenses and business highlights.
I will then conclude with some comments on cash and capital.
As Steve noted MetLife reported operating earnings of $1.6 billion up 14% year-over-year; and operating earnings per share of $1.37 up 10% year-over-year.
This quarter included a few notable items: First pretax variable investment income was $460 million reflecting strong private equity and hedge fund returns as well as higher mortgage and bond prepayments.
After taxes and the impact of DAC variable investment income was $296 million which was $101 million or $0.09 per share above the top end of our 2013 quarterly guidance range.
The second item relates to the strengthening of our asbestos litigation reserves which reduced operating earnings in Corporate &amp; Other by $101 million or $0.09 per share.
As noted on the December outlook call we have asbestos litigation reserves as a result of claims related to certain research and other activities by MetLife from the 1920s to the 1950s.
As the frequency of severe claims related to asbestos has not declined as expected additional reserves were required.
The third notable item relates to an increase in other litigation-related reserves which reduced operating earnings in the Americas by $46 million or $0.04 per share.
The final notable item -- items were in our P&amp;C business and EMEA.
In our P&amp;C business we had a $15 million benefit from favorable prior year reserve development and lower-than-budgeted cat losses while EMEA had an $11 million benefit from tax-related items.
In total these 2 items increased operating earnings by $26 million or $0.02 per share.
Turning to our bottom line results.
Fourth quarter net income was $877 million or $0.77 per share and included net derivative losses of $242 million after tax.
The net derivative losses in the quarter were driven primarily by 3 items that we consider to be either noneconomic or a cause of asymmetrical accounting treatment: number one an increase in interest rates; number two changes in foreign currencies principally the strengthening of the U.S.
dollar versus the yen; and number three the MetLife own credit impact associated with our VA program.
Changes in interest rates in the quarter contributed slightly to more than 50% of the net derivative losses while foreign currency in MetLife's own credit impact combined for most of the remaining balance.
The combination of these derivative losses and other asymmetrical accounting impacts explains most of the difference between net income and operating earnings in the quarter.
Book value per share excluding AOCI was $48.49 at December 31 up 1% from $47.99 at September 30.
Turning to fourth quarter margins.
Underwriting in the U.S.
improved on a year-over-year basis but was less favorable than planned.
The mortality ratio in group life was 87.9% unfavorable to the prior year quarter of 84.6% which included a benefit of 2.7 points from 2 nonrecurring reserve refinements.
The ratio this quarter was within the target range of 85% to 90%.
The mortality ratio in Retail Life was 74.8% better than our expectation and the 99% ratio in the fourth quarter 2012 which experienced a number of high face amount claims.
The mortality ratio this quarter reflects favorable direct mortality results and the benefit of nonrecurring items.
However mortality earnings were not as strong as the direct mortality ratio would suggest because the favorable experience was concentrated in claims that were more heavily reinsured.
The nonmedical health benefit ratio was 90.8% favorable to the prior year quarter of 91.6% but worse than our plan and just above the top end of the target range of 86% to 90%.
The shortfall versus planned was caused by an increase in utilization in dental and lower-than-expected offsets in our open block of long-term disability claims.
Disability incidents and closure rates were within expectations.
In our P&amp;C business the combined ratio including catastrophes was 88.6% for retail and 97 -- 93.7% for group.
Year-over-year results were slightly better in both Retail and group versus the prior year quarter which was adversely impacted by Superstorm Sandy.
The combined ratios excluding catastrophes were 85.2% in Retail and 92.9% in group.
Moving to fourth quarter investment margins.
The simple average of the 4 U.S.
product spreads and our quarterly financial supplement was 241 basis points including variable investment income; and 199 basis points excluding VII.
This result showed only a modest decline versus the prior year quarter of 246 basis points including VII; and 206 basis points excluding VII.
The story is generally the same on a full year basis.
As Steve mentioned the resiliency of our investment spreads is attributable to effective asset liability management good variable investment income and income from derivatives.
With regard to expenses the operating expense ratio was 25.4% in the fourth quarter as compared to 22.4% in the year ago quarter.
Adjusting for the onetime asbestos and other litigation-related expenses the normalized operating expense ratio was 23.7% in line with our expectations but still slightly higher than the prior year quarter.
There were several factors that contributed to the higher ratio this quarter including opportunistic reinvestment in the business such as higher advertising and IT projects.
In addition costs associated with new business such as Provida and U.S.
Sponsored Direct as well as the impact of lower closeouts higher pension expenses and timing of certain items contributed as well.
For the full year of 2013 the operating expense ratio was 24.3% versus 23.8% for 2012.
Excluding the negative impact from the asbestos and other litigation-related items the expense ratio would have been 23.8% equal to the prior year and slightly better than our full year plan.
For 2013 gross expense saves were $571 million which is consistent with the target we discussed on our December outlook call.
Net saves were $332 million after adjusting for reinvestment of $56 million and onetime cost of $183 million.
Overall we are pleased with our expense performance as we remain on track to deliver gross saves of $770 million to $800 million in 2014 and $1 billion in 2015 and net saves of $600 million in 2015.
I will now discuss the business highlights in the quarter.
Retail operating earnings were $658 million up 4% versus the prior year quarter and up 15% when adjusting for notable items in both periods including net positive DAC unlocking and higher catastrophes in the prior year quarter.
Life and other reported operating earnings of $285 million up 67% year-over-year and 17% when adjusting for notable items in both periods including higher catastrophes of $37 million after tax in the prior year quarter.
The primary drivers were more favorable underwriting higher net investment income and lower DAC amortization.
Annuities reported operating earnings of $373 million down 19% versus the prior year quarter.
Adjusting for a positive DAC unlocking of $133 million in the prior year quarter and other notable items in both periods operating earnings were up 13%.
The drivers included higher fees from separate account growth resulting from strong investment performance and lower DAC amortization.
The initial market impact was favorable to operating earnings by $32 million after tax which was $11 million higher than the prior year quarter.
Variable annuities sales were $1.7 billion in the quarter down 53% year-over-year and 38% sequentially.
As Steve mentioned full year VA sales were $10.6 billion and within our planned range of $10 billion to $11 billion.
Group Voluntary &amp; Worksite Benefits reported operating earnings of $231 million up 38% year-over-year and essentially flat when adjusting for notable items in both periods.
The prior year quarter included favorable reserve releases higher catastrophes and intangible write down.
The primary drivers in the fourth quarter of 2013 were higher net investment income offset by higher expenses primarily due to pension and postretirement benefits.
Underwriting results were essentially flat year-over-year with an improvement in long-term care offsetting less favorable performance in group life and dental.
Corporate benefit funding reported operating earnings of $358 million up 17% year-over-year and 25% when adjusting for access variable investment income in both periods and a legal reserve increase in the current quarter.
The year-over-year growth was due to favorable investment margins primarily driven by Capital Market investment products.
Latin America reported operating earnings of $173 million up 17% year-over-year and 22% on a constant currency basis.
These results reflect the 2013 Provida acquisition which was in line with expectations and improved underwriting in Mexico partially offset by higher expenses due to business initiatives inflation adjustments and volume-related growth.
Premium fees and other revenues were up 28% year-over-year 34% on a constant currency basis and 23% excluding Provida.
The strong growth across the region was primarily due to worksite marketing in Mexico and growth in our agency and group business in Chile.
Sales growth was also strong in the region up 27% driven by Mexican group and worksite marketing as well as growth in the agency sales force and direct marketing in Chile.
Turning now to Asia.
Operating earnings were $324 million up 64% year-over-year and 74% on a constant currency basis.
Adjusting for notable items in both periods which included negative DAC unlocking in the prior year quarter in Japan and Korea and excess variable investment income in the current quarter operating earnings were up 19% reflecting higher investment income and business growth.
Premium fees and other revenues were down 8% year-over-year but up 9% on a constant currency basis driven by growth in Japan Korea and Australia.
Sales were up 44% primarily driven by a large group case in Australia as well as higher life sales in Japan.
In Japan we experienced higher-than-planned sales in the fourth quarter in advance of pricing changes on 2 of our yen-denominated life products.
These products were not achieving our targeted return as a result of low interest rates in Japan and mandated regulatory reserve changes.
Adjusting for the Australia group sales which can be lumpy and the higher-than-planned sales in Japan Asia sales would have been essentially flat year-over-year.
Finally in EMEA operating earnings were $89 million up 51% year-over-year and 48% on a constant currency basis.
Adjusting for favorable tax items in the quarter operating earnings were up 32% driven by business growth across the region.
Premium fees and other revenues were up 3% year-over-year and 2% on a constant currency basis driven by growth in Russia Poland the U.K.
the Gulf and Turkey.
There are items in both periods depressing year-over-year growth.
Adjusting for these items underlying growth was 8% and consistent with the near-term guidance we provided during the December 2013 outlook call.
Sales declined 1% driven by regulatory developments in the U.K.
which we discussed on the second quarter 2013 earnings call.
Sales from emerging markets increased 21% due to growth in the Middle East Russia and Poland.
Now I will discuss our cash and capital position.
Cash and liquid assets of the holding companies were approximately $5.9 billion at end of the fourth quarter which is at the top end of the range that we provided at our May Investor Day after adjusting for the benefit from $1 billion of senior debt issued to prefund 2014 maturities.
In addition our 23 -- our 2013 free cash flow ratio was 36%.
Turning to our capital position.
While we have not completed our risk-based capital calculations for 2013 we estimate our combined RBC ratio will be in the 440% or 460% range.
Our Japan solvency margin ratio which we file quarterly was 945% as of the third quarter and we estimate that our fourth quarter ratio will be above 900%.
For our domestic insurance companies in the fourth quarter preliminary U.S.
statutory results are operating earnings of approximately $900 million and net income of approximately $800 million.
For the full year of 2013 U.S.
statutory earnings were approximately $3 billion and U.S.
statutory net income was approximately $2 billion.
U.S.
statutory operating earnings were down $1.4 billion as compared to the prior year primarily due to higher taxes reserve strengthening on our long-term care business in New York due to mandated lower investment return assumptions and increased legal reserves.
Our total U.S.
statutory adjusted capital is expected to be approximately $26 billion as of December 31 2013 down 9% compared to the prior year as dividends for the holding company and unrealized losses and derivatives more than offset statutory net income.
In conclusion MetLife had a good fourth quarter completing a strong 2013.
Our margins remain healthy and we continue to focus on generating profitable growth.
The financial results MetLife delivered in 2013 demonstrate the strength of the franchise the benefit of diversification and the ongoing successful execution of our strategy.
And with that I will turn it back to the operator for your questions.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to the line of Tom Gallagher with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> First question just on group benefits I guess for Bill or John.
Can you comment on the increase in claims on dental and disability? On the dental side I hear what you said on -- just higher claims being submitted.
In disability it sounds like it's more lack of social security offsets.
Do you think those issues stay with you for a bit here or is there some reason to think those are going to lessen over the near term? Tom it's Bill.
So we'll take them one at a time.
With regard to dental yes dental claims experienced was a little higher than we would normally predict.
And the reason for that is we saw higher dental usage at the lower end of the market with small employers.
And we -- I guess our theory about that is that it's likely due to employees who are worried about losing their dental coverage because their companies will either change their benefits because of the Affordable Care Act or something is likely to happen.
And so I think they felt while they still had their dental coverage they'd go get some work done.
The -- we do see this kind of behavior from time to time.
And I guess while there's no assurance that it'll abate in 2014 our expectation is it probably will a little bit.
You do generally see higher utilization at the end of the year anyway for kind of the same reasons.
So -- and that by and large was not the biggest driver of the ratio.
With regard to disability let's be clear.
So the block in my mind actually performed quite well.
And by that I mean incidents rates were good severity was good claim closure rates were fine and reopens of closed cases were also fine.
So all that was sort of in tolerance if you will.
What the -- but the significant difference was our as you alluded to our social security offsets were quite low.
And they're always low in the fourth quarter but they were extremely low this time.
And we -- obviously we've listened to some of our competitors in terms of what they've talked about in the quarter.
A few of them have mentioned the same -- having the same experience.
We know some others have as well.
So I don't -- the question is is this systemic or is this sort of a kind of a blip? Because occasionally the Social Security Administration does have a blip in terms of its claim approval rates.
And our feeling is that this is just an unusual quarter and not indicative of what's likely to happen next year.
And I guess I also think that therefore the kind of recovery and underwriting that we've been predicting for 2014 I think that story is still intact.
Research Division</strong> So no backing away from the guidance you put out back in December about what you expect from group? No.
You know look we're obviously a little wary but no.
We aren't backing away from that guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just -- if I could shift to Chris Townsend just a question on Asia and Japan in particular.
Can you comment a bit about what's going on behind the scenes between first sector and third sector sales there? I believe you guys have a push of a new cancer product.
It sounds like sales are flattish right now in that market.
Is that still the expectation there? The cancer products we launched in the third quarter of the year is going very well for us.
The sales in November we sold about 20 000 products.
And the good thing is that we are not cannibalizing any of the rest of our business.
So as you well know we make a good amount of our operating earnings in Japan out of the third sector products.
Overall sales were relatively flat quarter-on-quarter but for the fourth quarter we believe that throughout 2014 the sort of numbers we're looking at probably are low- to mid-single-digit growth for the third sector which is probably in excess of the market growth we'd expect there.
We'll go to the line of John Nadel with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Steve a question for you.
At your opening commentary you focused a bit on leverage there and why we should maybe be looking at leverage excluding separate accounts.
While I think most of us on this call and most of us that have been following you in the industry certainly agree with that.
I guess the question I'd pose is do you think you're gaining some traction with the regulators in Washington around this issue? John I think it's still early days to make any predictions on what comes out of Washington.
First we have not been designated at this point in time we're still in Phase III.
And as of now there are no drafts outstanding regarding what the rules will look like.
So that's why we're remaining cautious at this point in terms of our leverage.
And as we mentioned in the call today that not only did we achieve a 12% ROE but we are less leveraged today than we were several years ago.
So both earnings are up as well as the quality of earnings in our judgment.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Turning to the international operations.
I just wanted to think about tax rates here just a little bit.
And I know your overall guidance for 2014 -- I believe if I recall correctly it's a 27.5% effective rate on a consolidated basis.
Should we think about the tax rates that we saw in 2013 even adjusting for the $11 million item in EMEA as a reasonable run rate for the international operations Asia LatAm and EMEA respectively? Because even if I adjust for that EMEA tax item this quarter it looks like the rates outside the U.S.
were pretty low.
Can you help there? This is John John.
I would caution you the consolidated is correct on our business.
And of course it's 35% in the U.S.
and essentially 35% in Japan but EMEA has had some lumps this year due to APB elections and it's had some gains throughout the year.
So they're going to be in the mid-20s I believe is the sort of combined EMEA tax rate for the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then is there any -- LatAm looks -- Latin America looked pretty low this quarter as well.
Is there anything there that was really driven by Provida? Or just some onetime items and we ought to think about the tax rate as being higher going forward there as well? So it's the same story.
We've had some lumpy gains here and there.
You know how taxes work so you have to average it out over the year.
Our next question comes from Mark Finkelstein with Evercore.
Research Division</strong> Actually I want to go back to the leverage question.
And Steve you articulated how you've taken down leverage.
I think you gave ratios of 8.1% to 9.9%.
And what I'm curious about is do you have an objective of where you'd like to get that ratio to? And what I mean is on the one hand you're talking about more opportunities say in the pension closeout market which add leverage maybe a little bit on the non-VA annuity side but you're also looking to -- you've also taken down the leverage ratio.
So how do those 2 balance? And what are your objectives going forward? Mark we don't have a specific number as a target going forward.
We just think that overall it made sense for us to take the actions we've taken and not take certain actions that we may have taken absent the Dodd-Frank consideration.
So by now we would've engaged in share buybacks most likely.
But given the uncertainty we've held back and obviously that's added to our balance sheet and it has resulted in less leverage for the company at this point in time.
So I don't want to put any specific numbers out as a target because it is a fluid situation and is very dependent upon the environment in which we're operating from a regulatory perspective.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And maybe just on the pension closeouts.
I think on the outlook call you talked about a study by Towers Watson talking about 40% of sponsors looking to divest of plans under $1 billion or -- I can't recall the exact number.
But there's obviously a time line in getting these things done.
Are you seeing more opportunities more activity? And what is the pipeline looking like in that area? Mark it's Bill.
So the general answer to your question is yes we see a kind of momentum building in this sector and there is sort of a couple of ways to think about momentum.
You know there are the big jumbo deals that come very sporadically.
And I don't think the industry right now sees any big jumbo deals that are out there ready to get bid on anytime soon but we don't have obviously complete transparency into the next 12 months or so.
In terms of what I would call the more normal flow business clearly momentum is building.
Clearly the pipeline is growing.
We did I think $1.7 billion $1.8 billion in pension closeouts in 2013.
By the way that made us the market share leader in 2013.
So obviously no jumbo deals in -- last year.
But there's still a nice flow business that we can bid for with good returns.
We do see this as an area of growth and I think in the U.S.
and I think that's going to continue for quite some time.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally John cash at the holding company I don't recall that being mentioned at year end.
Yes.
So I mentioned $5.9 billion which is in the high end of our range.
We prefunded -- we issued some debt to prefund a redemption a maturity coming due in 2014.
So the guidance we had given before was at the high end of the range of $4.9 billion.
So we're essentially on a net position right at our high end of our range.
Next question will come from Ryan Krueger with Dowling &amp; Partners.
LLC</strong> Just first a quick follow-up on the holding company liquidity.
Is the target still about $1 billion at this point or has that changed over the last year or so? I'm sorry.
I couldn't hear what you said at the very end of your question.
LLC</strong> Is the holding company liquidity target still $1 billion or has that changed in the last year? We haven't given precise numbers on that recently.
With the uncertainty with the regulatory framework and everything else out there we are just reporting how much cash we have at the holding company.
We're happy with the amount of cash we have at the holding company but that's all the guidance that we feel comfortable right now.
Just the rules are so uncertain we don't know what's going to happen with federal regulation the whole potential of that.
So for now until we have certainty on regulatory frameworks we're just going to report the cash we have.
LLC</strong> Okay understood.
And then a question on annuity earnings.
I think if I adjust for the items as well as the equity market lift it was about $328 million or so normalized which was down a bit from more like $350 million in the last couple of quarters.
Can you just comment on the driver of that? And should we view the 4Q earnings as a better run rate looking forward? Ryan it's Bill Wheeler.
So with regard to earning -- annuity earnings I think and I -- somebody really pressed me on the -- on our fourth quarter guidance call that we did last December.
And I think we said look the earnings rate in the third quarter is pretty consistent with what we see at the outlook given sort of moderate stock market growth over the next year.
So I -- and obviously in the fourth quarter performance was very consistent with that.
A couple of things you always got to keep in mind: one is we had DAC -- we had positive DAC unlockings both in the sequential comparison periods as well as the year ago period and that kind of obviously makes the numbers a little hard to compare.
Secondly remember now that half -- almost half of our separate accounts in the variable annuity business are not in equities anymore.
It's a much more diversified asset mix with a lot of fixed income.
So the S&amp;P 500 is not going to be the only driver of variable annuity earnings performance.
It's much more conservative than it used to be.
And so I think that gives you a little feel for what's going on in the annuity business.
Our next question comes from Suneet Kamath with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to talk about spreads particularly in the Corporate Benefit Funding business.
I think in your prepared comments you had mentioned that they were strong both including and excluding variable investment income.
So I just was wondering what the underlying drivers are and if there's any change to your thought process in terms of what that might look like going forward versus the outlook conference call.
Okay I guess I'll take that one.
The -- so with regard to Corporate Benefit Funding spread yes they were strong.
Yes it was driven by both strong variable investment income but honestly the underlying investment performance is strong as well.
The strong variable investment income and maybe my colleague Steve Goulart will comment as well is really -- obviously hedge funds performed very well in the quarter.
We also had very strong mortgage loan prepays experience.
And so -- and I guess when you think about our outlook for the next year we -- so we had -- I guess I'd say we had quite a good beat with regard to variable investment income in the quarter.
We don't have -- the reason we call that out is we don't necessarily think it's sustainable.
It's not in our base projection.
And with that maybe I'll let Steve talk a little bit about the outlook.
Sure.
Thanks Bill.
We do have a solid outlook.
I think we talked a little bit on the earnings guidance call about our plan for 2014.
We've said that we expect $900 million to $1.3 billion in VII for next year or $225 million to $325 million a quarter.
Obviously the fourth quarter was very strong Bill went through some of the highlights.
Nearly every component of VII outperformed our expectations and plan in the fourth quarter.
Both sets of alternatives hedge funds and private equity as well has very strong prepayments.
Looking forward to the first quarter though we don't expect to see that same sort of performance but we're still very confident about our plan and our outlook for the first quarter and for all of 2014 as well.
Remember there's a lag in private equity and obviously there's a strong fourth quarter in the equity markets.
I think that will help us through the first quarter.
But again I think we're very confident of being within our plan for VII for '14.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I -- and then maybe for John.
Can you remind us about how we should think about the glide path for the interest rate derivative sort of roll-off? I know we talked about this a couple of years ago but I don't know if we've gotten an update in a while.
We haven't -- it really hasn't changed much.
It's quite long.
It's -- we've had small amounts.
It's been quite small actually impacting us so far up until -- including 2013.
And as we hit 2015 in the next 5 years or after it starts to slowly glide down over the 2020 unless Steve wants to add more to that? That's -- yes.
And I just wanted to add on Corporate Benefit Funding.
The -- also I mentioned in my comments about -- it was helped also by Capital Market investment products both [indiscernible] and some other products.
We've been able to fund it at cheaper rates because they're short in [ph] the curves and there's been solid demand for products so that's helped our earnings on a year-over-year basis.
It's Steve Goulart again.
Let me just add a little bit on the derivatives piece that John just commented on.
I guess -- the thing I'd point out I think there have been some questions "Gee we're in a rising rate environment now.
But yet you're still having strong derivatives income.
What's going on?" The thing to remember about this is this is all part of our asset liability management process and it's a dynamic process.
So we're always looking at what are the needs within our portfolios what are the market opportunities that are available to us and so the program is actively managed.
Just keep that in mind.
Thanks.
Research Division</strong> Yes got it.
And then maybe on the same topic.
Can you talk about your new money investment rate in the quarter and maybe how that compares to sort of the overall portfolio yield on a book basis and also the yield on maturing securities? Let me start with that.
Again I think our new money yield was kind of in line with the market.
I think $329 million is what we've said in that order.
And of course our portfolio continues to run off with higher yielding securities.
So there's probably call it 100 to 150 basis points difference between new money yield and what's rolling off in the portfolio.
But that's sort of as we would expect.
Again we make -- we've made up for a lot of it.
And when you look at our portfolio yield being sort of flatter or even up quarter-to-quarter a lot of that was due to the VII performance that we saw in the fourth quarter.
So the yield roll-off is as we expect and we're making up for it so far in different pieces like VII.
Our next question comes from Jeff Schuman with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I just want to ask a couple of top line questions.
I think there was a large group sale in Australia.
I was wondering how much that was and wondering how we should sort of think about that in the context of a lot of difficult challenges in the Australian group market.
In particular I'm wondering if this was deeper annuation related.
Yes let me take that question.
It's Chris Townsend here.
The -- there was one single account which was a little over $200 million and it's a mixture of both life and total permanent disability.
And the mix is about 60/40 in favor of TPD in terms of the mix of risk we take.
And I guess your question is in relation to the reserve that we took in the third quarter.
So we -- there's been a fair amount of dislocation in the market in terms of competitors coming in and going from the market and a fair amount of change in the reinsurance market as well.
And I can assure you that we're very careful in terms of pricing to make sure we meet the appropriate hurdles and we have a number of sets of eyes on every significant risk we write there.
So it's our country team in Australia it's our regional team based out of Hong Kong and it's Maria Morris's team at Employee Benefits that assist us globally as well.
So there are a number of people looking at it to make sure we're getting the appropriate return on our capital in terms of the pricing we're deploying.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> I mean is it safe for us to assume that the pricing is much differently than it would have been before developments over the last year or so? That would be a safe assumption that there's a significant increase in that particular account.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Then in Group and Voluntary I think PFO growth was 1%.
I think the outlook for 2014 was mid-single digit so a bit of a spread there.
I'm just wondering how you feel about sort of accelerating that into 2014 and whether it's dependent on some economic assumptions that we should be sensitive to.
Jeff it's Bill.
The -- keep in mind that a lot of our -- certainly at the large end of the market a lot of our sales are already done right? So we have a pretty good feel for therefore what will flow through on the income statement.
And what we've seen is there's a kind of increasing momentum in group now for a couple of years.
A couple of years ago I think our group revenues actually shrunk.
And so you're seeing a much more benign regulatory environment -- or competitive environment not regulatory competitive environment.
And that means that pricing is more attractive and we're getting a fair amount of that business.
So that's already a little bit in the can already.
The second thing that's driving the revenue growth is really our Voluntary Benefits &amp; Worksite strategy.
And that is -- we have some pretty aggressive goals there.
I would say in 2013 we did a very good job of hitting those goals.
Maybe the best example of what's going on is in auto insurance.
We are the largest provider of auto and homeowners at the Worksite.
And our revenue growth there was over 5% last year and we actually expect that to grow faster this year.
So -- and that's -- for a pretty mature market -- the auto market hardly grows at all -- that's quite strong performance.
So there -- so I would say a lot of the growth we already kind of know.
And -- but obviously at the Voluntary Worksite part of it we have some ambitious goals but good momentum.
Our next question comes from Jimmy Bhullar with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> So first a question for Steve.
You mentioned not wanting to buy back stock and then have to issue equity at SIFI standards that have [ph] 2 owners.
But your stock was trading below book value for an extended period also relatively attractive now in valuation.
So buying back earlier and issuing later wouldn't really be so bad.
So just trying to get a sense of how long will you continue to accumulate capital if there's no visibility on SIFI standards this year.
Would you at some point if you don't find any deals decide to reevaluate your decision or not? And then secondly on pension closeouts you signed the ASCO noble pension closeout deal this quarter but maybe Bill if you could talk about -- you spoke about the pipeline but maybe talk about what type of returns you're getting in this market what the competitive environment is have you seen other companies sort of pursue this business more aggressively.
And then lastly on the annuity business you're obviously pulling back from variable annuities.
Fixed annuity sales are still modest but they more than doubled from the previous quarter.
So I'm just trying to get a sense of how much of this was indexed annuities and what your goals are for the traditional fixed and the fixed-index annuity business over the next few years.
So I'll start Jimmy.
As to capital management it is fluid.
We are observing what's going on in the regulatory environment.
We did as you know raise our dividend by nearly 50% last year.
I did mention that we looked at the dividend on an annual basis.
I have nothing to report obviously.
I have to talk to my board before announcing anything on that front.
We did spend $2 billion in cash on Provida a few quarters ago so we are I think managing capital within the context of the environment in which we're operating today from a regulatory perspective.
And I think you'll see us continue taking actions that make sense in the coming quarters and years as this regulatory environment unfolds.
And it's taking a while obviously for things to unfold around Dodd-Frank and we have to be sensitive to what potentially can come out in terms of rules.
And right now there is just very little visibility.
We've had comments coming out of people from the Fed in hearings on Capitol Hill saying they would like to tailor the rules to be appropriate for the insurance industry but they followed that up with comments about the Collins Amendment so-called Section 171 of Dodd-Frank.
It ties our hands to some degree in terms of how much they can tailor those rules.
That just leaves a lot of uncertainty in terms of how much capital is going to be required of us if we are designated a SIFI and if any appeals we take aren't successful.
So I think we have to be prudent here.
We have to do what makes sense for the company not just in the long term but we have to look at the near term here as well.
And we don't want to be in a position where we buy back shares and then end up reissuing equity down the road.
We think that would be a bad outcome.
It's Bill again.
So let's see if I get all your questions answered.
So with regard to pension closeouts yes we did a pretty large transaction in the fourth quarter a little under $700 million of deposits.
So that was a big deal.
However just keep in mind when you think about revenue growth rates and stuff that in the year ago period we did a $1 billion pension conversion which flowed through as revenue on our GAAP income statement.
And so even there -- even though we did a big one this quarter it's-- revenue from pension closeouts actually still look like it was down year-over-year.
With regard to returns the block -- and I don't like to give or -- the block is actually performing very well.
I don't like to give ROIs on new sales obviously because that's a competitive issue but we think they're attractive and above our cost of capital though I would say at the smaller end of pension closeout market it's much more competitive I think than it would be necessarily for jumbo deals.
There's a half a dozen or so players who compete for this business and I'm not sure if pricing is getting more aggressive or not.
I would say it's pretty stable but it's a pretty competitive efficient market.
And with regard to kind of the fixed annuities end of the business a couple of things are going on there.
One is we've repriced our SPIAs our retail SPIAs in that we had increased sales there.
Remember the way a SPIA works is the whole deposit comes through as GAAP revenue.
And so that sort of accentuates how much that impacts our income statement that you could see it in the sales numbers.
So SPIA sales were better.
We expect that to continue frankly.
We've also -- we have introduced an indexed annuity product earlier this year called Shield.
Shield sales so far this year are I would say a little weaker than we would have liked.
We've -- it has been a little slow getting approval for Shield in a number of big states but we're building momentum every quarter there and I think Shield will end up being a fairly big seller for us in 2014.
So the strategy here is to continue to diversify our product portfolio.
It isn't just about a guaranteed income benefit writer all the time.
It's -- we want to make sure we meet a variety of client needs with regard to annuities and tax deferral and investment performance.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
We're at 9:00 and we'll talk you soon.
Thank you.
Well ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T TeleConference service.
You may now disconnect.