Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the MFA Financial Inc.
first quarter 2011 earnings conference call.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded today Tuesday May 3 2011.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Alexandra Giladi.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
The information discussed on this conference call today may contain or refer to forward-looking statements regarding MFA Financial Inc.
that reflect management’s beliefs expectations and assumptions as to MFA’s future performance and operations.
When used statements which are not historical in nature including those containing words such as believe expect anticipate estimate plan continue intend should may or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
These types of statements are subject to various known and unknown risks uncertainties assumptions and other factors These and other risks uncertainties and factors including those described in MFA’s Annual Report on Form 10K for the year ended December 31 2010 and other reports it may file from time to time with the Security and Exchange Commission could cause MFA’s actual results performance and achievements to differ materially from those projected expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements they make.
For additional information regarding MFA’s use of forward-looking statements please see the relevant disclosure in MFA’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31 2011 and/or the press release announcing MFA’s First Quarter 2011 financial results.
Thank you for your time.
I would now like to turn this call over to Stewart Zimmerman MFA’s Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and welcome to MFA’s first quarter 2011 earnings call.
With me this morning are Bill Gorin President; Steven Yarad Chief Financial Officer; Ron Freydberg Executive Vice President; Craig Knutson Executive Vice President; Tim Korth Senior Vice President and General Counsel; Teresa Covello Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; Kathleen Hanrahan Senior Vice President; Shira Finkel Senior Vice President and Gudmundur Kristjansson Vice President.
Today we announced financial results for the first quarter ended March 31 2011.
Recent financial results and other significant highlights for MFA include the following.
First quarter net income per common share of $0.27 and core earnings per common share of $0.25.
Book value per common share increased to $7.86 at the end of the first quarter versus $7.58# at 2010 year end.
In February we sold $1.32 billion in principal value of non-agency mortgage-backed securities as part of the resecuritization.
In connection with this transaction $488 million of senior bonds rated AAA by DBRS Inc.
were issued to third-party investors via a [ph] trust at a rate of LIBOR plus 100 basis points.
In March we issued 74.75 million common shares to a public offering at a gross price of $8.10 per share generating net proceeds of $605 million.
In the first quarter we grew both our non-agency and agency mortgage-backed security portfolios through the purchase of approximately 855 million of non-agency mortgage-backed securities and approximately 1.84 billion of agency mortgage-backed securities.
For the first quarter ended March 31 2011 we generated net income allocable to common stockholders of $18.4 million or $0.27 per share of common stock.
Core earnings for the first quarter were $73.9 million or $0.25 per share of common stock.
On April 29 2011 we paid our first quarter 2011 dividends of $0.235 per share of common stock to stockholders of record as of April 11 2011.
I would now like to go over certain additional data highlights as they pertain to our first quarter 2011 results.
Leverage overall debt to equity three times; portfolio spread which is interest-earning assets minus cost of funds – 2.87%; portfolio spread which is the interest-earning assets minus the cost of funds including MBS underlying win transactions – 3.01% and our agency CPR which is 21%.
I thank you for your continued interest in MFA Financial and at this time I would like to open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions.) Your first question comes from the line of Mike Taiano of Sandler O’Neill.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Just had a question on the swap this quarter.
Looks like they declined the percentage of the repo balance I think around 40%.
Curious as to what you’re thinking on the swaps is going forward particularly it looks like you added some 15-year and 30-year paper during the quarter.
We expect that ratio to stay relatively stable from here or how should we think about that? This is Gudmundur.
It’s really a timing issue and it’s mapped to the [ph] time at March 31 actually after the quarter.
We continue to add swaps to replace some of the that run off throughout the quarter.
We do anticipate the ratio of -- you can use notional on the swap relative to the (inaudible) balance to be about 50% and the fact that it appears lower at the end of the quarter is really just a snap set in time..
Got you.
So it’s more or less a timing issue.
Okay and then just a second question on how you guys are thinking about re-remics.
I read in a couple places that kind of talked that the new rules with respect to risk retention could affect the ability to do re-remics.
Is this something that you guys are concerned with or do you feel like at this stage you’re not likely to do re-remics in the near term.
What are your thoughts there? Mike we continue to look at the re-remic or the resecuritization market.
I think that the new Reg AB2 Guidelines are still somewhat uncertain.
There certainly is a possibility that those could affect the ability to do those in the future but we think it’s probably a little ways out.
So we still view it as a very viable way to diversify our financing sources.
Great.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Bose George of KBW.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
I was wondering if I could get an indication of unleveraged risk adjusted yields now on the non-agency MBS you’re buying? Yeah Bose I would say again it depends on the bond of course but in general I would say 6%-7% plus adjusted unleveraged yield today.
Okay great.
And then on the agency side I was wondering where the spreads are over there? On the 5/1 arms we see yields of about 250 with spreads around 180 to 200 basis points.
The 6-year [ph] fixed yields are anywhere from 290 to about 325 330 with spreads around 200 basis points probably 225 to 230.
Okay great.
And then I just wanted to confirm the timing of your dividends.
You guys did that before quarter end so it now is incorporated into your book value – is that kind of a change from the way you did it in the past? [inaudible] we did want to highlight it it’s a change.
So the dividend was declared in the quarter so the dividend is out of this book value so the book value is [inaudible] and attracting the dividend.
Okay great.
Thanks a lot guys.
Your next question comes from Henry Coffey of Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and congratulations on a great quarter.
I’m just not running fast enough here but could you give us some comment on the marks in the non-agency book this quarter versus the December quarter and there has been some discussion from different sources rumors stories about some people being challenged by the performance of the set of underlying subordinates.
Is there a cash trapping issue that you manage around here or have you structured it so that it’s not a problem? As far as marks I think quarter over quarter agency book is up slightly – $25 million give or take I would say.
As far as the subordinates and cash trapping I think it tended – we got more on sub-prime and perhaps option arm type securities and less so on prime and Alt-A.
So it’s certainly something that we pay attention to but for the most part it does not affect securities in our portfolio to a meaningful extent.
And I know Bose asked the question but what kind of reinvestment rates are you able to get right now? Well Henry again it depends on the bonds of course and the structure but in general very rough numbers I would say 6% to 7% yields are where the market continues to be.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from Steve Delaney of JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everybody.
Nice quarter.
So on the $1.8 billion of agency MBS that were added in the quarter could you give us sort of a rough breakout of what percentage was hybrid 5/1 or 7/1 hybrids [ph] and what was 15 years? Just approximate.
Sure this is Gudmundur.
So approximately 60% was 15-year and that was [ph] arms in the first quarter.
I’m sorry.
Did you say 60% was 15-year? 60% yes.
60.
60.
Okay thank you.
There’s just a little feedback in the phone.
60 for 15 years.
And so could you talk about what the average are you buying sort of the current lower coupon like 3½ or more some higher coupon? Well we haven’t really been buying the lower coupons the 3s and 3½.
From our point of view they feel a little too long for us in terms of interest spread rates.
Most of the stuff that we’ve been focusing has been 4 4½ I guess you could call that slightly higher coupons and [inaudible] relative value was there in terms of interest rate risk and pre-paid protection.
Okay and with that 60% into the 15 years which obviously don’t have that stated reset date like a hybrid when you’re adding these swaps both which you replace in 1Q and which you said you’ve added since March 31 are you moving out a little bit in terms of the tenor to say 4 to 5 year range on the new swaps? I would say on average those swaps are 4-year swaps.
I feel pretty comfortable with that (inaudible) again a 15-year 4½% coupon.
Steve just to make sure people understand as we have added the 15-year assets to the mix in the portfolio we’ve been very very sensitive to the other side – to the liability side – so in fact again we’ve been very much on top of the swaps and the tenor of the swaps.
Thanks Stewart.
Then one final thing on the non-agencies.
You’ve got on your press release your cost was 73% of par.
Do you have handy what the average fair value dollar price was? Yes Steve and it’s in the Q which you’ll see.
The weighted average fair value was 78.6.
78.6.
Okay very good.
Thanks gentlemen.
Appreciate it.
That reminds me – we will have the Q filed sometime this afternoon so there will be a lot more data coming at you today.
Your next question comes from the line of Douglas Harter of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could talk about leverage on each of the agency and non-agency and kind of where you see it going in 2011.
You have the press release available with you? Yes.
So we’ve numbered a table there’s a table 1? Yes.
So you see the agency debt to equity ratio within the 6s which I don’t think is much of an outlier compared to some of the pure agency models you might be familiar with maybe on the low end but not by a lot.
The non-agency side we said will continue to trend up over time for two reasons.
We continue to add more counter-parties which gives us more comfort that there’s alternatives if someone does change their strategy.
And in addition we have become very comfortable and really think it’s a great competitive advantage to be able to do resecuritizations.
So the levers do not go up much on the non-agency side but that’s probably a function of the equity rates.
So we continue to see the non-agency leverage trend up over time.
And again just to add we’re also seeing additional counter-parties involved in the non-agency side of the business.
So it’s becoming more of it rather than less.
Right thank you.
(Operator’s Instructions).
Your next question comes from Daniel Furtado of Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Morning guys nice quarter and thanks for taking my question.
Just real quick for modeling purposes.
When you talk about the non-agency portfolio what’s the average margin on reset there – like 250? It’s probably lower than that to the extent that they’re LIBOR based arms.
It’s probably closer to 200.
If it’s CMT and there’s a lot more LIBOR than there is CMT it would probably be higher – 225 or so.
Okay and that LIBOR is typically a 6-month LIBOR? It varies between 6 and 12 months.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thanks a lot.
Nice quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen there are no further questions at this time.
I’d like to thank everybody for being part of the call.
We look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes the conference call for today.
This conference call will be available for replay at 11:30 a.m.
Eastern Time today through May 10 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive Replay System at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 203154.
International participants may dial area code 320-365-3844.
Those numbers again are 1-800-475-6701 or area code 320-365-3844 and access code 203154.
That does conclude our conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the MFA Financial Inc.
second quarter 2011 earnings call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
And later we will conduct a question-and-answer session with instructions being given at that time.
(Operator Instructions).
As a reminder this conference is being recorded today.
I would like to turn the conference over to Alexandra Gelardi (ph) for opening remarks.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
The information discussed on this conference call today may contain or refer to forward-looking statements regarding MFA Financial Inc.
that reflect management’s beliefs expectations and assumptions as to MFA’s future performance and operations.
When used statements which are not historical in nature including those containing words such as believe expect anticipate estimate plan continue intend should may or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
These types of statements are subject to various known and unknown risks uncertainties assumptions and other factors including but not limited to those relating to changes in interest rates and the market value of MFA’s investment securities; changes in the prepayment rates on the mortgage loans securing MFA’s investment securities; MFA’s ability to borrow to finance its assets; implementation of or changes in government regulations or programs affecting MFA’s business; MFA’s ability to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes; MFA’s ability to maintain its exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940; and risks associated with investing in real estate related assets including changes in business conditions and the general economy.
These and other risks uncertainties and factors including those described in MFA’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 and other reports that mail file from time-to-time with the Securities And Exchange Commission could cause anaphase actual results performance and achievements to differ materially from those projected expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements it makes.
For additional information regarding MFA’s use of forward-looking statements please see the relevant disclosures in MFA’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30 2011 and or the press release announcing MFA second quarter 2011 financial results.
Thank you for your time.
I would now like turn this call over to Stewart Zimmerman MFA’s Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and welcome to MFA second quarter 2011 earnings call.
With me this morning are Bill Gorin President; Stephen Yarad Chief Financial Officer; Ron Freydberg Executive Vice President; Craig Knutson Executive Vice President; Hal Schwartz Senior Vice President and General Counsel; Teresa Covello Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; Kathleen Hanrahan Senior Vice President; Shira Finkel Senior Vice President; and Goodmunder Christiansen (ph) Vice President.
Today we announced financial results for the second quarter ended June 30 2011.
Recent financial results and other significant highlights for MFA include the following.
Second quarter net income per common share of $0.22 and core earnings per common share of $0.26.
On July 29 2011 we paid our second quarter 2011 dividend of $0.25 per share of common stock to stockholders of record as of July 14 2011.
In June we sold $1.283 billion in principal value of Non-Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities as part of a resecuritization.
In connection with this transaction $474.9 million of senior bonds rated AAA by DBRS were issued to third-party investors via a trust at a rate of LIBOR +125 basis points.
As required under GAAP we will consolidate the resecuritization and will account for this transaction as a financing.
Book value per common share was $7.48 at the end of the second quarter versus $7.86 in March 31 2011 due primarily to price weakness within the Non-Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities sector.
In the quarter we grew our Non-Agency MBS portfolio at an accelerated pace through the purchase of approximately $945 million of Non-Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities.
For the second quarter ended June 30 2011; we generated net income allocable to common stockholders of $77.2 million or $0.22 per share of common stock.
Core earnings for the second quarter were $91.6 million or $0.26 per common share of stock.
Core earnings is a non-GAAP financial measure which reflects net income excluding $2.4 million of other than temporary impairment charges $11.7 million of unrealized net losses on link transactions and includes an adjustment of $0.7 million to increase interest income following the de-linking of certain Non-Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities previously reported as link transactions for GAAP.
We continue to provide stockholders with attractive returns to appropriate leverage investments in both Agency and Non-Agency residential mortgage-backed securities.
We are well positioned with an Agency MBS portfolio with an average amortized cost of 102.4% of par.
In the second quarter we continue to implement our strategy of identifying and acquiring Non-Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities with what we consider to be superior loss adjusted yields at prices well below par.
We currently project that approximately two-thirds of our third quarter 2011 core earnings will be generated by Non-Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities.
In the second quarter Non-Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities generally experienced widespread price leakage which created a buying opportunity.
Due to underlying borrower characteristics and certain structural features our portfolio was less impacted by the overall price movement declining an average of 3.4 points.
We believe that the factors that impacted Non-Agency MBS prices were continued negative housing market views concerns over the continuing sale of Maiden Lane II assets and overall weak economic data.
While housing fundamentals remain weak we believe that we have appropriately factored this into our cash flow projections and credit reserve estimates.
We continue to favor high yielding Non-Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities at discount prices as we believe the value of these assets will be positively impacted over time as the existing private label MBS universe continues to decline in size due to prepayments defaults and limited issuance.
I would like to go over certain additional data highlights as they pertain to our second quarter 2011 results.
Overall leverage debt-to-equity 3.3 times portfolio spread which is interest earning assets minus cost of funds of 305 basis points the portfolio spread which is interest earning assets minus cost including Mortgage-Backed Securities underlying link transactions of 318 basis points and our Agency CPR with 16.6%.
I thank you for your continued interest in MFA Financial and at this time I would like to open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions).
One moment please for the first question.
Our question comes from the line of Jason Weaver of Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Good morning thanks for taking my question.
I was just hoping you could detail a little bit about the $1 billion in non-agency purchases you made this quarter both on timing and how that compares with existing portfolio you have at the end of March? I’m going to turn it over to Craig Knutson who runs that area and Craig if you would please answer.
Sure.
So the purchases were pretty much spread out through the quarter although June was the heaviest.
As you can see we did a research your decision in early June which generated cash so and it was actually lucky timing because the June month was really where we saw the most price weakness.
So it was like I say spread to the quarter but it was more in June than any other month.
As far as the assets and how they compare the overall assets I would say they are very comparable to the assets and you will see in the Q in our table in the back where we list vintages by FICO buckets the bonds are very similar to the bonds that we already owned.
Okay thank you.
And also I was just interested in your thoughts on the yield curve going forward.
I know we’ve seen some flattening in the long and with the flight to quality but I was just curious on your thoughts there.
I continue to see great opportunities for our company in terms of the mortgage market.
Yes we had some flattening the 10 year I guess is what about 260 plus or minus a basis point or two but they are continued opportunities.
So in fact you could continue to see a little bit of flattening on the longer side.
I still think that as you look at the short end not much is going to happen at some provides continuing opportunities for us.
Next we will go to the line of Steve DeLaney of JMP Securities.
Thank you good morning everyone.
A couple more thoughts or questions I guess on the Non-Agency portfolio since that’s the sort of the current focus of the quarter.
You reported in your press release that the portfolio the Non-Agency book experienced an average price drop of 3.4%.
Barclays puts out a data series on just indicative prices every week.
And for the second quarter at June 30 they were showing sort of all-dayish type of paper down more like six point.
And obviously every bond is a story I know.
But could you comment a little bit and I know you alluded to it in your press release but is some of you’ve never really described your portfolio I guess at all today or prime but it looks like some of the paper has more prime characteristics than Alt-A if we were to look at Barclays data as being realistic.
Could you comment on that? Sure Steve.
Again we don’t characterize it as Alt-A and prime primarily the reason we don’t do that is there is not one universal measure of what constitutes Alt-A and what constitutes prime.
So what we have done as a surrogate in our FICO table is we show bonds that had average FICO scores at origination of 715 and below and 715 and above.
So while we don’t refer to 715 and below as Alt-A that sort of a distinction we make.
I think if you look at the FICO table in the Q it’s probably 85% give or take FICO 715 and higher at about 15% 715 and below.
So I would certainly say that most people would characterize the majority of our portfolio as prime or near prime.
As far as price declines in the market you are right.
It’s really bond by bond.
But I would say in general an Alt-A portfolio probably was down five points that’s probably right.
So the reason that we are down a little less than 3.5 points is it skewed towards probably the higher end of that credit quality.
Just to follow up on that again Craig and his group are very selective very careful in terms of what securities they do buy.
And generally it to the higher end rather than the lower end.
I think your $0.74 on the dollar average price does suggest that there are definitely some better quality collateral in there.
Exactly.
My second question is about your credit reserve.
You’re a little over $1.2 billion and that’s about 83% of your discount and it’s 22% of the par value of the Non-Agency portfolio.
I was just curious if you could comment on how your actual losses since you use the reserve you’re really not breaking out losses for us as some competitors do.
We know they are just being taken against that reserve.
Can you talk about how your actual losses are tracking against your model and if you’ve made any adjustments any transfers into or out of that reserve so far this year? So yes Steve.
The $1.2 billion on about $5 billion is about 22%.
Also bear in mind that we still have about 6% structural credit enhancement that stands before that loss reserve.
As far as what we are seeing we really don’t have – quite frankly we really don’t have a lot of bonds that are in first loss position.
So when we do have a bond that’s in first loss position the loss will obviously hit that credit reserve but for the most part it’s really too soon to tell.
We continually reevaluate all of our assumptions so it’s not just loss assumptions.
It default loss severity and prepayments to adjust those over time.
And I think you know in the past there been times where we’ve increased our credit reserves due to those adjustments.
But it’s something that we look at every quarter and we feel pretty comfortable with those loss reserves.
But it’s really way too soon to tell.
And the 6% structural support is that current or is that original? No.
That’s current.
That’s current okay.
And can you venture to guess just very roughly what percent of the bonds are not yet in a first loss? I mean is it...
It’s just a guess.
I’m sure it’s more than 90% and it could be 95% of the bonds still have credit support.
One of the considerations there is obviously you buy bonds and the credit support goes away over time and we certainly expect that.
That’s why we have that credit reserve.
But when we look at securities and we purchase securities especially with and an eye towards resecuritization bond that’s have credit support are easier to resecuritization the bonds without credit support.
So I think again everything depends on the price but I think we certainly take into account the fact that a bond without credit support is more difficult to resecuritize when we value it in the first place.
Makes sense.
Well thanks very much for the comments and good job on the quarter.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from the line of Bose George with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Actually I have a follow-up on the Non-Agency purchases.
I was curious about the dollar prices and loss adjusted yields on that compared to what you bought this quarter compared to what it was like in the first quarter? So Boss in the first quarter I think we pretty much consistently said yields were probably between six and seven loss adjusted unlevered.
In the second quarter for the first two months of the quarter they were probably still in that same range.
In the month of June I would say they’re probably closer to seven.
So still in that range did we find bonds that yield between 7 and 7.5 yes we did.
Did we still find bonds that yielded 6s we do.
As far as dollar price I think our average purchase price for the quarter was in the low 80s.
So I think it’s fairly consistent with where we were in the first quarter although June was somewhat opportunistic with some price softening.
And having just completed a resecuritization we were in a little bit more of an aggressive buy position.
Okay.
So June was presumably kind of lower than that low 80s number? I think so yes.
Okay great.
And then just switching to the loss reserve just for taxable income since you can’t really create a loss reserve I’m curious when the losses due happened how that GAAP in tax accounting reconciled when the losses actually do hit.
As Craig mentioned the vast majority of our Non-Agency Mortgage-Backed Securities still have credit enhancement so there’s almost no real losses being experienced on GAAP basis.
And you’re right there is some differential between tax and GAAP and our taxable income is somewhat higher and I think we are approximately $0.02 under distributed as of the moment.
So it’s not a large differential at the moment.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from the line of Jason Arnold with RBC Capital.
Please go ahead.
I just had a quick follow-up on the resecuritization.
I was just curious if you could comment on investor demand for the deal and then on pricing and terms if you’ve seen any changes or moves there.
Sure.
So the deal with price we sold the AAA piece which is approximately the top 35% which is about a two year average life security at LIBOR +125 which is comparable to the deal that we did in the fourth quarter a little but wider than the deal that we did in the first quarter.
But I think if you look back at credit spreads and when we did our deal in the first quarter which is the early part of February it was pretty much a tight in the market.
So it’s certainly in the context of where we got deals done before the deal was DBRS only rated which does not have perhaps the same wide appetite that multiple rating agencies would.
But again the execution was very similar or spot on to where we had done prior deals.
And then I guess I was also curious if you could update us on repo availability and haircuts primarily on the Non-Agency side.
Are you seeing any change to haircuts or rates here? And then while to me your repo on the agency side seems extremely likely to see any major changes investors still seem to have this on their mind.
So maybe you could comment on that side as well please.
I’m going to ask Ron Freydberg to give you the kind of detail and then I’m going to have just a couple of general remarks.
So Ron.
On the agency side we’ve seen some volatility in rates over the last couple of weeks.
As of today rates look like they’re settling back to the mid-20s.
We have not seen any change in haircuts we’ve not seen any change in the availability but the market is going through some flux.
It was finished in a couple of weeks today with the debt ceiling haven’t passed yesterday you’ve seen the cash providers have come back in size so therefore rates have come back to what we saw a couple weeks ago.
I think the answer; again Ron was discussing the agency side.
And again repo is certainly ample again you have a slight pickup you know you have a volatile market that doesn’t really faze us in the least.
And then the Non-Agency side in terms of repo that is also available to us we utilize it and again just to remind everybody during 2008 and 2009 we were able to finance and add repo for Non-Agency securities.
So again it’s a matter of having the relationships on the street and having the right collateral that people feel comfortable with.
And we’ve been able to accomplish that going back to 2008 and 2009.
And certainly is readily available to us in a very positive way.
Thank you.
Our next question will come from the line of Douglas Harter at Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I was just hoping you guys could talk a little bit about how are you viewing the agency opportunities right now and sort of what direction you might be leaning on the portfolio there? (Goodmunder) I’ll turn it over to you to handle that.
Hi this is (Goodmunder) well I mean we feel obviously you’ve seen rates have come down considerably over the last quarter or so at over the last two weeks we have (inaudible) after we got some clarity on the debt ceiling and raising of the debt ceiling.
Well at the same times we’ve seen spreads widen to basically compensate for that.
So overall I think the opportunity is pretty attractive.
We are able to invest depending our visit and hybrid space at a spread anywhere from 170 basis points to 220 basis points depending on how much you have and how sure are how long you have this sort of.
And if you view that historically that spread is very attractive so we’ll continue to deploy cash there and from the leverage point of view I think we’ll kind of stay where we have been in the mid-sixes.
But Doug just so you know reinforce what we have said we’ve seen higher value added investment opportunities on the Non-Agency side.
And I guess just on the agency side what’s your kind of outlook for prepaid given the rally we’ve seen in rates? Well I think prepayments will definitely pick up.
And we’ve already seen that in the latest report with which we saw in July and that’s something that was kind of on the table already before the rally.
Because keep in mind rates have been rallying since April pretty much.
When you look at primary rates the mortgage curve has also steepened.
What that means is the mortgage rate is available to the homeowner on the hybrid side 51 from 71 has gone down more than on the 30 side.
So prepayment risk is probably increase a little bit more in the hybrid side and also on 51 side the relative to the 30-year mortgages which basically means that assets election is even more critical meaning you got to stay away from characteristics that can bring on high prepaid.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And our next question comes from the line of Daniel Furtado at Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking the time guys and nice quarter.
Just two real quick questions.
The first is on the Re-REMIC.
One are you providing the name of the Re-REMIC or will that be in the Q? I believe it’s in the Q.
Okay good.
And then the second is where there any major structural differences because you had really good execution on that deal was there any major structural changes from the previous two deals? I would say the structure was almost a carbon copy of the deal that we did in February.
And actually we sold a thicker slice than we did in the October deal.
So same as February and we sold more bonds so as a longer average life than the deal we did last October.
Excellent.
Then the second question is how should we or how do you think about the $2 billion in the Non-Agency ARMs that are at about a six month to reset on the interest rate? Just kind of how do you anticipate that to impact yield or how would you guide investors to think about that as we move forward? Well the yield that we book is really based on assumptions over the life of the security.
So we know when we buy it that the mortgages will reset in six months or one year or two years or whatever it is.
So I don’t think it should really have that much impact.
We also know for instance that hybrids when they reset the prepayment speed will likely slow down especially these days were the coupons typically reset to 3% type rates.
So I think all those are sort of baked into our purchase assumptions when we buy these securities.
Thank you.
And next we go to the line of Mike Widner of Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys and congrats on a solid quarter.
So a lot of my questions have been asked so I’m going to ask you sort of a little bit of a philosophical question about how you guys allocate and specifically I guess thinking about the thoughts on the Agency versus the Non-Agency allocation and the relative attractiveness.
And before you answer let me prefix it with obviously the mix has been moving or at least the preponderance of the asset growth has been moving for two years now in favor of the Non-Agencies and throughout that time up until at least last quarter the prices on those Non-Agencies have been generally rising in terms of dollar prices as a percentage of par.
And that was in part I think in the broad marketplace a reflection of expectation that housing was improving the economy was improving things were getting better we were heading back to something that was closer to normal.
And last quarter and really more recently obviously the broad market is telling us that it’s starting to rethink that that maybe we are not quite out of the woods yet maybe the economy is not really recovering.
And certainly the talk out there that comes up now and then is starting to resurface again that maybe we’re actually in a more Japan like scenario than we had previously thought.
You see that in the yield curve as well.
So against that kind of backdrop I’m wondering what your guys’ expectations are and if it changes how you view the asset allocations in terms of what the expected shape of recovery is and relative to what you have been doing recently what you are doing today particularly the sort of preference for Non-Agency assets would that change at all if your view was that we were in fact in kind of a much longer much slower much weaker recovery than the market had sort of thought we were? If we are in a Japan scenario would that change your allocations at all? Hi this is Stewart then I’m going to turn it over to Bill.
In terms of asset allocations we continue to favor the Non-Agency side.
In terms of housing we continue to have a very negative perception in terms of housing.
Having said that that’s really baked into the assumptions when we buy the Non-Agency which we perceive gives us kind of a leg up.
But having said that Bill do want to address that? Yes.
So we look at this asset class and the purchase prices we all know what they are so the variable is what are you forecast is going to happen in the future.
We say the yields are close to 7% where we base on our assumptions on how could you be comfortable their assumptions take into account potential downward trends in the economy.
So we point to the credit reserve which is approximately $1.2 billion.
And I think Steve DeLaney pointed out that’s 22% of the (phase).
Coincidentally about 22% of the underlying mortgages and securities or 60 days delinquent.
So basically if you took a snapshot as to what’s current what’s delinquent basically we have reserved 100 cents on the dollar against mortgages which are 60 plus days delinquent.
Now as you know we own the top tranches and this is not a subprime or option on our portfolio.
It’s a jumbo portfolio.
So we think that we have more than taken into account continue downward trends in home prices a continued very soft economy.
You can draw analogies to Japan which is inadequate consumption relative to productive capacity but the huge difference is the demographic change between us and Japan which you have an older society and less home formation which is very bad for housing.
So while we will go through a rough patch here because it’s very very difficult as you know.
If you’re pristine you can get a mortgage at excellent rates.
If you’re not pristine you can’t get a mortgage.
So basically incremental home is being priced on when the cash buyer can pay or what you could pay if you bought it for cash and lease the house out.
We think we’ve proven we’ve been conservative in no way were we ever calling a turn in any of our public calls.
In fact what we’ve always said is we’re probably the most pessimistic and that’s who you want picking the assets.
So I’m not sure that the change in prices of the assets going to the fourth quarter and first quarter was reflection of people calling the bottom in housing.
And we are not sure if it’s the new housing news that has impacted the prices going into the second quarter.
There was generally bad economic news certainly was a lot of new supply or pre-existing supply came to market as we hit certain price levels.
And as we retrieved those price levels that incremental supply seems to have disappeared.
So we continue to prefer the non-agencies on an incremental basis.
And consistently we’ve said 55% to 60% of our assets; our agencies will continue to be that way.
So there hasn’t been a large fundamental change here.
And we continue to like both the non-agency and the agency markets as Bill just kind of alluded to a few moments ago in terms of the available yields that are available on the Agency side.
So again these are complementary asset classes and we think it works quite well for our shareholders.
I would clearly agree with that.
I guess really what I’m hearing from you is that if I am interpreting you correctly that you like the assets no doubt about that.
I don’t think anybody on this call or at least anyone that has spoken so far is going to complain about the quality of the assets you’ve bought thus far.
I guess I am thinking more about clearly expectations and even backward revisions to the economy and GDP growth has been nowhere near as strong as prior reports have said.
Unemployment is clearly heading in the wrong direction again and I don’t know if you believe the ADP numbers this morning but even if you do it says that things are moving sideways more than improving.
And then of course we have the circus in DC.
I don’t it’s really going to do much to help anything in the economy next year as we focus more on cuts and spending and blah blah blah.
So it’s not so much a question of do you feel good about the assets that are there as much as it clearly seems that there is a softer tone in the economy than many people had thought.
Really does that impact at all your decisions? Have you changed anything about your assessments of the collateral or your expectations going forward or is it just kind of look this is already what we expected it’s already built into our models we knew everything was going to be horrible and despite all of the recent data we still like everything just as much as we did before? We still like the asset class and I believe what’s happened in the market and if you look at the economy it gives us more opportunity rather than less opportunity with the hot potentially with the higher yield to shareholders rather than a lower yield.
Certainly a fair point.
I guess the question is – we’ve certainly heard the story before that oh my God these things are $0.85 on the dollar.
They can’t possibly trade lower than that.
And all of a sudden it’s $0.75 $0.65 $0.55 $0.45 and – But Mike that’s okay.
That’s perfectly all right.
As you know the markets move markets are volatile and again if we bought a particular asset at $0.80 on the $1 and we feel good about that that’s fine.
And generally what’s happened over time is that we have absolutely in terms of underestimated in terms what the absolute returns have been.
Returns have been than our forecast.
I would say for the last X years we’ve never said we are calling the bottom.
What we have said is we had the advantage of a structure of having a permanent capital.
That we think would do a very good job forecasting what the yield is going to be on the assets but you need to make sure you have the staying power to realize those returns.
So in no way do we try to pull bottom we get excited when the prices went down.
And what you should look to management is to make sure that they have liquidity to take advantage of downturn and I think that’s what we did in the second quarter and what we are doing in the third quarter.
Yes that all fair I mean certainly as I look at the delinquency trends on your underlying collateral I mean I would describe them as stable.
So I certainly don’t mean to imply that I worry about the collateral you guys already have in the line or the securitizations you already bought.
Just wanted kind of hear your views on whether or not anything has changed in again the tone in the markets is clearly one of great caution these days and just wanted to see if you are thinking about things any differently then maybe taking a step toward being a little more cautious right now.
But it sounds like your answer is basically you been cautious all along.
And adequately prepared and I don’t that I would argue with that? Well I would reiterate we have been cautious all along will continue to be cautious but I think we are making the right investments and people are getting very nice returns for our shareholders.
Thank you.
We have a follow up from line of the Jason Weaver Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
It’s actually Henry Coffey my phone failed on me.
When you look at current marks today versus June 30 or during the second quarter obviously you constantly you know you would either going to get great reinvestment returns or great book value marks but rarely both.
At current marks since June 30 changed a whole lot so is this an environment that puts pressure on book values with that offers great reinvestment rates or what is the view kind of short-term? Henry I assume you’re talking about Non-Agency’s? Yes sir.
So Henry as far as Non-Agency pricing in the month of July a week ago I probably would’ve told you they were up maybe 0.5 point or so.
There hasn’t been a lot of trading volume so it’s a little difficult to say.
Dealer inventories are also fairly light.
So I think what little trading there is it’s very easy to dealers to jump in and snap up bonds.
So I would say it’s unchanged maybe up a little bit in the month of July.
Thank you and gentlemen there are no further questions in the queue; I’ll turn it back to you at this time.
Well thank you.
I appreciate your interest in MFA.
We look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen today’s conference will be available for replay after 11:30 a.m.
Eastern time today through August 10 at midnight.
You may access AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 212189.
International participants may dial 320-365-3844.
That does conclude your conference for today thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the MFA Financial Inc.
Third Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I’d now like to turn the conference over to Alexandra Giladi.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
The information discussed on this conference call today may contain or refer to forward-looking statements regarding MFA Financial Inc.
which reflect management’s beliefs expectations and assumptions as to MFA’s future performance and operations.
When used statements that are not historical in nature including those containing words such as will believe expect anticipate estimate plan continue intend should could would may or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
These types of statements are subject to various known and unknown risks uncertainties assumptions and other factors including but not limited to those relating to changes in interest rates and the market value of MFA’s investment securities; changes in the prepayment rates on the mortgage loans securing MFA’s investment securities; MFA’s ability to borrow to finance its assets; implementation of or changes in government regulations or programs affecting MFA’s business; MFA’s ability to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes; MFA’s ability to maintain its exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940; and risks associated with investing in real estate related assets including changes in business conditions and the general economy.
These and other risks uncertainties and factors including those described in MFA’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31st 2010 and other reports that it may file from time-to-time with the Securities and Exchange Commission could cause MFA’s actual results to differ materially from those projected expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements they make.
For additional information regarding MFA’s use of forward-looking statements please see the relevant disclosure in press release announcing MFA’s third quarter 2011 financial results.
Thank you for your time.
I’d now like to turn this call over to Stewart Zimmerman MFA’s Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and welcome to MFA’s third quarter 2011 earnings call.
With me this morning are Bill Gorin President; Stephen Yarad Chief Financial Officer; Ron Freydberg; Executive Vice President; Craig Knutson Executive Vice President; Hal Schwartz Senior Vice President &amp; General Counsel; Kathleen Hanrahan Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and Shira Finkel Senior Vice President.
Today we announced financial results for the third quarter ended September 30th 2011.
Recent financial results and other significant highlights for MFA includes the following; third quarter net income per common share $0.23 of core earnings per common share in $0.24.
On October 31 2011 we paid our third quarter 2011 dividend of $0.25 per share of common stock to shareholders of record as of October 11 2011.
Book value per common share was $7.16 at the end of the third quarter versus $7.48 at June 30 2011 due primarily to price weakness within the Non-Agency mortgage backed security sector.
This is after the $0.25 dividend deducted.
For the third quarter ended September 30 2011 we generated net income allocable to common stockholders of $81.2 million or $0.23 per share of common stock.
Core earnings for the third quarter were $84.7 million or $0.24 per share of common stock.
We continue to provide stockholders good attractive returns to appropriate leverage investments in our Agency and Non-Agency residential mortgage backed securities.
Our Agency portfolio had an average amortized cost basis of 102.6% of par as of September 30 2011 and generated a 3.37% yield in the third quarter.
Our Non-Agency portfolio had an average amortized cost of 73.2% of par as of September 30 2011.
And generated a loss adjusted yield of 7.29% in the third quarter.
In the third quarter we continue to selectively find value in the Agency hybrid MBS market.
In addition we continue to implement our strategy of identifying and acquiring Non-Agency mortgage backed security with what we consider to be superior loss adjusted yields of prices well below par.
Our goal remains to continue positioning MFA to generate double-digits returns on equity overtime.
In the third quarter the Non-Agency mortgage backed security market like other credit set is a good market became less listed.
All this made prices more volatile and also has given longer term investors such as MFA.
The opportunity to acquire assets with attractive long-term cash flows.
Due to underlying borrower characteristics and structural features our Non-Agency portfolio was less impacted by price movements declining an average of 2.4 points.
I’d like to go over other certain additional data highlights as they pertain to our third quarter 2011 results.
Fair market value of Non-Agency mortgage backed securities $4.14 billion; face amount of Non-Agency mortgage backed securities $5.65 billion; amortized cost of Non-Agency mortgage backed securities $4.1 billion; net purchase discount of Non-Agency MBS $1.58 billion.
Average structured credit enhancement of Non-Agency mortgage backed securities 5.7%; interest earning asset portfolio net yield of 4.53; cost of funds of 1.7% and our portfolio spread as defined by the interest earning assets minus the cost of funds of 2.83%; and the portfolio spread as defined of interest earning asset minus the cost of funds but this includes our mortgage backed securities underlying linked transactions of 2.9%.
Our mortgage backed security portfolio CPR which includes that mortgage backed securities underlying linked transactions to 17.8% our Agency MBS CPR 19.2% and for those of you who have an interest I think most everybody on this call are CPR as just recorded on Friday was approximately 19.6%.
Our Agency MBS CPR was 14.5% and our leverage which is overall debt-to-equity was 3.5 times.
I thank you for your continued interest in MFA Financial and at this time I’d like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question comes from the line of Steve DeLaney from JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Just wanted if you can give us little more color on what you guys were thinking about as you were watching this volatile market in the third quarter and kind of how it affected your portfolio decisions.
Specifically Stewart I mean you started buying Non-Agency RMBS I believe in the fourth quarter of 2009.
It was 2008 Steve.
Time flies.
We were having fun.
Yes we are almost three years now.
But this I think is the first quarter that I can recall since then where sequentially the Non-Agency portfolio the average cost basis didn’t go up.
So I mean overall you were roughly flat you grew the Agency book a little bit.
Maybe just big picture what’s your thought were looking at relative value between say new Non-Agency versus season hybrids on the Agency side because it looks like in terms of any commitment to higher leverage seem to go to the Agency book in this quarter.
I’m looking at it right? Thanks.
Steve let me give this at a 25 000 feet and I think Bill will probably like to give you some detail but as you know wherever we see value it's where we continue to buy the assets and again we did see some value on the Agency side and as you know there has been quite a bit of volatility on the Non-Agency side.
There are number of folks who would say well in a situation like that maybe you would back away from the Non-Agency but again we don’t necessarily do that because those are all the opportunities.
And as you know your book value is a snapshot in time.
So yes there were certainly some volatility on the Non-Agency side as I said in the opening remarks and as you can find in our press release it was down about 2.4 points on the non agencies but as far as I’m concerned that’s another opportunity for us.
Bill? Yes we were excited about the opportunity in the non agencies and Goodmunder has found some good opportunities on the Agency side.
So pretty much a relationship between the two asset classes being changed over the course of the quarter.
I think actually the second quarter was probably the first quarter where Non-Agency marks trended down and that continued in the third quarter.
We selectively found buying opportunities as you know we focused on senior most tranches of better quality assets and despite what you might read in the Popular Press there has not actually been a large amount of selling of these types of assets but when those assets are available we pick through we are probably a little more choosy because we are now looking to grow a large amount probably until we do another resecuritization.
So we found optimism both sides and we invested throughout the quarter.
Just one quick follow-up Bill.
You sold some MBS during the quarter I assume that was Agency will you just trying to get out of the way of Harper trying to protect yourself from a standpoint of prepaid picking up.
Yes it was a small amount and it was from higher coupon assets.
I think actually a good amount in those or non (inaudible).
But Steve that’s something we know we always do from time-to-time we really commented calling out the portfolio in terms of particular security that maybe was negatively invested.
Those might be securities you better off selling rather than keeping.
But again it's such a small amount.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Bose George of KBW.
Please go ahead.
Just in terms of follow-up on that in terms of the yields on the new Non-Agency I was just wondering where they are relative to last quarter and just the same on the Agency side or spreads rather.
So on the Non-Agency side Bose I’d say as Bill said that the opportunity to buy product has not quite been the same in the last month or two.
So there weren’t as many bumps for sale but I’d say those yields right now are probably 7 to 8% type range.
Fair to say a little bit higher than what you guys have had on the portfolio the average for the third quarter? Yes there is backup in price has obviously raised yield and so I’d say we probably told you I’m guessing on the second quarter call that yields were in the 6.5 to mid 7 type range.
I’d say they are now yield 7 to 8%.
Okay.
Great.
And then just similar on the agencies like word incremental spreads.
Hi Bose this Goodmunder.
So on the Agency side the yields are about 2.25 and the spread including appropriate hedges is about 175 basis points so 1.25.
Okay great.
And then just share (inaudible).
On the last call you guys discussed the 2 billion of non agencies that are resetting and your yield assumptions and corporate so there is no impact on the returns.
I just wanted to make sure I understood the mechanics so it just on the early year's there is more cash and then there is more accretion later year's after the reset occurs.
Well I guess yes in practice you would get more accretion in later years if the coupon goes down.
But the yield assumption in corporate assumptions of future coupons on the security.
So as the forward curve changes the assumptions about future coupons will likely also change.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Mike Taiano from Sandler O’Neill.
Please go ahead.
Just curious on I think you guys have said that the activity on the Non-Agency CMBS side is slowed.
And just wondering does that affect how you mark your portfolio in other words you have to rely more on our mark to model as oppose to mark to actual trades that are happening at this point.
No.
The answer is we don’t mark mark to a model we outside we have models and we have anticipations on what those yields might or might not be and how sensitive are those cash flow to the banker region in the market.
But again we continue to go out and we get marks from various counter parties in addition to the pricing services.
Mike you will see in our 10-Q which we will be filed later today that we still have everything classified as level II in our disclosures for FAS 157.
Okay great.
And just curious as to what you have seen in price movement specifically on the Non-Agency side to the end of this quarter.
Mike it's Craig I’d say places have still been soft since the end of the quarter which is somewhat surprising given the rally in most other risk assets.
But if I had to guess across the sector places since September 30 are probably down about a point for so.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question comes from the line of Jason Weaver from Stern Agee.
Please go ahead.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> First can you talk about a little bit about the effect of taking some of your gains from the Non-Agency prepayments and using those to increase the credit reserves discount and how we should think about that going forward? Thanks for the question.
So I think what I’d like to explain is that we use what we think are conservative assumptions about future losses.
Now the losses occur in the future as we showed in this press release the CPR for non agencies was close to 15% that higher than what we project in our yield estimates.
So when the extra cash comes in and it does it actually prepays the cash actually comes in what it does is it lowers your amortized cost and I think that might address your question Jason? Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Exactly.
So going forward that’s really just going to be a function of how prepayments come in versus your estimates is that why I’m here? Yes because the repayments look they are performing better than we projected when we bought the assets when that actual cash comes in what it does is it's going to pull down somewhat our amortized cost which should help you yield overtime.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Fair enough.
And just one more.
What are you seeing right now as far as the state of the resecuritization market goes whether this becomes an ongoing part of your strategy? Well we had three resuritizations which in the last year cleared up capital for us to invest at good yield.
Some of the drawbacks now are the rating agencies have made it more difficult to get ratings not a good rating get any ratings of resecuritization but it's something where we are working on.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from the line of Douglas Harter from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Just the follow-up on that last question.
Is the non rated market also open and is there something that you guys consider in light of the rating agencies? Yes (inaudible) is open and it's been open.
But because we are buying higher quality assets and the execution is more expensive on the non rated re-REMIC.
It's something we have in doing.
We looked at it because we are buying better assets that don’t yielding seven you are not excited on the execution on the non-rated re-REMIC.
It's much more efficient if you will relative to the marketplace when we look at a rating situation rather than non rated.
The other thing I’d add is the issue with the non rated resecuritization and obviously those have become more prevalent in the last two quarters or so.
The issue with those is really if the big liquidity give up.
So if were to purchase the senior piece of non rated re-REMIC it's more difficult to find answers to private placement based on a dealer shelf.
So there really going to be maybe one place to finance that and also more importantly you can never resecuritize again in the future.
So we view it as a liquidity give up.
I think Doug was asking being an issuer not investor is that right Doug? I was talking about the issuer but that color is all helpful.
Thank you.
And this time we have no further people in the queue.
Do you have any further remarks at this time? No.
Just like to say thank you.
We look forward to speaking with you on our next earnings call.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 12 pm Eastern time today through November 14 you may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at any time by dialing 1800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 223913; international participants dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers again are 1800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844 with the access code of 223913.
This does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the MFA Financial Inc.
fourth quarter 2011 earnings release.
For the conference all the participants are in a listen-only mode.
There will be an opportunity for your questions.
Instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
With that being said for opening remarks I will turn it over to Ms.
Alexandra Giladi.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Information discussed on this conference call today may contain or refer to forward-looking statements regarding MFA Financial Inc.
which reflect management’s beliefs expectations and assumptions as to MFA’s future performance and operations.
When used statements that are not historical in nature including those containing words such as will believe expect anticipate estimate plan continue intend should could would may or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
These types of statements are subject to various known and unknown risks uncertainties assumptions and other factors including but not limited to those relating to changes in interest rates and the market value of MFA’s investment securities; changes in the prepayment rates on the mortgage loans securing MFA’s investment securities; MFA’s ability to borrow to finance its assets; implementation of or changes in government regulations or programs affecting MFA’s business; MFA’s ability to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes; MFA’s ability to maintain its exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940; and risks associated with investing in real estate related assets including changes in business conditions and the general economy.
These and other risks uncertainties and factors including those described in MFA’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31<sup>st</sup> 2010 and other reports that it may file from time-to-time with the Securities and Exchange Commission could cause MFA’s actual results to differ materially from those projected expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements they make.
For additional information regarding MFA’s use of forward-looking statements please see the relevant disclosure in the press release announcing MFA’s fourth quarter 2011 financial results Thank you for your time.
I would now like to turn this call over to Stewart Zimmerman MFA’s Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and welcome to MFA’s fourth quarter 2011 earnings call.
With me this morning are Bill Gorin President; Steve Yarad Chief Financial Officer; Ron Freydberg Executive Vice President; Craig Knutson Executive Vice President; Harold Schwartz Senior Vice President and General Counsel; Kathleen Hanrahan Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and Shira Finkel Senior Vice President.
Today we announced financial results for the fourth quarter ended December 31<sup>st</sup> 2011.
Recent financial results and other significant highlights for MFA include the following Fourth quarter net income per common share of $0.19 and core earnings per common share of $0.22.
Book value per common share was $6.74 at the end of the fourth quarter versus $7.16 at September 30<sup>th</sup> 2011 due primarily to price weakness within the Non-Agency MBS sector.
Book value per common share has since increased to $7.10 at January 31<sup>st</sup> 2012 due principally to a rebound in the value of Non-Agency mortgage-backed securities during the month of January.
We continue to increase our focus on financing structures that reduce our reliance on short-term repurchase arrangements collateralized by Non-Agency mortgage-backed securities.
In the fourth quarter we entered into a three-year collateralized financing arrangement that effectively provides $300 million of financing for Non-Agency mortgage-backed securities and subsequent to year-end we increased the amount financed under this arrangement to $500 million.
On February 9<sup>th</sup> 2012 we sold $433 million in principal amount of Non-Agency mortgage-backed securities as part of a re-securitization.
In connection with this transaction $186.7 million of senior bonds rated AAA by DBRS were issued to third-party investors via a trust.
These bonds with an average life of 1.9 years were priced at a 2.75% yield.
As required by GAAP MFA will consolidate the re-securitization and will account for this transaction as a financing.
At year-end our debt-to-equity ratio including the liabilities underlying our Linked Transactions was 3.7:1.
Our Agency portfolio had an amortized cost of 102.6% of par as of December 31<sup>st</sup> 2011 and generated a 3.14% yield in the fourth quarter.
Our Non-Agency portfolio had an average amortized cost of 72.8% of par as of December 31<sup>st</sup> 2011 and generated a loss-adjusted yield of 7.06% in the fourth quarter.
We continued to selectively find value in the Agency MBS market.
In addition we continued to implement our strategy of identifying and acquiring Non-Agency mortgage-backed securities with what we consider to be superior loss-adjusted yields at prices well below par.
We believe that we continue to be run on a very cost-effective basis for the benefit of our stockholders.
For the three months ended December 31<sup>st</sup> 2011 our cost for compensation and benefits and other G&amp;A expenses were $6.6 million or 1.06% on an annualized basis of stockholders' equity as of December 31<sup>st</sup> 2011.
Our goal remains to continue positioning MFA to generate double-digit returns on equity over time.
In the fourth quarter our Non-Agency portfolio experienced a modest price decline averaging 3.2 points.
However during the month of January the value of these assets have increased.
We believe that the factors impacting Non-Agency MBS prices in the fourth quarter were continued negative housing market news concerns about the sovereign debt exposure of the European banking system and the desire of dealers to reduce inventory.
While housing fundamentals remain weak we consider that we have appropriately factored this into our cash flow projections and credit reserve estimates.
In two installments one in the fourth quarter of 2011 and one in the first quarter of 2012 we entered into a three-year collateralized financing arrangement that effectively provides $500 million of financing for Non-Agency mortgage-backed securities.
While this multi-year financing is incrementally more expensive than short-term repo financing by approximately 100 basis points to 150 basis points we believe the certainty of the committed term outweighs the additional cost.
I thank you for your continued interest in MFA Financial and at this time I would like to open the call for questions.
(Operator instructions) And first in line of Steve DeLaney with JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Steve.
Stewart just looking at over the last couple of quarters the trend between core EPS and your dividends it would appear that for 2011 that your taxable EPS likely exceeded core EPS.
I guess would you agree with that and is there accounting differences in place such as the timing of recognition of losses on Non-Agency securities for tax versus GAAP? Are there accounting nuances in place that would likely cause taxable EPS to be slightly higher than core as you look out into 2012? The first answer to your question is yes.
Okay.
That’s the easy part.
I always give the hard parts to other people.
Bill you wanted to start? Sure.
Hi Steve.
So two points.
One taxable income is something we distribute over the course of the year.
So it’s not necessarily tied to the core or GAAP earnings in any particular quarter.
And we have said that throughout the year.
So the goal is through the course of the year to distribute our taxable income.
Based on our estimates of taxable income for 2011 obviously we haven’t filed the tax return yet we believe we end the year $0.01 of the distributed.
So basically Steve we are distributing our taxable income over the course of the year.
The main differential of 2011 was that you know we booked our income on Non-Agencies assuming a high percentage of assets default and with high severities.
For taxable income you cannot assume a loss is going to occur in the future that hasn’t already occurred.
So while we had credit enhancements on the vast majority of our Non-Agencies there were no losses being realized.
As a result taxable income exceeded core and GAAP earnings in 2011.
I think the differential will decline in 2012 although it’s early in the year I expect taxable income will exceed core GAAP but I think the differential between taxable and core will be less in 2012.
So I know that was a long answer Steve.
Did I address your question? You did that was very helpful.
Thanks.
And I had just one other thing the swaps you have about 30% of your swap book at a very high almost 4% rate running off here over the next 12 months.
Any idea looking forward and looking at the duration of your agency book which is mostly hybrid ARMs any thoughts as those run off how far out the swap curve you will go when you replace those whether you are going to stay three years you are going to go with far to stop have you all considered that at this point? Sure.
I will answer along with good mantra.
Basically the duration of the entire company is 24 basis points which is pretty low and we are very comfortable where we are.
We are not adding much interest rate risk to our assets.
Therefore we don’t see a lot of need to swap out that interest rate risk.
So it’s not clear how higher percentage of what form of swaps will put on during the course of the year.
Right now we are very comfortable with our interest rate exposure.
Okay.
It’s possible that some of those swaps almost 1 billion won’t even be replaced.
It’s not clear that it will be dollar for dollar but even if we did With two years about 50 basis points.
Yes.
Okay.
That’s very helpful.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
And next in line of Bose George with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Hi have they increased since the end of January and also just where are incremental yields loss-adjusted yields on the stuff that you are looking at? We will turn it over to Craig.
So Bose the market continues to be pretty well bid since the end of January.
It’s hard to say because it depends on the bonds and the sector but I would say prices are probably up another point or so since the end of January.
As far as loss-adjusted yield available in the marketplace today I would say again it depends on the assets but they probably range from 6% to 7%.
Great.
And then actually switching to leverage you guys in the release noted that the leverage was 3.7 times.
I just wanted to make sure does that compare to the 3.5 times last quarter? Yes.
Okay.
And then just one last question on agency prepayments just curious what the January numbers look like? Bill? I mean prepayments on agency security have been trending down in general over the last couple of months and we are seeing a similar trend in our own portfolio.
Okay.
Great thanks a lot.
You are welcome.
And we will go to Jason Weaver with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Agee</strong> Hi good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
I think the thing that’s been most on my mind is Non-Agency performance and this is going to sound almost like Bose’s question but since we have seen most of the upswings since November occur mainly in subprime I was curious to how correlated higher quality paper such as yours has been since that time and year-to-date? Jason I would say they are correlated but they are certainly not correlated one for one.
So if you are looking at the ADX Index for instance if the ADX Index is up it’s safe to assume that prime assets are also up but generally the price of volatility of the subprime paper is a lot higher than it is on the higher quality paper.
So again it really depends on the asset.
The whole sector is definitely better bid.
You are giving the only part of January and continuing into the last couple of weeks but it really depends and I would say while the headline numbers in the paper might be that that subprime paper is up 10% or so I am not sure that’s true across the board.
Prime paper is surely not up 10% but it’s up.
Agee</strong> And just tailing off of that are you finding adequate liquidity in your favored asset classes there to add new assets? Yes.
We selectively added some assets in the fourth quarter.
And the fourth quarter was pretty choppy bid-ask spreads were pretty wide.
We have seen a definite improvement in the first quarter of January and February but assets are still available and the market definitely has a better tone than it did the last quarter of the year.
But assets are still available.
Agee</strong> All right thank you.
And really short just a two-part modeling question on the 300 million collateralized financing which I guess you mentioned have been increased to 500 million.
First how was that being presented on the balance sheet and what’s the actual funding cost pricing associated with the facility? Steve? Jason it’s Steve Yarad.
If you look at our balance sheet you will see a couple of line items that relate to the transaction.
And you will see that we have on our balance sheet a line item for securities obtained as collateral and you will also see an obligation to return that collateral on the liability side and effective obligation to the counterparty for the liability is shown in that obligation to return collateral.
Agee</strong> So that’s the 306 million that I see there? And you will see in the first quarter that that will be increased because of the increase in the transaction we did in January.
Agee</strong> Okay.
And I know you mentioned that that was 100 bps to 150 bps above repo but is that on a floating base or is that (inaudible) fixed over the three-year term? So Jason it’s not a fixed rate.
It does flow through – actually a couple of moving pieces to it.
So that’s why we described it as generally approximately 100 basis points to 150 basis points more than 30-day repo would be.
Agee</strong> Okay that’s helpful.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And we will go to Mike Widner with Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys and thanks for taking the questions.
Let me just follow up there on Jason’s question.
I was trying to and between that and 187 million you did of senior bonds just trying to get a little closer to what the going-forward all-in funding costs will be on the Non-Agency piece.
So I will give you two options to answer.
Just one first one is do you plan on having the K out today as you usually have the Qs out the same today? And the answer is yes.
The K will probably be out today.
And so if all of the info is in there then maybe I can just wait for that and do it but alternatively you guys were indicating I think the average funding costs of the Non-Agency at 173 or 178 or something like that – 178 was the fourth quarter.
So to make all of our lives simpler any idea as to how does all of this flow through what do you expect that to look like given the recent transactions about the securitization and the collateralized financings just for the Non-Agency piece? As far as the re-securitization those bonds were sold that was a fixed rate.
So those bonds were sold at a 2.75 [ph] yield.
It’s actually 2.847 coupon.
So again you should be able to incorporate that you know the amount and you know the rate and that won’t change.
The three-year facility is a little bit more difficult and that’s why we tried to basically make it easier to connect the dot by telling you that incremental increased cost of that.
So you are telling me you wanted me to do the math.
Is that what I am hearing? We apologize for that but I think it’s addition and multiplication.
If you have got a calculator you could send over.
Okay I appreciate it I look forward to the K and that will probably help.
Just there is lot of moving pieces there obviously and just trying to get down to basis points but thanks and I think that’s all I have got.
Thank you.
(Operator instructions) And we will go to the line of – please go ahead.
And Arren your line is open possibly take yourself off mute.
I will do that.
I didn’t hear you say my name.
I was just wondering you mentioned that part of the weakness in Non-Agency in the fourth quarter was that dealers were reducing inventory can you just talk a little bit what was driving factor behind that and how that trend has changed in the first quarter? Sure.
Somebody quoted me some (inaudible) the other day and said that from May of last year dealers reduced inventories by $20 billion.
And I can tell you month-by-month and that happens but that’s fairly significant and I think dealer inventories were very light in the fourth quarter.
I would say across the board there is still fairly light.
There have been a couple of obviously well-publicized mainly in two sales and we think some of those securities are still in inventory but I think you definitely saw de-risking across the board last year.
Bid-ask spreads widened particularly in the fourth quarter.
And I think it was a variety of reasons.
It’s an overall risk-off trade.
It was a desire to decrease our risk in inventories across the Wall Street firms and there was a certain pullback of customer buying interest at the same time.
So just lot of factors but at the end of the day I think most people if not all people would say that those are technical factors.
So what we worry most about when we see price declines are the fundamental assumptions on these securities changing and pretty much what we hear unanimously is nobody has really changed their views on underlying fundamental cash flows of the securities.
Okay that’s helpful.
Yes definitely seems like technical factors are pulling into this.
There had been some concerns about European banks bailing out on some of their mortgage assets.
Have you seen any indications of that or any update on that front? Not really.
Keep in mind the fact that the European bank positions in these securities they are very similar to the securities that have been sold in the Maiden Lane II sales they are typically LIBOR floaters lot of subprime home equity type paper.
So very similar to the Maiden Lane II assets.
Obviously the last two Maiden Lane II sales have gone very well assets have largely been put away which is a very very different situation from where we were last June and July when they finally abandoned those efforts to sell those securities.
So like I say we haven’t seen a lot of selling from European banks but those securities you can expect they are very similar to the Maiden Lane assets that right now have been liquidated pretty efficiently.
Yes that’s helpful.
And then lastly a couple of modeling questions as I guess these would probably be in the 10-K if that you have them handy.
Do you have the premium amortization for the agencies in 4Q and the discount accretion for Non-Agencies in 4Q? Steve do you have one? Yes.
So the net premium amortization in the fourth quarter was about $2.4 million made up of about 11.6 million of premium amortization on the agencies and about 9.2 million of discount accretion on the Non-Agencies.
And so what was the second question? No that was it.
Thank you very much.
And we will go to Jay Mccanless with Guggenheim.
Please go ahead.
Hi good afternoon.
After the foreclosure settlement last week does that change the asset Non-Agency asset basket you might be looking at? What other changes might that have into your asset selection model going forward? So honestly I don’t think it will really change the asset selection and I am not sure it’s clear how if at all that settlement if you will will affect the cash [ph] on these securities.
I think we are still waiting for a definitive term sheet.
There have been a lot of information about that that’s come out but it’s still very unclear exactly how it will be implemented.
I don’t believe that it will translate to significant payments to any of these trusts so to the extent that that mortgages are modified and the loans have been sold to private investors in these trusts.
It’s not clear that there is any money from these banks that’s going to get put into the trust.
So there may be principal modifications principal reductions on the securities that we own which we do see a few of now.
But as I think we have always pointed out principal reductions on loans underlying Non-Agency collateral if they work would typically probably be a better outcome than how we have modeled those.
So if you take the case of 150% LTV today if that were to receive a reduction to 100% LTV that’s a 33% loss severity.
So if that modification works and the borrower does not default that’s probably a better outcome because chances are we assume that most of those 150% LTVs default at least a 50% loss severity.
Okay.
And then just a follow-on to that.
If you did start to see some principal comeback on expected principal would you have the ability at that point in this GAAP question and I guess but would you have the ability to reverse some of the OTTI losses from this past year? No there would be no ability to reverse OTTI and if there were to be sort of additional principal that if in fact that cash flows depending on how it settles would determine this but we think that this would be a perspective adjustment to our yield going forward as opposed to a one-time event.
Okay.
Great thank you.
Our next question is from Dan Furtado with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking my question guys.
I guess this is probably more for Craig but can you just talk to the 2012 re-REMIC transaction and just kind of compare that to the last view in terms of market sentiment rating agencies? How has this process changed over the last few quarters if at all? Thank you.
Sure Dan.
It was a different transaction.
All three of our prior transactions the CE bonds are structured as floaters.
So they were LIBOR plus 125 LIBOR plus 100.
In this case the floater market is really changed and I think much of that is due to the fact that most of the world believes that we won’t see higher rates for the next two years or so.
So if you are a floater buyer you are less willing to pay for that protection of higher rates over the next two years.
So the floating rate execution while it was extremely viable a year ago and prior to that it’s not as attractive now as a fixed rate was.
So we ended up structuring this as a fixed rate still sold it inside of a 3% yield which we thought was pretty good but that market has certainly changed.
This transaction was the same rating agency as the last two with DBRS only.
There really wasn’t all that much different about this.
We did get marginally more AAAs out of this re-securitization.
So it was about 43% AAAs that we sold which is up from about 35% in the last couple.
Right okay.
Great.
Thanks so much.
I was just writing that down.
Thanks so much Craig.
I appreciate the insight there.
You bet Dan.
And we do have a follow-up from Arren Cyganovich with Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Yes the CPR speeds on the Non-Agency fell down I guess 13% in the quarter from they had been pretty steady in kind of 14% to 15% level.
Do you expect that trend to continue or what was the driving factor there? Arren the change is not large.
There is some seasonality as you know and importantly the CPR for Non-Agencies includes foreclosures.
So not all prepayments on Non-Agencies are due to some others but we continue to see voluntary prepays in excess of what we modeled in our yield assumptions.
So I don’t think you can really extrapolate from third quarter to fourth quarter change in CPR.
And I would just add one thing.
I think our expectations of voluntary speed going forward you know in many cases are probably lower because – and always have been because for instance hybrid securities that started out as 5.5% to 6% coupons as they have reset over the last two years and as the ’07 vintage 51s [ph] reset in the next year those coupons are headed down to 3% or so.
So I think it’s been our belief all along that when you reduce the homeowners’ coupon from 5.5% to 3% that is less inclined to prepay.
Great okay.
Thank you.
And with no further questions in queue I will turn it back to you Mr.
Zimmerman for any closing comments.
Thank you very much.
We appreciate your continued interest in MFA and we look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the MFA Financial Inc.
First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we’ll conduct a question-and-answer session instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I’ll now like to turn the conference over to Alexandra Giladi.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Information discussed on this conference call today may contain or refer to forward-looking statements regarding MFA Financial Inc.
which reflect management’s beliefs expectations and assumptions as to MFA’s future performance and operations.
When used statements that are not historical in nature including those containing words such as will believe expect anticipate estimate plan continue intend should could would may or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
These types of statements are subject to various known and unknown risks uncertainties assumptions and other factors including but not limited to those relating to changes in interest rates and the market value of MFA’s investment securities; changes in the prepayment rates on the mortgage loans securing MFA’s investment securities; MFA’s ability to borrow to finance its assets; implementation of or changes in government regulations or programs affecting MFA’s business; MFA’s ability to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes; MFA’s ability to maintain its exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940; and risks associated with investing in real estate related assets including changes in business conditions and the general economy.
These and other risks uncertainties and factors including those described in MFA’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 and other reports that it may file from time-to-time with the Securities and Exchange Commission could cause MFA’s actual results to differ materially from those projected expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements they make.
For additional information regarding MFA’s use of forward-looking statements please see the relevant disclosure in the press release announcing MFA’s first quarter 2012 financial results Thank you for your time.
I would now like to turn this call over to Stewart Zimmerman MFA’s Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and welcome to MFA’s first quarter 2012 earnings call.
With me this morning are Bill Gorin President; Stephen Yarad Chief Financial Officer; Ron Freydberg Executive Vice President; Craig Knutson Executive Vice President; Harold Schwartz Senior Vice President and General Counsel; Kathleen Hanrahan Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; (Inaudible) Vice President.
Today we announced financial results for the first quarter ended March 31 2012.
Recent financial results and other significant highlights for MFA includes the following.
Our first quarter net income per common share of $0.23 and core earnings per common share of $0.21.
Book value per common share increased to $7.49 at the end of the first quarter versus $6.74 at 2011 year-end due primarily to price appreciation within our Non-Agency portfolio.
At April 30 2012 we paid our first quarter 2012 dividend of $0.24 per share of common stock to stockholders of record as of April 4 2012.
In the first quarter we added multi-year Non-Agency MBS financing; including an expanded collateralized financing arrangement and a re-securitization reducing our reliance on short-term repurchase arrangements for Non-Agency mortgage-backed securities.
We increased $500 million in existing collateralized financing arrangement that effectively provides three year financing again for Non-Agency mortgage-backed securities.
As part of a re-securitization $186 million of senior bonds rated "AAA" by DBRS were issued to third-party investors via a trust.
These bonds with an average life of 1.9 years were priced at a 2.75% yield.
At quarter-end our debt to equity ratio including the liabilities underlying our Linked Transactions was 3.5:1.
Our Agency portfolio had an average amortized cost of 102.8% of par as of March 31 and generated a 3.15% yield in the first quarter.
Our Non-Agency portfolio had an average amortized cost of 73.1% of par as of March 31 2012 and generated a loss-adjusted yield of 6.92% in the first quarter.
In the first quarter book value per share increased by approximately 11% due primarily to appreciation within our Non-Agency portfolio.
While housing fundamentals remain weak we believe that we have appropriately factored this into our cash flow projections and credit reserve estimates.
These underlying mortgage loans were originated on average more than five years ago so that we have access to more than 60 months of payment history.
In the first quarter we continued to add multi-year financing that serves to reduce our reliance on short-term repurchase agreements for Non-Agency mortgage-backed securities.
While this financing is incrementally more expensive than short-term repo financing by approximately 100 to 150 basis points we believe the certainty of the committed term outweighs the additional costs.
I thank you for your continued interest in MFA Financial.
And at this time I would like to open the call for questions.
Operator? Yes sir.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question goes to the line of Bose George from KBW.
Please go ahead.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Hey guys good morning.
Hi Bose.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> First question just given the increase in Non-Agency prices during the quarter just wanted to get thoughts on the level of interest in Non-Agencies versus Agencies? Craig? Bose we still like the Non-Agencies so yes they’ve tightened a little bit during the quarter.
That being said I think they gapped up pretty wide in December.
So we still think that they offer loss-adjusted yields in the sixes depending on the bond might be low-sixes or mid-sixes.
So we still think that in attractive asset class with the various forms of leverage that we have it still provides a good return.
Bose I think one of the things we’d like to we try and let folks better understand is the fact that with the two complimentary asset classes meeting both Agency and Non-Agency we really have a choice.
so that the idea is whenever we continue to see good value in the Non-Agency sector that those are assets that we’ll continue to purchase and conversely on the Agency side as we've seen value and hopefully that comes to light during this call we will continue to purchase those.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And then actually just switching to your dividend there’s $0.03 GAAP between the core EPS and the dividend and taxable EPS is higher but just curious how to think about that.
and also I guess a related question you’ve got $1 billion of pretty high cost swaps rolling off.
So it’s reasonable to think that the core EPS going to get some upside from that? I guess there’s two parts to that question.
As we’ve said before taxable income is exceeding core income because for taxable income we can’t assume the impact of losses that haven’t occurred yet though in fact will occur over the next 25 years on a Non-Agency assets.
The differential between taxable and core will be narrowing.
So tax will should still keep core but they should be more similar in the future that’s question number one.
Question number two you’re right the cost of funds for our Non-Agency’s should trend down over the course of the year which is a positive.
Excuse me on Agency sorry; Agency financing should trend down over the course of the year.
But what we try to emphasize to you is that we continue to increase the term for our Non-Agency financing which will increase the cost of funds on the Non-Agency.
So altogether from the company I don’t see a big change but it’s not that interest rates are going up on it.
And that’s where our cost of funds are going up we’re strategically increasing the terms of our Non-Agency funding.
So they should one will be going down one will be going up.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay great thanks and does makes sense that you’re doing that with the funding.
Thanks.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you and next we’ll go to the line of Steve DeLaney from JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Steven.
The Non-Agency portfolio is now up to $4.4 billion in terms of face value.
I was wondering is there a way to estimate your capacity to continue to add Non-Agency or MBS with the existing capital base or with simply a reallocation of equity from Agency to Non-Agency.
Well Steve actually the face amount of the Non-Agency is a little over $6 billion it’s 4.4 amortized costs and it’s 4.5 market value.
My bad (inaudible) I picked up the wrong number part of course.
That’s okay.
But it’s really the market value that you need to focus on as you know we have at least 55% of our asset in Agency whole pool.
Right So it’s really the market value numbers that you look at to determine where we might be limited and I’m not sure exactly where we are but I think right now we’re well over 60%.
Yes.
Whole pool Agency so we still have obviously some room there.
So Steve right now we are not at all limited [correct] in the month of April where we acquiring Non-Agency.
We probably we added close to 400 in the first quarter we probably added a little more than 200 in the month of April and first few days of May.
So with the cash we have we can grow both the Agency and Non-Agency at the same time.
Okay Got it.
And these 400 and 200 are those net additions or those gross and I know the pay-offs aren’t very large so I’ve assumed this… Those are gross additions actually that brings up the good point one of the thing that that you need to keep – in my words it’s a little more complicated to do that 55% sales.
The AAA securities on the re-securitization that have been sold to third party investors those actually get backed out so those do not count as bad assets because those have been sold.
Exactly Okay.
So and just so you know our pay downs on the Non-Agencies they run approximately $50 million a month or so although the majority of that are on bonds that have been re-securitized.
So we actually don’t get that cash but in-terms of the balance sheet that $50 million runs-off the month.
All right Craig and could you comment just on general liquidity and the market for the Non-Agency RMBS as far as like weekly trading volumes and I guess specifically I know some of that is subprime and that’s not your thing so more in the (inaudible) category.
What’s your kind of seeing in flows and whether trading volumes are trending higher or trending slower kind of what you’re seeing since the beginning of the year.
Steve I would say that trading volumes are still pretty good.
They’ve been a little bit choppy this year.
So they’ve been as I’m sure they’ve been a lot of sort of large sales that have taken place but then around those large sales you’ll get packets of smaller trade.
So it’s not a completely fluid market where an equal amount of bonds trade every single day.
So in that sense it is sporty but the liquidity is still pretty good there’s still ample suppliers as we just said we’ve been able to add significant product in the first quarter and even in the last month or so.
Steve its Stewart.
I think that’s an important piece of this puzzle is that we are seeing the right assets that you purchased and again that is an important piece of our strategy.
Yeah exactly and that’s kind of where I was going is what your apatite was and what the potential was based on what the market is showing you.
And just lastly you maiden three is out there I realize that’s not your asset class directly its more CDOs and lot of commercial stuff but obviously any time dealers are facing potential overhang is going to affect other markets.
Have you seen any impact on – any price pressure or people backing away any because of this maiden three out there?  We really haven’t Steve in fact as ironic as it sound but I think these large program trades in the maiden lane 2 trade that we’ve seen in this part of the year have actually strengthened the market.
So there has been more interest in larger trade and again same thing for this one you’re right there is CDOs there is a lot of commercial there actually are some so there is some residential product in those but it’s not clear that those bonds can be extracted from the CDOs.
So if they can it’s possibly something that we might have interest in but it’s not clear that those could be – that the CDOs can be liquid at this point.
Right understood.
Okay.
Thank you gentlemen.
Appreciate the comments.
Thanks Steve.
Thank you and next we’ll go to line of Jason Arnold from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
I just had a quick question for you on the Non-Agency prepay end of the equation.
It looks like it ticked up a little bit here in this quarter so I was just wondering if you could kind of share your thoughts there and kind of perspectively on the Non-Agency prepaids in particular.
Yeah Jason there is a seasonality into this.
So you went from 13 to 13.98 so there is no real information there.
Okay.
But obviously I guess it’s a good thing given that there is probably still some resets and things like that to actually see (inaudible) pick up in that segment I guess (inaudible) at the Agency side right?  Yes but remember though on the Non-Agency side we’re selling like the assets and yes we have a very significant discount.
But again we’ve modeled that I think at a very at a rate in terms of prepaid that are very benign.
Okay But again if that were to pick up you can do the math as its pretty good for us.
Yes absolutely.
Okay and then just one quick follow-up on the swap question that Bose asked.
I guess were are you typically adding on new swaps where the old ones are rolling off is it a kind of in the three year range or (inaudible) there?  We actually have not added swaps this year because we really haven’t added any interest rate risk on the asset side.
Okay.
But like i guess perspectively as the additional whatever $800 million roll-off would you kind of continue that line of thought and not add as much on the new swaps or…?  You can mentally you add interest rate risk to the portfolio you would have to hedge that out.
But right now we believe there is very little interest rate risk within our portfolio.
Our central states this is Non-Agencies that are not correlated with the treasuries and we’re probably inverse the correlated [pressures]  As Bill said if we buy longer duration assets and which would be more or less on the agency side it's something that we would consider.
It makes sense.
Okay.
Perfect.
Thanks guys.
Thank you Thank you sir and next we’ll go to the line of Douglas Harter from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks folks.
I wonder if you could talk about your appetite your philosophy about continuing to add more longer term financing on the Non-Agency side  I’ll do it from 25 000 feet you want to continue to do that? We think it's in the best stages of the portfolio.
But Craig do you want to handle some of the details.
Sure Doug.
As you know we’ve done a lot of stuff to address the longer term financing on the Non-Agencies.
We’ve done four re-securitizations and (inaudible) anybody as we accumulate more collateral and if market conditions permit to see more of those.
As far as the three-year was looked at additions to three-year financing we’ve done some further goes out 12 months and more.
So we’ll continue to add those when they are cost effective.
I don’t think it’s realistic to expect that we won’t have any repo of less than 12 months but we’ve significantly reduced our reliance on repo of less than 12 months.
And obviously there is some cost associated with that.
But we think that the benefit and the surety of financing is certainly weren’t that hard.
In addition I know you know Doug our last re-securitization was fixed rate.
So probably our next re-securitization would also look at a fixed rate alternative.
So it’s higher cost and longer term.
Just on that can you just talk a little bit about the health of the re-securitization market right now? Sure it’s still at this point limited to one rating agency which is DBRS which makes it admittedly more difficult to do re-securitizations.
The market is not as deep for a single rated DBRS only AAA as it would be if we had some of the other rating agencies involved.
But that being said we’ve done the last three deals that we’ve done have been DBRS only.
So while maybe not as efficient as it could be it’s still very viable for us.
It’s funny; it’s actually an advantage to us.
If there is multiple rating agencies for these re-securitizations the execution might be better.
But there will be more people competing for the Non-Agency NBF to begin with.
So we’d rather be able to buy the assets over a lower price to resecuritizations now with one rating agency if other rating agencies re-enter they’ll just beat to our benefit.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you and next we’ll go to the line of Jason Weaver from Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
Thanks for taking my question.
Good morning.
I just wanted to get your macro thoughts as it affects Non-Agency markets right now.
It seems like last years down drop was really concurrent with the high pitch of (inaudible) and now that the talk has sort of resurfaced how do you think about technical risks here?  So going back to last year we saw the head line news was Greece for example so that’s sort of one of the downward trend that in maiden lane was a downward trend.
And what did it impact Non-Agencies where perhaps or the high yield assets the theory was the European bank held these assets they’d have to shrink and they’ll have to sell these assets.
Here that’s not the same situation while the banks still face capital issues because of the financing provide to them under the LTRO.
It doesn’t look like there is any pressure for them to sell these relatively high yielding assets.
All right fair enough.
And just one more may be tinnier detail.
I’m curious where you are seeing severity trends on your own portfolio moving and how you’re thinking about that right now? So well severities give or take are probably around 50% they might on the low 50’s.
We haven’t really seen those change all that much and you have to keep in mind that severities are largely a function of how long these loans stay in the pipeline.
And because there have been various publicized legal and regulatory issues with respect to servicing and servicing foreclosed loans.
The pipelines have actually the time periods have lengthened over the last year year and a half or so.
So I think severities are much more a function of the state where the property is located right so loans in Florida could typically sit in foreclosure for three years and higher severities there but also just in general how long these pipelines are.
So I think to look at severities as just the top line number is really a little bit misleading when we look at any bond and we look at those loans in the bond.
We look at how long the loans that are delinquent have been delinquent.
How long they’ve been in that pipeline and we can predict pretty accurately what those severities will look like just based on how long those loans have been in there.
Craig would you say that severities that we’d seen are pretty much in line with what we modeled? Yes yes and I do think that overtime as these foreclosure pipelines get narrowed down that you will see some improvements in severities but equities will be a couple of years out Gotcha.
And in addition to the timeline the things that I was hearing from different market strategist revolve around the LTV’s that are were in the pipeline and became today’s liquidation though it were much higher than those that are in the delinquency pipeline now do you have any perspective there? Yeah I think that’s why especially to the extend that you have strategic default so you know strategic defaults that two years ago were 150 mark-to-market LTVs I think yes that is the case that a lot of those loans that were really underwater or were the early loans through the pipeline if you will.
Okay.
Well thanks a lot guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And now we’ll go to the line of Arren Cyganovich from Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Could you talk about whether or not the increase in the Non-Agency prices that in more of a technical issue or are you seeing any fundamental improvement in the underlying mortgage assets? So it’s a good question and what we asked ourselves last year over certainly the last six months of the year is part of the price decline is due to fundamental and technical.
And I think our conclusion and I think pretty much the overall conclusion was that they were based on technicals and I would say honestly that so far this year the price improvement is more technical than it is fundamental.
There are some pockets of what I’d say good news or not necessarily bad news.
There are some pockets of those if you look at housing price data.
There is an article I read in the paper a week or two ago about bidding wars for houses and various localities where inventories are very low.
So the housing data well I certainly won’t say it’s all positive.
It’s mix.
It’s not all bad anymore but I still haven’t seen people adjusting assumptions fundamentally on cash flows in the future.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then maybe in terms of you’re adding a little bit more duration on the Non-Agency funding side.
Are you doing that from a concern about that repo risk in general or is it just more of a longer-term view of stepping more diverse and safe funding? The latter we like the idea of having the certainty of the funding and I think as Craig and I think Bill said it also it’s a little more expensive in that slide.
But having the certainty of the funding we think much more outweighs the additional cost.
Okay.
And then lastly on the agency side the CPRs tick down a little bit in the first quarter.
Do you have any outlook on where you think CPRs will be going in the near-term? I’m going to turn it over to (inaudible).
Hi this is (inaudible).
Well it seems to have for the fourth quarter was 19.4 and you’re right it stick down to 17.9 in the third quarter.
Going forward I think it’s going to be in the same zip code I wouldn’t expect a whole lot of changes there.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And next we’ll go to the line of Chris Donat from Sandler O'Neill.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone it’s Chris Donat here.
Hi Chris.
Just to revisit the issue of the portfolio on the mix of Agencies and Non-Agencies in terms of the market value Non-Agencies have prepped up to nearly 40% of the portfolio.
Is there a sort of balance as you look at the complimentary nature of the portfolio or would you go 50-50 in terms of the mix? We are probably continuing to reallocate a little bit more towards the Non-Agency.
There is no one absolute strategic number.
As we mentioned there are a certain regulatory constraints but then you have to adjust for the securitization.
So you can’t just look at the growth amount on the balance sheet.
I think you can see us continuing to grow more rapidly in the Non-Agency side.
Okay.
And then more of a small point here but just looking at the compensation level imagine there is some seasonal issues there but it picked up little over $2 million from the fourth quarter.
Just any comments on (inaudible) wanted to touch up there.
I think the number is more consistent with the first three quarters of last year and in the fourth quarter we actually had a reversal of the bonds accruals so the bond (inaudible) so it should just appear to fourth to the first.
Okay got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And next we’ll go to the line of Daniel Furtado from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for the opportunity.
Sure.
Good morning Danny.
Good morning.
Hey would you mind telling me if there is any significant differences structurally or otherwise in the most recent securitization or is it relatively from a structure perspective unchanged from the last couple?  So it’s actually good question Dan.
The structure is more or less the same as the prior two resecuritizations.
so it’s DBRS the only rate bonds down to A so we get AAA or AA or A in a non-rated class.
But there was one improvement in the last transaction and that was that we got more AAA.
so I think we got approximately 43% AAAs in our last transaction which was up from about 37% in the two before that.
So that obviously is a good thing because we had more AAAs that we could sell.
and I think that’s not necessarily because we had different collateral than we had before.
I just think that the rating agencies have constantly gone back to recalibrate models and they look at the economic data just like we do and we found in particular on more season collaterals that we were getting slightly better levels.
Got you.
So collateral performance is expected to be better by the rating agency which is driving the level slightly different excellent?  Dan and one other thing too we mentioned this before.
but the AAA that was sold was a fixed rate rather than a floating rate.
And that was because the market acceptance of a fixed rate was better than a floating rate.
I think that’s largely due to folks view on interest rates.
So if you’re view is at interest rates are really going to stay low through the end of 2014 or so.
But I think the buyer base is more reluctant to pay up to buy a floating rate security that has a two-year average life.
Understood yeah it makes perfect sense.
Thanks for the detail there.
The second question in the Non-Agencies space are you noticing kind of any type of rotation within the station towards even like more liquid easier to finance securities.
The idea being that as people’s expectations per performance and recovery levels increases investors want to get the more liquid securities to lever that more aggressively than we’ve seen in the past or you’re not really noticing that type of shift in the market? It’s not really material.
I don’t think that one type of security is necessarily easier to finance than another.
That being said there is often a slight pay up for larger block size.
So the larger trades tend to get more interest.
I don’t know that it’s certainly because they are better it’s just the larger trades get more interest and therefore they end up trading a little bit higher.
But we try to keep in mind sort of an ROE strategy as we look at assets.
So because we’ve done a number of resecuritizations we have a pretty good sense if not an exact sense of where these (inaudible) come in on bonds and we have various sources of funding as you know.
Right we have some term funding.
So when we look at bonds we don’t just look at the yield on the bond we look at what we can do with that bond around our capital structure and what sort of ROE we can produce.
Understood thanks a lot for the time everybody.
Sure.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And next we’ll go to the line of Alan Straus from Schroders.
Please go ahead  Why not there is – what did you do with the proceeds from a (inaudible)?  Right so the proceeds were about 90 somewhat million which went into our cash which already was about $400 million.
So as we mentioned we bought at least $200 million of Non-Agencies since the start of the quarter.
Right.
It’s fungible.
So again what we buy securities or…  It’s primarily done into Non-Agency assets.
And have you brought the cash balances down even further?  They’re not appreciably different than at the end of the quarter.
Okay thank you.
Sure.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
And next we’ll go the line of Mike Widner from Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Good morning guys.
Good morning Mike.
Inc.</strong> So most of my real questions have been answered so I’m going to give guys a couple real big picture questions.
And I guess just starting with the asset mix and you made some references to ROEs.
On the Non-Agency side of the portfolio I mean a couple of years ago that was a great place where you could put unlevered cash and get mid-teens kind of returns and that’s obviously changed over the last couple of years.
And really just looking over the last years I mean it’s been a fairly dramatic tightening of spreads for putting money to work there and I mean just looking at you guys and I think the spreads on the Non-Agency business and granted the funding is different but the spreads are down 185 basis points year-over-year.
And so to continue to get kind of the mid-teens returns there we’re obviously moving much higher in leverage you guys have actually had a slight if I look at the ratings on the assets a slight drift lower in terms of – you had credit ratings in the assets.
And so by and large I mean you have to work harder and harder and take on more leverage and arguably take on a little more risk to get the same kind of returns.
And then I look over on the agency side of the portfolio I don’t want to say that well I mean the ROEs you’re getting there are kind of much lower than what we’re seeing in the pure agency REIT sector is an average and so I don’t know I mean not that I’m arguing or they’re criticizing what you’re doing? But just wondering if you give some big picture commentary on that general trend I mean working harder and harder to generate returns in a shrinking asset class where there’s more and more capital being put to work and more people battling it out for the same bunch of so-called toxic assets and you’ve got a multi-trillion dollar asset class that in most of your tiers you’re generating the same kind of ROEs that you’re generating on the Non-Agency side.
So anyway I’ll leave with that.
Great.
So we don’t know which part to (inaudible) first because I’ll take a shot.
so we’ll start with the Agencies because that’s simpler.
So in terms of our Agency yield I believe our Agency yields are very competitive especially when you take into account that we have no [third] year fixed rate.
So Agency yield is in excess of [20%] and comps better than I do.
Inc.</strong> But just let me step back.
I mean the ROE is at least if I go by what you guys are publishing pretty expenses you’re still kind of in the 12-ish or 11.5-ish ROE range on that segment then add some overhead expenses I mean that is clearly a lower ROE than pretty much anybody in the [Asia Pacific]?  Yes I agree.
But what ROE is your yield lesser cost of funds gives you the spread and then if you return on your assets for few leverage multiple.
So I have to go up.
so I’m going to address the ROE.
but on the agencies as I said the Agency yield itself is comparable to everyone else’s.
Our cost of funds on agencies is higher we have an older portfolio I mean older hedges which we told you is significantly running off during the course of the year such as the cost of funds on our agencies will go down and our interest rate spread should not deteriorate and depending on prepaid speeds and reinvestments we might actually have interest rate spread increased over the course of the year which I think it will be pretty unique on the Agency side.
On the Non-Agencies you’re talking about it becoming more competitive.
In fact the most competitive time for Non-Agencies was over a year ago.
it would have been February of the prior year.
Yields actually have gone up on Non-agencies they’re higher now than they were a year ago last February.
So it’s been a very good buying opportunity.
So I’ve said this before initially when you start buy a Non-Agencies the question always was is too soon and then for the last two years the question has always been is it too late.
And it wasn’t too soon and we still think when you compare the risk award tradeoff the fact that in the gates of prepayment risk the fact that we believe there’s not interest rate risk on these assets.
Incremental investments was a six-handle we find very attractive.
The forms of financing have changed.
You’re right initially there was no leverage.
The high ROE without leverage then there was a ROE with leverage which was short-term repo.
We’re not stretching to generate ROEs that’s one thing MFA has never done.
We’re comfortable using these longer terms of leverage will pay upward and even if the spread is a little bit less we’re more comfortable with the forms of leverage we’re using.
So no way are we stretching for ROE target.
it just so happened the two investment classes we’re investing in generate very high ROEs and we’re happy with what we’re doing.
Inc.</strong> All right well.
I appreciate that you guys are certainly doing it in a unique way.
so you bring some different to the space there.
And I appreciate the comments.
Sure.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And next we’ll go to the line of Steven Eisman from (inaudible).
Please go ahead.
Hi guys.
Hi Steve.
All my questions have been asked just wanted to tell you impressive growth on book value and have a nice weekend.
Steve thank you very much.
Thank you.
and currently we have no further questions.
please continue.
On that note I want to thank everybody for participating.
we look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 12:00 pm today through May 11.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at anytime by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 247472.
International participants dial 320-365-3844.
Those numbers again are 1-800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844 with the access code of 247472.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the MFA Financial Inc.
Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I’d now like to turn the conference over to our host Ms.
Alexandra Giladi.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
The information discussed on this conference call today may contain or refer to forward-looking statements regarding MFA Financial Inc.
which reflects management’s beliefs expectations and assumptions as to MFA’s future performance and operations.
When used statements that are not historical in nature including those containing words such as will believe expect anticipate estimate plan continue intend should could would may or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they’re made.
These types of statements are subject to various known and unknown risks uncertainties assumptions and other factors including but not limited to those relating to changes in interest rates and the market value of MFA’s investment securities; changes in the prepayment rates on the mortgage loans securing MFA’s investment securities; MFA’s ability to borrow to finance its assets; implementation of or changes in government regulations or programs affecting MFA’s business; MFA’s ability to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes; MFA’s ability to maintain its exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and risks associated with investing in real estate related assets including changes in business conditions and the general economy.
These and other risks uncertainties and factors including those described in MFA’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 its quarterly report from 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31 2011 and other reports that it may file from time-to-time with the Securities and Exchange Commission could cause MFA’s actual results to differ materially from those projected expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements they make.
For additional information regarding MFA’s use of forward-looking statements please see the relevant disclosure in the press release announcing MFA’s second quarter 2012 financial results.
Thank you for your time.
I’d now like to turn this call over to Stewart Zimmerman MFA’s Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and welcome to MFA’s second quarter 2012 earnings call.
With me this morning are Bill Gorin President; Steven Yarad Chief Financial Officer; Ron Freydberg Executive Vice President; Craig Knutson Executive Vice President; Harold Schwartz Senior Vice President and General Counsel; Kathleen Hanrahan Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; Shira Finkel Senior Vice President; and Goodmunder Christiansen Vice President.
Today we announced financial results for the second quarter ended June 30 2012.
Recent financial results and other significant highlights for MFA include the following.
Second quarter net income per common share of $0.20 or earnings per common share.
Book value per common share of $7.45 as of June 30 2012 compared to $7.49 as of March 31 2012.
We continue to focus on adding longer term financing for our Non-Agency mortgage-backed security holding.
On June 29 2012 we added $350 million three-year repurchase agreement to finance Non-Agency MBS assets.
On July 31 2012 we paid our second quarter 2012 dividend of $0.23 per share of common stock to stockholders of record as of July 13 2012.
Our REIT taxable income exceeded core earnings in the first half of 2012 primarily due to the fact that for Non-Agency MBS acquired at a discount core earnings are reduced by credit reserves for estimated future losses while taxable income is reduced by realized losses only when they actually occur.
We typically distribute approximately 100% of a REIT taxable income and consequently dividends exceeded core earnings in the first two quarters of 2012.
We currently anticipate that our REIT taxable income and core earnings will trend closer together in the second half of 2012.
At quarter end our debt-to-EBIDA ratio including the liabilities underlying our linked transactions was 3.6:1.
In this low interest rate environment core earnings per share was $0.20 versus $0.21 in the first quarter.
Our Agency portfolio had an average amortized cost of 102.9% of par as of June 30 2012 and generated a 2.95% yield in the second quarter.
Our Non-Agency portfolio had an average amortized cost of 73.0% of par as of June 30 2012 and generated a loss-adjusted yield of 6.75% in the second quarter.
While housing fundamentals remain moderate to weak we believe that we’ve appropriately factored this into our cash flow projections and credit reserve estimates.
Our Non-Agency mortgage-backed security loss adjusted yield of 6.75% is based on projected defaults that are approximately twice the amount of underlying mortgage loans that are presently 60 plus days delinquent.
These underlying mortgage loans were originated on average more than six years ago so that we have access to an average of 74 months of payment history.
In the second quarter we continued to add multi-year financing that serves to reduce our reliance on short-term funding for Non-Agency mortgage backed securities.
While this longer-term financing is incrementally more expensive than short-term financing by approximately 100 basis points we believe the certainty of the committed term more than justifies the additional cost.
Before I turn the call over for questions I just wanted to give a brief mention to the recently publicized proposals that are being considered by some county and local governments and particular San Bernardino County California to use the power of eminent domain to seize certain mortgages from existing mortgage holders.
Although these proposals are still in their preliminary stages and we do not yet know whether they will ultimately be acted upon we’re taking this matter very seriously and are working with other mortgage investors and trade groups to make sure that our voice is heard in this debate with the objective of protecting the interest of our stockholders.
I thank you for your continued interest in MFA Financial and at this time I’d like to open the call for questions.
Operator? We would like to open the call for questions please.
Okay.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we have a question from the line of Mr.
Steve DeLaney with JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Steve.
So Stewart your book value was essentially flat in the second quarter and I guess that while you note treasuries agency bonds were moving it looks like the Non-Agency paper was pretty flat in fact maybe some of the weaker paper was even down but that sentiment seems to have changed here since early July.
I wondered if you guys could just give us a little color on what you’re seeing as far as price action in the types of bonds you own and I guess importantly what is that mean for the kind of yields you get on new investment and the impact on your book value? Steve let’s do this.
I’m going to turn it over to Craig to talk about the Non-Agency side and what he is seeing in the market relative to Non-Agencies.
Then – from that I will turn it over to Goodmunder to talk about the Agency side.
So Craig? Thank you Stewart.
Hey Steve.
Good morning.
So on the Non-Agency side since June 30th; we’ve seen some strong buying.
Again it depends on the specific bond and the collateral underneath it and obviously credit enhancement associated with it but I’d say in general Non-Agency prices on the types of assets that we traffic in are probably up about two points on the – close to $6.5 billion face.
And yields today at those higher prices I’d say they’re generally in the low sixes.
Okay.
And your existing portfolio I think was what 6.75 for the second quarter? 6.75 yes.
So you probably lost half point or so in yield at the margin? On new purchases that’s probably about right.
Yeah.
Again it depends.
There could be bonds that could be a little below six and there could be bonds that are in the high sixes.
Right.
But in general I’d say there are no low sixes now.
And since you guys I mean on your Non-Agency portfolio obviously you own those bonds at a discount and you’re going to do better in a – probably in a rising rate environment with the better economy I mean is it since you really – I don’t know if you look at that as allocating any of your swaps there but it would seem that with the price move you’re at least the fair value of the Non-Agency portfolio standalone should certainly be higher versus June in terms of making a positive impact on your book value? Again Steve -- right at general you’re right.
Again And that is – Steve as you know price increase is relative to the face amount of these assets not the market value.
So we have about $6.4 billion face of Non-Agencies.
So an upward movement in price there obviously that change of price is timed $6.4 billion.
So it would impact book value in the quarter.
Okay.
I appreciate it guys.
Thank you.
Thank you Steve.
Goodmunder do you want to discuss the Agency side? Sure.
So Steve on the agency side we’ve seen prices appreciate we’re seeing hybrids around 160 basis points and the 15 year fixed are closer to 2% which would put spreads in terms of the new assets around 130 basis points when you include the cost of hedges.
Operator next question.
We have a question from the line of Bose George from KBW.
Please go ahead.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Hi.
Thank you.
Actually this is Ryan O'Steen on for Bose.
Okay.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I’m just curious were recent purchases having concentrated and where do you see the most relative value right now between Non-Agency and Agencies? This is Bill Gorin.
I’d say that we’ve been investing across both asset classes looking to keep the asset allocation approximately where it’s been.
The answer to the last question we mentioned that the value of the Non-Agency MBS have gone up due to appreciation in the asset class.
So in order to keep the same ratio we’ve also had to buy agencies in addition to Non-Agencies in this quarter.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And then just second of all on your swap portfolio Yeah so what we do is we look at the interest rate sensitivity of the entire portfolio which includes Agencies and Non-Agencies.
And its not that gee we have a swap today if it goes away we have to replace it necessarily the next day.
It’s incrementally are we adding interest rate risks to the assets and therefore do we need to hedge against that.
And incrementally we’ve been not looking to increase our interest rate exposure on the asset side.
So it’s not clear that we need to replace or incrementally add swaps in our current strategy.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
Thank you so much.
We now have a question from the line of Douglas Harter with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I was wondering if any of the decline in Non-Agency yields in the quarter was related to adjustments in the forward curve? Yeah to some extend it is obviously on hybrid securities.
So the fixed-rate securities are not really affected by that.
But the forward curve was a little bit lower I don’t recall exactly was it a significant number I think its less than 25 basis points.
I mean would that – should we expect that to be a bigger impact in the third quarter given the decline in rates? Well I think we set our forwards as of the end of – it would have been end of February end of May.
So the – May to August I guess it would be the end of August.
So the forward curve maybe marginally flatter now than it was at the end of May but I’m not sure there is a big difference.
And again remember that it’s only on those securities that are only on those Non-Agencies that are adjustable.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then on the new three-year repo facility that you added at the end of the quarter was any of that utilized sort of included in those numbers that you show off sort of your longer term financings at quarter end? You mean in terms of balance sheet or in terms of cost of funds? I guess I was thinking balance sheet – I guess that ultimately close together but in terms of balance sheet on that table where you show your longer term financings.
Well we closed it at the very end of the quarter so it didn’t affect our income statement at all for one day … Okay.
… I guess – but it should show up in the balance sheet number.
Yes.
Okay.
Thank you.
Sure.
And we now have a question from the line of with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
LLC Research Division</strong> Thanks.
Good morning.
I guess my question is on the Agency portfolio you mentioned average amortized cost base of 102.9% that implies more generic collateral.
You’ve seen a huge move in the spec pools a lot of your peers continue to like that [trading].
Maybe talk about your strategy in Agency why you have not played that trade to a large extent and also in your comfort level with kind of maintaining prepayment speeds in the back half of year? First of all what we do – we don’t buy – generally don’t buy TBAs they’re not generic pools.
So we do look at the specifics of certainly on the agency or on both Agency and non-Agencies but certainly relative to your question on the Agency side but it turned – to give you more specifics Goodmunder would you like to address that? Yeah.
So our amortized cost of 102.9% is relatively low compared to some of our peers but a big part of that reason is we have a older portfolio.
So some of the assets we acquired a few years ago whether it’s three four five years ago we’re quite close to par.
So therefore the amortized cost then is very low.
Now the bonds we’re buying today is – we’re buying what we see in the marketplace and in general prices are above 103%.
Now as I come – as you talk about the specified story I would just like to mention that on the15-year side in excess of 70% of our portfolio is in some type of prepayment protected stories whether that is lower loan balance or higher LTV paper and we’ve been very happy with that story but we’re also highly aware of the prices that we pay for those securities and the way we played it and the way we like to do it is we like to pay – like to buy those prepayment protected stories when the payout is lower or limited and when its closer to the TBA not when you have to pay two or three points for that prepayment protection.
But like I said 70% is in prepayment protected stories on the 15-year side.
On the hybrid side it’s more on – of a bond by bond basis because it’s harder to source collateral with specific characteristics but we will look for things that we like and it’s basically a mix of seasons and newer origination.
Hey Joel one thing to take into account the purchase – amortized cost is very important prepay speed is very important but what is most important is how much yield the Agencies are generating for how much interest rate risk you’re taking and our Agency portfolio yielded 2.95% in the quarter without any 30 years.
So we think the inputs of price and prepay speed we’re very happy with the returns we’re getting from the Agencies relative to the fact that we own no 30-year Agency assets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Yeah I mean you guys are certainly shorter duration than a lot of your peers I guess given the exposure on the non-Agency side that you have I mean when you think about the Agency strategy does it make more sense to have more longer duration Agency and maybe take a little more interest rate risk given that you kind of hedged with the Non-Agency book? So the question is how much interest rate risk do you have and how much did you add? And I think what we're saying is we’re not looking to add interest rate risk with interest rate sensitive assets yielding with the yield.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe talk about your outlook for prepayment speeds in the back half of the year? Yeah I mean prepayments have trended-up.
I think they will continue to trend-up over the next couple of months.
We should probably see the kind of high watermark for speeds in the next couple of months and absent any further rate rallies I think they should then stabilize in the back-end of the year.
I think one of the things to keep in mind Joel however is the fact that having a – it was our CPR about 25 if I remember correctly right.
Having that with less than a three point in premium is very different than having a very low CPR and paying a 108 or 107.
So it's a very different kind of a strategy.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
The next question is coming from the line of Rick Shane with JP Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Thanks guys and actually you started to address in your response to the last question part of my question here which is about speeds and I think what you really were talking about was the Agency side of the book.
On the Non-Agency side is there anything you’re seeing either in the origination or primary markets to suggest that speeds are going to continue to increase there at this point? No.
I think it’s pretty clear that on the jumbo sides of non-conforming balance originations are still pretty low.
We have and you’ll see this in the Q that comes out the three month average voluntary speed on the Non-Agency portfolio was a little more than 7%.
So you'll see a top-line CPR print of 15.8%.
It’s a little less than half voluntary and the other half is involuntary.
I’d say 7% voluntary is generally below our long-term expectation in the assumptions that we have on these securities – I am sorry it’s higher than our long-term averages it’s probably closer to 5%.
But we’re not seeing dramatic prepayment speeds on Non-Agencies that’s for sure.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Which actually is a good segue to the second part of my question which is that you guys make a pretty clear statement.
The core earnings and REIT taxable earnings are going to converge in the second half of the year.
And I think the implication is that core – that taxable REIT taxable earnings will trend down towards core earnings I would love to get clarification on that.
I’m assuming that the reason you see that occurring is that you don’t see speeds picking up on the Non-Agency stuff and that you’re just going to have incremental credit losses coming through and as you run the credit through that will drag on that will – drag is probably an over statement but cause the modest erosion of the REIT taxable? Yes your interpretation is correct.
The taxable will be trending downwards towards the core.
That is correct.
And you’re right we’re not making a more optimistic forecast but you will have continued impact of losses.
Now for taxable purposes we can’t assume losses that haven’t occurred but as they actually occur the taxable income should be closer to the core income.
Research Division</strong> Got it and so you’re not making an assumption that you’re going to get prepayments that come through that basically eliminate the loss risk and so it’s a pretty conservative assumption? It is and let me just add.
When we started this strategy and as we continue the Non-Agency strategy it is never with the idea that all of a sudden that Non-Agencies – the prepay for Non-Agencies were going to pick up dramatically that was never it.
It was looking at the underlying cash flows and the constancy of those underlying cash flows.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Great guys.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we do have a question from Stephen Laws with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
I guess to follow-up on the last comment can you maybe talk to how you see the trend with taxable versus core as we look out past the second half of the year if taxable is running over core and over the lifetime of those assets I believe that the GAAP income and taxable should be the same just recognized differently.
How do you expect that to trend? Will there be a period in ‘13 where we see core earnings above taxable? Can you maybe talk to that a little bit? So you’re right.
Over the lifetime they will be the same but the lifetime is yet another 23 years and it’s very hard to model exactly – we can model how many defaults and the severity over the life but it’s hard to know in which month which servicer is actually going to foreclose.
So we can’t fine-tune it that well.
But you’re right over 23 years they should match and taxable has exceeded core and we expect it will exceed core although by a smaller amount.
Great.
And then one question just kind of in – maybe just in general on the financing side you added some longer duration repo I think multi-year financing there you’ve had some securitizations there I believe some re-REMICs in the past.
Can you maybe talk about the pros and cons of those what the securitization markets are like today? And then are you seeing any – just changes in your terms or simply [tone] from counterparties in Europe given maybe specific problems they have that are not related to MFA but that are changing the way they do business given the environment in Europe.
This is Stewart I am just going to add something before I think Craig will give you some detail but – our strategy has been from the beginning to try and rely less on shorter term financing and much much greater emphasis on longer term financing and it’s a strategy that we have followed going on for a significant period of time and we’re going to continue to do that.
So as we said in the opening remarks or what's in the press release we think that the additional cost is well worth not having the rolled-over risk.
So if you put that in context and Craig if you could hand over the specifics please? Sure.
So as you know we’ve done four re-securitizations to-date.
We did not do one in the last quarter but we did this $350 million structured facility which in many ways is economically similar to a re-securitization.
The re-securitization market still exists; to-date there is still only one rating agency which is DBRS.
So while we get a transaction I think we closed it in February this year is our most recent one.
But the economics of this structured facility that we did are substantially similar to a re-securitization.
To the extent that one of one or several of the other rating agencies come back into that market it may make that the more viable alternative so we continue to stay on top of that and we’ll take advantage of it when it presents itself.
But the economics are definitely comparable.
Securitization market is available but when someone offers us long-term repo on Non-Agencies we'll take it no one can always do re-securitizations in the future.
Sure.
And then lastly just kind of general comment on counterparties in Europe any change in tone you’re noticing from them or no? Well certainly for Non-Agencies we haven’t seen any change at all from – I would say from any of our counterparties whether it’s due to Europe or not and Goodmunder I don't – have you seen anything on the Agency side relative to European counterparties.
No.
We haven't seen anything.
Ron what have you found in terms of Agency repo? I'd say the same thing that Craig has said we’re also very careful about who we do our Agency repo with.
We’ve – just because people come in and want to give us repo we don’t necessarily signup to do it with them but we've seen no change in haircuts.
Rates have all been within a reasonable band and we've seen no issues with balance sheet.
And part of the whole strategy of the Company was to generate these returns without being overly reliant on repo.
As a result we really haven’t grown our repo book at all and our Agency – here Agency repo is about $6 billion which is very very manageable in almost any situation.
Yeah yeah and then I guess while you’re there speaking of growing the balance sheet it seems a number of other companies in the sector have raised capital recently even though that money is being deployed at ROEs that are dilutive to the – their existing portfolios.
Can you guys talk about your views on capital here and that being both common and potentially preferred seeing a few of those deals and just how you guys evaluate raising capital the cost of that versus the returns available on new investments today? Well again we always have reiterated the ground relative to – wanting to raise additional capital but again you have to have the correct assets with that they’re going to provide the yields and as you said to do something that’s dilutive that doesn't really do one heck of a lot of good.
So to get bigger for the sake of getting bigger has never been part of our strategy.
So we continue to look at opportunities and if and when the opportunities are there in terms of both on the asset side sure we'll consider raising additional equity.
Sure okay great.
Thanks a lot for taking my questions.
Thank you.
We now have a question from the line of (indiscernible).
Please go ahead.
Unidentified Analyst Hey guys my questions have been answered.
Thanks.
Thank you.
And we have a question from Chris Donat with Sandler O'Neill.
Please go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Hi good morning everyone.
I just wanted to circle back on the repo issue and just see if I can get a little better understanding of -- as you deal with $350 million over three years.
Do counterparty issues and the risks associated there do they increase or just because it’s repo does that give you some safety and then if you could put this in the historical context over the last say half dozen years where we have seen some repo counterparties exit the stage.
Just help me think about the risks there? These are – Ron had said a moment ago on the Agency side we've been very selective and very careful with whom we do repo.
We probably do maybe more analysis than the folks do on us when we enter into a repo agreement and on the Non-Agency side we are just as selective and very very careful and very comfortable with our counterparties.
That’s the best answer I can give you without giving you names.
Research Division</strong> Got it and just in terms of the number of repo counterparties on the Non-Agency side? So we currently have 13.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And our question now is from Arren Cyganovich with Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Thanks.
Just getting back to the overall portfolio allocation you mentioned keeping the portfolio roughly the same mix at Agency and Non-Agency.
We’ve seen some improvements in the housing market somewhat stabilization of HPI.
When do the fundamentals make it more attractive for you to get more heavily involved on the Non-Agency side? We are involved in the – on the Non-Agency side.
And we continue to see again I think Craig mentioned before somewhere in the low sixes which seems to us in a zero interest rate environment to be a very very attractive return for our investors.
Fundamentally you really can’t increase your Non-Agency portfolio to be the majority of your assets because of various limitations from the – for the 40 Act which we’ve discussed before.
Research Division</strong> There is room though to increase Non-Agency relative to today to the current mixes or not? There is some and incrementally we have been investing there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly just a quick question.
Do you have the premium amortization on the Agency handy for the quarter? Sure.
This is Steve Yarad.
The net premium amortization for the quarter the premiums outweighed the accretion of discount by about $2.6 million which is around about $0.01 a share.
Research Division</strong> So say that again so the premium amortization was how much? The premium amortization was $12.4 million and net accretion discount was $9.8 million so net of about $2.6 million amortization on premium.
And that’s why we like to invest across mortgage-backed securities Agency and Non-Agency you do have a premium amortization on the Agency you have discount accretion on Non-Agencies and they’ve been running pretty close.
Research Division</strong> Thank you.
You’re welcome.
And there are no more other questions in queue.
Please go ahead speaker.
I’d like to thank everybody for your continued interest in MFA.
We look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the MFA Financial Inc.
Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Ms.
Danielle Rosatelli.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
The information discussed on this conference call today may contain or refer to forward-looking statements regarding MFA Financial Inc.
which reflects management’s beliefs expectations and assumptions as to MFA’s future performance and operations.
When used statements that are not historical in nature including those containing words such as will believe expect anticipate estimate plan continue intend should could would may or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they’re made.
These types of statements are subject to various known and unknown risks uncertainties assumptions and other factors including but not limited to those relating to changes in interest rates and the market value of MFA’s investment securities; changes in the prepayment rates on the mortgage loans securing MFA’s investment securities; changes in the default rate and management’s assumptions regarding default rate on the mortgage loans securing MFA’s MBS MFA’s ability to borrow to finance its assets; implementation of or changes in government regulations or programs affecting MFA’s business; MFA’s ability to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes; MFA’s ability to maintain its exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and risks associated with investing in real estate related assets including changes in business conditions and the general economy.
These and other risks uncertainties and factors including those described in MFA’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 its quarterly report from 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31 2011 and June 30<sup>th</sup> 2012 and other reports that it may file from time-to-time with the Securities and Exchange Commission could cause MFA’s actual results to differ materially from those projected expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements it makes.
For additional information regarding MFA’s use of forward-looking statements please see the relevant disclosure in the press release announcing MFA’s third quarter 2012 financial results.
Thank you for your time.
I would now like to turn this call over to Stewart Zimmerman MFA’s Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning everybody and thank you for joining our third quarter 2012 earnings call.
Before we begin the call I would like to express our condolences to our friends at Annaly on the passing of Mike Farrell a noted leader in our industry.
We do express our condolences and we hope that with the passing of time the pain somewhat eases.
As far as MFA is concerned again I would like to welcome to our third quarter 2012 earnings call.
Joining me this morning on the call are Bill Gorin President; Steven Yarad Chief Financial Officer; Ron Freydberg Executive Vice President; Craig Knutson Executive Vice President; Harold Schwartz Senior Vice President and General Counsel; Kathleen Hanrahan Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; Shira Finkel Senior Vice President.
Today we announced financial results for the third quarter ended September 30 2012.
Recent financial results and other significant highlights for MFA include the following and I’m still going to go over the couple of bullet points that we have in the press release that you have seen and then kind of open the call for questions.
The third quarter net income per common share of $0.21 or core earnings per common share of $0.19.
Book value per common share grew to $8.80 as of September 30 2012 compared to $7.45 as of June 30 2012 and $6.74 as of December 31<sup>st</sup> 2011.
This 18% increase in book value per share in the third quarter and the 30% increase in book value per share in the first nine months 2012 are the results of our total return strategy of investing in both Agency and discounted Non-Agency mortgage backed securities.
On October 31 2012 we paid our third quarter 2012 dividend of $0.21 per share to stockholders of record as of October 12 2012.
Couple of other items I would just like to go over with you quickly is that at quarter end our debt to equity ratio was 3.2 to 1 and in this low interest rate environment core earnings per share were $0.19 versus $0.20 in the second quarter.
Our Agency portfolio with an average amortized cost of 103.2% of par as of September 30 2012 and generated 2.66% yield in the third quarter.
Our Non-Agency portfolio at an average amortized cost of 72.6% of par as of September 30 2012 and generated a loss adjusted yield of 6.65% in the third quarter.
We are pleased with the quarter.
Hope that folks on the call understand that this has been a very difficult environment in which to work and very proud of the team and how we progressed during the quarter.
So I continue to thank you for your continued interest and input for MFA Financial.
And at this time I would like to open the call for questions.
[Operator Instructions] And we go to the line of Jason Weaver Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Hi guys good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
First I would like to get your perspective on when it’s a little over half of the Non-Agency portfolio that five months to reset bucket.
It’s still running I see at 14.3 CPR.
Can you talk a little bit on the makeup of those bonds and what do you think is holding that prepays there at such a low level? Craig do you want to handle that? Craig? I will now go to the line of Bose George KBW.
Please go ahead.
Good morning this is actually Ryan O'Steen on for Bose.
My first question is just looking at the portfolio breakout it looks like most of the incremental purchases on the Agency side were in the 15 year bucket.
Can you just kind of talk about your asset allocation going forward what do you like looking at new purchases? Bill? Excuse me this is Danielle.
They can't hear the call.
Can you hear the questions? We hear the questions and we are starting to answer but then somebody else cut international.
Yeah and thus they cannot answer the questions from their host line.
We are responding but – we can hear the question we are responding but then another question cut in.
Okay.
We heard nothing coming from the host conference room.
I apologize.
All right.
So we apologize.
We had some problem with the conference room that we are in.
so we are all in a small office.
So I guess we can maybe do the second question and then we can go back to the first question because clearly nobody could hear the response.
Craig if it’s okay could we just change that order? Why don’t we respond to the first question and then we will do the second question? Sure okay.
So Jason asked about the Non-Agencies that have less than two years to reset with an average reset of five months and about the speeds on those and maybe why they are not faster.
I guess the way to think about those are those are for the most part if not exclusively post reset hybrid securities.
So they are post reset 5-1s or 7-1s that have already come up again to their fixed rate period.
The reason I would imagine that we don’t see fastest piece on those is because when those reset they reset the typically LIBOR plus 200 or LIBOR plus 225.
So the coupon actually resets down on those securities.
The original coupon was probably 5.5 or so.
But the coupon resets down.
So a little bit more complicated because in some cases they begin amortizing so they amortize over the balance of 25 years.
But that’s why I don’t think – because the coupon went down by so much.
That’s why we are not typically seeing the prepayments go up on those.
It’s not your typical reset that you see on a sub-prime security but for instance where the margin might be 600 and the payment would go up at the reset.
In many cases here the payment actually goes down.
So Jason if that doesn’t answer your question or if you have a follow-up why don’t you come back into the queue and you want to go to the… Why don’t we go to the second one now? Yeah and thanks.
I was just curious about how you are thinking about capital allocation on your investments.
Bill why don’t you want to run by that on? Yeah.
Capital allocation remaining fairly consistent which is about 60% of our asset agencies and 40% Non-Agencies.
In the third quarter it actually was a challenge because the Non-Agencies were appreciating.
So we had to buy agencies just to keep the relationship the same.
So it’s the same asset allocation we have had throughout the year.
Okay.
And just in terms of prepayments it looks like there is a bit of a spike in the short reset arms that was kind of offset by a decline in the 15 year bucket.
Any updates on the trends since quarter ended what your expectations are? Yeah well on the Agency side with its well advertised that the Fed is now purchasing about – growing their Agency portfolio by about 40 billion a month and they have extended their rate guidance until 2015 where they anticipate a key breakthrough.
And on top of that there is also the – they are not going to stop buying mortgages and not going to raise rates until they see a meaningful recovery in the labor markets.
So basically they are obviously putting a lot of pressure in terms of increasing prepays by keeping mortgage rates low.
So when we think about prepayments on the Agency side we think the probability of increases in prepayment had actually gone out.
And you’ve obviously you know opposing forces in terms of GEPs [ph] going up but we do think that the Fed is set towards that.
In terms of our own portfolio basically what we have been adding on the Agency side has been – a majority of new acquisitions has been in 50 year fixed and in prepayment types of collateral lower loan balance or high LTV paper and as you look at the changes on the Agency side you’ll notice the allocation has gone from 22% to approximately 29% and most of those bonds we added there were lower coupons but also on top of that prepayment product collateral.
I think he asked about subsequent to quarter end October speed.
Oh so October speed was 18 CPR.
Also in the Q that’s coming out later today we’ve added a couple of tables to increase the disclosure on the Agency side.
We are basically – we break the portfolio into 15 years and hybrids and kind of show the allocation to prepayment for that collateral in different segments.
That should help give people and investors more and a better handle on kind of prepayment exposure and interest rate risk.
Great thanks.
Looking forward to that detail.
I will hop off.
Thank you.
I will now go to the line of Stephen Laws Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Appreciate the color on the asset split going forward.
One follow-up there can you maybe quantify what yields you are seeing on new investments or spreads or however you guys prefer to look at it on the Non-Agency side of the new investments today? Sure.
On the Non-Agency side it really varies by product type.
So I would say the cleanest assets with these price launch the cleanest assets are probably as low as 4% call it 4 to mid-4s.
On the other side of the spectrum it might be as wide as 5 to 6.
I would say the area that we are focusing is sort of in the middle or so.
So somewhere give or take around 5% loss adjusted yields.
Okay great and then clearly we are seeing some securitizations on a couple of jumbo deals you’ve got some remit transactions I believe NorthStar just did a CMBS deal are you guys seeing any kind of additional options opening up there for maybe some non-recourse financing to grow back there can you talk about what you are seeing in those markets? The last resecuritization that we did was Non-Agency securities within February.
We then did a structured financing transaction subsequent to that a few months later than that.
I think it closed on June 30<sup>th</sup> actually which was – we achieved substantially the same economic and legal benefits that we did with the resecuritization.
So the resecuritization market is build there unfortunately the only rating Agency that’s really still involved in that is DBRS and those securities don’t have quite the market acceptance that a resecuritization with S&amp;P or other rating agencies would.
So at least for the time being we haven’t done another resecuritization.
The Redwood type deals those are on whole loans obviously those are on new originations not existing securities so those are a little bit different although market acceptance of those deals at least the last one was very very good.
So it’s something that we continue to monitor but like I said with only one rating Agency is DBRS those deals are a little bit more difficult than they were.
If we were to do one unrated because it happens on unrated deals the execution on that senior bonds is really not that attractive relative to where we can get long term financing because we are close to a billion dollars of long term financing on these securities as well.
So it’s a constant trade off in the execution and sort of what the market gives us.
Great I appreciate the color on that.
And one final question if I may.
Looking at the June Q and I haven’t had a chance to look at the most recent one.
It looks like you had – you know 18% to 20% of your slot book was resetting within six months of June 30<sup>th</sup> most of which was at about 4.45%.
As that rolls off and matures in the next three to four months how should we think about as that being replaced will you guys add new swaps and hold that constant while that swap percentage come down if you are adding these swaps where exactly are you going to look so I can think about building a pricing into my model.
Yeah so it’s not the percentage of REPO that we look at as much as how much interest rate exposure do we have on the asset side and how much of that we have in hedge.
What you will actually see is our interest rate exposure has gone down in the last couple of quarters you know the duration during the last couple of quarters.
The duration now at the end of the third quarter was 21 basis points.
Still there is not a compelling need to replace all these swaps incrementally there might be some new swaps but it’s not – in no way as we restructure now we see dollar for dollar replacement of the swaps that runoff.
What is our percentage in terms of our swap position now? It’s about 43% versus the Agency REPO.
Right which is approximately where it’s been.
Yeah that sounds about roughly where it’s been from our outlook there as well.
I think it’s really – as Bill said we are very comfortable with our interest rate exposure and that really is the key that’s just putting on swaps as they have been doing it because we are in such a low interest rate environment.
But really looking at the portfolio and trying to make sure that we have – in fact ameliorated the risk that does exist.
Well great it looks like there is nice benefits in earnings next year from these higher cost swaps and churn.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] I will now go to the line of Steve Delaney JMP Securities please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning everyone and congratulations on a 21% total return in the third quarter.
Thank you.
Just don’t have that kind of quarter very often so enjoy it.
Thanks.
I guess a couple of things.
You reported your – obviously that return came from the growth in book and especially the strong performance in the Non-Agency RMBS.
It looks like bonds from what we saw at 5 to 6 points I think your specific portfolio up 6.5 we are seeing things kind of flat since September 30 just wondering Craig if you are sort of seeing the same thing in market place as far as dollar prices on cash bonds.
Steve I would say again it always depends on your specific bond.
But I would say generally the Non-Agency sector has been pretty strong since the end of the quarter.
I would say we are certainly not up a lot but overall the sector is probably up at least half a point and maybe as much as a point on some bonds.
All right good.
So certainly haven’t given anything back it does sound like.
Those who feel like it.
Yeah.
There was only a – despite the higher prices the lower yields and you went through sort of your 4% to 5% unlevered yield the overall Non-Agency portfolio yield though in the third quarter held up pretty good at 6.65 only down 10 basis points from 6.75 I mean should we imply for that.
I mean given us the speeds and we know things are only repaying at a fairly measured rate but it also looks like you are really not trying to necessarily force a lot of new bonds in at these lower returns.
Am I interpreting that correct and do you see that 6.65 yield as being reasonably stable over the next couple of quarters.
A couple of things Steve it’s hard obviously to predict the future.
I think what you will see in our Q is we added about $300 million of Non-Agencies in the third quarter.
I think the number was 295 and we have added a billion in change but 1.0 something in the first nine months of the year.
So the third quarter was more or less kind of that average acquisition rate during the year.
It was probably a little bit higher early in the year.
As far as yields there are a lot a lot of moving parts to that yield number.
So one part – and you will notice it in the queue and I think we mentioned it in our press release as well we released approximately $54 million from our credit reserve to our accretable discounts.
That’s on a total of about $800 million amortized cost of Non-Agencies.
It’s about a third of the portfolio.
So they were reviewed in the third quarter those were last reviewed in the fourth quarter of last year.
So the $800 million on which we change those assumptions where we moved that $50 million of credit reserve it increased the yield on those bonds on a weighted average by approximately 40 basis points.
So that’s one moving part.
The second moving part as you know those Non-Agency yields are also sensitive to the forward curve.
Right.
So the forward curve actually brought yields down a little bit in the third quarter versus the second quarter.
But again looking out into the future should the curves steepen and the forward curves steepen then that will give rise to increase in yield.
Unfortunately there are a lot of moving pieces so it’s very hard to handicap exactly what happens to that yield number.
Understand.
One final thing just as far as the dividend relative to reported core earnings we have been able to or you have been able to reward shareholders with a slightly higher dividend payout relative to co-earnings because your taxable EPS has exceeded core due to the difference in timing on loss recognition.
It looks like that was about $0.02 in the third quarter.
Can you just give us any feel for whether – I assume that difference certainly used to be wider.
It’s tightened down a little bit but do you expect there will still be a penny or so of excess of taxable over cores we looked out over the next couple of quarters? As we told you over the course of the year they should be coming together closer the taxable and the core.
And you are right to point out it looks like the taxable income exceeded the core because that dividend matches taxable income.
The exact timing and the forecast – it’s hard to tell you because taxable is based on actual defaults.
Right.
Impossible to predict because we don’t control the services.
So it looks like taxable will exceed or be generally in line with core over the next couple of quarters.
But we can't predict more closely than that because we don’t control actual foreclosures.
Right.
Good quarter thanks for the color.
I will now go to the line of Jason Arnold RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
Can you just – if you could talk about the supply of Non-Agency MBS to purchase? And then just as a follow-up I guess assuming we eventually get some more new issue of supply in the Non-Agency space eventually being kind of the key operator.
Is that a market that you would expect to participate in? Thanks.
This is Stewart.
Let me answer the second part and we will turn it over to Craig.
Yes we would expect to participate in that market.
It’s a market we find very attractive again depending on of course what the yields are at the target.
But that is a market that we look forward to participating in if and when it comes back.
I would like to say when it comes back.
But Craig do you want to handle the other part? As far as existing supply of the ’05 ’06.
’07 vintage Non-Agencies there continues to be supply.
It’s at least recently as you would expect very much a seller’s market.
So many of these would become trade on an all or none basis those are difficult for dealers to bid because typically it’s hard to get orders on bond.
But there still is supply.
Obviously the levels are tighter and we have to look a little bit harder at various securities to find bonds that are as attractive to us.
But we are still able to find bonds we bought a bond yesterday.
So the supply is still there.
Great.
Just to remind everybody and remind me too what do we purchase in Non-Agencies during the quarter third quarter? $295 million.
All right.
So just shy of $300 million.
Excellent okay thanks.
And then just one other quick follow-up.
I guess you mentioned you did have a little bit of a release on the credit reserve side for your Non-Agency bonds and you still have a very conservative mark there on that front.
I guess what would be the biggest moving part that would get you to revise kind of those credit loss expectations? Would it be home prices going up more or would it be the loss severities I know there is a lot of moving parts there.
But I guess I just wanted to kind of hear your perspective on that because that’s a big swag of the total directional value there with the bonds.
Sure.
And what causes us to change as you pointed out there are a lot of moving parts there are a lot of pieces to that.
I would say if we were to see sustained faster prepayment fees obviously that would probably indicate that we could release more of the credit reserve.
The way we really look at it is most of those changes are due to the fact that when we look at a bond and we look at the mortgages underneath that and we look at the number of bonds the number of mortgages that we are liquidating in our assumptions.
And given the pay histories and again every six months every year that goes by we have another string of pay history and couple that with some home based depreciation or at least firming and add to that the fact that many of these possibilities at hybrids are now amortizing.
So the home owner is now actually paying principal back because the rates are low.
They actually pay quite a bit of principal even in that first year.
So it’s a whole combination of things.
But typically what leads that decision is we look and say you know what we think we are probably liquidating too many of the loans that are current today.
And so when we make those assumption changes we dial back our expectation of future liquidations of loans that are current today.
That makes sense? That helps a lot.
That’s great thank you very much.
You bet.
I will now go to the line of Rick Shane JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys thanks for taking my question.
When you look at the embedded gains in the portfolio and the difference between the Agency book and the Non-Agency book how do you think about leveraging those gains given particularly the prepayment risk associated with the Agency book.
Part of what triggered that question was Bill’s comment at the beginning that you increased the Agency book this quarter modestly in order to maintain balance.
Is that going to be the strategy or do you think at some point you may make more of a tactical call in terms of what's going on in the market where you want to be slightly more overweight? When you say overweight overweight which? One or the other – I mean… So Rick as we’ve explained there are certain limitations in terms of Agency [inaudible] that are mortgage REIT on my phone so we really cannot increase substantially our Non-Agency allocations from where we are.
Got it.
And when you look at the – that’s helpful Bill.
I appreciate that.
And the other element of that is that when you look at the embedded gains in the portfolio and again your overall growth doesn’t fully reflect the embedded gains.
But you take a little bit of leverage on the embedded gains.
How do you sort of think about that in terms of the differences between the unrealized gains on the Agency book and the Non-Agency book? Good question Rick.
So you are right we have a cost basis and it’s an old cost basis.
But you need to know what the asset is going to yield going forward based on new value and Goodmunder and Craig do a great job of that.
So we might have paid 102.
But if we could sell the asset at 107 and we decide not to sell it what’s our incremental return for moving that asset.
That’s exactly how we look at it.
We very selectively sold some agencies in the third quarter.
But basically we are happy holding what we have.
But we look at it the way you mentioned Rick.
Okay great thank you.
I will now go the line of Chris Donat Sandler O'Neill please go ahead.
Hi good morning everyone.
I think I’ll just ask one philosophical question here with some of the other mortgage REITs announcing share repurchase authorizations just what philosophically your view on MFA taking a similar course.
This is Stewart.
We do have a plan in place I think it’s correct to [inaudible] about 4 million shares.
We continue to look at that in terms of if that’s something we should implement again looking at our book value and looking at our share price.
We continue to do that.
We have in fact implemented share repurchases in the past and right now we continue to look at it.
That’s really the best answer I can give you.
There is another thing to add we are not investment constrained.
Because we don’t tie ourselves only to agencies but across the residential mortgage investment universe.
We are actually looking at attractive investment opportunities and we have good use of capital.
Okay thanks very much.
I will now go to line of Daniel Furtado with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Thank you for the opportunity to ask a couple of questions.
The first is does the natural hedging dynamics between the Agency and Non Agency books change if at all if the Non-Agency borrowings were to move closer to par value? Good question.
Actually I have to tie back to Craig’s answer to Steve Delaney on this one.
Earlier on we talked about the fact that a lot of our Non-Agencies are in the adjustable period.
And Craig mentioned if the forward curve goes down the yields on our Non-Agencies goes down.
On the other hand if the forward curve moves up the yields on our Non-Agencies move up in that period.
You don’t really actually have to wait for the coupon to reset because of the Non-Agencies purchase of deep discounts with low ratings.
You booked your earnings based on expected yields and the expected yields we use for the assumption of coupons is based on the forward curve.
If the forward curve moves up the yields on the Non-Agencies will move up in that quarter.
So yes despite the fact that prices ever appreciate our cost base is about 73 and our average mark is now 80.
So with the still deep discount one so they are not yet sensitive to prices and that lets a change of par and what’s important is that yield will adjust quickly if interest rates do go up.
So yes we do still think they are a natural hedge against movements in interest rates.
And Dan one thing I would add to that is as the Non-Agencies increase in price and not increase from the 70 to 80 but to the extent that we are seeing prices you know in some securities it could be in the 90s or even higher to the extent that those are – certainly if they are fixed rate securities or if they 10-1s with still many years to the reset we do start to think about those as possibly having some interest rate expense activity.
Got you.
Thank you for the clarity on that.
It’s very helpful.
And I don’t know to what extend you can comment on this.
But what are your expectations regarding the GSEs potential issuance of credit securities? You know we have been looking at this for a long time traditionally they have been underpaid for the credit risk they are taking.
They might be surprised at how much the private might want to be paid to accept this credit risk.
So we are not sure where they are going to end up.
But that’s how we are thinking about it..
I would also add to that that at least in my opinion and the company’s opinion there will be an entity whether it’s called Fannie whether it’s called Freddie and again whether the pricing is different there will be a guaranteeing entity.
Understood.
Okay thanks for your time everybody and congratulations on a strong quarter.
Thank you.
I will now go to the line of Mike Widner Stifel Nicolaus please go ahead.
Hey guys.
I’m not going to be quite as philosophical.
If we talked just about this little election that’s coming up today I’m wondering what your view is – you know let’s just imagine the two possible scenarios in Obama continuation or Romney’s victory.
Are either one of those good from mortgage REITs in general Agency side or Non-Agency side you know is either scenario better than the other and I guess maybe wondering if you could talk a little bit about some of the risks and specifically let me show out there on the Romney side you know some of the stuff we are reading and hearing lately as about one of his chief economic advisor is Hubbard over there in New York with you guys.
Being supportive of refi programs as well and giving more Americans a chance to refi at all time low rates using that as a mechanism for basically stimulating the economy.
It seems like there is a – again if that is to be believed and it seems that there is a bias actually in both parties for you know more free money for more people for the longer which doesn’t necessarily tend to be the greatest thing in the world for securities being held at high dollar values.
But anyway wondering if you could compare and contrast and not necessarily tell us which way you are going to vote or what not.
But how do you see it shaping up and is there any better scenario than another one? Let me just give a pre-ample and then Bill Craig or Ron or somebody else will have something to add.
When you look on the Agency side in terms of free money and in terms of prepayments and what it might or might not mean.
One thing is to have a type of premium exposure we have the other thing is to have the premium exposure that may be twice that.
So that doesn’t give me a lot of odds in terms of which side wins.
And again and unfortunately I think many times when we listen to whichever side what they say during an election campaign is sometimes very different than what they wind up doing and/or what they can do or what they are able to do.
But fellows if you wanted to give some more clarity just go ahead.
Yeah.
So if things run down the middle it doesn’t matter.
So I think Mike your question is to tell the extremes and talking about making prepay is easier.
So marginally people continue to make prepays easier for Agency guaranteed assets right it’s just been a trend over the last five six years.
What happens if they go all the way and make prepays easier for Non-Agencies? We have a two or three point premium on our agencies we have close to a 30 point discount on our Non-Agencies.
So if you do get to an extreme tail we are not at risk there.
It could be a gain for us.
Look we are very supportive of what Ben Bernanke has done.
So we have mixed feelings.
But either way – I think as Stewart mentioned we don’t see extreme changes because what they say and what happens is two different things.
But at the extremes we think our portfolio was well protected.
So in short you guys see yourselves as – I don’t want to necessarily say uniquely positioned but relative to a lot of the pure Agency guys it sounds like what you are saying is look you have got a lower premium and that inherently makes you less subject to the risk.
And then on the Non-Agency side faster prepays are better so… Mike rather than comparing those to the Agency folks I mean if you just look at ours as an entity I think we are very well positioned.
It sounds like you are not concerned really either way that there is much of a… Let’s say I have a personal bias that we are not going to discuss on this call.
Yeah.
Well aside from the personal bias.
I mean when it comes to – just given the way you have positioned the portfolio it doesn’t seem like there is necessarily a disaster scenario or a big downside risk that you see as balanced one way or – one side as much more dangerous to you than the other just because of the way you have uniquely positioned the portfolio.
I think that’s fair.
Okay.
Well appreciate the comments and the color and I am hoping that maybe in the next quarter you can get to the 20% Q over Q book value.
18 was nice but let’s try.
Yeah we will go for it.
I will now go to the line of Jim Young West Family Investments.
Please go ahead.
Yeah hi.
Could you talk about the factors that drove your decision to transfer to the accretable discounts from your credit reserve the 54.1 million and from what you see in the current quarter would you expect that level to be similar and increase or decrease? Thank you.
It’s impossible for me to predict the next couple of quarters.
We review approximately a third of the portfolio every quarter.
So we reviewed a third of the portfolio during the third quarter the thing that we would have to change that credit reserve are faster prepayments pay histories transition rates to go down.
But basically as I said before it’s typically a case where – and we do this on a bond by bond basis obviously where we believe that we are probably liquidating too many of the loans that are current today.
So we are still assuming that anyone that’s delinquent today default.
Where the art meets the science here is on the loans that are current today how many of those loans will go bad in the future.
And so the assumption changes are typically built around that number of the future expected defaults from loans that are current today.
So it’s a variety of factors that influence those.
Again with a third of the portfolio that we went through it’s about 1.4 billion phased amount it was about 800 million amortized cost amount that we changed our credit reserves on and it added about 40 basis points of yield to those bonds.
So we will do another survey during the fourth quarter and we will do another third in the first quarter of next year.
So it’s obviously good news it’s good to see that our original functions were probably a little bit heavy but it’s a quarter by quarter and a bond by bond thing.
Okay thank you.
Speakers there are no more callers in queue.
Please go ahead.
Well thank you very much everybody.
We appreciate your continued interest in MFA Financial and look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 12 noon today through February 6 2013.
You may access the AT&amp;T executive replay system at any time by dialing 1800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 270066 and international participants dial 320-365-3844.
Both numbers again are 1800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844 access code 270066.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
You may begin.
Good morning.
The information discussed on this conference call today may contain or refer to forward-looking statements regarding MFA Financial Inc.
which reflects management's beliefs expectations and assumptions as to MFA's future performance and operations.
When used statements that are not historical in nature including those containing words such as will believes expect anticipate estimate plan continue intend should could would may or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
These types of statements are subject to various known and unknown risks uncertainties assumptions and other factors including but not limited to those relating to changes in interest rates and the market value of MFA's investment securities; changes in the prepayment rates on the mortgage loans securing MFA's investment securities; changes in the default rates and management's assumptions regarding default rates on the mortgage loans securing MFA's MBS; MFA's ability to borrow to finance its assets; implementation of or changes in government regulations or programs affecting MFA's business; MFA's ability to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes; MFA's ability to maintain its exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940; MFA's estimates regarding taxable income and the timing and amount of distribution to stockholders; and risks associated with investing in real estate related assets including changes in business conditions and the general economy.
These and other risks uncertainties and factors including those described in MFA's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31 June 30 and September 30 2012 and other reports that it may file from time-to-time with the Securities and Exchange Commission could cause MFA's actual results to differ materially from those projected expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements it makes.
For additional information regarding MFA's use of forward-looking statements please see the relevant disclosure in the press release announcing MFA's fourth quarter 2012 financial results.
Thank you for your time.
I would now like to turn this call over to Stewart Zimmerman MFA's Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and welcome to MFA's fourth quarter 2012 earnings call.
Joining me this morning are Bill Gorin President; Steven Yarad Chief Financial Officer; Ron Freydberg Executive Vice President; Craig Knutson Executive Vice President; Harold Schwartz Senior Vice President and General Counsel; Kathleen Hanrahan Chief Accounting Officer; and Gudmundur Kristjansson First Vice President.
What I'd like to do this morning is just go over some of the highlight of the press release that I hope all of you have had the opportunity to look at.
I'm not going to go over the whole thing but just a number of them that I think are important and then very quickly open the call for Q&amp;A.
So if we're looking at the fourth quarter 2012 highlights our net income per common share was $0.19 with core earnings per common share of $0.20.
Book value per common share grew to $8.99 as of December 31 2012 compared to $8.80 as of September 30 2012 and $6.74 at December 31 2011.
For the year MFA strategy of investing at both Agency and discounted Non-Agency mortgage-backed securities generated book value share growth of 33% in addition to quarterly dividend payment.
At January 31 2013 our book value have grown to $9.40 as Non-Agency mortgage-backed security prices have continued to gain additional value.
On March 4 2013 our Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend of $0.50 per share of common stock.
This dividend reflects a portion of the re-taxable income in excess of distribution previously paid to stockholders for prior period.
This dividend will be paid on April 10 2013 to stockholders of record on March 15 2013.
A combination of both home price appreciation and mortgage amortization has led to a decrease in loan-to-value ratio for many of the mortgages underlying our Non-Agency portfolio.
Due to this lower LTV we have reduced estimated future losses within our Non-Agency portfolio.
As a result in the fourth quarter we transferred $81 million to accretable discount from credit reserve and transferred $152.5 million in total for 2012.
This increase in accretable discount prospectively increases the yield on Non-Agency mortgage-backed securities and will be realized in income over the life of the assets.
Following a detailed review of tax calculations initiated my management we determined that REIT taxable income for certain prior periods exceeded distributions made to stockholders.
Consequently our Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend totaling approximately $179.4 million.
Approximately $130 million of this distribution will be allocated to the previously undistributed REIT taxable income for 2010 and 2011 with the remainder available to satisfy a portion of 2012 taxable income undistributed to date.
Determination of 2012 taxable income will not be finalized until a timely filing of our 2012 tax return which is expected occur in the third quarter of 2013.
Before filing our 2012 tax return MFA may elect to apply on an asset-by-asset basis an alternative methodology for calculating taxable income for non-agency assets acquired in 2012.
Application of this alternative methodology may serve to reduce the final determination of 2012 taxable income.
After payment of the special dividend we currently estimate that under either methodology taxable income for 2012 is in excess of distributions paid to date in respect of that year.
And it expects that our Board of Directors will declare dividends in 2013 to address any undistributed 2012 taxable income.
Having said that what I would like to do is thank you all for your continued interest in MFA and open the call to questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Henry Coffey of Sterne Agee.
Agee</strong> Looking forward it's fair to assume that there may be some potential additional distribution coming in '13 as you're going to put the final dots on your September tax filing? So as Stewart pointed out to you we are yet to finalize our calculations for '12 and what Stewart mentioned is there is two alternative methodologies and we need to compare both methodologies to calculate our 2012 taxable income.
But what we have said in writing and in terms of call is the special distribution fully satisfied or under distribution for '10 and '11 and based on our estimate of 12 it's only partially paid out all our distributable income for 2012.
So to make the assumptions there is yet some more distribution relating to 2012 would be correct but we haven't finalized '12 and we're not ready forecast '13.
So hopefully that's able to help you with your question.
Agee</strong> Sort of looking forward the FHFA put out their plan for 2013 they're talking about doing $30 billion worth of a new PB of risk-based assets.
Have you had any dialogue with them and do you have a sense of what kind of opportunity that might create for MFA? Sure.
We've looked at this possible risk transfer which to-date is not really solidified but we've looked at that trade for months now.
It may make sense for us it may not.
It will depend on a lot of things.
It will depend on the risk return and what sort of yields we think are available.
It will also depend on what form those assets take.
So for instance whether or not those sales are structured as good assets for REIT for instance.
Agee</strong> Are there any other alternative asset classes that are sort of coming down the pipe that might be interesting for MFA to explore? Andrew we have looked at various asset classes over the years.
We've looked at myriad of myriad of things.
So we continue to do that.
Having said that at the moment there is nothing that is pressing to us and we still very much enjoy the continued success that we've had in both the agency and the non-agency markets and that's where our concentration is.
Having said that we spend a good portion of our time looking at other assets classes and how that might bring value to our shareholders.
And Henry if I might also add and sort of our mission statement I mean you know for a long-time we've been distributing a good amount of income.
But what we've done over the last five years is also benefit have our assets perform due to improvement in the residential mortgage credit fundamentals.
And I think that positions us well for any new activities that may come up in the next couple of years.
There is benefit for the shareholders of improvement from residential mortgage credit fundamentals.
It's really shown in the fourth quarter performance and it's something that we hope to benefit from in the future.
Our next question comes from Chris Donat of Sandler O'Neill.
Just one quick question on the excise tax and interest that's something we haven't seen for a couple of years.
Can you remind us exactly what that is? Sure I'm going to hand it over to Steve Yarad our CFO and he is going to explain that to you in some detail.
There's a lot of detail around the rules for the excise tax.
I'll try to keep this at relatively high level.
But there are two components to the exercise and interest accrual.
The interest portion is calculated on the amount of the undistributed dividends for prior periods and that situation it's primarily 2010 and 2011 and you pay an interest amount based on the short-term AFR plus 3%.
So in our case it's roughly 3.5% interest paid on that dividend shortfall for that period.
The excise tax comes into play to the extent that you've distributed less than 85% of your taxable income in the calendar year.
And if you're in that situation you pay an excise tax that's roughly 4% of the difference between the amount you distributed and 85% of your taxable income.
And in our financial statements for 2012 we've recorded an accrual for $7.5 million covering both excise tax and interest for the current year and all prior periods.
Then just to make sure I understand this.
In the filing you put out earlier this week it states that no material impact to previously issued financial statements from the material weaknesses here and also no expected impact to REIT status.
I didn't see that language in the press release but just want to make sure that that is still the case nothing has changed in two days right? Sure Chris absolutely.
When you see our 10-K which will be filed later this morning you will see some disclosure around that in our controls and procedures section and what you said is absolutely correct.
There is no restatement of prior period financials and there is no material impact on our current period financials relative to this matter as well and as you said as well no impact on our REIT status whatsoever.
Is it also just fair to say also just to follow-up nothing changed in the last two days? Absolutely.
No change in last two days.
Well I just wanted to be more precise relative to your question.
Finally from me the $81 million that was transferred from the credit reserve to accretable discount just ballpark when I think about the timing of that flowing into income.
How does that work? So it flows in over the remaining life of those assets.
So basically we take $80 million and it goes into accretable discount.
So it will translate to a higher yield on those assets going forward.
If you look at the total which was I think $152 million that we transferred from credit reserve to accretable discount during the calendar year 2012 to sort of frame it for you if I just isolate that one change but forget forward curve forget assets that pay down it probably increases the yield on the Non-Agency portfolio by between 20 and 25 basis points.
Our next question comes from Daniel Furtado of Jefferies.
Craig I missed some tail-end of that response.
Are you saying that $81 million or $152 million for the full year is 20 to 25 basis points? The $152 million.
For the whole year if you look at those assets as of the end of the year it increases the yield between 20 and 25 basis points.
And then another kind of methodological question.
You're saying that your credit reserve is approximately twice the underlying 60+ DQs.
Is it simply as simple as if you assume that you're not going to get two extra 60s and say all the 60s go bad but nothing else rolls into that bucket that that would you could theoretically transfer from credit reserve into accretable discount is about half of your current credit reserve or is it not linear like that? Well I think what we say is we don't say our credit reserve is twice our 60.
I think what we say is in our GAAP assumptions that our estimated defaults on the portfolio are equal to approximately two-times the current 60 plus days delinquent.
And where do you believe the market is today in that assumption when competitors or just the market is out buying bonds.
I mean is it still at that two times your 60 paradigm when you're pricing bonds or has the market tightened? In that sense how much more conservative versus the market do you believe you are? I can't really speak to how much more conservative or less conservative we are versus the market.
But what I will tell you is that as we see increased performance in the underlying assets and that can be because LTVs are improving which could be due to the fact that loans are now amortizing in many cases and in addition we've seen some home price appreciation.
So as those underlying LTVs get better and borrowers are less underwater or perhaps not underwater at all our assumptions on future defaults will come down.
So I think overtime if credit reserve changes continue along the same thing what that will mean is that that the ultimate default assumptions will not be twice the 60 plus at some point.
And then if I may just squeak one last one in do you have any material swap maturities this year? And if so what's the fixed pay on those they are rolling off? Let me give you an update and this will be laid out in the K which will come out today.
But in the first quarter of this year a very small amount of swaps run-off.
It's about $50 million and the average cost there is about 390 so we glad to have those swaps go away.
And then you really don't see much high cost swaps running off until the second half of the year in which time we have about $400 million of swaps with a fixed pay rate of 4% run off.
So we are continuing to see improvement funding costs coming down as these swaps run-off.
But most of the improvement will occur later in the year.
Our next question comes from Rick Shane of JPMorgan.
Just wanted to talk a little bit about capital allocation and particularly given what we've seen in the market this quarter.
You've obviously seen strong continued appreciation on the non-agency paper and during the fourth quarter your allocation there increased slightly.
Given we've seen agency spreads widened out a little bit and potentially rich pricing on the non-agency stuff are you thinking about shifting back a little bit more? Let me start the answer and then we can give you some detail.
As I've said I don't know how many times on other calls we continue to see value in both sides of it in terms of the agencies and non-agencies.
And you're right.
When you look at the appreciation on the non-agency side it is fairly some dramatic.
But we've also seen opportunity.
I'm going to turn over to Gudmundur Kristjansson in a moment just to give you some color on the agency side where we have also continued to see some value.
Well you're absolutely right.
I mean in the first quarter of 2013 yields have gone up and spreads have widened on agency securities.
So they are incrementally more attractive in the first quarter of 2013 relative to what they were in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Yields on the assets that we're acquiring we're seeing them about 185 basis points and with spreads including funding costs that is about 125 basis points.
So incrementally we're investing in the same way but an important point some of run-off doesn't need to be invested because some of that run-off is being used for the special dividend.
Given the opportunities that you're seeing the stability we've seen in the capital base over the last couple of years do you feel like you have the right amount of capital right now for market opportunity that you see? The answer is generally yes.
There are always exceptions but again as you know as we've had discussions before I think we've been very disciplined in raising equity.
We will continue to be very disciplined if we see those opportunities and the opportunity to raise equity is there we will certainly approach that but we are very comfortable about how we sit today.
Rick as you know we are internally managed and our incentives and shareholder incentives are the same.
So we have been still happy with the performance of the assets that we have.
We really didn't want to share it much with too many shareholders.
So we continue to work for the benefit of existing shareholders.
Our next question comes from Gabe Poggi of FBR.
I just had a quick question on the agency side of things.
Your speed has declined in the fourth quarter from the third quarter any color kind of year-to-date you can provide? And then as you're getting those prepays were you guys allocating capital in the agency bucket that'd be helpful? Yes on the agency side I mean the speed in the first quarter should be in line with what we've seen over the last couple of quarters.
January and February were about 20 CPR so I guess that gets you two-thirds there.
In terms of what we're looking at and what we're finding most attractive I mean we have been focused and we continue to favor that with the hybrids.
And I don't see that change going forward.
Our next question comes from Stephen Laws of Deutsche Bank.
This is actually Vlad Rudnytsky dialing in for Steven.
I just had a quick question kind of just looking ahead and given Bernanke's comments last week.
I guess if you just have any thoughts on just as Bernanke said that he might just let the securities run-off upon the QE exit.
And what is that Fed decides to kind of put some of these Agency MBS out on repo? And what the impact would be on the funding costs? Sure.
So ever since the QE started and ever since the Fed has been buying assets the natural question will be how do you get out? And he's been answering it the same way since it started either we could sell the assets we could borrow against the assets or we just let the assets payoff.
This answer has been the same for years so no news there.
Those are the only three ways out.
Remember if his goal is not to increase liquidity but to decrease liquidity the sale or borrowing against it it's going to achieve the same thing.
You've been pulling liquidity out of the market.
So it's the standard answer it remains the same.
No new news there.
I guess I'm just wondering about the impact on the actual funding costs if the Fed was to put these out on repo? Again it's the same.
If you have a new competitor it incrementally would impact funding costs going up.
We've answered this question for many years on these phone calls.
Yes incrementally if the Fed became a competitor for repo funding then it would have an impact on agency repo funding costs.
I show no further questions in queue at this time.
Sir you may continue.
So at this point I would like to thank you for your continued interest in MFA and we look forward to speak with you next quarter.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen for attending today's conference.
This concludes the program.
You may now disconnect.
Good day.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the MFA Financial Inc.
First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
For the conference all participants are in a listen-only mode.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
With that being said turning the conference now to Ms.
Danielle Rosatelli Financial Analyst and Investor Relations.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
The information discussed on this conference call today may contain or refer to forward-looking statements regarding MFA Financial Inc.
which reflect management’s beliefs expectations and assumptions as to MFA’s future performance and operation.
When used statements that are not historical in nature including those containing words such as will believes expect anticipate estimate plan continue intend should could would may or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
These types of statements are subject to various known and unknown risks uncertainties assumptions and other factors including but not limited to those relating to changes in interest rates and the market value of MFA’s investment securities changes in the prepayment rates on the mortgage loans securing MFA’s investment securities changes in the default rates and management’s assumptions regarding default rates on the mortgage loans securing MFA’s MBS MFA’s ability to borrow to finance its assets.
Implementation of or changes in government regulations or programs affecting MFA’s business.
MFA’s ability to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes MFA’s ability to maintain its exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
MFA’s estimates regarding taxable income and the timing and amount of distributions to stockholders and risks associated with investing in real estate related assets including changes in business conditions and the general economy.
These and other risks uncertainties and factors including those described in MFA’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and other reports that it may file from time-to-time with the Securities and Exchange Commission could cause MFA’s actual results to differ materially from those projected expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements it makes.
For additional information regarding MFA’s use of forward-looking statements please see the relevant disclosure in the press release announcing MFA’s first quarter 2013 financial results.
Thank you for your time.
I would now like to turn this call over to Stewart Zimmerman MFA’s Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and welcome to MFA’s first quarter 2013 earnings call.
Joining this morning on the call are the senior officers of MFA.
Today we announced financial results for the first quarter ended March 31 2013 reaching financial results and other significant highlights for MFA include the following.
Our first quarter net income per common share of $0.21 and core earnings per common share of $0.20.
Book value per common share was $8.84 as of March 31 2013 compared to $8.99 at December 31 2012.
Excluding the impact of the $0.50 per share special dividend declared March 4 2013.
Book value would have increased in the quarter due primarily to continued appreciation within the non-agency MBS portfolio.
Relating to that as you might notice on the front page of the Wall Street Journal today it mentions housing market accelerates and again we believe that something that was very positive continued positive for MFA and our non-agency portfolio.
On April 30 2013 we paid our first quarter 2013 dividend of $0.22 per share of common stock to stockholders of record as of April 12 2013.
A combination of both home price appreciation and mortgage amortization has led to a decrease in the loan-to-value ratio for many of the mortgages underlying our non-agency portfolio.
Due to this lower LTV we have reduced our estimate of future losses within our non-agency portfolio.
As a result in the first quarter we transferred $34.5 million to accretable discount from credit reserve bringing the total transferred over the last nine months to of just sort of a $170 million.
This increase in accretable discount prospectively increases the yield on our non-agency mortgage back securities and will be realizing income over the life of the assets.
For the first quarter ended March 31 2013 we generated net income allocable to common stockholders of $75 million or $0.21 per share of common stock.
Core earnings for the first quarter were $72.3 million or $0.20 per share of common stock.
We continue to provide stockholders attractive returns to what we believe to be appropriate leverage investments in both agency and non-agency residential mortgage back securities.
At quarter end our debt to equity ratio was 3.1:1.
Our agency portfolio had an average amortized cost basis of a 103.4% of par as of March 31 2013 and generated a 2.42% yield in the first quarter.
Our non-agency portfolio had an average amortized cost of 73.2% of par as of March 31 2013 and generated a loss adjusted yield of 6.8% in the first quarter.
We believe MFA as an internally managed REIT continues to be a very efficient vehicle for delivering the benefits of residential mortgage back security investment to our stockholders.
And thank you for your continued interest in MFA financial.
And at this time I would like to open the call for questions.
(Operator Instructions) First one is from the line of Cheryl Tee.
Please go ahead.
Cheryl your line is open possibly take yourself off mute.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
Just a question first on the – I wondering if you could give some color on weighted average coupon rate on the agency portfolio this quarter.
With the CPR sort of flat I was surprised that the yields compressed to the degree comprised to the degree it did this quarter.
And so any color there would be helpful.
Hold on.
As we looking up the information as we speak probably another question will give… Sure.
I guess just to build on that if you could give us a sense of sort of where the more attractive opportunities are on the agency portfolio and what sort of yields or all-in costs you’re looking at in the current environment.
The answer on the agency coupon the coupon for the fourth quarter was $356 million and the coupon for the first quarter was $343 million so I think that explains the change.
Okay great.
And then on sort of the attractiveness of opportunities in the current market? On the agency side or the non-agency side? Both actually would be great.
Why don’t we start on the agency side? (Inaudible) will you.
Yes so on the agency side in the first quarter we were predominately investing in 15 years 15 or low loan balance securities.
Our view has been and continues to be that – we need to be cognizant of prepayment risk here.
And as we’ve put money to work there we’ve favored if you can call better from that securities which will have a lower prepayments and lower prepayment volatility.
The majority of the dollars have been put to work and the first quarter was in those prepayment protective securities on the 15 year side.
And on the non-agency side.
And on the non-agency side I think the investments that we’ve made are pretty similar to the investments that we’ve been making for the last year or more.
So no will change in that strategy.
Okay great.
Thank you.
You’re welcome.
Our next question is from Dan Altscher with FBR.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Question on the recent preferred issuance.
We’re going to take out call it the 96 or so out of the 200 that you race but for the remaining portion.
Can you give us a sense as to where you’re putting that to work what you think the relative returns are versus the incremental where that the coupon pickup on the 7.5s.
It’s basically the same ratio that we’ve had in the past.
Again as you know our portfolio consists of agency and non-agency securities and it will be a similar balance as you seen before.
Okay.
And then also the question on the credit release.
Was that the total the $34.5 million was that the total that was moved out of the credit reserve or is there any that was actually earned in the quarter through the lost adjusted yield.
That was release from credit reserve to incredible discount those are assumption changes.
Yes.
The other things that occurred during the quarter there were realized credit losses.
So those reduced the credit reserve that was about $50 million.
We increase the credit reserve from purchases by about $23 million and then we actually had some small sales that decreased by about $6 million.
And the other thing I would say is when you release that credit reserve it impacts prospectively over time.
So very little of that would have been actually realized during the first quarter but the benefit of that will be realized going forward over the remaining of these assets.
That’s right.
Actually that’s a good point Steve.
When we do that – we do that typically at the end of the second month of the quarter.
So it shows up for this quarter in March but it would not have shown up in January or February.
Right.
Okay good point.
Yes.
That explains kind of the delta like $74 million between the two cores of credit reserve.
And just a quick one if I can.
Can you give us sense of where you think the book value is [murking] now that weren’t to May on a fair value basis? Now we’ve seen prices come back.
What I’ll do is I will talk about maybe what we seen in non-agency pricing during the month of April.
And there is certainly up prices have been up its more difficult to buy securities now then it was a month ago.
That being said the volumes been somewhat light in April.
So I guess I would say prices are probably up a good point or so it’s possible that they are up more than that but I think it will take a little bit of testing a little bit more volume to sort of confirm these market levels.
Okay.
That’s great.
Thanks so much.
Sure.
Our next question is from Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Good morning everyone and thank you for taking my question.
As you look forward obviously there are a lot of wins helping you a lot home pricing et cetera the demand from securities? As you look forward for new reinvestment opportunities.
Can you give us some comment on what’s coming out of the GSC world they’ve been told to sort of offload your liquid assets I know they’ve put out tapes recently to get people to start looking at the potential for credit risk assets maybe you can get a sense of what kinds of return yields could come out of that conglomeration.
Henry I think there is still ways of on deciding how they’re going to lay off some of the credit.
So basically to say we are with the old treasury white paper.
And now we have a new secretary of the treasury there will be a new white paper and a sort of fall back to this option three where somehow they’re going to lay off part of the credit risk to private entities with some sort of crises insurance behind that.
Really thinking there has been gone what’s beyond that.
So it’s hard to say but we are completely prepared and we have the capabilities to analyze mortgage credit risk and to get paid for and to accept the credit as it makes sense.
And I think one of the things just to add to Bill’s remarks Henry have been in the fact that.
I mean we have been immersed in credit for years.
Now we’re not new to the game so in terms of being able to analyze credit on residentials.
I think we are at the top of the list.
So I think anything that comes on in the pike there will be opportunities for us and we do continue to look.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> But really as a waiting game given the state of affairs in D.C.
Yes that it.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> We have also been directed to coat offload illiquid assets which could include their non-agency holdings have using inventories coming out of Fannie or Freddie.
No not the date we haven’t.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> Great.
Well thank you very much and good quarter.
Thank you.
Thanks Henry.
And we’ll go to Steve DeLaney with JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Guys in the past you’ve actually commented on the – you alluded to the fact when you’re talking about book value that the non-agency portfolio gain value.
I know in the past you’ve actually kind of try to quantify that in your press release.
We get a little math this morning just based on the disclosed information your cost and your fair value and using the $73.2 million we’ve backed in the par but it looks like we’re getting an average fair value relative to par of about $85.4 million at March 31 versus $82.8 million.
So that’s just an average fair value gain of maybe 2.5 points in first quarter.
Does that sound reasonable or realistic to what you saw? I think that’s in the ballpark.
I’m just checking.
I think your numbers are actually thought on Steve.
As of December 31 the weighted average mark was $82.8 million.
Yes.
And as you’ll see in our Q that comes out today its $85.4 million.
So you hit the number right on the head.
Yes.
Those are exactly what we calculated.
So about 2.5 points and on 6.4 billion 2.5 points 160 million and you’ve got 358 million shares that would looks like $0.45 or so.
So you would have had a pretty meaningful book value increase were it not for the special dividend.
That is correct.
Okay.
And I think we can take the Craig’s comments of a point or so and apply to say math going forward.
Why things are - I would like to just complement you guys on we are so used to seeing yield compression and spread compression and I just that this method of being conservative on the reserve and they’re having the ability to release.
I mean we don’t see many earnings reports where the non-agency yield went up from 670 in 4Q to 680 in 1Q.
It’s just not you don’t see that in mortgage REIT land these days.
So congratulations on that.
And I guess the second part of that is if the $35 million relief in 1Q really didn’t benefit 1Q very much.
I assume we should expect that all things are same that 680 has some room to move higher if we look out the next couple of quarters.
Yes Steve it’s a good point they’re actually there is two things that happen.
So when we adjust those yields at the end of the second month of the quarter we take into account any changes in our credit reserve and accretable discount.
We also reset the yields based on the forward curve and for the first time probably in more than two years we actually got a small increase in the yields due to the forward curve.
So I can tell you that the non-agency yield in the month of March was 692.
692 for the month of – just one single month.
Correct.
Excellent.
Okay.
I appreciate that.
And one final thing I’ll let somebody else hop on.
The FHFA there’s news reports this morning that Obama is going to nominate Mel Watt and we’ll see where that process goes.
But there has been a lot of chatter and I’ve talked to people who’ve been in the West Wing in the last two weeks and they are still focused on reside but it seems like there is beside you figuring out a way the GFEs could help with reside and product label.
ARM-MBS loans and private label securities is definitely on the table.
I don’t actually know how that we can transfer that risk for the GFEs but do you have any concern looking at your ARM-MBS portfolio your non-agency portfolio that there could be some program put in place where those private label loans could be reside but you as the bondholder would be asked to receive something less than par when the loan is reside.
I guess what I’m referring to is something that would be like a short reside as it can to a short sale.
Appreciate it if you have any if you all are talking to anybody about those various proposals and have any views.
Thanks.
The only chance that we’ve seen if anyone forcing us to take less than the pace amount has been eminent domain discussions which really haven’t gotten for some no Steve.
To the extent that Fannie and Freddie wanted to make available to people with high LTVs government guarantee mortgage its probably only be a positive to us and sort of HARP for people who are underwater on private labels.
We’ve heard no discussion up the people forcing us to take any haircut.
All right great.
I appreciate that.
And one other thing I want to add Steve.
You’ve made a very good point when you calculated our mark-to-market which is out 85% of par.
So that’s important when you look at how much book value does change to know that these are assets that trade in mid-80s not assets that trade in the mid-60s.
Yes got it because we do see big price difference obviously between the more subprime stuff and the more near prime stuff.
So we’ll try to be [attentive] to that going forward on our book value estimates.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Our next question is from Douglas Harter with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I was hoping you could talk about how you see kind of the opportunities between sort of still investing in legacy non-agency versus kind of new jumbo securitization.
How you be the return profile of those two assets? Sure.
So when you talk about investing in the new securitizations of new clean originations.
There is two sides to it.
You can buy the loans and securitize it on the bottom fees or by the top AAA pieces which have lower yields.
Doug which part are you asking about? Thinking more of owning the credit fees.
So when we solve the ROEs on the credit piece depending on the execution of the last securitization deal that’s happened.
We see the ROEs comparable but with a lot more implicit interest rate risk if you’re along to the fixed rate and you have the bottom piece and you walked out.
Could be a very long asset where the underline mortgages to might only yield [U33] in the quarter.
So we still see comparable ROEs but we still like the seasoned non-agency trade better.
Doug the other thing I would add is terms of upside from our base case yield the upside on that bottom piece on the new securitization there really is going an upside because most of those are pretty much prices no credit losses.
So you assume that you get back part and as Bill pointed out it’s a very long asset.
On the non-agency side there is certainly a lot more room for credit improvement home price depreciation loans are amortizing there could be various settlements from various banks that pull through these trusts.
We like the potential upside on the legacy non-agency as well.
That makes sense.
And I was just wondering on the dividend could you tell us what portion of the current dividend was related to kind of prior access taxable income? So Doug this is Steve Yarad.
The $0.20 dividend that we declared for the first quarter.
We think that’s all added back to 2012 and you’ll see some disclosure in this in our 10-Q which will be filed later today but we still think that’s based on the dividends we’ve declared to-date.
We think that our estimate of taxable income which might be finalized now until September but we still think that taxable income will exceed the dividend is declared to-date.
So that would imply that there could be a further special dividend coming.
You can make that implication.
You would say that we have to distribute yet our 2013 taxable income by September 2014.
Got it.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Joe Hudak with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good morning.
It’s a question regarding your comment about projected defaults approximately twice the amount of the underlying I guess 60 days delinquent where is that run historically I mean I guess the implication here is obviously as home price.
Can you appreciate there is more accretion into earnings.
And I’m just trying to get a sense for the dynamic between that ratio over time and how that impacts the not necessarily reserve releases but I guess accretion of that the reserve back into the yield.
It’s hard to say it’s hard to answer that because remember that our liquidations if we’re liquidating approximately twice our 60 plus day delinquency bucket that those are liquidations over the life of the security.
So it’s over the next 28 years or so.
But what I would tell you is when we make adjustments to our credit reserve we’re really focused primarily on those loans that I would categorize as high risk of loans.
The current loans that are high LTV loans and as we continue to see those loans amortized and the home price appreciations so LTVs decreased the bucket of those loans get smaller and as each quarter and each year goes by we have another year of pay history.
And we added a table we added a couple of lines to the table what we call our cycle table in the queue which show you the percentage of loans that have always been current.
So life time never missed the payment and then the percentage of loans that have not missed the payment over the last year.
So those are things that we obviously be taken into consideration.
So it’s a somewhat slow process.
I realize that but we’re looking for evidence that we’ve really can’t reduce these future loss assumptions.
Okay.
So Joe just that we are clear it’s not that we double the delinquent loans to come up with our assumption of what’s going to default.
We calculate them separately and then we for the illustration purposes we compare them and wanted to replace the other but they’re calculated separately and the calculation of what’s going to default is based on loan to values characteristics of the home borrower.
So it’s just a coincidence of two to one and there for illustration that ratio will change over time.
That’s a good point.
I guess maybe another question maybe a better question is of the projected default you guys in your queue breakout that total how much is current versus delinquent because I guess then we could get a sense for where directionally you think that as you said a lot of these loans are paying but they have high LTVs and as they come down that’s what triggers the lot of the reserve accretion.
Well we show you in that cycle table.
We show you the percentage of loans that are 60 plus days delinquent and that number has come down pretty smoothly over the last year year and a half or so I’m sure it was probably up around 21% a year ago it was 19.3% at December 31 and it’s currently at 18.5%.
Okay but if I look at your total projected default.
Can I – am I able to tell how much of the – what bucket is comes from the delinquent bucket versus currently paying bucket.
Well we actually we don’t.
I don’t believe we publicize our total projected default.
There is a table in the investor deck that we filed periodically before equity conferences where we show our 20 top holdings and we do show the projected defaults for the 20 largest holdings.
And again it’s probably safe to assume that it’s roughly similar for the entire portfolio.
So I think that will get updated the next time we update that slide but I think for the most part loans that are 60 plus days delinquent we don’t assume that any of those loans get saved.
This new data that will represent (inaudible) always current.
It’s been in the last I think two.
Yes so if you and we’ll be filing the 10-Q later today but if you look to the prior filings we do bucket it we show you the credit reserves by vintage and FICO score.
We show you the always current.
I think you could interpolate into it.
And if it’s not clear we could change the scores going forward but hopefully 10-Q table will help with this question.
Okay.
Now we’ll look at the Q later today and see if we can interpolate that.
I guess just a clarification of previous question regarding the comparative opportunity between seasoned non-agency and the jumbo securitization I think where I heard you guys say is the risk-adjusted returns is that you find more attractive in the seasoned non-agency.
Absolutely yes that’s correct.
Joe think about at this way.
So the collateral would be considered pristine.
Correct so it’s low LTV high FICO.
Yes.
Therefore when you buy the loans you’re not getting paid a lot to accept credit risk.
You’re getting paid to accept interest rate risk in our mind because theoretically there is almost no credit risk there that’s how people looking at the market.
Where we talking about the same thing.
I’m talking about the discount the subordinated piece in the jumbo.
The subordinate fees yes it’s we still prefer the seasoned non-agency yes.
Okay yes I think that’s more apples-to-apples comparison relative to on the credit piece.
I agree that the AAA portion is all interest rate risk.
Well no I’m also saying the bottom pieces are too because it extent all the collateral it doesn’t have much credit risk.
It is very low loss assumptions.
Otherwise you wouldn’t be buying these mortgage loans.
Right.
You’re selling the AAA you own the – them so you’ve magnified the loss assumptions but you had very low assumptions.
I still think you are getting paid for interest rate risk.
That’s our view.
And most of those are third year fixed rate most of those deals.
Yes correct I mean I guess my collaboration is that based on deals currently getting done in the marketplace if you look at A large issuer that’s in the marketplace for example as you are getting with some loss assumptions you are getting an IRR somewhere between 15% to 20% with a 15 CPR assumption.
But again that’s their production what’s available you guys to buy you are still more – it’s little more attractive in the season Non-Agency portion non-jumbos what you are saying.
Yes.
That’s correct.
Yes.
And in our analysis with that sale yet give you the same answer you proved.
We don’t necessarily sell 15% to 20%.
Okay.
No I was telling people have different loss assumptions and things like that.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Mike Widner with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys I’m going to follow-up on some of the questions they’ve already asked both from John Steve and some others.
Can you talk a little bit about the agency side and what you see there today as far as the most attractive opportunities whether it’s continuing to buy season collateral or season bonds or new issue markets getting tight but the season market is pretty tight too? So just what do you like today on that side? Well you are asking about the agency side right.
Yes I mean specifically on the agency side Okay.
Not come back to the non-agency side and again I mean it’s I think you guys like your existing portfolio very much but it’s very difficult to replicate that.
So for incremental capital or for putting capital back to work when stuff pays down what do you specifically like buying tomorrow? Right so this is (inaudible) so on the agency side and I guess I alluded to this earlier.
So in the first quarter predominately where we put money to work was on the 15-year side and in prepayment projected collateral predominately lower loan balance but also some higher LTV paper.
And this will also be there as the same as it has been over the last couple of years is that we feel that on the agency side there is a significant amount of prepayment risk and it makes sense to try to minimize that by our client securities that we’ll prepay at a lower rate than from generic or generic securities.
So that’s kind of what philosophy has been and I don’t think that would change a lot going forward.
I mean we had a little bit of backup in the first quarter.
So that type of paper fell out of favor but we value right back and I think it’s probably even prudent to kind of stick to that strategy and try to minimize the volatility on the prepayment side.
But you also mentioned some of the seasons that we had.
I mean we are happy with some of the seasoned hybrids that we own.
We own them close to par and yields on them are obviously higher than the current yield to the marketplace.
And what that allows us as well to do is basically we have a very short portfolio in terms of duration.
So on the agency side our interest rate risk is very limited and we think the mix that we have in terms of some of the prepayment projected securities on the 15-year side and the short duration on the hybrid is a very powerful mix.
And so I guess specifically on those 15 year prepay protective that stuff is not cheap anymore either and I guess what we see some other guys in this space some of your peers doing or things like focusing on dollar role markets whether it’s 15 years or 30 years and then there are some others that are continuing to press forward in the ARM market 71s mostly but it’s going to be a tough market.
So I mean I don’t know maybe give us a quick comment you really feel like that’s the best place to be for your strategy right now on the – like you said 15 year prepay protected? I mean how do you feel about the other options? Well what I will say is things changed pretty quickly and it really depends on price at any given time and whatever the market is offering to you at any given time.
I mean the prepayment protected securities they are not by any means always the best vehicle of choice.
Sometimes the hybrid will be a better choice and sometimes even just generic security if the payoff for the prepayment protected securities goes too high.
So it really depends on the pricing in terms of way we allocate capital but I do believe though kind of fundamentally that – the aggregate if you think about the big picture that the government the fed they are all kind of leaning towards increasing refinancing.
So over time it is going to be the best strategy to try to minimize your exposure to that and kind of minimize prepayment risk.
And Mike we’re just replacing runoff; we’re certainly not growing that portfolio at the moment.
I understand.
So let me ask you a related question going back to what you said about jumbos I mean if you are buying the residuals on the jumbos you’re still effectively buying an interest rate risk security and so have you contemplated how you view the attractiveness of that as an interest rate security versus a new issue 15 year or whatever you want to look at on the Agency side? So I mean if we intellectually split your portfolio between interest rate risk and credit risk agencies are no longer the only thing that you can do on the interest rate risk so I mean why not some of the jumbo subordinates instead of agencies to replace runoff on the Agency side? Good out-of-the-box question but for us they are not at all substitutes because that would not – for the 40 Act we think it’s cleanest to own the whole (inaudible).
But we are and also the bottom piece is much much longer because you’re locked out and it’s a 30-year collateral very very little coupon with new origination to high borrowers.
So we do look at that but right now we prefer agencies.
Yes really tough to put 7.5 times whoever done those anyway but it’s been interesting share of thought.
One final one I guess I’d ask you is as you look at that prepayments on your non-agencies so far – across different parts of the country we’ve seen pretty different home price appreciation trends.
And if I look at your portfolio it looks like on the non-agency piece we actually saw CPRs step down this quarter but just wondering if you’ve seen any market differences across different geographies if that has any implications for both the yields and the CPRs on your non-agencies as we go forward given that home prices seem to keep moving higher.
So here I think they ticked down slightly.
Again the CPR on non-agencies is a combination of the voluntary prepay rates and then the default rates times one minus the loss severity.
I think as far as refinancing on non-agencies the thing you’ve to keep in mind is for people to refinance they need to be able to get the new mortgage.
So we might see that their LTV has come down from 110% to high-90s or so but it’s unlikely that those jumbo borrowers can refinance that 97% LTV unless they pay it down to an 80% LTV.
So I think we probably need to see a little bit more LTV improvement before we look to revise our prepayment assumptions on non-agencies but the trend has certainly been helpful so far.
Great.
I appreciate all the comments and color guys and big quarter and good performance.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question from Chris Donat Sandler O'Neill.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
It’s a small question relative to a lot of other things but just within the scope of the $34.5 million that moved from the credit reserve to the accretable discount I thought you mentioned that $6 million of that was related to sales and I’d just been curious what you sold in and why in your Non-Agency portfolio? That wasn’t related to $34.5 million.
That was related to all the changes in the total federal reserve.
Got it.
(inaudible) realized losses new purchases versus… Yes.
So I don’t recall.
I feel it wasn’t a lot.
There were maybe two securities that we sold early in the quarter.
Again it’s just looking at market pricing and our assumptions versus market assumptions implied by market prices.
So when we see an opportunity where it looks like that our credit assumptions for instance show us a 3% yield and the market’s trading at 4% we reexamine those credit assumptions.
And if we standby our assumptions and really do believe that at that market price the security yield is 3% then we are inclined to sell that and buy one that we believe yields 4%.
But that’s – it’s usually exception rather than the rule.
Again we’ve tried to build the portfolio and we feel very comfortable with it but it doesn’t mean we don’t take advantage of opportunities when we see them.
Got it.
Yes I’m just trying to get at sort of the level of discipline you are using with the price signals you get versus your strategy.
So that helps me understand it.
I would say it’s very disciplined.
Yes it surely looks that way.
Got it.
Thank you.
And we’ll go to Rick Shane with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
Thanks for taking my question this morning.
I just wanted to follow-up on the comments about speeds on the Non-Agencies.
What are the other elements of your portfolio is it’s pretty concentrated in or not concentrated but it's skewed towards hybrid securities is there any sense that one of the reasons that speeds haven’t picked up there is that those customers have just in plan rates down and as you see any back up in rates some of those customers will come back in or some of those borrowers will come back in to having tried to bottom tick the rate cycle? It’s a good point Rick it is certainly possible again I think – I think the LTV is really the biggest consideration and while we may believe that they’re much less likely to default if they have some equity in the home some equity doesn’t necessarily translate to an easy refinance.
The other thing to keep in mind relative to that is you write those hybrid coupons have reset down.
So those hybrid coupons are probably three-ish on post reset hybrids at some point and that most of them are now amortizing so they had a five year – another amortizing.
So at some point they actually could refinance to a similar coupon 30-year fixed and lower the payment because a 30-year fixed will have a 30-year amortization and they might have stay a 22 year amortization at the same rate and that will lower the payment.
But again it’s really going to be driven by LTV.
Got it.
So – and it’s clear at this point you guys really thinks it’s structural and I didn’t understand that coming in it’s more of a structural issue at this point than it is a rate issue  I think so yes.
Okay great.
Thank you for the clarification.
One other thing to point out when you look at this CPR for non-agencies a portion of that is default.
So not all these – so the fact that CPR goes up or down it’s not necessarily a good or bad thing.
Voluntary pre-pays are very good but a large portion of this 15% just little less than half are default.
So the CPR could be dropping that could be very good thing.
Got it.
Yes I started to pick up on that when Craig went through the map on the default impact on CPRs as well.
But then you’ll see this in the queue the three-month voluntary prepaid rate on the Non-Agency portfolio in December was 7.9% and it’s 8.3% in the first quarter.
Actually the voluntary actually did pick up slightly.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
The next question is from Arren Cyganovich with Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Could you tell us what the current LTV is at the Non-Agency portfolio? I think we disclose the original LTV.
I can’t really give you our current estimated LTV because it’s somewhat subjective number.
We make assumptions about real estate prices.
We make assumptions about original appraisals that may or may not have been inflated.
But I think I’m just looking at the [cycle tier].
Well I think we do show what the original LTV was.
That’s about 70 but we’ve… Yes I guess I was just thinking about in terms of if you had a current LTV would make it easier for us to look at your projections of defaults and loss severity relative to the changes in HPI.
So if you don’t have it that’s fine.
I think we’ve had in the past that we believe with amortization that’s occurring in home price appreciation that the weighted average portfolio LTV is probably a little bit below 100 right now.
And I’m not sure that really helps you with those loss assumptions before really what you need to know for loss assumptions is what percentage of the loans are still above 100 or above 120 right because those are your more at-risk securities.
So those are loans that are current today but still have very high LTVs.
Got you.
You can almost use the headline numbers and get close because basically the LTVs had origination in 2006 and 2007 was 70% LTV.
So you assume home prices went down 35% and now they are up 9% basically you are going to solve for the LTV number for the whole portfolio but as Craig points out it's the outliers that drive the defaults Right.
Okay.
Thank you.
Welcome.
(Operator Instructions) And we do have a follow-up from Douglas Harter of Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Hey Craig I just wanted to follow-up on your comments about the yields for Non-Agency going forward.
So if it was 692 I think was the number you gave should we assume that that falls just given the interest rates have fallen sort of in the second quarter to date?  Not necessarily.
692 was our one-month yield for the month of March.
Okay.
Okay and that number changed from the prior numbers because the credit reserve release occurs at the end of February beginning of March and we also reset all those yields based on the forward and we did actually gain a few basis points from the forward which is the first time in several years.
So I think the way to look at it is it’s 692 in March you start off April around 692 what changes it’s not so much what interest rates are today that change that because we’re using the forward curve.
But we won’t reset those yields based on any forward curve until the end of May and so the first month that you’d see those new yields would be the month of June.
Got it.
So if rates sort of were where they are today June could be reset lower because of the forward curve but for May and – April and May it’s based on the March.
That’s right.
And obviously to the extent we have new purchases that could lower the yield somewhat.
Right.
You don’t know how loans – which loans payoff.
So if 9% yielding loans have big prepayments that could lower it if lower yielding bonds prepay it could raise it.
So there are a lot of moving pieces.
Right that makes sense.
Thank you.
Sure.
And to the presenters there are no additional questions in queue.
Well we thank you for your continued interest in MFA Financial.
We look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen that does conclude your conference for today.
Thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to MFA Financial Inc.'s Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
At this time all lines are in a listen-only mode.
Later there will be an opportunity for your questions and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I'll now turn the conference over Analyst Danielle Rosatelli.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
The information discussed on this conference call today may contain or refer to forward-looking statements regarding MFA Financial Inc.
which reflects management's beliefs expectations and assumptions as to MFA’s future performance and operations.
When used statements that are not historical in nature including those containing words such as will believe expect anticipate estimate plan continue intend should could would may or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
These types of statements are subject to various known and unknown risks uncertainties assumptions and other factors including but not limited to those relating to changes in interest rates and the market value of MFA’s investment securities; changes in the prepayment rates on the mortgage loans securing MFA’s investment securities; changes in the default rates and management’s assumptions regarding default rates on the mortgage loans securing MFA’s MBS; MFA’s ability to borrow to finance its assets; implementation of or changes in government regulations or programs affecting MFA’s business; MFA’s ability to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes; MFA’s ability to maintain its exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940; MFA’s estimates regarding taxable income and the timing and amount of distributions to stockholders; and risks associated with investing in real estate related assets including changes in business conditions and the general economy.
These and other risks uncertainties and factors including those described in MFA’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 and other reports that it may file from time-to-time with the Securities and Exchange Commission could cause MFA’s actual results to differ materially from those projected expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements it makes.
For additional information regarding MFA’s use of forward-looking statements please see the relevant disclosure in the press release announcing MFA’s second quarter 2013 financial results.
Thank you for your time.
I would now like to turn this call over to Stewart Zimmerman MFA’s Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and welcome to MFA’s second quarter 2013 earnings call.
Joining me this morning on the call are Bill Gorin President; Stephen Yarad Chief Financial Officer; Ron Freydberg Executive Vice President; Craig Knutson Executive Vice President; Terence B.
Meyers Senior Vice President; Harold Schwartz Senior Vice President and General Counsel; Kathleen Hanrahan Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; Gudmundur Kristjansson First Vice President.
Today we announced financial results for the second quarter ended June 30 2013 recent financial results and other significant highlights for MFA include the following; our second quarter net income per common share of $0.19 and core earnings per common share of $0.19.
On July 31 2013 we paid our second quarter 2013 dividend of $0.22 per share of common stock to stockholders of record as of July 12 2013.
On August 1 2013 our Board of Directors declared a special cash dividend of $0.28 per share of common stock.
This dividend will be paid on August 30 2013 to stockholders of record on August 12 2013.
After the special dividend we will have distributed approximately $155 million in dividends in 2013 not allocated to prior years.
The company has until the filing of its 2013 tax return due not later than September 15 2014 to declare the distribution of any 2013 REIT taxable income not previously distributed.
The company is currently working on completing a taxable income calculation for the first six months of 2013 and we expect that we will be able to provide you with the calculation of taxable income for the first six months of 2013 at the time of our third quarter earnings presentation.
As a result we are not at this time able to give you guidance or an estimate of MFA’s 2013 taxable income.
Book value per common share declined to $8.19 as of June 30 2013 from $8.84 as of March 31 2013.
Increased uncertainty about the pace and amount of future Federal Reserve asset purchases impacted the value of our mortgaged backed securities during the second quarter of 2013.
Strong home price appreciation continues to decrease the loan-to-value for many of the mortgages underlying our Non-Agency portfolio and we believe that due to underlying mortgage loan amortization and based on regional home price appreciation the loan-to-value of mortgage loans underlying our Non-Agency MBS has declined from approximately 105% to approximately 90% since January of 2012.
As a result we continue to reduce our estimated future losses.
In the second quarter we transferred $54.8 million to accretable discount from credit reserve bringing the total transferred over the last 12 months to $224.3 million.
This increase in accretable discount prospectively increases yield on our Non-Agency mortgaged backed securities and we will be realizing income over the life of the assets.
Due primarily to increases in accretable discount and to changes in the forward curve the loss-adjusted yield on our Non-Agency portfolio increased from 6.80% in the first quarter to 7.15% in the second quarter.
I thank you for your continued interest in MFA Financial.
And at this time I would like to open the call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from Steve Delaney with JMP Securities.
Go ahead please.
Thank you and thanks.
Good morning everyone.
I guess we should say solid quarter all things considered with what you went through in the bond market in the second quarter.
My first question has to do with the indicated fair value of the Non-Agency portfolio at June 30.
In page 2 of the press release there is the fair value and the face amount and the math there works out to $84.2 as far as an average dollar price that would appear to be up slightly from $82.8 at March am I interpreting that correctly? Craig.
Yeah Steve I think that if you look at the FICO table which is around page 80 of our Q for March I think you’ll see that the average fair value price for Non-Agencies was a little over $85.
Got it.
In the Q that we’ll file today you’ll see that it’s $84.3.
Okay that makes sense.
My table here from March may have a better number.
But I’ll go to that table you referred to and we were only expecting 1 points to 2 points given the quality of your bonds anyway which I guess really brings me to my real question.
We’re now having to face higher rates for the first time in several years and I think we’ve always viewed the Non-Agency book as credit assets and you know back when things had $60 and $70 prices we thought that they had maybe negative duration or at worst no duration.
Now we are up into mid-80s.
I’m just wondering as we go forward from here and even thinking about the price action in June we hear the terms spread widening thrown around on all types of mortgage assets these days.
And I’m just wondering if part of what’s going on is that the market is starting to look at these bonds in a positive duration expectation to them rather than minimal duration if you could comment on that and how that sort of might impact your view towards future price appreciation.
And we also noticed you added some long dated swaps I’m just curious if adding the swaps you may have in the mind not just the Agency book but maybe this appreciating Non-Agency book? Sorry for the long-winded question.
Well Steve thank you for the questions and thank you for also answering the question.
As you know because you’ve paid a lot attention to us over the last numbers of years.
The asset prices for Non-Agencies were a lot lower and what that meant was the expected yields were a lot higher than yields on non-credit sensitive assets.
As a result Non-Agency prices were not correlated to changes in market interest rates.
Now this made a lot of sense because in the periods of time when rates did trend up over the last couple of years that was generally accompanied by an improvement in economic expectations.
And therefore the market priced in more positive scenarios for Non-Agencies.
In addition because of a very wide risk premiums spreads can tighten to allow Non-Agencies to hold value despite increases in interest rates.
Now Fed actions have helped to increase the prices of all financial assets over the last couple of years.
But more significantly for Non-Agencies there has been very strong mortgage credit fundamentals there has been increasing home prices decline to fall stable severities and high voluntary prepays.
As of June we sort of reached the point where there is increased uncertainty about future Federal Reserve actions and Non-Agency prices have become more volatile and I think you mentioned the term credit spreads have widened.
We sort of agree with where you are leading.
Non-Agency assets have become more interest rate sensitive and in fact we do believe the exhibited positive duration now.
The good news is the majority of our Non-Agencies our hybrids and even better news the majority of those hybrids the majority of our Non-Agencies are actually in the one-year reset period.
So while there is positive duration it’s not a high number and we think across the Non-Agency portfolio the duration is probably 1.5.
As a result in your ride we now believe there is more interest rate sensitivity across the entire MFA portfolio.
And as a result we did add swaps in the month of July.
LLC</strong> And there is look to be – just looking at your blended swap tenant rate; it looked to be relatively long swaps maybe as long as 10 years is that correct? Yeah that is correct.
Gudmundur Yes.
so we added about – I’m going to go through or go back to the second quarter.
We also started adding a loan related swaps towards the end of the second quarter.
We added about $700 million of loan related swaps there an average life of about 5.
And then in July we added about $950 million at an average life of 6.5.
And you are right they range from being 5 year swaps to 10 year swaps.
So as a result as of the end of July our calculated duration Gudmundur? So our calculated duration including the 150 on the Non-Agencies at the end of July is about 1.25% so 125 basis points.
LLC</strong> Okay your net duration.
Thank you and one final very quick follow-up.
Craig your average price on your Non-Agency could you give us sort of the wings there roughly what would be the sort of the low range of dollar prices and what would be the high range around that $80 $85 figure? I would say the probably the lowest prices are and again I’m sure there is a bond there were bonds that have lower prices but I would say that the low band is probably in the 70s so maybe the low 70s.
LLC</strong>  Okay.
And the high is probably in the low 90s.
LLC</strong>  Low 90s.
All right thank you guys so much for the color.
I appreciate it and good job keep it up.
Thanks.
Thank you   Thank you.
Our next question is from Douglas Harter with Credit Suisse.
Go ahead please.
LLC</strong>  Thanks.
I was hoping you could talk about the decline you saw on the Agency MBS yields how much of that was from resets and what impact premium amortization if any had on that? Hi this is Gudmundur.
So our coupon as the quarter went down 11 basis points.
And the increased amortization costs a 12 basis point decline.
So I guess it’s half to lower coupons but that also includes new investments lower coupons.
LLC</strong> So given the move in rates would it be reasonable to expect that some of that drag from the higher premium amortization should either go away or could reverse itself in the coming quarters? Well I mean mortgage rates have gone up by about 100 basis points over the last few months.
And when you look at mortgage refinancing applications they’ve gone down significantly.
So I think it’s safe to say that prepayments will decline going forward.
Doug you actually bring up a point that we’ve been focusing on the trend of the yield on agencies has been down for mortgage reach in general for the last couple of years and we’re included.
And now in this new interest rate environment we no longer would have a down trend on yields due to the fact that we are replacing assets at lower yields.
So for example our yield for agencies in the second quarter was 2.19% and we can now invest at higher yields in 2.19%.
LLC</strong> So in that new yield environment Bill or anyone how do you view the attractiveness of Agency with higher yields but higher volatility and interest rates? I think that… I’ll do it.
We still view the Agency sector in a positive manner but again we really kind of step to our knitting.
So again I would think as Gudmundur might have mentioned you will see the queue where what we’ve replaced are basically either 15 year or some of your hybrids and again we like to accept that we think that’s where there is value.
LLC</strong>  And I guess just Stewart on a relative value how would you compare Agency to Non-Agency today? Yeah that’s interesting.
But we like both sectors.
But I think the Agency side we found a little bit more attractive over the last couple of weeks and months but that doesn’t mean to say that we still haven’t purchased Non-Agencies what we have.
LLC</strong> Great I appreciate that.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Jason Arnold with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
LLC</strong> Hey good morning guys.
Just a follow-up on the last question would you say that from a capital allocation perspective would you be putting 50% of new capital to work in the Agency side or more kind of how would you break that out in terms of relative attractiveness again on that question? Well again there isn’t Jason thanks for the question but there isn’t a magic number.
But again we look Douglas asked the question a moment ago where there is relative value.
and again as you know vis-à-vis we have to a certain percentage in where we’d call good real estate assets.
So there are limitations.
So again it’s where we see value and again we are seeing value on the agency side.
but again as Craig has also said we’ve been able to fund in rich bonds that have really set us very well.
So I can’t give you the absolute answer that you’re looking for I’m sorry.
LLC</strong> Yeah that’s good color.
As you said I mean certainly better prices these days for sure on the Agency side relative to where we were a few months ago.
But my other question I guess was hopefully slow steady ramp to home price improvement here over time.
could you envision your $1.3 billion credit reserve embedded in the Non-Agency side if your broke eventually being say 50% or more released and then maybe could you update us on the current average delinquencies on the Non-Agency and in kind of your loss assumptions there please? Thanks.
So as far as what we do to that credit reserve going forward.
I can’t really speculate I mean you see that over the last year we’ve released money of each quarter but it really depends on the performance of those bonds for the last three six nine months or so.
So as LTVs have continued to improve basically what we’ve done is we’ve decreased our assumption of future defaults on ones that are current today.
So those are loans that are current today that may have high LTVs as those LTVs decline or predictions for future defaults of current mortgages today goes down.
As far as delinquency on the portfolio 60 plus days delinquent is 18.3%.
I don’t have the exact number but I think if you look a year ago that number was probably 21% or 22%.
so clearly we’ve seen that come down.
More importantly you would see in the transition rates go down as well.
So all good but way too soon to speculate on future credit reserve changes.
LLC</strong> Okay it makes sense.
Yeah I was just thinking of as you mentioned going from 105 to 90 on LTV if that number is suddenly again totally speculative could or could not happen but two years from now going from say 90 to 70 or something like that what sort of thoughts you would have around the credit release there? Again that’s not good but what we worry about are the tails.
LLC</strong> Yeah.
So the average might be 105 to 90 but there’s still plenty of loans that have LTVs higher than 100.
LLC</strong> Gotcha.
So those are the ones that we’re concerned about in terms of current loans today that could default in the future.
But Jason I think your point and the point I’d like to make is that what we’ve seen across the portfolio is that the housing values have increased a lot amongst our portfolio I won’t say that we’re doing very good about that.
And again that will be accreted and he’s back into the company over time that would lighten the asset.
Jason the other thing I would add is we’ve also seen voluntary speeds pick up on Non-Agencies.
and I’ve always said that I think that’s much more a function of the LTV than it is mortgage rates.
So these people are now going to position where they can refinance without writing a check because their LTV is down to 80% or 85%.
So I think you’ll continue to see that drives prepayment speeds and I think the LTV outweighs mortgage rate.
So yes mortgage rates are higher than they were a few months ago but I don’t really think that’s affected non-agencies materially.
LLC</strong>  Makes sense yeah.
I think you guys are on a great spot with that portfolio.
so congrats and thanks for the answers there.
I appreciate it.
Thanks Jason.
Thank Jason.
Thank you.
We have a question from Joel Houck with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
LLC</strong> Yeah good morning.
I guess my question is more of a philosophical one and that is how transitory do you think the kind of the correlation we saw later in the second quarter between Non-Agency pricing and rates going up? It’s going to be because the thesis we start anyway on names like MFA the Non-Agency credit book would also do well on a rising rate strengthening housing environment.
I think that’s intact let us be curious to see your viewpoints on when you think that correlation starts to dissipate or if it’s kind of stay here for the foreseeable future? So people can always debate philosophies and we could be right or wrong but so we try to look at that way which we try to quantify to the extent we can.
and clearly when the assets rated at 72 or 73 which is our average cost basis.
there is less correlation and as we get to the mid-80s there is more correlation.
That’s pretty quantitative.
but no matter what answer we decide upon what’s very important is even if these were Agency assets; you would still consider them lower durations because we really did purchase assets which were [5.1s 7.1s 10.1s] that were issued seven years ago.
The majority of our Non-Agencies or one-year reset asset even if these were agencies Joel I think you would be saying gee these are really low duration assets.
The fact that there are non-Agencies we enforce with that argument.
so the majority is Non-Agencies probably have a duration of 0.5 that’s the grouping that’s within one year of reset.
so we don’t have to – even if we defer it on the philosophy I think the numbers would get you to the point where the duration is probably 1.5 with added swaps and probably that’s the right duration going forward despite what the Fed does.
LLC</strong> Yeah that’s a very good point.
I guess I hadn’t been taking that step further but you have a very short duration kind of asset strategy regardless of whether it’s Agency Non-Agency and as others did you took up the hedge ratio I guess is that something given kind of where you’re at you would look to move back down and once volatility subside or do you just say look we’re comfortable with where the net duration is right now we’re going to look that run as it is? Yeah.
I would have to say it’s the latter because we were always going to approach the point where the Non-Agency prices have moved up so much that they would be adding durations.
So really it’s not so much the interest of the Fed statements or communications in June.
We were getting close to having to start to hedge Non-Agencies anyway because as I said the prices went from 72 to mid 80s and hopefully higher than that.
So I think what we did is permanent.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
Thanks Bill.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Daniel Furtado with Jefferies &amp; Company.
Go ahead please.
Hi.
Can you hear me? Yes we hear fine.
Great.
This is Martin Kemnec in for Dan Furtado thanks for my question.
First just a clarify question on book value.
Is it safe to assume that the August special dividend is not included in the second quarter end book value?  Yeah it’s correct.
Yes.
Okay.
Thanks great.
and then have you guys given any thought to investing in the new Freddie Mac risk sharing securities? We’ve looked at it we certainly find an interesting security.
but at this point we haven’t made a decision to invest in those.
Okay great.
And then I guess looking forward what are your expectations for basis risk in the market over the next quarter or two I mean you guys are expecting widening there or tightening?   You’re taking the difference between Agencies and Non-Agencies or just the market in general?  Just on the basis whereas I guess the movement in between your hedges and the assets if you have any color there?  Do you wonder any feelings?   Well I mean I would say on the Agency side stuff has lightened to a point where the risk reward is more compelling today than it was three to four months ago.
So I do feel more comfortable about the basis risk today than I did three to four months ago.
I think that I leave it at that.
Okay.
And then have you guys contemplated bringing on additional hopeful credit assets that could kind of reduce your percentage of Agency MBS that you have to qualify for the hopeful tests? We monitor that very very closely.
and we’re comfortable where we are and then when we buy as an example when we buy any particular asset we’re always looking at where we are on the percentage basis as you know it’s got to be at least 55% in good real estate assets.
I know I can’t say every agency but almost every agency we buy in fact it’s a hopeful and again we look at other asset classes that would also qualify as good real estate assets.
Okay great that helps.
And that’s all I have.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you  Thank you.
Then we’ll go next to Chris Donat with Sandler O’Neill.
Go ahead please.
Good morning everyone.
I got a question on the – if you could remind me on the accretable discount since it accretes over the remaining life of the assets just what sort of life should we think about for those Non-Agency assets? So I would say if you if you boil down our assumptions of voluntary speeds default rates loss severities and the various structures of the securities that the average life is probably around seven years or so.
But as you know you can’t really straight-line that calculation over seven years.
Right right.
And then any change in those assumptions from – like over the last 12 months it’s $224 million that’s been transferred is it sort of safe to assume the same sort of seven-year average life underline that the bigger chunk not just the 54 or 55 but 224.
Are you asking has the average life changed in the last year? Yeah.
Or if the assets that were affected for some reason would have had a different average life? I don’t think so.
No I don’t think the average life has changed materially and I don’t think that the assets that we’ve changed assumptions on have materially different average life than the rest of the portfolio.
But I would just like to add though Craig and his group they are continually looking and monitoring these assets so that there are times that these assumptions do change.
But again that’s part and parcel of what we do in order to determine what’s accretable.
Well and keep in mind as we decrease our future default assumptions that actually could lengthen the securities right because those defaults would come to its liquidations.
Now to some extent we’ve also increased some of our prepayment speed.
So those too may bounce out but there are several moving parts to that.
Right.
That’s part of the reason why I am asking you rather than me make the assumption because yeah appreciating all the moving parts is sometimes a little more challenging.
And then just also a methodology kind of question when you’re looking at the loan-to-value ratios and you mentioned the regional home price appreciation I know in your presentations you typically use the data from CoreLogic.
But as you look at the LTVs are you going through sort of like county-by-county in California that’s like what you show in your presentation are you able to get more granular than that? In most parts it’s actually more granular than that it’s really down to zip codes.
Okay.
So for the most part again we don’t have every single zip code but for the most part it’s zip code based.
So it’s median home price in each zip code.
So it’s pretty granular.
Okay.
Thanks very much then.
Sure.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question is from Mike Widner with KBW.
Go ahead please.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Hey good morning guys.
I guess a two-part question here.
And the first one is might sound a little silly but what percent of your intellectual effort for lack of a better word do you think goes to asset selection versus hedge selection and do you think it changed the environment for indeed in the changed environment suggested that should shift it off? I guess that’s an interesting question – very interesting question.
I would tell you that we spent a lot of time looking at the entire portfolio and in terms of the other side of the ledger in terms of looking at how we hedge it and again you have to be fluid in this business.
You have to be able to try and anticipate a lot of the moving parts as one of the previous questions answered.
So in terms of the intellectual energy the intellectual energy you spent on both parts.
If you’re suggesting in a more volatile which I think is what you’re suggesting in a more volatile market are we certainly spending certainly the equivalent amount of time looking at the hedge side of it and making sure that we are adequately hedged.
Of course the answer is yes.
When you have a less volatile time doesn’t mean you don’t spend the same amount of time but you may not be pulling the trigger quite as quickly.
If I might add I would say we probably have a bias on the asset side and I will tell you why.
When we focus on the assets we purposely buy assets that have less interest rate risk.
So by plan we don’t have to focus as much on the hedge.
If we were dynamically hedging a 30-year asset we’d be giving you a different answer.
If we’re telling you to focus on the credit work on assets that we set within one year get a different answer.
So we probably mix or we put the right assets in and therefore we don’t have to focus as much on the hedge.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> So that makes perfect sense and that’s kind of what I would have expected to hear.
So let me ask you part two which is a little more philosophical.
I mean we hear a lot of you guys talking about it was really spread widening on the credit side and that was number one it’s hard to hedge and number two it’s a little bit maybe unexpected.
And I guess I’d counter that by saying Bernanke has been telling us for a very very long time that the whole point of what the fed has been doing is to actually force credit spreads tighter you take away other options for yield And now everyone did sort of but credit assets is sitting back and growing oh my god spreads widened when everyone thought the fed was going to stop buying.
and so I guess the philosophical question is is it really at all unexpected and is it really something that doesn’t need to be hedged? Yeah they can find they are very short duration assets.
But does not mean you don’t need to find some way to hedge the credit component of them or that the fact that these spreads are expected to widen or maybe I’m wrong and they’re not expected.
But I guess that’s a broad question? We had two philosophy questions on one of these calls so I would say when the fed communicated that an end to QE might be approaching 10% it went from 160% 260% which was a very large percentage increase.
No matter how well they telegraph that change in fed policy it’s disruptive and as you point out the reaction was broad-based.
There was increased volatility there was credit spread widening there was outflows from bond funds and impacted all financial assets emerging market equities high yield bonds U.S.
equities so what do we about that likely the question is when the value of a Non-Agency change how much of it was credit spread and how much was due to the fact that the interest rate sensitivity changed and that’s what we debate and we said gee there is more interest rate sensitivity.
So maybe you’d be arguing there is no interest rate sensitivity this is all just credit spread widening.
So we sort of have to allocate it and we did allocate a part of it in interest rate and part of it is credit spread widening.
So Non-Agencies now yield close to 5 and treasuries yield 260.
So is that a widening of credit spread when there is more disruption with the credit spread widened it might on the disruption but we think that’s about the right spread over the medium-term.
So we’re comfortable that the value of the Non-Agencies will not go down a lot if there’s a credit spread widening.
So hopefully I was close to addressing your question.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> I think you did.
I think that again everyone sort of talks about the credit spread widening it happened most recently but I mean you guys have been in this business for a while and running credit assets for a while I mean longer than a lot of guys in the business.
And so our credit spreads really wide to treasuries right now relative to historical norms or is it really we’re removing from artificially tight levels to on the journey back to something that’s a little more normal and if you approach it from that angle again it suggests that maybe one needs to hedge differently and obviously the reason for all this question is I mean the reason most of the stocks are trading at discounted book and investors are having a hard time but the sector is everyone is trying to wrap their head around god if we’re really in a secular bond bear market what do I need to believe about management’s ability to hedge in order to be willing to buy these things as leverage bond funds effectively? Right but if we were just to leverage bond funds we would say interest rates change crisp as wine but we are saying something different.
We are seeing those two things did happen but we’ve got the fundamental still right that the yield on our high yielding assets went up.
So you really can’t compare us to a high yield bond fund there.
We’ve got the fundamentals still right that we have an increasing yield.
And that’s different than any other asset question you can compare us to we believe.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong>  But I would certainly agree with that and I don’t want to make the comparison.
Certainly the employer you guys are anybody in the sectors like a high yield bond fund.
But there is a difference I mean you are asking for equity investors to buy you not bond investors to buy you and equity investors do need to get comfortable with the fact that your hedges can be will be effective and a lot of that will depend on having a changed view of how to hedge in a changed interest rate environment where for the first time and arguably 30 years the expectation is – rates will be moving higher or not 50-50 chance of going higher or lower.
And again I mean it hedging it properly next quarter and the quarter after and the quarter after that I guess again the question is really there is a change you are thinking about hedging more than just swap hedge more than just a credit the interest rate risk it’s also about signaling how is how our credit spreads going to widen or tighten or whatever relative and can that be hedged versus we are just hoping for the best.
We’re not just hoping for the best I’ll answer that definitively.
We have put a lot of work into – again getting back to your initial question on both sides of the ledger yes credit spreads have widened.
This could be the new normal or getting back to where when I got into the business God knows how many years ago.
But having said that we are in the position where we think our portfolio is very well placed.
And again it’s in fact again we have put on some additional hedges we feel comfortable about where we are and our Non-Agency portfolio has reacted very very well with this widening.
So what’s going to happen in the future where we are on top of it but I don’t have a personal war.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong>  Well I appreciate that.
And you guys in all fairness clearly did a better job on book value than the majority of the guys reporting so far and you stock those trade better on a price-to-book basis than most of the others.
So I think the market does have some confidence and I certainly have some confidence as well.
But it’s tough being at the end of the queue and having no real good questions left to add.
So I had to make you go philosophic.
And you don’t know how we appreciate it Mike.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong>  I do.
Thanks guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And next we have Jordan Hymowitz with Philadelphia Financial.
Please go ahead Hey guys two quick questions one can you confirm that when they look at your leverage for refill lines they look at it an aggregate and not just the agency basis.
Jordan the answer for that is yes.
Okay second question is American homes for rent just went public last night and there has been several of these homes for rent companies going public.
Have you looked at the geographic focus of these areas compared to your Non-Agencies and the reason why I say this is many of these companies are concentrating in raising the prices for the most of these regions there is more capital comes there it should be a greater push up on price in those regions does that make any sense to you and have you done any overlap? It does make sense I don’t know we are about to have done an absolute study I know some of it as an example around Henderson Nevada and that area I’m certainly aware of that but I don’t know that we’ve done an absolute study on it.
And Jordan I think we certainly see it but it happens somewhat slow it happens overtime but portfolio performance will be in perhaps lower loss severities.
But that’s something that is really it’s a pretty much happens overtime.
And on your Non-Agency book what’s the newest stuff.
What types of assets is that what you are asking? Oh no no what year? What? The portfolio is pretty much 2005 2006 2007 so there is very little if any newer than 2007 origination.
Okay thank you Jordan.
Thank you Jordan.
Thank you and gentlemen we have no further questions in queue.
Well I’d like to thank everybody for joining us on the call.
We look forward to speaking with you next quarter.
Thank you.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the MFA Financial Incorporated Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a questions-and-answer session instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to your host Danielle Rosatelli.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
The information discussed on this conference call today may contain or refer to forward-looking statements regarding MFA Financial Inc.
which reflects management's beliefs expectations and assumptions as to MFA’s future performance and operations.
When used statements that are not historical in nature including those containing words such as will believe expect anticipate estimate plan continue intend should could would may or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
These types of statements are subject to various known and unknown risks uncertainties assumptions and other factors including but not limited to those relating to changes in interest rates and the market value of MFA’s investment securities; changes in the prepayment rates on the mortgage loans securing MFA’s investment securities; changes in the default rates and management’s assumptions regarding default rates on the mortgage loans securing MFA’s MBS; MFA’s estimates regarding taxable income and the timing and amount of distributions to stockholders; MFA’s ability to maintain its qualification as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes; and MFA’s ability to maintain its exemption from registration under the Investment Company Act of 1940.
These and other risks uncertainties and factors including those described in MFA’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31 and June 30 2013 and other reports that it may file from time-to-time with the Securities and Exchange Commission could cause MFA’s actual results to differ materially from those projected expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements it makes.
For additional information regarding MFA’s use of forward-looking statements please see the relevant disclosure in the press release announcing MFA’s third quarter 2013 financial results.
Thank you for your time.
I would now like to turn this call over to Stewart Zimmerman MFA’s Chief Executive Officer.
Good morning and welcome to MFA’s third quarter 2013 earnings call.
Joining me this morning on the call are Bill Gorin President; Stephen Yarad Chief Financial Officer; Craig Knutson Executive Vice President; Ron Freydberg Executive Vice President; Terry Meyers Senior Vice President; Harold Schwartz Senior Vice President and General Counsel; Kathleen Hanrahan Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; Gudmundur Kristjansson First Vice President.
Today we announced financial results for the third quarter ended September 30 2013.
I will briefly discuss recent financial results and other significant highlights for MFA.
I will then ask Bill Gorin and Craig Knutson to present certain of this information in greater detail during their webcast slide presentations following my remarks.
This quarter 2013 and other highlights include the following; third quarter net income per common share of $0.19 and core earnings per common share of $0.18.
In the third quarter we declared two dividends we declared a special cash dividend of $0.28 per share of common stock on August 1 2013 we paid the stockholders’ on August 30 2013.
In addition on September 26 2013 we declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.22 per share of common stock which was paid to stockholders on October 31 2013.
On September 11 2013 we timely filed our 2012 tax return an amount equal to all taxable income for years prior to 2013 has been distributed to stockholders.
We currently estimate for the first nine months of 2013 our taxable income was approximately $297 million.
Including the dividend paid on October 31 2013 we have distributed approximately 236 million in dividends in 2013 not allocated to prior years.
Book value per common share was $7.85 as of September 30 2013 due primarily to the special dividend of $0.28.
Book value declined from $8.19 as of June 30 2013.
In addition the third quarter dividend per share exceeded net income per share by $0.03 so as to more closely track REIT taxable income.
Due primarily to increases in accretable discount the changes in the forward curve the loss adjusted yield on our non-agency portfolio increased from 7.15% in the second quarter to 7.33% in the third quarter.
For the third quarter ended December 30 2013 we generated net income allocable to common stockholders of $67.3 million and $0.19 per share of common stock.
Core earnings for the third quarter were $64.7 million or $0.18 per share of common stock.
At quarter-end our debt to equity ratio was 3.0:1.
Our Agency portfolio had an average amortized cost basis of 103.5% of par as of September 30 2013 and generated a 2.13% yield in the third quarter.
Our Non-Agency portfolio had an average amortized cost of 73.4% of par as of September 30 2013 and generated a loss-adjusted yield of 7.33% in the third quarter.
I thank you for your continued interest in MFA Financial and at this time I would like to turn the call over to Bill and Craig.
After their presentation we will open the call for questions.
Thank you Stewart turning to Slide 3 you will see there that as Stewart mentioned the net income for common share was $0.19 core earnings was $0.18 and the estimated taxable income per common share was $0.23 so taxable income again exceeded net income.
In the third quarter we declared two dividends there was a third quarter dividend of $0.22 in addition there was a special cash dividend of $0.28.
So in total two dividends was $0.50.
Even after these dividends our estimated undistributed taxable income for common share as of the end of the quarter was $0.17 per share.
Now despite change in interest rates and prepayment speeds our key metrics have remained consistent over the last year.
If you look at the yield on an interest earning assets over last four quarters it's been a little bit over 4%.
The net interest spread has stayed approximately 2 in a quarter and the debt equity ratio has been very consistent about 3.1 for each of the last four quarters.
Now in a period of very low interest rates and grades volatility why are we seeing this result in terms of interest earning assets spread and leverage.
The answer is when we diversified into owning both credit and interest rate portfolio; we find the two assets are performing differently in an opposite directions.
While the yield on agency assets has trended down over the last four quarters similar to other interest rate sensitive assets.
The yield that are non-agency assets have gone up and this is because of the improving credit performance which is increasing the yield we're realizing on these assets that is why the yield has remained consistent over the last four quarters and basically that is the key to our strategy.
Now moving to Slide 5 we see the core EPS has declined over this period of time despite the fact that the spreads have remained consistent and leverages remain consistent.
And why is that? It's because we needed to distribute the taxable income which causes to pay special dividends of $0.78 per share therefore the equity base and to some extent the asset base have declined over this period of time.
Had we retained this $0.78 per share and continued to earn the same ROE that we're earning; the core EPS would remain at $0.20.
So again very consistent performance the equity base did have to go down due the fact we had to distribute money to shareholders.
Now had these distributions been reinvested by shareholders? They have been in exact same spot they had the same amount of earnings same amount of dividends had they reinvested the dividends.
So there was no detriment to shareholders to receiving this dividend.
Turning to Slide six; the books value did go down in the quarter.
That's primarily explained by the fact we had to distribute $0.28 per share.
In addition because taxable income and therefore the dividend did exceed earnings and there was another two to three pennies that needed to come out which you see impacted book value per share.
So book value as of the end of the quarter was $7.85.
Turning to Slide seven; over the course of the year we've communicated to you about our taxable income.
We have now distributed to stockholders an amount equal to all taxable income for years prior to 2013.
For the year 2013 we're slightly under distributed there is undistributed taxable income as I mentioned.
The taxable income was $297 million while the distributions attributable to this year was approximately $236 million.
We actually have until September of next year to distribute all the taxable income for 2013 so we're now in very good shape in terms of our distributions of taxable income.
Turning to slide eight there have been some changes to the strategy over the year.
Now this was not a rebalancing we actually very much liked the balance of the assets.
We didn’t' have to sell nor did we sell any agency assets but what did happen was we determined that our non-agency assets were becoming more and more correlate into interest rates during the course of the second quarter and until third quarter.
As a result we added swaps; longer term swaps against the duration that we were now measuring on the assets.
We added $1.750 billion of five 10-year swaps at a cost of 213 in our mind locking in five or 10 year funding at a cost near 2% is a very positive thing to do.
Because we are a more mature mortgage RIET and we have an older portfolio we have some longer term swaps running off that were put on in a very different interest rate environment.
So while we did add some swaps at a cost of 213 the good news is during the quarter we had 358 million notional amounts of swaps expire that have a weighted average cost of 416 very expensive we have a benefit of having this expire while there is a cost of adding a $1.750 billion at 213.
Turning to Slide nine; see the duration for our assets and for our hedges.
The duration for our assets is 2.1 but after you net out the impact of the swaps the net duration is 0.65.
Now I would like to spend -- Craig Knutson will now present the next couple of slides and talk about the credit performance in the underlying portfolio.
Thank you Bill.
So Page 10 we show a graph of the non-agency portfolio LTVs.
So the average portfolio LTV the average LTV on the loans underlying this portfolio they have declined from about 105% in January of 2012 to less than 85% in September of 2013.
So because these LTVs are lower lower LTVs means that we expect that future defaults will be less than what we have seen in the past there is less likelihood that loans will default in the future the lower the LTV today.
In addition loans that do default we'd expect to see lower loss severities and finally lower LTVs also should translate to higher voluntary prepayments which since we purchased these securities at a discount is a good thing.
You will also note in the press release we showed that we moved $71 million in the third quarter from our credit reserve to accretable discounts and the total of $312 million from our credit reserves to accretable discounts since January of 2012.
Again this is largely due to this improving LTV.
So why are the LTVs lower? As you know loan to value ratio is the loan amount divided by the property value and so simply showing here on this slide the property values underlying these loans have increased nearly half of our portfolio 45.4% of the underlying loans are located in California and you can see we're broken up by county here.
What we have seen happened to home prices in these counties in the last year.
So again property value goes up the denominator of the LTV ratio goes up which drives the LTV ratio down you can see that in many of these communities we have seen better than 20% appreciation in home prices in the last 12 months.
So Slide 12 the second largest geographic concentration in our portfolio is Florida with approximately 8% of the portfolio similar story here the appreciation -- home price appreciation numbers are not quite as high as California but still solidly double digit home price appreciation which again drives those LTVs down.
And then finally what we show here is the transition rates so this is the non-agency portfolio loans the rate at which we see these loans that are current today go delinquent.
So this is a more important metric then for instance the number of loans that are delinquent because the number of loans delinquent at a particularly point in time is really a backward looking statistics some of those loans might have gone delinquent a year ago two years ago would have been in the pipeline.
So we like the transition rate as a much better indicator of a forward looking statistic this is the rate at which borrowers who are current go 60 days delinquent.
So if you look back to the beginning of 2009 that's really where we saw the peak of transition rates so as when most people were going delinquent from current to delinquent and you can see that's continued to decline since then and we’re now back to basically the same levels that we saw in late 2007 for early 2008 so the bottom-line I think to take away from this slide is the worst of the housing crisis is certainly behind us.
Then finally speaking to the credit reserve again we move $71 million in the third quarter from credit reserve to accretable discounts; however we still have a very substantial credit reserve $1.1 billion which you see over on the right of the slide that credit reserve of $1.1 billion.
Now if you look over on the left you will see the purchase price so this is average purchase price of non-agency securities is approximately 73% and if you look the right you see a credit reserve of $1.1 billion represents about 19% of the face amount.
So the way to think about this is on average we paid $0.73 on the dollar for these securities and with this 19 point credit reserve we're accreting those to 81.
So essentially we're saying that we expect to get back $0.81 on the dollar on these securities that we paid 73 for.
And with that I will turn the call back over to Stewart.
Thank you Bill and Craig and I think it was a terrific slide presentation very very well done.
Having said that what I would like to do is open the call for questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And we'll go to line of Dan Altscher with FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Question for you on the non-agency book.
It looked like the cost of funds kicked up a quarter-over-quarter.
That related to the new swaps that were put on are we seeing it there or is there something else maybe that's going there? No you hit the nail in the head Dan that's exactly what it was.
I think the overall funding cost was very similar to what it had been in prior quarters but for the first time we have allocated swap expense to the non-agency costs.
So is it actually just an accounting allocation issue or is it -- those are the actual swaps they are being allocated there? It's allocated over the entire portfolio so we look at all the contributors to duration and we attribute swap costs accordingly.
I think I got it.
A question on the transition rates swaps I think which is fantastic and really speaks on it.
Is that -- its core logic but are those the actual transition rates for your specific portfolio or are those more generic kind of transition rates for a subset of non-agency? No this is our specific portfolio.
Just one quick question off it on the un-distributable taxable income is that right to be thinking maybe that as a potential bucket of special dividends on a go forward basis if all else is equal?  It’s not to be considered a bucket of special dividends it is cash we’ve yet to distribute on taxable income that’s been earned but whether it becomes part of the waiver dividend or a special dividend you really can’t say.
And next we’ll go to the line of Steve DeLaney with JMP.
Please go ahead.
Stewart I think we should start at least me personally about congratulating you for your outstanding 15 year career at MFA.
Leading the Company and building this high quality portfolio we see the results of this quarter.
Thank you for that.
Yes so guys turning to the portfolio and book value we certainly understand the $0.28 special dividend.
We were looking for something even adjusting for the 28 may be closer to the $8 range.
And it’s not that much lower but just kind of curious.
I am sure it was just a matter of Yarad’s assumptions on non-agency prices and hybrid ARMs both of which can be very subjective.
Wondering if you could give us the way you see the market just general market color on both non-agency prices and agency hybrid ARM prices since September 30? Thanks.
So Steve as far as non-agency; non-agency’s are certainly up in price since the end of September.
Again it depends on the particular bond and type of security but I would say in general non-agency prices are up a point probably a little bit more than that.
Yes hi this is Gudmundur.
On the agency side since quarter end prices in our universe are up by about quarter of a point.
So Gudmundur are you saying like your seasoned hybrids you’d be seeing a quarter of a point on those bonds and… Well when I say quarter of a point I am just talking in generically about both the hybrids in the 15 years but if you want us to talk specifically about the hybrids.
Yes.
So we had some spread widening obviously in the second quarter and then in the third quarter as well.
And I would say as of today they were probably three traits about two-thirds of the spread widening it’s not back to the absolute lows we saw earlier in the year.
But a majority of the spread widening has definitely been recovered.
Okay because we have seen some price indications from some of the dealer showing gains as much of a half a point or three quarters of a point I mean would those be -- given that spread tightening would those be out of line? No it’s going to depend on the type of product so the lower coupon longer duration hybrids.
Even talk -- say lower coupon 701s and 1001s they did widen more so they have recovered more of the widening in terms of spread and price terms.
So that would not be inconsistent now.
And one final one I guess Bill you and I had talked in the past about RMBS 2.0 and you guys are watching that.
But one of the concerns you’d expressed specially with 30-year fixed rate collateral and rates near these -- still near historical lows you’d expressed a concern about duration risk related to RMBS 2.0.
I was just curious now that your portfolio is performing you don’t have to do anything -- any time soon or anything radical but if -- we are hearing that more 51s are being originated in the jumbo space.
And I was curious if you saw the potential for transactions that involved 51 collateral ARMs versus 30 year fixed if your view towards that type of transaction would maybe change? So Steve if I remember the very beginnings of RMBS 2.0 I believe those first securitizations were actually off of hybrids.
They were the early Redwood deals yes.
Right but I think what the market discovered was the bank originated them the bank wanted to keep them.
And that is why you saw RMBS 2.0 evolve towards a fixed rate model.
I still think that bank’s portfolios are very competitive versus the execution on securitization of hybrids deal.
Does that answer your question? Yes that isn’t a question that’s the situation we have today and whether you are talking about 51 or 30 year I was just curious if paper did become available whether it was through private mortgage banks or community banks if the ARM product generally would be more attractive to you than the 30 year product.
And also as you know the execution on the securitizations have gotten somewhat more costly.
Yes.
So it was hard for securitization to compete with the bank before so probably somewhat harder now.
And next we’ll go to the line of Douglas Harter with Credit Suisse Securities.
Please go ahead.
You guys showed in that one slide where taxable earnings were $0.04 to $0.05 above your earnings.
Is that a trend that’s likely to sort of stay in that range or is there something that will change the taxable earnings gap? Yes as we’ve talked about before we expect the numbers to get closer overtime.
So we would not -- it's hard to forecast it’s hard to forecast earnings and taxable earnings both.
But I would say that taxable earnings will probably trend down over the next couple of quarters.
And then you guys also talked about the increased correlation on interest rates with your non-agencies has that held as rates have fallen sort of from the beginning of September.
Yes I think generally it has you know I think much of the reasons that those securities begin to exhibit more duration is that they're trading at higher dollar prices right so the higher dollar prices mean that there's less upside in the future if you will of credit improvement so I don't think it's completely unexpected but I would say in general we think they've continued to trade with the same duration we observed in the beginning of the third quarter.
We can't think of any asset that isn’t highly dependent on what the Fed says at their meetings.
Therefore non-agencies fall into that bucket.
And next we'll go to the line of Rick Shane with JP Morgan please go ahead.
Given rate volatility last quarter how you handle both the asset side and the swap structure the timings probably pretty relevant.
It strikes me in terms of the assets that you kind of stay pat but love to understand the timings of what you did with the swaps was is sort of steady throughout the quarter did you take advantage of the decline in rates later in the quarter just a little bit of color there.
Well you're right we didn’t change the asset base over the time.
In terms of exact dates and time when we added the swaps you know the average cost is 213 for five to 10 years I don't know if we timed it right to the exact day buy we did take advantage of swings in the interest rates to add the swaps as you would imagine.
Okay great that's what we're trying to figure out.
What's one of these things we're trying to figure out if you know in August as rates were starting to move really quickly you sort of were aggressive or you took advantage of what happened in September.
Look what we're trying to communicate we did not add the swaps because we didn’t know what the Fed's going to go day to day we added the swaps and we started adding at the end of the second quarter due to the fact that we saw increased correlation between the non agency assets and interest rates so it was added systemically as we saw this interest rate sensitivity go up from a non-agency portfolio but it was not a forced response to the interest rate sensitivity of our agency book and uncertainty about interest rates.
Got it okay that's very helpful and do you think you'll continue to do that at this point I mean can you give us a little bit of sense of what is maturing within the legacy swap portfolio as well? Well one we're happy where we are in terms of the assets and the hedges that we have I think the swap run down over the next it's very over the next quarter I think we only have about 40 million or so of swaps running off forcing the good ones to run off the cost about 4% and then after that the next two quarters are low run offs then it really picks up in the second half of next year.
Great Bill thank you very much I just wanted to say congratulations Steward it's been a pleasure following you over the years we wish you all the very best and to everybody who was promoted in light of all this congratulations to you guys as well.
Thank you very much for these thoughts I appreciate it.
And next we to the line of Nick Agrawal with Wells Fargo please go ahead.
So as for a sort of a double digit increase in HPA how you guys looking at the HPA environment over the next 12 months? How much of that do you think is already discounted as non-agency assets? Well the first thing I would say is our future projections for defaults are not really predicated on an assumption that home prices will continue to go up by 10% or 20%.
So we really look at HPA in the rearview mirror rather than estimate what it does in the future.
So I think our credit reserve changes are really based on observable facts within our portfolio.
So it’s things like the transition rate it’s things like the LTV and again those lower LTVs not only did those lower are expected future defaults and loss severities but we’re also seeing higher voluntary prepayment rates.
Sure.
So on that point with higher voluntary prepayment rates I mean obviously that’s been increasing from roughly 14 at the beginning of 12 to 18 now.
Give us a sense of sort of 1% drop in the current LTV how much hires voluntary prepayments may come out of the portfolio.
It’s pretty hard to draw a straight line between those the other thing that I would caution is the CPR number that you see so that 18% that includes the effect of defaults or actually the net recoveries on defaults.
So the voluntary prepay rate for the three month period which you’ll see in the FICO table in the 10-Q is 12.4%.
But it’s very hard to draw a straight line between the two of those.
It’s a lot of different facts.
And again it’s not we don’t do this across the whole portfolio we do it on a bond by bond basis.
All right.
Thanks guys.
I mean some of the critical numbers are when the LTV was greater than 100% it was not a irrational to default because you improve your credit you can go buy the house next door at a lower price.
Now that the LTVs have improved and they’re in the 80 whether it’s the mid-80s or low 80s you’re not going to know as a homeowner you know mark-to-market your home every night when you go home and decide to make your mortgage payment.
So perhaps the next critical number might be when it gets below 80% then it really becomes easier to refi.
That’s a fair point.
I appreciate the answer.
Thanks.
And next we’ll go to line of Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Good morning everyone.
If you just keep on keeping on we own the stock with stable book value non-agency bonds go higher I think we’ve all noticed that hybrid values are going higher you continue to pay dividends so we make 11% or 12% true a long long time without a lot of discretion that’s a pretty good thing.
Conversely if you look out on the horizon are there asset classes and areas of investment where you can deploy capital and grow earnings or conversely would you ever thing above buying back stock? So the answer to the first part of the question is yes we continue to find good investment opportunities that generate low double digit ROEs which is all we’ve ever really tried to achieve because if you go for 15 or 20s you taking more risk and we’re very happy in the 10% to 12% ROE return for the risk ratio.
in terms of share buybacks what’s important to point out is we’ve actually returned a lot of capital to shareholders this year in terms of the specials so that’s what share buyback is returning capital because you can’t make good investments and we can make good investments.
There are actually was one day this quarter despite the fact we’re paying the special the stock got so low that we actually did buy that day I think the stock was closed to 7 on that day.
So we’re aware of both things but we continue to believe that what we do is very high value added that people can’t do this on their own and that the double digit ROE investment opportunities are still there.
Agee &amp; Leach</strong> Thank you.
And next we’ll go to line of Jordan Hymowitz with Philadelphia Financial.
Please go ahead.
Thanks guys.
I’ve a question if you look at the charts on page 10 which is the non-agency LTV chart and the chart three later four later of the non-accretable discount.
I don’t understand how now there were an 80% unless there was a big tower how that non-accretable discount the amount coming down and start coming down appreciably as basically how 55% coverage down toward this morning with 26% with 20% discount but be 80 so it’ll be 60% LTV you know I’m saying? I hear what you’re saying but one thing that you need to keep in mind is the average portfolio LTV is exactly that it’s an average portfolio LTV.
So the loans that have 60% LTVs unfortunately they don’t the loans that have a 120% LTVs.
Let me ask the question what percent of loans still have over 100% LTV? I don’t have that here but it’s not insignificant.
But it’d be more than 25%? I don’t know Jordan.
We’ll try to provide that for the next quarter.
That’d be great.
And also now that Stewart’s leaving have you thought about changing the colors at all especially because that dark green is difficult to read? By the way congratulations on [indiscernible] did very well Jordan.
We’d be glad to discuss this offline.
And next we will go to line of Daniel Furtado with Jefferies.
Please go head.
Good morning everybody.
Thank you for opportunity.
Just to kind of a finer point question I guess Henry and potentially Steve asked this earlier but just wondering if when you’re looking out as we see more opportunities would be the word to use either between the securitization market the risk sharing market nonperforming loans MSRs we’re seeing a lot of different things kind of crop up in the REIT specially hybrid on the REIT side of the diversified REIT site and I know that you’re targeting the low double digit ROEs and you’re finding that opportunities there but is there anything that you find incrementally interesting if you think about the next prominent strategy if there is one would you go down one of these paths or for foreseeable future is that just the keep the course you’ve been? Well we have seen different investment opportunities but it would be premature to talk about it publically.
The only thing I would like to add to that over the last let’s call it 15 years we have looked at I don’t know how many different opportunities.
Most of which we turned down because we have enjoyed the strategy that’s been so successful.
How Bill and Craig will look at this going forward I think it will be continuity.
They will always look at opportunities.
Those opportunities come to provision that will be fine but as in terms of what the basic strategy of the company has been I think you find it to be on a continuous basis.
Understood thank you for that and then the second question is touch little bit more on this credit reserve just so that I understand the current yield 733 is based on about projected defaults of 32% of the underlined loans you’re saying that the 60-day plus bucket or the 60-day bucket only represents 17 so basically about another doubling of losses assuming all those 60s go belly-up then you’re assuming another not quite doubling but almost doubling 15% versus 17% I’m just wondering do your forward projections and I know Craig you look at this on a bond-by-bond basis but generally speaking do you forward projections assume incrementally worsening credit performance.
Because it seems that just from a percentage basis that to get another 15% of potential loss you would necessarily have to assume while rate starts to take back higher? Not necessarily Dan.
I think you’re right we look at this on a bond-by-bond basis and basically what we do is we bucket the loans in each bond by LTV.
So the column that we’re really referring to here would be primarily the loans that we still believe have LTVs over 100% because those are the one that we feel are at risk in the future and I will tell you that we’re defaulting a lot less than 100% of those loans that we think have LTVs over 100 but again its quarter-by-quarter bond-by-bond thing.
Also keep in mind that in many cases where we’re reviewing bonds every nine months or so.
So when we sit down and review a bond we may find that we have nine months of home price appreciation which gives us some reason to change that credit reserve.
So it’s not necessarily a month-to-month thing there is a little bit more of time period between the two.
Understood thank you for that clarity appreciated.
And next we’ll go to line of Chris Donat with Sandler O'Neill.
Please go head.
Hi good morning and thanks for taking my questions.
Another question about the Slide 10 with the LTVs and just in the move from 105 to 85 can you give us some rough sense of how much of that is home price appreciation and how much is amortization I would guess it’s sort of 10% to 20% of the move is amortization but just wondering if you provide a sense around there? Yes the majority of it is home price appreciation but again more than half of the portfolio was also amortizing and to the extent that those amortizing loans are post-reset hybrids.
The rates are pretty low 3% or so.
So they probably amortized to the tune of about 3% a year so you’re numbers are probably about right you know if had to guess I would say maybe about 20% is due to amortization.
And then looking ahead it should be sort of steady state there I mean just looking at your Non-Agency has got 1.5 billion to 30 year but then obviously the biggest part is the 3.1 of the ARMs with less than 2 years.
So going forward certainly the amortization component I think you can expect it will be steady.
In fact the amortization component may increase somewhat as loans begin amortizing that have been in IOs periods as far as the more significant contributor to LTV declines which is home price appreciation.
As I said before we don’t inject projections of future home price increases our credit reserve analysis.
Right right I appreciate that you don’t but I think the market as times is always tempted to do things like that so anyway just trying to figure out what sort of bankable on the amortization side versus what can be applied from analyst to investor perspective.
And then just question on net interest income also seems like service steady function you’ve got a little bit of headwind from higher hedging bit of a tailwind from accretable discount.
Anyway going forward net interest income seems roughly like it should be stable here.
Any thoughts there? We’re not going to make a forecast on that.
Okay I thought I would try at least.
Okay appreciate that.
And next we’ll go to line of Mike Widner with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Thanks guys.
Good morning.
So let me just ask about on the non-agency side just to start there.
Obviously you guys bought a lot of those securities at much cheaper prices so prices are lot higher now therefore the yields available for incremental capital are lower now plus on top of that you’re now allocating swaps against those sort of cost of funding just higher.
So just I mean where do you see the incremental net spread if you were to put an extra dollar or capital to work today on the non-agency side? So Mike I would say again it depends on the bond obviously but in general I would say the yields available on these securities today are 5% give or take loss adjusted yields.
Yes that’s not quite [indiscernible] unfair unfortunately.
No it’s not.
And I guess again the question I mean we haven’t seen the breakdown of kind of how you’re allocating swaps against them but you had been running sort of 2.5ish cost of funds but now you’re showing more like 2.9 so I mean is it fair to say that 2.9 is still a representative of funds cost for buying new assets today? Now I would say as you know we have a significant amount of longer term financing in place for non-agencies and that is more expensive than funding is incrementally.
So I would say incremental funding repo for non-agencies again it really depends on the bonds but it could be as low as say 1.5%.
And that’s a repo cost as opposed to a fully loaded with swaps and everything cost? That’s correct.
I would like to point out what Craig mentioned that the yield would be five or maybe slightly less that’s for a lower duration non-agency asset where you don’t really have to add incremental hedge so really is yield less of cost of funds.
Okay so in any case then I mean we’re still looking at if I use that number 5% and 1.5ish if you’re doing repo financing and not putting swaps I mean you’re looking at 3.5 kind of net spread which is still pretty good but I guess how do you feel like that compares to the agency side with durations pretty much already having expanded and spread still descent over there? So just your numbers I am using the average leverage you see I think you see the non-agency yield is between 10 and 12.
And the agency number would not be very different.
So I guess that which really brings us back to the question explosive capital allocation and you’re roughly 70-30 or so off top my head I mean where we stand right now I mean do you have any preference on either side there is a long time when you weren’t buying any agencies at all and then you sort of went to redeploying capital within their respective segments roughly speaking.
And so how do you see that right now? Yes I don’t know if there ever was a redeployment we were at a happy we were at a ratio where we’re happy with and what happened was the non-agencies gained so much value that we had to add agencies to keep the relationship the same.
So I think we’re comfortable with the ratio we have now we don’t really see that changing and it really did not change and we’re buying agencies is because of non-agencies were appreciating so rapidly.
Okay and so then going forward from here as payment as principle gets repaid and there is bond mature and all that I mean how do you see the where would you put your incremental dollars of capital today? Right now we don’t see the ratio changing.
Okay fair enough.
I think you covered pretty much everything else and I appreciate it and congrats on good portfolio management and keeping the book value stable once everything is backed out.
And Stewart congrats on all that stuff as well everyone else already said it.
Thank you Mike I appreciate it.
And next we’ll go to the line of Howard Henick with ScurlyDog Capital.
Please go ahead.
You kind of solved doctor’s question before but I’ll ask slightly differently.
You added a bunch of duration which I think makes total sense in this environment given the appreciation and price of the non-agencies.
But I don’t understand how you can add that much duration on the swap side and not affect spread.
And so I’ll ask the question how does that not affect the spread going forward and also the dividend? You mean negative duration or duration? Yes you’re rating duration on the swap side I’ve tried the figures so you’re rating duration on the swap side so your duration of equity went down correct? Yes so there is a higher cost of funds.
But fortunately we’ve had increasing yields of non-agencies.
Right so you think they also you're saying basically that you think your spread going forward etcetera [indiscernible] this point is no different than your spread retroactively? We’re not telling you where our spread will be after this period we’re not forecasting that.
But we’re telling you there is moving parts and we are pointing out what those moving parts are.
So we haven’t really ducked anything.
Okay so you’re no okay I just still don’t understand that answer.
And the other question which I think you basically talked to Mike about you think right now the incremental capital basically between non-agency and agency is roughly flat both yielding on a fully levered basis with the leverage on the agencies being lower of 10 to 12 correct? So you think there is no real difference at this point in terms of choosing which one to put in which one is cheaper? For a long time the question was always answered all the non-agencies are definitely cheaper.
Now you’re saying they’re kind of equally interesting? No we said the ROEs were approximately the same we didn’t say the interest rate risks were the same.
No that what I meant the ROEs the fully hedged ROEs for as much hedge as you’re going to do it? The answer to your question the best way you can answer it is yes they’re somewhat similar to the somewhat [indiscernible] pursue but then the question is in terms of deployment of capital where we think it’s most advantageous.
And again as Bill said we’re not going to look forward and go to that discussion today but again there were times where we feel very comfortable with the agencies and there were times we feel a lot more comfortable with the non-agencies.
And that will be dependent on the marketplace.
And my last question is obviously the non-agency leverages are a lot less what is it roughly 2.1 versus roughly 6 or 7.01 is that correct ballpark? Yes.
And would you consider increasing the leverage on the non-agencies to increase returns? We have never gone in that direction we’ve never chased we’ve never included leverage as we were trying to hit a bogy.
That’s not the way the Company has been run for the last 15 years.
I think that Bill and Craig will follow a similar come with similar philosophy in terms of running this Company properly and not chasing a bogy.
And next we’ll go to the line of Arren Cyganovich with Evercore.
Please go ahead.
I was just curious of what you see in terms of new non-agency paper I guess new legacy books have they been opening up at all given the increases in price? I know that DeMarcus talked about kind of looking to sell some of the more or getting the GACs to sell some of the less liquid pieces of their retained portfolios just your thoughts on any kind of new supply coming to market?  So this is legacy non-agency new supply? Yes.
So yes the GACs have sold often on through the course of this year.
Typically what they have sold have been much bolder vintage much higher dollar priced type paper.
So while they have sold some of that paper it hasn’t necessarily fit us.
Here we do see paper is still available.
It’s not as plentiful as it was a year ago certainly.
But we are still able to add in small pieces.
And then lastly if the administration gets its way and can put a new director into the FHFA do you see any kind of impact to your business from a new director?  It’s kind of tough it depends on who the director is it depends on what decisions they make.
But the answer is I am very very comfortable about going forward.
And what I found over the last well it’s more than 15 years but in terms of how my career has been whenever there is confusion there is always opportunity.
And I think this Company will -- we will always look for those types of opportunities that will continue to exist.
And next we’ll go to the line of Jason Arnold with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
First I want to say Stewart huge congrats on your retirement I look forward to hearing about your plans enjoying your spare time.
I guess in terms of questions just obviously and then we’ve seen a lot of volatility in interest rates here in the past quarter.
Just wondering if you could update us on your macro views on the rate end of the equation? Well one we try to run the Company so that we’re not dependent on having the best call on the fed because it’s not clear that we would.
It seems to us that the fed truly doesn’t know what they are going to do or when they are going to do it exactly therefore I don’t know how we would have that view.
Had fiscal policy been more responsive to the economy I think the fed sees this as a world of under consumption where you have a risk of debt driven deflation.
They probably would have tapered.
But they really I think the fed really doesn’t have the flexibility to tinker with their very accommodative monetary policy until there is a rational fiscal policy which unfortunately is not happening.
So we don’t have a strong call we do think this trend of under consumption or over supply is a longer term trend and while the fed may tinker on the margins on QE it’s going to remain monetary policies to remain very accommodative as far as we could see.
And at this time I am showing no questions in queue.
Well thank you very much for the personal remarks you folks have made relative to me.
Again I have still enjoyed working with all of you and I don’t know may be our paths will cross again.
Having said that I know the Company is looking forward to the next conference call which would be relative to our fourth quarter 2013 earnings call.
And again thank you very much.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay starting today at Noon going to February 4 2014 at Midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T teleconference replay system at anytime by dialing 1800-475-6701 and entering the access code 307244.
For international participants the number is 1320-365-3844.
Again those numbers are 1800-475-6701 and 1320-365-3844 with an access code of 307244.
That does conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for using AT&amp;T executive teleconference service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by.
Welcome to the MFA Financial Inc.
First Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder this call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Danielle Rosatelli.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
The information discussed on this conference call today may contain or refer to forward-looking statements regarding MFA Financial Inc.
which reflect management’s beliefs expectations and assumptions as to MFA’s future performance and operation.
When used statements that are not historical in nature including those containing words such as will believe expect anticipate estimate plan continue intend should could would may or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
These types of statements are subject to various known and unknown risks uncertainties assumptions and other factors including those described in MFA’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013; and other reports that it may file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
These risks uncertainties and other factors could cause MFA’s actual results to differ materially from those projected expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements it makes.
For additional information regarding MFA’s use of forward-looking statements please see the relevant disclosure in the press release announcing MFA’s first quarter 2014 financial results.
This discussion today also contains non-GAAP financial measures.
Information relating to comparable GAAP financial measures maybe found in the first quarter of 2014 earnings release and earnings presentation slides each of which has been filed with the SEC and posted on our website at mfafinancial.com We encourage you to review that information in conjunction with today’s discussion.
Thank you for your time.
I would now like to turn this call over to Bill Gorin MFA’s Chief Executive Officer.
Thanks a lot Danielle.
I would like to welcome everyone to the MFA’s first quarter 2014 financial results webcast.
With me today are Craig Knutson MFA’s President and Chief Operating Officer Gudmundur Kristjansson Senior Vice President Steve Yarad CFO and other members of Senior Management.
Turning to Slide 3 Danielle? Great so on Slide 3 you could see that in the investment environment characterized by very low short-term interest rates MFA continues to generate consistent and attractive results.
In the first quarter we’ve generated net income of $72.4 million or $.0.20 per common share.
Dividends per share was also $0.20 consistent with the prior quarter.
Book value per common share increased approximately 2% to $8.20 as of March 31 from $8.06 as of December 31 2013.
Based on continued improvements in the Loan-To-Value Ratio of the loans underlying our Non-Agency MBS portfolio and other factors.
In the first quarter we again transferred a sizable amount approximately $36 million from credit reserve to accretable discount.
MFA remains positioned for a more flexible monetary policy but in federal reserve based on measures of labor markets core inflation and other incoming economic data.
By pursuing our strategy of investing across the residential mortgage asset universe we continue to find opportunities to generate yields without increasing interest rate exposure.
In the quarter our yield on interest earning assets increased while our estimated effective duration a measure of our interest rate sensitivity decreased.
It’s important to remember that equity sensitivity the changes in interest rates is impacted by both duration and the leverage realized and we continue to maintain the leverage ratio of approximately three times.
Obviously asset selection is what drives both our income and our interest rate sensitivity.
But I’d like to point out three attributes of our assets which I believe set us apart.
First we hold $5.7 billion base amount of Non-Agency MBS with an average amortized costs of approximately 74% at par.
We have a credit reserve of $ 1 billion against these assets and these assets generated a loss adjusted yield of 7.8% in the first quarter.
Second we continue to maintain our historical preference for adjustable rate and hybrid MBS.
Two thirds of all our MBS are adjustable or hybrid but only one third fixed rate.
And third within the fixed rate universe none of our Agency MBS of 30 years they’re all adjustable hybrid or the shorter 15 year fixed rate.
Turn to the next slide please.
On Slide 4 you could see that despite change in interest rates and prepayments fees our key metrics have remained generally consistent.
They’re generally consistent from the fourth quarter of last year to this quarter.
And even going back to the first quarter of 2013 they’re fairly consistent with the positive trend small positive trend our yield on interest earning assets has gone up and that interest rate spread has gone up and our leverage ratio has gone down somewhat.
Turning to Slide 5 you see that book value increased in the quarter due primarily to depreciation of Non-Agency assets.
Again book value was $8.6 it’s now $8.20 that’s about a 2% increase in the quarter.
Now turning to Page 6 Gudmundur will give some more detail about the interest rate sensitivity of our assets and our hedging strategy.
Thank you Bill.
On Slide 6 we show MFA’s net duration as well as the duration of our assets and hedging instruments.
The top part of the table displays the duration of our Agency and Non-Agency assets broken down into buckets by coupon reset.
On March 31 we estimated that the duration of our assets was 2.1 the one half of the table shows the duration of our hedging instruments which consists of interest rate swaps with maturities of up to.
On March 31 we estimated the duration of our hedging instruments to be negative 3.6.
Finally when we combine the duration of our assets hedging instruments we estimate MFA’s net duration to be 0.83 as of March 31.
Our net durations declined 70 basis points in the first quarter primarily because we added short and post-reset hybrid ARMs on the agency side as well as adding $200 million of on average six year swaps on the hedging side.
MFA’s interest rate risk continues to be low as shown by a low duration but in addition to that extensive risk in our portfolio remains limited as two-thirds of our assets are adjustable rate mortgages or hybrid ARMs.
Now I’ll turn the call back over to Bill who will discuss our asset allocation.
Thanks Gudmundur.
Turning to page 7 represent our assets yields and spreads broken out into four categories: Agency MBS Non-Agency MBS new category here re-performing loan/non-performing loan MBS and then cash and other.
In the quarter we identified attractive investment opportunities and grew both our Agency and Non-Agency MBS holdings.
As I mentioned we grew another asset type RPL/NPL MBS which will break out here for the first time.
This $200 million of RPL/NPL securities are just an example of the type of residential mortgage asset that fits very well into our investment strategy when and if available advantageous prices.
These RPL/NPL securities are unrated.
There are senior most tranches backed by re-performing or non-performing residential mortgage loans the 2005 2006 and 2007 vintage.
The average subordination level on these securities is approximately 55%.
So we are comfortable with the credit exposure.
The coupon on the securities increased by 300 basis points if the asset has not been retired by the end of the third year so we are comfortable with the interest rate exposure.
In addition because these assets trade near par due to the subordination and three year reset we’re comfortable utilizing debt to equity ratio just in excess of three types.
So just an example of when the asset classes we’ve identified and we put $200 million to work in this as of this quarter.
Returning to the final column the total you can again see that leverage yield and spreads have remained fairly consistent and attractive in the quarter.
With that I’d like to turn the presentation over to Craig to provide some details as to the improving housing metrics and how they are impacting MFA’s portfolio.
Thank you Bill.
On Slide 8 we continue to see improvement in the LTV’s underlying our Non-Agency portfolio.
This is due primarily to both home price depreciation and also mortgage amortization.
As a result we again adjusted our future estimates of expected losses resulting in a $35.9 million transfer from credit reserve to accretable discount.
And again this increase in accretable discount will increase the interest income prospectively over the remaining life of these Non-Agency MBS.
Turn to Slide 9 so more on LTVs.
On the left hand side I would call your attention to the green line.
This is the LTV of the total portfolio.
Again you can see it decline from the beginning of 2012 from 105 to about 82 today.
But it also points out if you look back just to a year ago March of 2013 that average LTV was about 95 so we’ve seen about 13 points of improvement in that LTV just in the last 12 months.
On the right hand side I would call your attention to two lines first the grey line these are the delinquent loans and these are the delinquent loans in the portfolio.
The percentage of those with LTV is over 100%.
Again if you look back a year to March of 2013 it was approximately 50% of those loans at LTVs greater than 100%.
And the numbers declined to almost 25% of those loans.
The second line that I would call your attention to is the orange lines so these are the current loans with LTVs greater than 100%.
And the reason that we are focused on current loans with LTV is over 100% or these are what we would call the at-risk loans.
So these are the loans that we might worry might default in the future because the borrowers are under water.
So if you look at the last year change there last year current loans with LTV is greater than 100% it was a little more than 35% that number is less than half of that now.
It’s down close to 15% so very good LTV improvements.
Finally on Slide 10 this is a breakdown of our non-delinquent so these are the loans that are current.
So as I just said the at-risk loans or the current loans that have high LTVs and you can see over on the right hand side we have fewer and fewer of these high LTV or at-risk current loans less than $200 million of over 110%.
Keep in mind also that these underlying loans are on average eight years seasons.
And again I would point to the left hand side here to the loans with LTVs less than 60% and between 61% and 80%.
Those are all very refinance eligible.
So LTV is below 80% assuming borrowers have good credit they would be able to refinance these loans and again because of the significant discount that we paid for non-agency assets any pre-payment at par is obviously a good thing.
Slide11 this is the transition rate.
So this is the rate at which loans that are current – in the current period are transitioned to 60 days delinquent.
And you can see after a peaking during the crisis in 2009 that number has continued to come down would back down now to basically levels where we saw transition rates in late 2007 2008.
So again And finally Slide 12 so this shows this credit reserve that we talked about.
And you can see on the right hand side that credit reserve is a little over $1 billion as Bill mentioned which represents about 18% of the face amount.
And then on the left hand side our purchase price of 74%.
So basically we’ve purchased these assets at a dollar price of 74% and because we have credit reserve equal to 18% of the face we are accreting that 74% to 82%.
So we are assuming that we get back approximately $0.82 on the dollar on these securities.
And again at the very bottom that purple section the accretable discount is about $400 million or about 8%.
So that’s what we accrete into income.
So whenever we move money from our credit reserve to accretable discount credit reserve goes down the accretable discount increases.
And with that I will open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Arren Cyganovich with Evercore.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I was just curious on the Non-Agency CPRs that had come down seeing that the LTVs have come down a lot in the portfolio expected maybe the voluntary repayments where that prepayments would actually start coming through at a faster pace.
What are your thoughts on that side of it?  I think we’ve seen prepayments across the board lower in the first quarter and this will be in the queue that comes later today but the voluntary speeds – we show a CPR of about 12%.
The voluntary is a little less than 8%.
So the default rate in the quarter was 2.8% and the voluntary rate was 7.7%.
Okay.
And then I guess in terms of the reinvestment of your Non-Agency what are you seeing in terms of new yields and what kind of leverage are you able to put on those new investments?  In legacy is that what you’re referring to?  Yes legacy Non-Agency?  Legacy Non-Agency I would say depending on the asset and depending on the day they probably yield between 4.5% and 5%.
We’ve actually seen our financing cost improve a little bit.
We’ve actually seen some new players in the financing market.
So haircuts range from I would say low of maybe 15% or 20% to high as 30% or so.
So I think our overall leverage ratio is still less than two times.
That’s not really by design.
It’s more by accidents as assets depreciate.
Our leverage numbers go down.
Okay.
And then lastly just a quick one on comp expense increase quarter-over-quarter and I guess overall operating expenses increase.
What’s driving that? Is that more of a new run rate that we’re at from the first quarter?  Thanks Arren this is Steve Yarad.
I think to answer your question I’d like to make the following observations about SG&amp;A.
So as you noted SG&amp;A was a little higher in the first quarter.
It was $10.4 million and that compares to $7.6 million for the fourth quarter of 2013 and about $8.5 million for the first quarter of 2013.
And I think it’s important to note that in the fourth quarter SG&amp;A was about $1 million lower because we made some adjustments to our incentive compensation accrual to reflect actual balances paid for 2013.
When you compare to the run rate for most of last year it’s about $1.5 million higher and that’s primarily due to compensation and technology budgetary expenses in support of that residential asset and investment strategy.
I think the other comments I’d like to make if you look at our compensation G&amp;A to equity ratio at the end of the first quarter it’s running at about $1.3 million and we believe that’s the low end of our peer group that exclusively invest in Agency MBS.
And the follow-up comment I’d make is that if you look at the run rate the expenses for 2014 we think where we are and what anticipate for the rest of the year subject to any significant changes in our compensation accrual will be consistent with what we said in the first quarter.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question from the line of Steve DeLaney with JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
I wanted to touch on this new asset class a little bit if I could.
It looks like the $45 million of equity – you’re about 1.5% of equity and I’m just curious if internally you have sort of a target there assuming you can find suitable assets to purchase.
How big could this bucket become?  Well as I mentioned during the presentation we like the asset depending upon price and when they’re available and actually we’re one of the larger buyers over the last 12 months of this asset class.
So it’s not a huge asset class.
It could grow and it’s highly depended on price but Steve what’s important about is an example of where we can get paid to take an investment position in asset if not rated that we can understand the credit very well and we were not adding interest rate exposure.
But if it was available to same terms in a larger side it’ll be a larger part of our portfolio.
Got it.
Yes and it’s just an extension of your residential credit team that you’ve build that’s monitoring your legacy MBS.
And looking at kind of the comparable return I don’t want to beat it to that but I think it might grow.
I’m just trying to look at this asset relative to your legacy portfolio.
And if we take your leverage figures and your spread figures I’m getting sort of a gross ROE on the legacy MBS of about $11.3 million and the new asset class models out to about $10.8 million.
So close slightly below in terms of ROE but I’m curious how you view the new asset class the duration profile and potential rate risk relative to the legacy MBS given how high the dollar prices have moved in the legacy portfolio? Yes Steve you got that exactly right.
The ROEs are comparable but we do believe there’s a lot less interest rate exposure in this asset and that’s why we’ve allocated more to this asset and a little bit less to the Non-Agency growth and you have it exactly right.
We think since the coupon steps up after three years there is now lot of interest rate exposure in this asset and that’s why we’re comfortable runs a little more leverage on this asset too.
Okay good.
That’s helpful.
Okay.
And then lastly I don’t want to beat this up too much but we expected – book was great up 2% but we actually were thinking it might a little better.
We saw ball prices up somewhere 1 to 2 points in the first quarter.
And just curious if there is anything there that we might have missed or we need to think about it a little bit differently.
Great good question.
Well I don’t know exactly what you’re doing but I can tell you what we’re doing.
That’s what I really want to know is what you’re doing.
First of all and we’ve said this before I just want to reinforce to everyone that while we don’t say our assets are prime we describe it and the terminology changes over time.
At origination the average FICO score of the homeowners was 725.
These loan balances were in excess of 400 000.
They tend to be at the higher end of the credit quality.
Right now they are priced in high 80s.
So if some people might be compelling to us to say an ABX index or some other index it might not be relevant it might not be a completely good correlation between the value of our assets and some other index pointed out.
The only thing I do want to point out is our equity goes up by our OCI and our OCI which is the other comprehensive income basically is a measure of unrealized gains.
So when you look at unrealized gains you really have to look at two factors.
One what’s happening to the market value of the assets which you could do on your own by looking at the right index.
You also have to know what’s happening to the amortized cost basis.
It’s a difference between the market value and the amortized cost basis which is ending up in OCI.
Because the Non-Agency yield is approximately 7.8% while our coupon yield is 5.2% there is accretion because we paid a discount.
The costs basis moves upward because we are booking more income than the coupon the amortized cost moves up at somewhat so you can’t just take the change in market value the tax rate to change in comprehensive income and therefore the change in book value.
I know that’s a long explanation but hopefully that helps to answer the question.
No I think that does and I think the point – I think what we have to focus from your side is the fact that this yield is picking up as you transfer from credit reserve to accretable we are just getting a bigger impact quarter-to-quarter from that cost basis I think than we maybe we were a year ago.
That’s exactly right that’s what you – first time you’ve seen the trend of the amortized cost moving up it move from 72 to 74 something.
Steve.
Yes.
So exactly consistent.
Thanks a lot for the comments Bill.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Douglas Harter with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I guess sort of sticking to that point Bill.
Could you sort of contrast where the market value of your non-Agency is relative to the level of credit reserves you have against them.
Sure.
Steve? So at the end of the quarter the average market value of the non-Agency it’s in roughly 88.3 and I am not sure.
Well actually if you even look it on a gross basis and if you just turned – if you have the press release there on page four you see the market value of the non-Agency is about $5.1 billion and the credit reserve was about $1 billion.
That answers your question.
Right.
So I guess I was just trying to get a sense of to whether the market was implying that you still had a more credit reserves to be released over time.
Well.
I don’t know if you can make that conclusion but I will say that the market price is somewhat higher than what we hope to realize.
But there is not a variable there it’s the coupon on a fixed rate is higher than the market yields.
You could still rationally expect to get less than the market price and still generate a 5% yield.
For example 6% coupon and the market price is 88 it doesn’t means the market then you can get back 88 the market could be saying you are going to get back 84 but you are going to booking a higher coupon over the like.
Does that answer your question Doug? Yes.
That’s helpful.
And then on the re-performing loans what is the advance rate that you are getting when you finance them just to compare that to the leverage that you are using.
So the haircuts range from 20% to 25% to 30% I think if you look at the 3.4 leverage ratio number that would imply an average haircut of about 29% I think the average haircut probably is above 27% or so.
Got it.
Let me just make another point in no way we try to maximize the debt on our non-Agency.
The fact that leverage has gone down is correct because the assets have depreciated it’s also because we know it’s all readily available.
We don’t have to use the leverage.
We know that leverage is there if we wanted.
That make sense.
Thank you.
You are welcome.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Joel Houck with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Maybe just drill down into the accretable discount a little more I mean you see it obviously the nice impact on the yield and that will I guess translate into higher current income for shareholders as we go forward.
When you think about the market value assets are 88 I think you said you’re basically accreting a 82% recovery value.
Is the right way to think about it and I heard your comments earlier Bill about the coupon as we take into considerations.
But you’re seeing to me that before trying to mould this out that 88 would – assuming HPA doesn’t do anything crazy in this year that’s kind of where we’re headed toward maybe not as high as that given your comments about the coupon but can you maybe provide some color on that and give us some help modeling?  Well in terms of the direction of the prices for Non-Agency assets people continue to like this asset class and they’re not making a lot more of this.
So I can’t.
I don’t know if I agree that they’re not going to team to move up from here.
Well I guess Bill I was asking more like the accretable discount seems 82% recovery value.
You might have added the assets were 88.
So I’m trying to see how much that gap would close assuming that there is no more increase in the price of the asset.
Does that make sense?  So it’s hard to say because it depends on the assets.
So if you look at hybrid securities those are typically structured as pass-through.
So if the coupons get modified the coupons goes down because we’re getting the coupon which is the gross coupon less from servicing spread but if you look at higher coupons and it’s not just fixed rate as Bill mentioned although we do have a significant amount of fixed-rate bonds in our non-agency portfolio.
It could be hybrid.
It could be 10 ones for instance issued in 2007.
So those still have close to 6% coupons that they had at origination but these are fading at 4.5% to 5% yield.
You could conceivably be getting back much less than you paid for the bond right and the way fixed rate deals are structured it’s a fixed coupon.
So even if the underlying loans get modified they still have to pass through a 6% coupon.
So you could actually get significantly less than you pay for.
So it’s not a one-to-one relationship and different bonds affect the credit reserves and the equitable discount in different ways.
Joel let me add a copy I’ve said on this.
It’s highly data-driven and there’s still 0.2 years to go on these assets and right now using best estimates of projected cash flows we expect to get back into.
But we’ve proven to be somewhat conservative the last couple of years and we’ve had to make our adjustments.
I think if you’d this question a couple of years ago I think that number was 78.
So whether it eventually ends up at 82 or 88 we don’t know but the housing trends continue to be positive and we will adjust as we get new data each quarter but unfortunately we can’t tell you what the number will be.
Okay.
Well it sounds like the number one number we should focus on maybe HPA as that plays out because that seems to drive lower LTVs which then obviously the impact the ultimate amount that you’re going to realize.
HPAs and amortized principal payments really helps too.
Yes.
Okay.
So obviously you guys have warned a few that got through the volatility last year in good fashion.
If we think about this year obviously valves come in a bit or quite a bit here the first four months but there is a notion and there’s a big debate about what’s going to happen if the Fed really ends QE.
If we start to see some spread widening particularly in the back half of the year what MFA is kind of – give your strategy in terms of maybe capturing some attractive returns and longer assets that maybe you traditionally haven’t focused on to your credit or is the view hey we’re just going to stick to kind of the shorter duration portfolio and because that’s what works and there is no need to kind of deviate from the strategy.
So spread is very relevant if you are hedging your interest rate exposure absolutely yield is also very important and based on the absolute yield and in exactness of hedging of 30 year Agency assets spreads about very wide for us to make that move.
Does that help you but certainly 15 years we’ve been there when the spreads were attractive and continue to like that asset class depending on pricing.
So again maybe a better way to ask if we just saw normalization in the 30 year that wouldn’t be enough to get MFA really that interested it has to be greater than just and normalization I’m talking maybe 25 and 30 basis points widening from here?  Yes I don’t think that – we haven’t owned 30 year Agency’s’ yet in the last 18 years and you’d have to take some extreme opportunity for us to change our strategy there.
Okay fair enough thanks Bill.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from the line of Henry Coffey with Sterne Agee.
Please go ahead.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong>  Yes good morning everyone and thank you for taking the call.
In sort of dissecting the quarter and looking at the REIT performers are all of those bonds are is there a mix between bonds and whole loans I wasn’t certain about that? Harry it’s Craig.
They are all bonds they are all securities.
They are unrated and there is a senior piece typically these yields get structured with 50% or 55% credit enhancements and it’s a fixed rate coupon.
It’s typically non callable for one year but if the securities are still outstanding after three years the coupons stepped up by 300 basis points.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong>  How much sort of insight when you buy the bonds and the individual loan takes to your cat and how sensitive are you in terms of were actually to servicing these assets?  It’s a good question.
We get a lot of detail about the underlying and we do focus on the credit.
We also focus very much on issuers and servicers in fact we’ve probably met with most if not all of the issuers of these securities.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong> And then again the theme always with MFA has been that you’re going to match credit risk more than interest rate risk.
Is there an opportunity to expand the general idea this asset class by looking at things like a whole loan purchases Ginnie Mae early buyouts distressed loans other sort of something where you’d be buying a more granular asset and perhaps partnering with the right servicer.
Or are you going to be focused just on sort of bond classes?  Good question Henry.
So we have devoted a lot of resources to be able to analyze these somewhat seasons somewhat credit sensitive securities and the skill does work on loans.
We gave an example of the RPL/NPL securities and we do find merits in looking at individual loans to so it’s something that you may see over time.
Agee &amp; Leach Inc.</strong>  Great thank you very much.
You are welcome.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Furtado with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Hey thanks everybody.
You may mentioned one or two these early questions and if so I apologies but did you disclose the LTVs and severities that are running on the MPL book currently?  We’ve not no.
And is that something you’re willing to do or no?  We will consider it sure.
Okay.
And then about how many servicers are associated with that NPL book? Just roughly they are like one or we’re looking at 10.
It was probably closer to 5 or 6.
Okay.
And so I guess the idea was 50% I guess it depends on the LTVs but with the 50% subordination levels the basic pieces here is that so long as loss severities are higher than 50% you should be money-good in these positions.
Well that is true but in addition the typical structure has all of the cash flow.
So all of the interest and principals from the entire deal get paid to that front bond.
Okay so very similar to re-REMIC then it’s just kind of how to think about the structure.
Yes although re-REMIC typically have coupons on underlying securities on the non-rated securities.
Okay.
In this case all of the cash flow in most cases goes to the senior bond.
Understood okay.
Okay so that completely locked out even on the interest side the subs are.
You’re right.
Okay.
And then turning to kind of like the broader theme and I know this is probably difficult to answer.
But I mean how do you see or do you know what are your expectations for emerging asset classes in the mortgage market.
Or I guess more specifically the development and timing of the non-QM mortgage market.
I mean do you see like we’re getting towards the cusp of seeing something here in terms of a real development or do you think this is still pretty far down field?  Our assets whether they’d be securities new securities old securities or loans tend to be older vintage.
So with less focused we are not an originator which is seems to be a tough business right now.
The people we talked to in the non-QM are all spending a lot of time with their lawyers on these issues.
And the question is how much more are you going to get paid to own these loans versus the uncertainty of collecting.
And the legal defenses against collecting.
So we don’t yet have the answer and we are probably not going to be at the forefront of this answer.
We will be glad to a follower here.
Right I understand.
Okay well hi thanks for the comments everybody.
You are welcome.
Thank you.
There are no further questions at this time.
Great thanks operator and thank you all for participating in the first quarter 2014 MFA webcast.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be made available for replay after 12 PM Eastern today until August 1 2014 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive playback service at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering access code 326076.
International participants may dial 1-320-365-3844.
Again those numbers are 1-800-475-6701 and access code 326076 and international participants may dial 1-320-365-3844.
That does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation you may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the MFA Financial Inc.
Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) And also as a reminder today’s teleconference is being recorded.
At this time I’d like to turn the conference over to your host Ms.
Danielle Rosatelli.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
The information discussed on this conference call today may contain or refer to forward-looking statements regarding MFA Financial Inc.
which reflect management’s beliefs expectations and assumptions as to MFA’s future performance and operation.
When used statements that are not historical in nature including those containing words such as will believe expect anticipate estimate plan continue intend should could would may or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
These types of statements are subject to various known and unknown risks uncertainties assumptions and other factors including those described in MFA’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 and other reports that it may file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
These risks uncertainties and other factors could cause MFA’s actual results to differ materially from those projected expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements it makes.
For additional information regarding MFA’s use of forward-looking statements please see the relevant disclosure in the press release announcing MFA’s second quarter 2014 financial results.
The discussion today also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Information relating to comparable GAAP financial measures may be found in the second quarter 2014 earnings release and earnings presentation slides each of which has been filed with the SEC and posted on our website at mfafinancial.com.
Thank you for your time.
I would now like to turn this call over to Bill Gorin MFA’s Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Danielle.
Good morning everyone.
I’d like to welcome you to MFA’s second quarter 2014 financial results webcast.
With me today are Craig Knutson MFA’s President and Chief Operating Officer; Gudmundur Kristjansson Senior Vice President; Steve Yarad CFO and other members of senior management.
In the second quarter we generated net income of $75 million or $0.20 per common share.
The dividend per share was $0.20 consistent with the first quarter.
Book value per common share increased approximately 2% to $8.37 as of June 30 2014 from $8.20 as of March 31.
Based on continued improvements on the Loan-To-Value Ratio of the loans underlying our Non-Agency MBS portfolio and other factors we again transferred to sizable amount approximately $25 million from credit reserve to accretable discount.
In the quarter we continued to identify attractive business opportunities across the residential mortgage asset universe.
We’ve expanded our investment team and as a result were positioned to significantly grow our holdings of securities backed by re-performing/non-performing loans to $495 million while moving forward with the acquisition of approximately $60 million of credit sensitive residential whole loans.
We did acquire a small amount of Non-Agency MBS $14 million while opportunistically selling $26.5 million of Non-Agency MBS realizing a gain of $7.9 million.
This is the eighth consecutive quarter we’ve realized gains through selected sales of Non-Agency MBS based on our projections of future cash flows relative to market pricing.
We did not acquire any Agency MBS in this quarter.
MFA remains positioned for a more variable monetary policy by the Federal Reserve which will be determined by measures of the labor market or inflation and other incoming economic data.
By pursuing our wider residential mortgage strategy we continue to find opportunities to generate attractive net interest rate spreads without increasing interest rate exposure.
In the quarter our net interest rate spread remains in excess of 2.4% while our estimated effective duration measure of our interest rate sensitivity decreased to 0.65.
It’s important to remember that equity sensitivity to changes in interest rates is impacted by both duration and the leverage utilized.
We continue to maintain a leverage ratio of approximately three times as measured by debt to equity.
Asset selection is what drives both our income and our interest rate sensitivity.
I’d like to point out several aspects of MFA which I believe set us apart.
First we hold $5.6 billion face amount of Non-Agency MBS with an average amortized cost of approximately of 75% at par and a credit reserve of approximately $1 billion.
These assets generated a loss adjusted yield of 7.7% in second quarter.
Second we continue to maintain our historical preference for adjustable-rate hybrid and step up MBS.
68% of all MBS fall to these three categories.
Third we continue to acquire residential mortgage credit assets for securities backed by RPLs or NPLs for credit sensitive residential whole loans that deliver attractive yield relative to interest rate exposures.
And four none of our Agency MBS of third year fixed rate.
Moving forward Danielle.
So turning to Slide 4 you see that despite change in interest rates and varying prepayments fees our key metrics again remain generally consistent.
Second quarter yield on interest earning assets 4.26% net interest rate spread 2.42% and debt to equity ratio of 2.8 times.
Turning to Slide 5 you see the book value increased in second quarter due to appreciation in both the Agency and Non-Agency portion of our portfolio.
Turning to Page 6 Gudmundur will give some more detail about the interest rate sensitivity of MFA’s assets and our hedging strategies.
Thanks Bill.
On Slide 6 we MFA’s net duration as well as the duration of our assets and hedging instruments.
The combined effect of lower interest rates no new Agency MBS purchases and aging of the Agency MBS portfolio reduced our total asset duration to 1.9 in the second quarter from 2.1 in the first quarter.
We had 476 million of short swaps maturing in the second quarter while adding $200 million of five-year and seven-year swaps.
The net result was the lengthening of our hedges to minus 3.9 in the second quarter from minus 3.6 in the first quarter and a slight reduction in the notion of balance of our swaps.
In aggregate our net duration declined modestly in the second quarter to 65 basis points from 83 basis points in the first quarter primarily due to lower rates.
We continue to maintain our net portfolio duration below one and we’ll continue to limit the interest rate risk in MFA’s portfolio through asset selection and interest rate hedges.
Now I will turn the call back over to Bill who will discuss our asset allocation.
Thank you Gudmundur.
So turning to Slide 7 represent our assets yields and spreads broken out into what is now five categories.
These are Agency MBS seasoned Non-Agency MBS MBS backed by re-performing loans and non-performing loans credit sensitive residential whole loan and cash and other.
In the quarter we continue to find investment opportunities and the market value of our assets including the impact of Linked Transactions grew slightly.
While our Agency and Non-Agency MBS holdings declined due to run-off and some Non-Agency MBS sales our holdings of securities backed by RPL/NPLs and credit sensitive residential whole loans grew.
The approximately $500 million of RPL/NPL securities shown in comp three are an example of the type of residential mortgage asset that fits very well into our investment strategy when available of advantageous prices.
These assets are unrated senior most tranches backed by re-performing or non-performing loan of the 2005 2006 and 2007 vintage.
The average credit support is in excess of 50% of unpaid mortgage balance.
So we’re comfortable with the mortgage credit exposure.
Now the coupon on these securities increased by 300 basis points.
If the asset has not been retired by the end of third year so we are comfortable with the interest rate exposure.
In addition because these assets trade near par due to their credit enhancement and the three year reset we are comfortably utilizing the debt equity ratio of approximately four times.
Turning to the right column the total column you can see that leverage of 2.9% average yield of 4.27% and interest rates credit 2.42% are generally in line with the first quarter.
So turning to Slide eight Craig Knutson will now provide some details as the improving housing metrics impacting MFA’s portfolio.
Thank you Bill.
The credit metrics on the loans underlying are Non-agency portfolio continue to improve.
LTVs continue to decline due to home price depreciation and principal amortization.
Delinquencies have declined as fewer current loans become delinquent and foreclosure pipelines are liquidated and loans on an average 98 months seasoned over eight years.
In addition since over half of these loans were refinancing to previous mortgages we know that these homeowners have been living in the homes for more than eight years.
As Bill mentioned previously we again lowered our estimates of future losses in the portfolio and transferred almost $25 million from our credit reserve to accretable discount.
All else equal this increases the yield that we’ll recognize over the remaining life of the bonds.
Turning to Slide 9.
So these graphs illustrate the LTV improvements over the last two and half years.
On the left we display the average portfolio of LTV.
Note that the green line shows that the total portfolio of LTV has declined from 105% two years ago to just below 80% today.
And the grey line indicates that even the LTV of delinquent loans has dropped from over 100% a year ago to 85% today.
On the right we depict the percent of loans with LTVs over 100% while lower average LTVs shown on the left are obviously a good credit metric.
We still worry about the underlying loans with LTVs above the average.
And in particular the so called underwater loans are those LTVs over 100% where the loan amount is greater than the value of the property.
Note the orange line on the graph on the right this portrays the percent of current loans that are underwater well not the delinquent present these are loans that we worry about becoming delinquent in the future.
A year ago approximately one third of the current loans in our portfolio were underwater.
Today they declined to nearly 10% even the delinquent loans – the grey line on the right has seen significant LTV improvement.
A year ago half of the delinquent loans are underwater today it’s half of that.
Page 10.
On Page 10 we illustrate the LTV distribution of current loans in the portfolio.
Again we focused on the at-risk loans where the homeowner owes more on the mortgage than the property is worth.
As of June 30 less than $200 million of face amount of current loans had LTVs over 110%.
This is only about 4% of the current loans.
On Page 11 we graph the transition rate of loans in the portfolio that is the rate at which loans transition or deteriorate from current to 60 days delinquent.
After peaking in 2009 this credit metric has steadily declined and today is back to the levels exhibited pre-housing crisis in late 2007.
Finally on Page 12 we illustrate the establishment and maintenance of our credit reserve for expected future losses on the non-agency portfolio.
Of the approximately $1.4 billion of purchase discounts we still hold nearly $1 billion or 17% of the face amount in credit reserve.
And with that we’d like to turn the call over for questions.
Thank you very much.
(Operator Instructions) First in queue is Dan Altscher with FBR Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Thank you for taking my call.
I appreciate it.
First question on the Non-Agency side good result on bringing more accretable discount in.
But it looks like we saw the overall yield on the Non-Agency side compress a little bit.
Were there any some of the ARMS that maybe had – that returned maybe from a fixed to now a floating-rate and had a little bit of a step down in the coupon there? Or anything like that that drove the yield down maybe like probably about 11 basis points? So good question.
It could be that some of those have reset and coupons have reset down.
It’s more likely do more to the forward curve.
So the forward curve is a little bit more flat than it was last quarter.
Again there a lot of moving pieces but that probably cost about 15 basis points and then we get a slight improvement from assumptions.
Okay got it.
On the credit-sensitive side new category there.
Is there any intent to maybe look to leverage those because it looks like right now they’re all unlevered?  At this point it’s still pretty small.
It’s $59 million.
But there certainly are opportunities to lever that.
And as that portfolio grows we will certainly look to do that.
Okay.
Do you have any sort of sense as to like what you think you should get on those on an unlevered basis or kind of just same 10% to 12% kind of total return goals? Yes I think it’s safe to assume that we’re low double-digit ROEs.
There’s warehouse financing there’s also RPL securitizations at some point.
But the size right now is not really large enough to look at that.
Okay.
And then maybe just one more on the credit sensitive since it is new.
We got the loss adjusted yields there which look great but can you maybe just compare what the coupon interest is versus the loss-adjusted? So the coupon I believe it’s about 5.5% or so.
So obviously we purchased those at a discount as well.
Most of it is obviously coupon income.
Okay.
And your loss adjusted assumptions assume up to par or up to 90% of par? It probably assumes about 30% default.
30% default.
Okay.
We’ll try back into that number then.
Thanks.
Sure.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue will come from Steve DeLaney with JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Thanks everyone and congratulations on another solid quarter.
Dan covered the new CSL product.
Just a couple things to pick up on.
First you gave two leverage measures and the 2.93 for the portfolio do I assume that includes Linked Transaction and is that why it’s different from the GAAP figure of 2.8?  That’s exactly right Steve.
Okay.
So we’ll go with those… And the big difference will be in the RPL/NPL MBS.
That’s big difference.
Right.
Got it got it.
Okay.
And then Craig just on market color we’ve read that BlackRock had done a couple of large block trades and I guess in the last three or four weeks I think the first one was sub-prime but then the second was sort of Alt A Option ARM.
Could you just comment on whether those large $3 billion plus trades had any impact on market prices? And in addition if they presented any buying opportunities for MFA? So Steve we had a pretty light quarter.
We did not buy anything on those lists but they traded exceptionally well and as near as we can tell the bonds were pretty much all put away to end buyers.
So very orderly albeit large liquidation but they both traded extremely well.
Okay great.
So no reason to think that after you had a nice move in book value in the second quarter that those large blocks had any adverse impact on the portfolio as we sit today.
No they really didn’t.
Okay.
And then just one last thing.
Craig you guys have done a great job of showing us how with property improvement that your average LTV has come way down to the 80% range.
Could you also comment – on the flip side of credit is sort of borrower behavior and how that improvement in fewer people being underwater.
Are you seeing a decline in actual default rates as well and have you done anything to call like change your forward CDR assumption?  Well we did have a slide on the transition rates.
So that’s really the key thing that we look at.
And obviously it’s great that those transition rates have declined but it’s I think it’s about a 0.06% which on annualized basis is probably 7%.
So unfortunately I don’t think that number ever goes to zero.
Whether it continues to decline from here or not we’ll just have to see.
The other thing if I look at our CDR so the three-month CDR this the default rate on the whole portfolio was about 3%.
But again that’s a somewhat deceiving number because it really depends on how long loans sit in the foreclosure pipeline.
So if a lot of loans get liquidated that CDR number will be higher.
If the foreclosure pipeline just builds then the CBR number won’t be as high.
Got it.
Appreciate the color and good job guys.
Thanks Steve.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue will come from Douglas Harter with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Can you about the attractiveness of the RPL/NPL today? There’s been a lot written about the big run in prices in that asset class since you started talking about it last quarter? Sure Doug.
Well you’re right.
There has been a movement upward in time on these loans.
But we continue to find opportunities now.
Steve DeLaney asked about the large sales of assets which were securities.
It seems as if very large sales whether it be securities or loans tracks a certain buyer category.
And with securities and with loans the smaller sales are attractive to us and continue to find opportunities there.
Got it.
And would that be both on the loan side and on the more senior MBS RPL/NPL securities you’re buying as well?  Well on the security side those are pretty wide last summer.
They continue to tighten and they’ve actually widened back out a little bit.
So there are actually a couple of deals in the second quarter that we set out on because they got tighter.
So again that ebbs and flows.
Those deals typically aren’t that large although there have been a couple of big ones.
But we’ve been pretty in all those new transactions.
Got it.
And if you could – I think you talked about it last quarter but if you could refresh could refresh our memories what of the types of advance rates that you see in the financing on those securities?  On the NPLs?  Yes in the RPL/NPL.
And is there a chance to do sort of more permanent financing like you’ve done with some of your Non-Agency MBS?  So the haircuts on those typically range from 20% to 25% because that asset is so short I don’t think it would make a whole lot of sense to try to re-securitize those and again they're already securitized and they're non-rated to begin with.
So we’re pretty comfortable with running as Bill has said in his remarks leverage a little bit higher than we do on regular legacy non-agencies because it is such a short security.
The other thing is you’ll see in that asset allocation table which shows a higher leverage number for those RPL/NPLs.
That’s really because there is an unsettled trade there that shows up as a liability it shows up with 100% leverage.
So when that trade settles that number will settle in closer to the high three times leverage.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue will come from Mike Widner with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong>  Hey thanks guys.
I think most of my questions on the RPL/NPL and stuff have been answered.
But let me ask you one more.
Just thinking about the underlying loans behind the MBS versus the residential whole loans that you’re buying today are those basically the same kinds of loans? You’re just buying them in different forms? Or is there a distinct difference between the underlying collateral?  Most of the NPL/RPL securities portfolios is actually NPLs.
So the loans that we bought are re-performing loans but yes within the re-performing securities the underlying loans are similar in many ways to the actual loans that we purchase.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong>  Got you.
So the residential piece is mostly re-performers so currently performing? Correct.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong>  Okay.
Is there a plan to securitize those at some point or if you get big enough obviously I mean this balance would be kind of hard but is that a securitizable market and a big enough market to think about that?  Absolutely yes I think.
But as you said it really depends on size and it depends on spreads in the marketplace as well.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong>  Yes I mean that seems to be a category that a lot of people have talked about for a year or two now and just wondering I mean is that something we should think about growing substantially or is it more kind of – obviously it’s pretty small right now.
And I guess the question is do you envision it potentially getting to be very large and to the point where you can securitize? Or is it sort of just a place to put capital right now but tough to really make the economics work for huge purchases? You’re right.
It’s hard to contemplate a securitization with the size that we have now but they’re opportunistic purchases and to the extent we can continue to purchase those at what we think are good levels you can expect it to grow.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Great.
And then on a different topic I guess.
You’ve got a $0.20 dividend.
There’s been some discussion about taxable income versus dividend and core income versus the dividend.
How should we think about that now? And I guess specifically I haven’t gone through all the numbers in detail yet but there was a time when taxable was running below the core or below the GAAP.
So how should we think about that versus the dividend right now? Great.
Good question.
First of all we really don’t have a core concept in our press release.
So as we did try to point in the press release and in my opening remarks we have large amount of Non-Agency MBS that are trading well above our cost.
And while managing the portfolio if there are sales it tends to be a gain.
So therefore our earnings has included a component of gains eight quarters in a row.
And based on the fact that we find assets to buy and assets to sell it shouldn’t be surprising that we realized gains there.
We had introduced a core concept a couple of years ago when accounting required us to link transactions that if you purchased an asset where you financed it they were Linked Transaction and we found that confusing for the income statement.
The good news is according to our CFO Linked Transactions should come to an end starting next year.
So that’s why we just have a GAAP concept and there’s not a core concept.
In terms of what drives dividend you’re right.
We have to take into account our earnings for GAAP and tax purposes and right now I believe we’re underdistributed or undistributed about $0.11 per share for tax purposes.
So long answer.
Hopefully I was able to help you with the questions.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong>  No I think that helps.
I thought now as I think back that I had heard that comment about not having to use Linked Transaction sometime last year and I thought it was sometime this year that that was supposed to disappear.
But I guess either I’m misremembering or it’s still off in the future.
2015.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong> Okay.
So we’ve been talking about it for a while it's still a couple of quarters away I guess?  That’s right.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.</strong>  Okay.
Well thanks guys.
Appreciate and good job again.
Thanks for the questions.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue will come from Joe Houck with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
LLC</strong>  Thanks.
Have you guys talked already about or given an update on the senior sub you’re buying a senior portion from the banks supply dynamic pricing.
If you have forgive me I jumped on late but could you give us an update? I'm sorry what was the tail end of your question on the pricing? LLC</strong> Pricing dynamics to supply available on your activity in the quarter on those transactions? On the RPL/NPL securities? LLC</strong> Yes the securities you are buying from the large banks.
Sure so I think we added quite a bit during this quarter.
We added about $300 million this quarter of those types of securities.
So it has been a pretty active market.
As I said previously they actually have widened out a little bit in the last couple of weeks.
They got to a point where they tightened and we actually sat out a couple of different deals because the yields really got too low for us.
So again that ebbs and flows we’ve always said that those are opportunistic purchases and may continue to be.
LLC</strong> Right.
Given the widening we've seen you would characterize that as attractive today? Yes we would.
We still think that we can generate high-single low double-digit ROEs.
And as Bill said because they have this step up coupon feature at the end of three years we’re pretty confident in the price stability and the low interest-rate risk associated with these.
LLC</strong> And just one final one on this topic.
So given the lack of interest rate [sensitivity] (ph) is it fair to say that this class of securities is favored over more of a kind of fixed rate pool or a pool that perhaps has a longer duration? I think again it would depend on the yield on the fixed rate pool and that’s something that obviously we would hedge.
So I think if you’re saying would we buy the RPL/NPL securities over a legacy Non-Agency it would really depend on the two offerings.
But Joel you bring up a good point.
When we buy an asset we do look at the ROE we also look at the incremental interest rate sensitivity we’re adding to portfolio.
So other things being equal based of uncertainty as to what’s going to happen over the next couple of years this does look attractive right now.
LLC</strong> Yes.
Thanks Bill.
I guess that’s what I was trying to get at is like how sensitive you guys are to rising short-term rates over the next couple of years people all over the place are just trying to get a read on you guys’ perspective? We are very aware – our read is – and the Fed is quite clear.
The cost to society of underemployment whether it be a discouraged worker not looking for a job or someone not having a job or someone being underemployed and not working as many hours as they like hours as they like As a result they’re ready to take some risk on possible asset inflation and I think that’s what Janet Yellen spoke about that we have this accommodative monetary policy.
Perhaps there’s some concern about valuation in biotech stocks for example but they know the trade-off.
And right now but who knows two years from now and that’s why we very much like these assets.
Okay great thank you very much.
Thanks.
Thank you our next question in queue will come from Rick Shane with J.P.
Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Okay.
Thanks guys for taking my question this morning.
I guess I’m going to revisit everybody’s favorite topic RPLs/NPLs.
Just very quickly there is a mention in the footnotes that your expectation is that the securities will be called prior to the step up date.
Given the amortized costs and the market value I’m assuming a modest realized gain as that occurs.
You guys had also commented they are trading pretty near par so I’m assuming that there’s not going to be much additional appreciation as you approach step-up or as you approach call date? So Rick we purchase these securities around about par value and there aren’t – I wouldn’t say there are significant unrealized gains on those securities at this point.
And as they approach that callback I wouldn’t anticipate that either  Got it.
Right now it looks like it’s showing a couple of million dollars between market value and amortized costs.
So ultimately $3 million $4 million potentially? Yes they are I think a couple of the very early deals we actually bought at a discount.
But it’s tiny.
You’re talking $2 million on $500 million right?  Right.
It will probably be marked to par by the time they’re called because the market will anticipate they’re going to be called at par.
So… That’s already expected.
So we would expect much variability off the par price over the three years.
Got it.
Okay great thank you guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Next in queue is Jason Stewart with Compass Point.
Please go ahead.
LLC</strong> All right.
Thank you.
One quick follow-up on the RPL segment.
You talked about prices moving but there are other characteristics in the market that have changed for example the number of months of re-performance.
Could you give us an idea for whether prices have all converged or do you feel like you’re still getting paid to take risk on for example shorter RPL periods? Well the NPLs are typically viewed as much shorter than RPLs just because they’re liquidations and re-performing loans in particular if they had coupons lowered typically longer assets.
But that being said we do look at the underlying collateral of these deals as well.
It’s a similar credit analysis that we do on our securities portfolio.
And depending on underlying coupons and LTVs we might look to have more subordination for instance or a cheaper pricing.
So it’s a somewhat complicated process of evaluating these but we do take all those things into consideration.
I would also say if you’re buying billions probably all prices converge.
But when you’re buying smaller pieces whether it be loans or whether it be securities backed by RPLs/NPLs whether it be seasoned Non-Agency MBS all prices don’t completely converge.
There is variations and the ability to create value by being a selective buyer.
LLC</strong> Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then just one 10 000 foot question if we were to assume that home price appreciation was flat what part of the portfolio would keep you up the most at night? Where would you likely look to term risk or what parts look still most attractive to you? Well the good news is these assets are about eight nine years old.
Many of the loans were actually refi.
So people have been in the homes more than eight years.
And even if home prices stop going up we’re now in the amortization schedule for most of these loans.
You have about 22 years amortization schedule with low interest rates which means the principal amortization should improve the LTV 3% to 4% per annum even without home price appreciation.
So time is really on our side here.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Our next question in queue will come from Steven Laws with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Hi Steve.
Frankly most of them have been addressed already.
I did want to follow-up on Mike’s earlier question about undistributed taxable income.
I think you said $0.11 at the end of the quarter.
I know in 2011 you paid a small special dividend.
I think there were two that hit in calendar year 2013.
Is there any distribution requirement of say September 30 for that income or is this just taxable income that’s in excess of what’s been distributed for this tax year as opposed to last tax year? Can you maybe give us an update on where you stand on the distribution side?  Yes we do have a tax expert here and he’ll correct me but in terms of taxable income for the year 2014 you really have until September of 2015 when you’re required to file your tax returns to distribute all the income for 2014.
So we’re in good shape distribution-wise and I don’t foresee for tax purposes the new for special dividend.
Okay great.
So none of the current UTI is related to calendar year 2013 taxable income which would have a distribution requirement of this September 30? That is correct.
Perfect.
Thanks for that clarification and have a good day.
You’re welcome.
Thank you.
Thank you.
At this time there’s no additional questions in queue.
Please continue.
I want to thank everyone for listening in on our webcast today and we look forward to speaking to all at the end of the third quarter.
So thanks very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 12 PM Eastern Time today running through November 4 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive playback service at any time by dialing 800-475-6701 and entering the access code of 333141.
International participants may dial 320-365-3844.
Once again those phone numbers are 800-475-6701 and 320-365-3844 using the access code of 333141.
That does conclude your conference for today.
We do thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the MFA Financial Incorporated Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
At this time phone lines are in a listen-only mode.
We will have a question-and-answer session later on.
(Operator Instructions).
And as a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
At this time I'd like to turn the conference over to our first speaker Danielle Rosatelli.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
The information discussed on this conference call today may contain or refer to forward-looking statements regarding MFA Financial Inc.
which reflects management's beliefs expectation and assumption as to MFA's future performance and operation.
When used statements that are not historical in nature including those containing words such as will believe expect anticipate estimate plan continue intend should could would may or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
These types of statements are subject to various known and unknown risks uncertainties assumptions and other factors including those described in MFA's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 and other reports that it may file from time-to-time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
These risks uncertainties and other factors could cause MFA's actual results to differ materially from those projected expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements it makes.
For additional information regarding MFA's use of forward-looking statements please see the relevant disclosure in the press release announcing MFA's third quarter 2014 financial results.
The discussion today also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Information relating to comparable GAAP financial measures may be found in the third quarter 2014 earnings release and earnings presentation slides each of which has been filed with the SEC and posted on our website at mfafinancial.com.
Thank you for your time.
I would now like to turn this call over to Bill Gorin MFA's Chief Executive Officer.
Thanks very much Danielle.
I'd like to welcome everyone to MFA's third quarter 2014 financial results webcast.
With me today are Craig Knutson MFA's President and Chief Operating Officer; Gudmundur Kristjansson Senior Vice President; Steve Yarad CFO and other members of senior management team.
Turning to page three executive summary you see that in this low interest rate environment we've continued to indentify and acquire attractive investments within our targeted residential mortgage credit universe.
In the third quarter we generated net income of $75.1 million or $0.20 per common share.
The dividend per share was also $0.20 and that's consistent with the first and second quarters.
Book value per common share declined approximately 1% to $8.28 per share as of September 30.
Based on our continued improvements in the loan-to-value ratio loans underlying our non-agency MBS portfolio and other factors we again transferred significant amount approximately $20 million from credit reserve to accretable discount.
We remain positioned for a more flexible monetary policy by the Federal Reserve that will be driven by measures of labor market inflation and other economic data.
Our net duration is 0.62.
Our leverage ratio as determined by GAAP is 2.7 to 1 and 69% of our MBS are adjustable-rate hybrid or step-up.
Turning to page 4 you see that in the third quarter we continue to identify attractive investment opportunities across the residential mortgage asset universe.
We're positioned to grow our holding for security backed by re-performing non-performing loans by 91% to $943 million while increasing our holdings of credit sensitive residential whole loans by 89% to a $113 million.
We acquired $42.5 million and opportunistically sold $61.6 million of non-agency MBS issued prior to 2008 realizing gain of $13.9 million.
This is the ninth consecutive quarter we have realized gains through selective sales of non-agency MBS based on our projections of future cash flows relative to market pricing.
In this quarter as in the prior quarter we did not acquire any agency MBS.
Turning to page 5 you see again despite the change in interest rates (inaudible) our key metrics remained generally consistent.
In the quarter we generated a yield on interest earning assets of 4.12%.
If you go back to the third quarter of 2013 our yield on assets is actually higher.
At the same time we generated net interest spread of 2.3% which is again higher than it was in the same quarter of the prior year.
Now looking at the sales within GAAP you see that out debt-to-equity ratio is 2.7.
That's due primarily to the fact that the RPL/NPL securities we are acquiring in many cases we are financing them with the counterparty when we bought the assets.
As a result they're considered to be link transactions and don't show up on the balance sheet.
But if they were on the balance sheet our debt-to-equity ratio would remain at three times.
So we are basically replacing our assets as they run off.
Gudmundur Kristjansson will now present the next two slides which are an update on changes in book value and a update on MFA's interest rate sensitivities.
Thanks Bill.
On Slide 6 we show changes to MFA's book value in the third quarter.
Overall our book value was fairly consistent in the quarter but ended down 1% on September 30.
Moving to Slide 7.
On Slide 7 we show the duration of our assets and liabilities as well as the net duration of our entire portfolio.
The duration of our assets declined modestly to 1.8 at the end of the third quarter from 1.9 at the end of the second quarter as more of a hybrid but closer to reset and our new acquisitions primarily consisted of RPL and NPL MBS that had limited sensitivity to interest rates.
The duration of our hedges also declined modestly to minus 3.7 at the end of third quarter from minus 3.9 at the end of the second quarter and $46 million of swaps matured in third quarter in our existing swaps for three months closer to maturity.
In aggregate MFA's net duration declined modestly to 62 basis points at the end of third quarter versus 65 basis points at the end of the second quarter.
MFA continues to maintain net portfolio duration below 1.
And we believe that by limiting interest rate risk in our portfolio we are well positioned for uncertain monetary policy at the end of quantitative easing.
Now I'll turn the call back over the Bill who will discuss our asset allocation.
Thank you Gudmundur.
Turning to Page 8 which is the page where we set the record from those QuickNotes we present our assets yields and spreads broken down what is now five categories.
These are Agency MBS seasoned Non-Agency MBS.
MBS backed by re-performing loans and non-performing loans credit sensitive Residential Whole Loan and Cash and Other.
In the quarter we continue to find a wide range of residential mortgage asset investment opportunities allowing us to maintain a level of assets consistent with the prior quarters.
While our agency and non-agency MBS holdings declined due to run-off and some non-agency MBS sales our holdings of RPL/NPL MBS and credit sensitive residential whole loans grew.
By pursuing a wider residential mortgage strategy we continue to find opportunity to generate attractive net interest rate spreads without increasing interest rate exposure.
It's important to remember that equity sensitivity to changes in interest rate is impacted by both duration and the leverage utilized.
We continue to maintain a leverage of approximately three times.
Asset allocation and selection is what drives both our income and our interest rate sensitivity.
And I would again like to talk a little bit about our holdings.
We hold $5.3 billion face amount or $4.8 billion market value of non-agency MBS with an average amortized cost of approximately 75% of par and a credit reserve of approximately $930 million.
These assets generated a loss adjusted yield of approximately 7.7% in the third quarter.
We continue to maintain our historical preference for adjustable rate hybrid and step-up MBS and 69% of all our MBS fall into these three categories.
We are actively acquiring residential mortgage credit assets both securities backed by RPLs or NPLs for credit sensitive residential whole loans that we believe deliver attractive yields relative to interest rate exposure.
As usual none of our Agency MBS of third year fixed rate.
Like to now hand the presentation over to Craig Knutson our President and Chief Operating Officer to give you some more detail on these RPL/NPL MBS and update you on MFA's credit fundamentals.
Thank you Bill.
As Bill mentioned previously we have substantially grown our holdings of RPL/NPL MBS during the third quarter.
We particularly like this asset class for several reasons.
First low duration minimal interest rate risk and price volatility these securities are callable after 12 months and typically they have a 300 basis point coupon step-up after three years if they have not been called at the end of the third year.
So we expected these bonds will be called before the step-up date and hence the low duration and minimal interest rate risk.
Second low credit risk.
These structures have significant credit enhancement generally approximately 50%.
The subordinate bonds received no cash flow and therefore the transaction delevers very quickly.
Third with leverage we are able to produce approximately 10% ROEs with these securities.
And then finally there is a larger size available.
So $25 million to a $100 million or even more than a $100 million trade sizes are relatively easy versus legacy Non-Agency were at times even a $10 million trade size is difficult to access.
Moving to Page 10.
The credit metrics on the loans underlying our legacy Non-Agency portfolio continue to improve.
LTVs continue to decline due to home price appreciation and principal amortization.
Delinquencies have declined as fewer current loans become delinquent and foreclosure pipelines are slowly liquidated.
Loans on average 102 months seasoned that's eight-and-a-half years.
And in addition since over half of these loans we're refinancing so they will not purchase money mortgages.
We know that the homeowners have actually been living in the houses for more than that eight-and-a-half years.
As Bill mentioned previously we again lowered our estimates of future losses in the portfolio and we transferred almost $20 million from our credit reserve to accretable discount.
All else equal this increases the yield we will recognize over the remaining life of the bonds.
Moving to Page 11.
These graphs illustrate the LTV improvements since 2012.
On the left we display the average portfolio LTV.
Note that the green line shows that the total portfolio LTV has declined from over 105% in early 2012 to nearly 75% today.
And the gray lines indicates that even the LTV of delinquent loans has dropped from over 90% one year ago to below 85% today.
On the right we depict the percent of loans with LTVs over 100%.
While the lower average LTVs shown on the left are obviously a good credit metric we still worry about the underlying loans with LTVs above the average and in particular the so called underwater loans are those of LTVs over 100% where the loan amount is greater than the value of the property.
Note the orange line on the graph on the right.
This portrays the percent of current loans that are underwater.
While not delinquent at present in some cases these are loans with past delinquencies that may have been modified.
These are the loans that we worry about becoming delinquent in the future.
At the beginning of 2013 over one-third of the current loans were underwater.
Today they declined to approximately 10%.
Event with delinquent loans which is the gray line has seen significant LTV improvement.
At the beginning of 2013 half of the delinquent loans are underwater; today it's less than 25%.
Turning on Page 12.
On Page 12 we illustrate the LTV distribution of the current loans in the portfolio.
Again we focused on the at-risk loans where the homeowner owes more on the mortgage than the property is worth.
As of September 30 less than $200 million face amount of current loans had LTVs over 110%.
This is only about 4% of the current loans in the portfolio.
Finally Page 13.
On Page 13 we illustrate these historical losses experienced on our legacy non-agency portfolio.
These losses are and what we expected are $929 million credit reserve is established in anticipation of $929 million in expected feature losses.
Losses occur through realized losses from liquidations of defaulted loans where the net amounts realized through these liquidations is less than the principal amount owed on the defaulted mortgage.
In addition losses will occur in the future when principle is used to pay interest on fixed rate bonds that we own where the underlying mortgage have received weight reduction modifications.
Realized losses in both 2012 and 2013 were approximately $163 million in both years which is purely a coincident.
We show the first nine month losses for each year respectively in blue.
In 2014 losses for the first nine months are running much lower than in the prior two years and our annualized loss run rate is less than 100 million for 2014.
Finally please note this $929 million credit reserve has already been reduced for the $326 million of realized losses in 2012 and 2013 as well as the $70 million of realized losses incurred thus far in 2014.
This $929 million credit reserve is for future expected losses.
And with that we'd like to turn the call over to questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And today our first question comes from the line of Dan Altscher with FBR.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
I appreciate taking my call.
I wanted take a look at the CPRs in particularly the agency ARM book.
We had a bit of a kick up looks like 18.3 versus 15.9.
Now I understand there could be some seasonality as we roll through the third quarter there.
So I get that but do you think there is anything else going on there I guess may be across the board you talked about fed funds or short-term rates increasing folks looking to may be refi ahead of what they think might be higher rates? No hi this is Gudmundur.
I mean in general prepaid has picked up a little bit during the summer months and this is just regular seasonality particularly to the short reset hybrids.
The one month lag we're still very low and one year lag we're still very low.
So the reset coupon and the reset into is a bit low where they can refinance their new 5 on a new 7.1.
So we’re not really seeing kind of a refi driven pickup for these people to expand their mortgages.
As we expect -- as we move into the winter months that we'll see the reverse of the seasonality and in fact the aggregate agency CPR for October was 12.7 so down from the 15.1 average for the third quarter.
As we look at the RPLs and NPLs and the credit sensitive does that continues to become a bigger portion of the pie.
Can we talk about a little bit about the competition for that business I mean the yield on the asset seem to be trending down slightly? But I'm wondering what a reflection of that is competition versus may be just a continued improvement in the underlying credit profile of those borrowers enhance the yields compress there as opposed to may be competition driven? So I would say on two fronts obviously on the home loan front there is a lot of competition for those assets and they trade at times they trade very tight and then at times they trade a little bit cheaper.
Most of acquisitions that we've done have been smaller pieces which are probably a little bit more off the radar screen.
So we think we've been able to pick those up a little bit cheaper.
But there is clearly a lot of competition for loans especially some of the well publicized very large auctions like for instance the HUD auction.
On the RPL/NPL stage they're showing this competition for those assets but I wouldn't read into lower yield.
I think if yields are down there it's probably because we had more NPLs which typically traded lower yield because they're shorter securities than RPLs.
But I think those yields have been fairly consistent.
If you go back three or four months ago they tightened -- they actually tightened quite a bit and we sat out a couple of those deals.
The yields have now come back in so three-and-a-half-ish or so is probably a good proxy there.
Dan if I might add yes you're correct there is more demand.
But also there is a lot of supply and that's why another reason we are very attracted to these assets besides the fact they like to yield low (inaudible) there is a good supply that's coming to market over the next couple of years and this is a business that could be important to us and grow over time.
Yes thanks I appreciate that Craig and Bill.
And may be just one other thought as the credit sensitive portion continues to get bigger piece of the pie how does the opportunity to may be put a little bit more leverage on those or may be look to re-securitize or do something may be a little bit more structured to get the yield profile or guess the ROE profile excuse me up a bit? On the loans you mean? Yes on the loans I’m sorry yes on the loans.
Yes at this point it's a $100 million.
There certainly is leverage available there both warehouse type of leverage and also securitization.
So we'll certainly look to that in the future but for the time being we're just trying to map some critical mass.
Thank you.
Next we'll go to the line of Jason Weaver with Sterne Agee.
Hi good morning everybody.
My questions have actually been asked already I just had two.
But I'll say congratulations and solid performance in what was a really wild quarter for the space.
Thank you.
Thanks a lot Jason.
Thank you.
Operator? Next question.
Thank you.
We'll go to Steve DeLaney with JMP Securities.
Thanks good morning everyone.
We calculated a return on equity of about 10.9% on the RPL NPL securities just curious one do you agree with that calculation and two Craig how would you just roughly compare that that return opportunity on equity to what you might be able to obtain in any purchases of new legacy RMBS senior RMBS? So I guess I would agree with your ROE calculation between 10 and 11.
Okay.
And I would say that generally for if you look at legacy legacy probably right now yields about 4.5% if you call financing call it 150 so spread of 300 basis points.
If you put four times leverage on that you’d end up with 12 plus the yield on the asset.
So I think the ROE would certainly be higher if you fully levered legacy non-agency.
That being said as I said previously it difficult to acquire size in legacy non-agency.
So while the ROEs might be a little bit higher it's much more difficult to put money to work there.
And they're also a longer duration there as well that these higher price levels which you have to be concerned so it would seem the -- NPL RPL being such short duration you would expect to lower ROE? Well you're right although it depends on the type of mortgages in legacy.
So if it's a post rest hybrid it's a pretty short duration increment as well but yes your point is a good one.
No I hear you exactly and as Bill said you guys have well over 60% are in hybrids or ARMS.
So just in that same -- following the same theme on this new expanded asset class so Bloomberg put a list out Monday morning and they're showing it's just their usual weekly what's in the pipeline as far as non-agency RMBS both legacy and the new NPL RPL class and they're showing seven new NPL RPL deals in the market and there's two or three names on there that I've never seen before.
Some people like Truman Gold Creek I guess I mentioned there is are you and Bryan are you all seeing a pickup in the numbers of people that are issuing and has there been some recent pickup in activity this just seems to be a pretty long list for this asset class? Yes this is Bryan.
There has been a slight pickup as more participants kind of had their loans and we have claims and then they look to turn out their funding.
Those names that you're listing are issuers that have participated in the past and there are larger names behind that.
So I don't know if you Truman and Gold Creek are very large money managers that kind of sit behind those two.
Got it.
So they're not sort of like fly by like new entrants.
These are well established players in the non-performing loan space.
Okay appreciate that color.
And just one final thing you guys as you mentioned you've been harvesting gains understandably so on the legacy RMBS and that's generating taxable gain on sale revenue and you've been pretty steady here at $0.20 GAAP EPS.
Are you in a position where you can make any general comments as to how taxable EPS is tracking your GAAP EPS say for 2014? Thanks.
So one as at the end of the third quarter I believe we've $0.05 per share undistributed is that correct Terry? And as you point out Steve our taxable income is running somewhat less than our GAAP income but we're still undistributed for the year.
Okay great.
That's -- that's important information.
Thank you Bill.
Congrats guys.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We'll now go to the line of Joel Houck with Wells Fargo.
Thank you and good morning.
Lot of good questions here.
So may be switching gears more on a higher level so far this earning season I wouldn't say it's unanimous but most of your peers are claiming that there's more relative value in agency MBS space relative to non-agency and understanding the non-agency market is obviously very dynamic.
I don't want to put words in your mouth but you guys haven't purchased any agency MBS since the first quarter of 2014.
Are you guys taking a different approach or may be talk a little bit about the uniqueness in your model and perhaps why you see more relative value on the non-agency side if that's the case? Thanks for the questions Joel.
So we've been fairly consistent saying that we preferred non-agencies to agencies.
Even in a quarter we've bought agencies we typically bought a lot more non-agencies.
So we definitely have a preference and the preference is based on the yield relative to interest rate risk.
So we think we can solve for comparable ROE with less interest rate risk as to what decisions other mortgage REITs make out I can't tell you.
But I can tell you our decision is pretty consistent over time although it usually it's not zero in the quarter which just so happens in the last couple of quarters it has been.
Okay.
And -- and you have short duration it's a higher quality bar or so the credit risk would seem to favor your non-agency book relative to some of the other guys which keeps a prime.
How do you view the potential volatility of just the pricing of the bonds or securities in light of what we're trying to see in the marketplace which is little slowdown in housing formation or at least new purchases oils hitting new lows seems like every day or every week the tenure signaling that we could possibly go into recession next year how do you feel about the pricing of your securities and how much volatility and book are you willing to accept if in fact we do go in a recession?  All right.
Those are questions we think about all time.
It's kind of fundamental to why we got in the business when we did.
That with permanent capital and with low leverage we can accept some price volatility over time.
We can accept let's say going up and down quarter-to-quarter.
The point is to make sure we're comfortable with the purchase price and that we are comfortable that our projections of cash flow over time are correct.
Because if those things are correct and you do have the staying power based on the fact you have permanent capital and low leverage we are fairly indifferent to volatility.
And in fact I know its stride to say we actually do welcome volatility if we could acquire the same assets on lower price.
And we're still comfortable with projected cash flow.
And the quality asset we prefer to pay at a lower price.
nine years old and the fact that unemployment is not going up we will continue to think there will be delinquency in the future.
So we still think our assumptions are appropriately conservative despite the fact that tenure here and everywhere might indicate a slowing down in economy.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
We'll go on now to the line of Mike Widner with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning guys.
So I'm going to ask a couple of follow-ups just because -- I think you answered most of the things I was thinking of.
You mentioned at 12.7 CPR for October and I just wanted to clarify.
Is that for the total Agency MBS portfolios relative to the 15.1 or was that just the ARM portfolio? Yes.
It's Gudmundur.
It's for the entire Agency book so 12.7 versus an average of 15.1 for the entire Agency book in the third quarter.
Okay.
So little 2 point -- two-and-a-half secured drop so that's good.
Hopefully that continues.
Also just following up on the undistributed taxable income for the year so when you say you have $0.05 undistributed taxable I mean that's basically the total overall as opposed to the question -- I think the question that Steve I believe asked with sort of how is taxable running relative to the GAAP? And so I just want to make sure that you're basically saying including carryover from 2013 and so on and so on the total outstanding on distributed tax was $0.05 which is sort of a different I guess if the question was year-to-date how is GAAP running relative to taxable?  Mike you're right.
That is a cumulative over time number.
So I guess -- the real question I guess is really how is taxable tracking right now? And because as we think about 2015 dividends I mean it seems that that's been sort of a steady state that the taxable has been running below GAAP and below the 20 -- below the current dividend level.
And I'm just wondering if there is implication to that and if you can comment on that? Well it's hard to forecast what taxable income will be in the future because our portfolio does turnover.
So while you're right the tax is lower than GAAP for a lot of these seasoned Non-Agencies we're holding for a while that portfolio is declining somewhat and we are adding new assets where we don't have a differential.
So I know Mike you're trying to forecast.
So that would be difficult.
So I'll continue -- I'll repeat that our GAAP income is somewhat higher than our tax.
On a cumulative basis we still are in an undistributed position.
But in terms of forecast in 2015 it's somewhat difficult because our assets are turning over.
So if taxable income tends to be frontloaded with our non-agency assets to the extent we are buying new assets like the credit sensitive loans for example it's hard to project what's going to be happening in 2015.
So maybe I’m not giving you the detail that would help you but I am telling you the factor that will impact 2015.
Yes.
I know I mean I don't expect you guys to give the answer that taxable is going to continue to run lower and therefore there is an implication that the dividend is going to get trimmed.
But I mean just that it seems bit sooner or later that's the trend that we’re running on.
And that's -- I guess that's the question you are not going to answer but -- I would just -- I just like to add one other factor.
Mike as you know taxable income is a floor it's not a ceiling you must distribute (inaudible) taxable income.
But if your economic and GAAP earnings are higher than your taxable income because of strange core in the tax laws the front loaded are taxable income and cause us to pay a very large special in prior years doesn't necessarily mean it's a ceiling either.
We will take into account GAAP economic and taxable earnings when distribute -- when declaring dividends.
Well -- I mean I guess that leads to a follow-up.
When you guys do not report whatever we’re now sort of cause core -- and by our measures core has also been running below GAAP stripping out the gains on sales.
And so as you do think about how to set that dividend level I mean most of us have sort of accustomed to not really thinking about gap at all in the mortgage REIT space just because there are so many distortions in it.
Most mortgage reads tend to tackle along the lines of core and for a lot of them that that tends to track closer to taxable.
And by our estimates your core has been $0.18 the first two quarters of the year a little lower and I might need the Q to be precise about it but closer to $0.16 this quarter.
And so again how does that -- if you think about economic returns as well I mean that is not one that a lot of the guys talk about in the sector but if you factor into market changes and all that sort of stuff so changes in book that would be I think this quarter a lower number as well.
So I don't know you opened up that question so I mean how do those things play relative -- again you mentioned GAAP and GAAP is just not one that many people in the mortgage read space think much about just because of all distortions regard to setting dividend policy.
Yes again I can't answer for everyone.
The reason that we comfortable with GAAP over core is that we still have effective hedge counting.
And that I think is the big differential on most cases and that's we you don't have a special defined term as you are talking about.
So I think that's the difference.
Yes that's good point.
It's a pain in the ass but you guys still do it.
All right well I think that's all my questions.
I appreciate all the comments and color as always and another solid quarter.
Nice job with the portfolio.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Now we'll go to the line of Dougs Harter with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
This is Matt (inaudible) asking on behalf of Doug Harter.
I was wondering if you can give us a sense of what the underlying assumptions are on the credit reserve for legacy non-agency in order to get a sense for future transfer as accretable yields.
I'm sorry could you repeat the question? I was wondering if you can give us a sense of what the underlying assumptions are on the credit reserve for legacy non-agency in order to get a sense for future transfers to accretable yield.
Well I can generalize about the assumptions but the assumptions are truly on a bond level.
So there are probably 500 odd line items and the assumptions are built on a bond by bond basis but generally speaking I think the legacy portfolio has about 15% of the loans that are 60 plus stays delinquent.
And I am guessing that our assumption assume that approximately 26% or so of the loans will ultimately default.
So if you will all the delinquent loans and then about another 10% of loans that are current today but the assumption are like I say they are on a bond by bond basis and it's not just default but it also depends on what prepayment speeds are assumed over time.
So there is really a lot that goes into it and I think it would be difficult to take those broad assumptions and then infer some future credit change.
There are no further questions in queue at this time.
I want to thank everyone for joining us today and we look forward to speaking to you all again next quarter.
So thanks very much.
Thank you.
Today's conference was recorded and will be available for replay beginning today at noon and running through February 4 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T playback service by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and using the access code of 341281.
International callers may use (3200 365-3844.
Those numbers again are (800) 475-6701 or (320) 365-3844 with a common access code of 341281.
With that that does conclude our conference call for today.
We thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen good morning.
Thank you for standing by.
Today's conference has assembled and welcome to the MFA Financial Inc.
fourth quarter earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to Danielle Rosatelli with some opening statements.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
The information discussed on the conference call today may contain or refer to forward-looking statements regarding MFA Financial Inc.
which reflect management's beliefs expectations and assumptions as to MFA's future performance and operation.
When used statements that are not historical in nature including those containing words such as will believe expect anticipate estimate plan continue intend should could would may or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
These types of statements are subject to various known and unknown risks uncertainties assumptions and other factors including those described in MFA's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 and other reports that it may file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
These risks uncertainties and other factors could cause MFA's actual results to differ materially from those projected expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements it makes.
For additional information regarding MFA's use of forward-looking statements please see the relevant disclosure in the press release announcing MFA's fourth quarter 2014 financial results.
The discussion today also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Information relating to comparable GAAP financial measures may be found in the fourth quarter 2014 earnings release and earnings presentation slides each of which has been filed with the SEC and posted on our website at mfafinancial.com.
Thank you for your time.
I would now like to turn this call over to Bill Gorin MFA's Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Danielle.
I'd like to welcome everyone to MFA's Fourth Quarter 2014 Financial Results Conference Call.
With me today are Craig Knutson MFA's President and Chief Operating Officer; Gudmundur Kristjansson Senior Vice President; Steve Yarad CFO; and other members of senior management.
In 2014 we continue to build a more robust business strategy.
MFA converted to a holding-company structure which increased our investment flexibility.
We built out our team and the analytics the whole loan investments.
As a result we were able to expand our investment focus across a wide range of credit sensitive residential mortgage assets.
For the fourth quarter we generated net income of $76 million or $0.20 per common share.
The dividend per share was $0.20 which was consistent with the prior 3 quarters of the year.
Book value per common share declined less than 2% to $8.12.
Based on continued improvements in the loan-to-value ratio of the loans underlying our Non-Agency MBS portfolio and other factors we again transferred a significant amount approximately $14 million from credit reserve to accretable discount.
Now turning to Page 3.
Excuse me I may have a technical difficulty but -- there we go.
Sorry.
Page 3 Executive Summary.
Now despite the low interest rate environment we continue to identify and acquire attractive credit-sensitive residential mortgage assets.
It's been more than 8.5 years since the last federal funds rate increase.
The unemployment rate has declined and may continue to decline in 2015 yet the labor force participation rate remains low.
Inflation remains low in the U.S.
and borders on deflation in Europe and Japan.
Interest rates remain low across the yield curve on a global basis.
Commodity prices are weak and a strong dollar is impacting U.S.
companies.
As a result future U.S.
Federal Reserve actions remain data dependent.
But we remain positioned for more flexible monetary policy by the Federal Reserve that is responsive to measures of labor markets indicators of inflation international developments and other economic data.
We continue to limit the interest rate sensitivity of MFA's portfolio.
Our net duration as of yearend was 0.56.
Our leverage ratio was 3.3:1 and 71% of our mortgage-backed securities are adjustable hybrid or step-up.
Turning to Page 4.
In the fourth quarter we continue to identify attractive investment opportunities across the residential mortgage asset universe.
We doubled our holdings to securities backed by reperforming/nonperforming loans to approximately $2 billion while tripling our holdings of credit-sensitive residential whole loans to $351 million.
We acquired $70 million and opportunistically sold $20 million of Non-Agency MBS issued prior to 2008 realizing gain of $12.2 million.
This is the 10th consecutive quarter we realized gains through selective sales of Non-Agency MBS based on our projections of future cash flows relative to market pricing.
Again we did not acquire any Agency MBS in the quarter.
Turning to Page 5.
As you can see MFA's yields and spreads remain attractive.
Despite the interest rate environment our yield on interest earning assets and our net interest rate spread actually trended up.
Now we've broken this slide into comparison of the third and fourth quarters of both the GAAP and non-GAAP basis.
As you recall when we acquire and repo Non-Agency assets with the same counterparties we've accounted for these assets and the related repurchase agreements as Linked Transactions.
This service has effectively reduced MFA's assets and liabilities and that's what causes the difference between our GAAP and our non-GAAP numbers.
Starting in 2015 due to the adoption of updated accounting standards repurchase agreement Linked Transactions accounting will no longer apply.
No more Linked Transactions.
And accordingly our balance sheet and income statements will reflect these Non-Agency assets and related liabilities.
Turning to Page 6.
MFA's book value declined less than 2% in the quarter.
As you know our net income and our dividends are both $0.20 per share so the change in book value is mainly attributable to the change in Non-Agency MBS in the fourth quarter.
And this change is due to 3 factors: one there were some realized gains; two there was an approximate 0.25 point downward movement of value for Non-Agency holdings; and third as we've explained in prior quarters the discount accretion or Non-Agency MBS increases our amortized cost.
This lowers other comprehensive income which is a component of stockholders' equity and increases earnings which were dividend-ed out.
Gudmundur will now present the next 3 slides which show an update on MFA's interest rate sensitivity the relationship between Agency and Non-Agency prepayment speeds and the relationship between premium amortization and discount accretion.
Thanks Bill.
On Slide 7 which we should see momentarily we show the interest rate sensitivity of our portfolio as measured by net duration as well as the duration of our assets and liabilities.
The duration of our assets declined 20 basis points to 1.6 at the end of the fourth quarter from 1.8 at the end of the third quarter.
The decline was caused by the continuing seasoning of our portfolio; the cumulative effect of falling mortgage rates which would be expected to shorten cash flows; and because new acquisitions in the fourth quarter primarily consisted of RPL and NPL MBS that have low sensitivity to interest rates.
The duration of our hedges declined modestly to minus 3.6 at the end of the fourth quarter from minus 3.7 at the end of the third quarter as our hedges shortened naturally over time.
We did not add any new interest in hedges in the fourth quarter.
And finally our net duration also declined modestly to 56 basis points at the end of the fourth quarter from 62 basis points at the end of the third quarter.
As you can see MFA continues to limit the interest rate risk in this portfolio and is well positioned for increased interest rate volatility in a more uncertain monetary policy.
Now let's move to Slide 8.
As the 10-year treasury yield has fallen from approximately 3% at the end of 2013 to about 2% currently and 30-year mortgage rates have declined approximately 75 basis points to 3.75 during the same period the market's focus on prepayments concerns have increased.
It is therefore worthwhile to review the prepayment profile of MFA's portfolio.
First it is important keep in mind that our Agency MBS were acquired on average premium of approximately 4% while our Legacy Non-Agency MBS were acquired on average discount of approximately 25%.
And therefore if prepayments on both asset classes increase at the same rates we would expect for the impact to be a net positive to MFA as the Legacy Non-Agency MBS discount is about 6x larger than the Agency MBS premium.
Second as we can see on Slide 8 historically changes in prepayment speeds on MFA's Agency and Legacy Non-Agency MBS are generally trended together; increasing at the same time and decreasing at the same time.
Now let's move on to Slide 9.
Here we compare MFA's Agency MBS premium amortization and Legacy Non-Agency MBS discount accretion over time.
Keep in mind that premium amortization is a negative for our earnings while discount accretion is a positive for our earnings.
As we can see from the graph between 2011 and 2012 premium amortization and discount accretion were roughly similar.
But since Q1 2013 our Legacy Non-Agency MBS discount accretion has increased significantly while our Agency MBS premium amortization has declined modestly.
The increase in Legacy Non-Agency discount accretion was caused primarily by the cumulative transfer [Audio Gap] as well as the sizable growth in our Legacy Non-Agency MBS portfolio in 2012.
Currently the Legacy Non-Agency MBS discount accretion is more than double the Agency MBS premium amortization.
In summary because prepayments on Agency MBS and Legacy Non-Agency MBS generally trend together and discount accretion is a significantly larger component of our income than premium amortization we are not concerned about the impact of increased prepayments on our portfolio.
With that I will turn the call over to Craig who will talk about our Non-Agency holdings.
Thank you Gudmundur.
Turning to Page 10.
As Bill said earlier we purchased $1 billion of RPL/NPL MBS in the fourth quarter doubling our holdings of these assets.
As we've said before we particularly like these assets due to their low sensitivity to interest rates and what we believe to be low credit risk while at the same time providing low double-digit ROEs.
Their low duration is due primarily to the 300 basis point coupon step-up that occurs after 3 years which gives us confidence that they will have at most a 3-year final.
In fact historically most of these deals have been called well prior to their 3-year soft final.
And while the underlying loans certainly have credit risk the combination of significant credit support approximately 50% and the locked out nature of the cash flows on the subordinate piece ensure that the senior bonds are well protected and as credit protection increases as the deal seasons.
Turning to Page 11.
The credit metrics on the loans underlying our Legacy Non-Agency portfolio continue to improve.
LTVs continue to decline due to home price appreciation and principal amortization.
Delinquencies have declined as fewer current loans become delinquent and foreclosure pipelines are liquidated.
The loans are now on average 105 months seasoned nearly 9 years old and in addition since over half of these loans were refinancings so those -- these were not purchase money mortgages we know that these homeowners have actually been living in these homes for more than 9 years.
As indicated in our press release we again lowered our estimates of future losses in the portfolio and we transferred over $14 million from our credit reserve to accretable discount.
All else equal this increases the yield we will recognize over the remaining life of the bonds.
Moving on to Page 12.
On Page 12 we illustrated the LTV distribution of current loans in the portfolio.
In particular we focused on the at-risk loans where the homeowner owes more on the mortgage than the property is worth.
Although these mortgages are current the borrowers are not delinquent at present.
These are the loans that we worry most about transitioning to delinquent in the future because of the fact that the borrowers are under water.
As of December 31 less than $200 million face amount of current loans had LTVs over 110%.
This is only about 4% of the current loans in the portfolio.
On Page 13.
We show realized losses experienced on the portfolio over the last 3 years.
Now please keep in mind that these realized losses are fully expected and precisely why we have established the credit reserve which is presently over $900 million.
We knew when we bought these bonds in some cases at very substantial discounts from par that we will not get back the full par amount.
And also please note that after realized losses running at approximately $164 million in both 2012 and 2013 losses in 2014 decreased to $90 million.
The $916 million credit reserve that we have today has already been reduced by over $400 million for actual losses realized in the last 3 years.
These realized losses occur when the property securing the mortgage loans are liquidated for less the -- than the outstanding loan amount.
In addition for many of the fixed rate bonds in the portfolio unrealized losses are generated when mortgage loans are modified through coupon reductions to troubled homeowners.
While the loan modification reduces the interest rate paid by the borrower the bond that we own typically has the contractual fixed rate coupon so the interest collected from the borrower may be less than the interest owed to the bondholder.
In order to cure this interest shortfall the trustee uses principal receipts to pay interest on our bond.
Now this use of principal to pay interest effectively undercollateralizes our bond because the underlying principal balance of the loan is now less than the principal balance of the bond that we own.
For some bonds this loss is recognized in the period that it occurs and this would be a realized loss.
But in most cases the loss is not realized until the period when the loan balance is reduced to 0 and we still have a bond balance outstanding which is likely many years from now.
At that point this unrealized loss will become a realized loss.
Moving to Page 14.
We have become increasingly active in the credit sensitive residential whole loan space growing this asset class threefold since September 30 to approximately $350 million.
We're very excited about this asset class for several reasons: Investments in this asset class utilize much the same residential mortgage credit expertise that we have effectively deployed in the Legacy Non-Agency space since 2008; supply dynamics suggest that we will have significant opportunity to purchase these assets as cardholders are obliged to shed them; total supply is estimated at between $500 billion and $1 trillion with $30 billion to $50 billion of expected annual sales in 2015 and again in 2016.
Compare this to Legacy Non-Agency which is the shrinking market with fewer and fewer opportunities to purchase bonds.
But don't get me wrong we're glad to own $5 billion of Legacy Non-Agencies but it will be virtually impossible to acquire a portfolio like this today.
We're also excited to have the ability to oversee servicing decisions on troubled loans.
For instance by offering modifications to borrowers when such a modification will produce a better net present value outcome than foreclosure and liquidation.
Again compared to Legacy Non-Agency MBS where we have no seat at the table no visibility into the decision and often see losses pass through to the truck that's looking excessive [ph].
Also Residential whole loans are good assets for us that is the qualifying interest for purposes of REIT qualification which most RPL/NPL mortgage-backed securities are not.
And residential whole loans are also qualifying interest for purposes of our 1940 Act exemption which Legacy Non-Agency MBS are not.
And finally we believe that credit sensitive residential whole loans further round out MFA's focus on credit versus pure interest rate risk.
Turning to Slide 15.
We are buying these credit sensitive whole loans at material discounts to both their unpaid principal balance and also to the underlying property we value.
Our $350 million portfolio comprises over 2 300 loans acquired through 10 transactions with 10 different counterparties.
We've established relationships with dozens of key market participants most of whom are different than our trading partners for Legacy Non-Agency and RPL/NPL MBS.
We also note that we've added some leverage in the fourth quarter to this asset class and we're in discussions with additional lenders to add more financing in 2015.
Leverage ratios on this asset class could conceivably grow to 2 to 3x debt-to-equity.
But additionally if we were utilize securitization financing in the future this leverage ratio might increase again as this leverage would be term nonrecourse and non-mark-to-market.
And now I'd like to turn the call back over to Bill.
Thanks Craig.
So you might have noticed as we continue to diversify our residential mortgage asset we -- our presentation has become a little longer but let me sum it up.
We continue to utilize our expertise to identify and acquire attractive credit sensitive residential mortgage assets.
We've substantially grown our holdings of RPL/NPL securities and loans.
Our credit sensitive assets continue to perform well.
Now we don't say that we know exactly what the Fed will do and when they'll do it but what's important is that we're well positioned to grow changes in interest rates and grow our prepayment rates.
Tom with that I'd like to -- please have you open up the lines for questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question today comes from the line of Dan Altscher with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Cole Allen on for Dan Altscher.
So first off I guess I did notice that you guys ticked up the leverage in the whole loans portfolio and you just talked about it going to eventually a 2 to 3x.
What are you guys' expectations for how quickly that becomes a 2 to 3x levered and I guess the reasons that you think behind adding leverage to that portfolio? So this is a question we answer one way or the other in every call.
We don't manage to a leveraged goal.
It's a question of adding assets that we think are attractive to the shareholders and if we're growing the portfolio which we clearly did in the fourth quarter leverage steps up.
So we don't have a goal to change the leverage.
We do have a goal to continue to acquire assets that we think will yield high single-digits low double-digit ROEs.
So -- not going to give you a goal but you're right leverage did pick up and that's because we substantially grew our assets.
Research Division</strong> All right.
That's very helpful.
And then I guess one other quick question on CPRs.
It actually seem like in general portfolio CPRs kind of ticked down for the quarter.
What have you guys been seeing so far in 1Q as treasury yield have rebounded a little bit? This is Gudmundur.
Well I can tell you on the Agency side we've seen actually CPRs trended down in the first quarter from the fourth quarter.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go to Lucy Webster's line with Compass Point.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was hoping you could talk about the RPL/NPL market and how you characterize the activity so far this quarter.
What you're seeing on a volume and pricing standpoint there? So just to be clear Lucy on the RPL/NPL mortgage-backed securities market or the whole loan market? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes the MBS market.
The MBS market.
So -- well the calendar was actually quite crowded in December.
There were a lot of deals that came at the end of December and we were actually lucky that a lot of the securities we picked up in the fourth quarter we picked up at the end when the market widened out.
I think we've seen continued supply into January and February.
And the market has certainly tightened somewhat from where it was at the end of the year.
So if -- to -- just to throw those numbers out if the market cut is wide it's 4% yield at the end of the year it's probably back into about 3.5% yield now.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then are you seeing any change maybe on the whole loan side to your foreclosure or liquidation time lines there? In our portfolio? LLC Research Division</strong> Yes.
In the whole loans spaces.
It's really hard to tell because most of these trades we probably only own for a little more than a month.
So it can be difficult or impossible to sort of discern any trend.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I was just wondering have you guys ever disclosed who does your sub-servicing for you? We haven't.
We're using Fay Servicing for a substantial portion of it but they're not the only servicer that we use.
And next we'll go to the line of Charles Nabhan with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> If I could follow up on Lucy's question regarding the RPL/NPL MBS market and just get a sense for what you're seeing in terms of competition for those assets.
Well it really varies.
So again as I said before at the end of the year I think there were a lot of deals that issuers wanted to get done before the end of the year.
So frankly there probably wasn't a whole lot of competition then.
We've probably seen a little bit more competition in -- certainly in January and into February but there's a tremendous volume of these deals.
And so if the worst thing that happens is we've put in for an order for $75 million or $100 million and we only get $50 million or $75 million it's hardly a disaster.
So there's a lot of supply of this.
The existing deals pay down pretty quickly and you see issuers call deals and then reissue deals to relever them.
So I think the supply/demand dynamics are actually pretty good.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I apologize if you touched on this but I wanted to get a sense -- get your thoughts on the CRT market and how you think about that asset class and if we could potentially -- if that's a type of asset you would potentially look at for your portfolio.
So we actually -- I think we have it in the press release but we -- you'll certainly see it in the K we have participated to a lesser extent.
I think our total holdings of the CRT transactions is about $100 million.
We do think it's interesting when they -- again it's like everything else we approach it opportunistically if the spreads get wider which they did in the fourth quarter they become more attractive to us less so as they tighten.
So we're certainly involved.
We like the asset because it really has no duration.
They're monthly floaters with no caps.
On the other hand it's -- the way it's structured it's not a good lead asset it's not a good asset for purposes of the 40 Act exemption.
So I think our participation will be somewhat limited but we certainly see that as attractive especially as spreads widen out.
[Operator Instructions] And gentlemen nobody else is queuing up at this time.
Great.
Thank you all for joining us today and we look forward speaking to you again next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay starting at noon today and running through May 12 at midnight.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive playback service at any time by dialing 1 (800) 475-6701 and entering the access code of 352850.
International participants may dial (320) 365-3844.
And that does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the MFA Financial Inc.
first quarter earnings conference call.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today's conference call is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference call over to your first speaker Danielle Rosatelli.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
The information discussed on this conference call today may contain or refer to forward-looking statements regarding MFA Financial Inc.
which reflect management's belief expectation and assumption as to MFA's future performance and operation.
When used statements that are not historical in nature including those containing words such as will believe expect anticipate estimate plan continue intend should could would may or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
These types of statements are subject to various known and unknown risks uncertainties assumptions and other factors including those described in MFA's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 and other reports that it may file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
These risks uncertainties and other factors could cause MFA's actual results to differ materially from those projected expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements it makes.
For additional information regarding MFA's use of forward-looking statements please see the relevant disclosure in the press release announcing MFA's first quarter 2015 financial results.
The discussion today also contains certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Information relating to comparable GAAP financial measures may be found in the first quarter 2015 earnings presentation slide which has been filed with the SEC and are posted on our website at mfafinancial.com.
Thank you for your time.
I would now like to turn this call over to Bill Gorin MFA's Chief Executive Officer.
Thanks Danielle.
I'd like to welcome everyone to MFA's First Quarter 2015 Financial Results Webcast.
With me today are Craig Knutson MFA's President and Chief Operating Officer; Gudmundur Kristjansson Senior Vice President; Steve Yarad CFO; and other members of senior management.
In the past 12 months we continued to build a more robust business strategy.
MFA converted to a holding company structure which increased our investment flexibility.
We built out a team and the analytics for whole loan investments.
As a result we're able to expand our investment focus across a wide range of credit-sensitive residential mortgage assets.
In the first quarter of '15 we've generated net income of $78 million or $0.21 per common share.
The dividend was again $0.20 per share.
Book value per common share was $8.13 and based on continued good performance within our credit-sensitive Legacy Non-Agency assets we again transfer significant amounts approximately $22 million from credit reserve to accretable discount.
Now turning to Page 3.
Despite the low interest rate environment we continue to identify and acquire attractive credit-sensitive residential mortgage assets.
It's been approximately 9 years since the last federal funds rate increase.
The unemployment rate has declined and may continue to decline in 2015 yet the labor force participation rate remains low inflation remains low in the U.S.
and it borders on deflation in Europe and Japan.
Interest rates remain low across the yield curve on a global basis.
Commodity prices are weak and the strong dollar is impacting U.S.
companies.
As a result future U.S.
Federal Reserve actions will remain dependent on incoming data but we remain positioned for more flexible monetary policy by the Federal Reserve that will be responsive to measures of labor market indicators of inflation international developments and other economic data.
We continue to limit the interest rate sensitivity of our portfolio.
Our net duration as of the end of March was 0.53 our leverage ratio was 3.3:1 and 72% of our mortgage-backed securities are adjustable rate hybrids or step-up.
Turning to Page 4.
In the first quarter we continue to identify attractive investment opportunities across the residential mortgage asset universe.
We increased our holdings to securities backed by reperforming/nonperforming loans to approximately $2.3 billion while increasing our holdings and credit-sensitive residential whole loans to $387 million.
In addition we increased our holdings of credit risk transfer securities to $127 million.
On the other side of the ledger we opportunistically sold $11 million of Non-Agency MBS issued prior to 2008 realizing gain of $6.4 million.
This is the 11th consecutive quarter we've realized gains through selected sales of Non-Agency MBS based on our projections of future cash flows relative to market pricing.
Again we did not acquire any Agency MBS in the quarter.
Now turning to Page 5.
As you can see MFA's yields and spreads remain attractive.
Despite the interest rate environment our net interest rate spread actually trended up.
Now we've broken this slide into comparison of the first quarter '15 to a fourth quarter of 2014 on both the GAAP and non-GAAP basis.
As you may recall prior to 2015 when we acquired and repo-ed Non-Agency assets with the same counterparties we account for these assets and related repurchase agreements as Linked Transactions.
This effectively reduced MFA's assets and liabilities as what caused the difference between our GAAP and non-GAAP numbers for the fourth quarter of '14.
Starting in 2015 due to the adoption of updated accounting standards for repurchased agreements Linked Transaction accounting will no longer apply.
No more Linked Transactions.
And accordingly an additional $1.5 billion of Non-Agency assets that we own are now reflected on our balance sheet.
Just like to point out that if you look at non-GAAP fourth quarter and the first quarter '15 the debt to equity ratio remains the same 3.3:1 Turning to Page 6.
We present the yields and spreads for a more significant holdings.
Given the leverage we are currently utilizing or may utilize in the future each of these asset types are generating attractive returns to MFA shareholders.
On Page 7 we illustrate how our holdings have evolved through 2014 and through the first quarter of '15.
We've incrementally increased our holdings of more credit-sensitive but less interest rate-sensitive residential mortgage assets over this time period.
Turning to Page 8.
Our book value was basically flat during the quarter.
Our net income of $0.21 per share exceeded our dividend of $0.20 per share by $0.01.
Now turning to Page 9 Gudmundur Kristjansson will give an update on MFA's interest rate sensitivity.
Thanks Bill.
On Slide 9 we see the interest rate sensitivity of MFA's assets and liabilities as measured by interest rate duration.
The duration of our assets declined by 15 basis points from 1.45 at the end of the quarter primarily because of acquisitions of RPL and NPL MBS which exhibit very little sensitivity to changes in interest rates and to continuing seasoning of the rest of our MBS portfolio.
On the hedging side $410 million of short swaps matured in the quarter resulting in our lengthening of our interest rate hedges by 20 basis points to minus 3.8 average duration at quarter end.
In aggregate the net duration of our portfolio was 53 basis points at the end of the first quarter almost unchanged from 56 basis points at the end of last quarter.
Given the increased interest rate volatility we have observed in the last couple of quarters as well as the increased uncertainty regarding monetary policy at the Federal Reserve is now fully data-dependent we are happy to be operating our company with a very low interest rate duration as well as very little sensitivity to the long end of the curve.
With that I will turn the call over to Craig who will discuss our Non-Agency investments.
Thanks Gudmundur.
On Page 10 we purchased approximately $500 million of RPL NPL mortgage-backed securities in the first quarter while experiencing paydowns of approximately $200 million thus growing its portfolio by a little over $300 million.
We particularly like these assets due to their low sensitivity to interest rates what we believe to be low credit risk while at the same time providing low double-digit ROEs.
Their low duration is due primarily to the 300-basis-point coupon step-up after 3 years which gives us confidence that they will have at most a 3-year final.
In fact most similar deals have been called well prior to their 3-year soft final.
Now while the underlying loans certainly have credit risk the combination of significant credit support approximately 50% and the locked down nature of the cash flows on the subordinate piece ensure that the senior bonds are well protected and this credit protection increases as the deal seasons.
Turning to Page 11.
The credit metrics on the loans underlying our Legacy Non-Agency portfolio are very solid.
Home price appreciation and principal amortization approximately 60% of the underlying loans are now amortizing both of these combined to reduce the LTVs.
Delinquencies also continue to decline.
60-plus day delinquencies as of March 31 for the portfolio have declined to 14.7%.
The loans are on average 108 months or 9 years seasoned.
And as indicated in our press release and as Bill mentioned earlier we again lowered our estimates of future losses in the portfolio and we transferred over $22 million from our credit reserves to accretable discount.
All else equal this increases the yield and we will recognize over the remaining life of these bonds.
Turning to Page 12.
On Page 12 we illustrate the LTV distribution of current loans in the portfolio.
In particular we focused on the at-risk loans where the homeowner owes more on the mortgage than the property is worth.
Although these mortgage loans are current these borrowers are not delinquent at this time.
These are the loans that we worry most about transitioning to delinquent in the future because of the fact that the borrowers are under water.
As of March 31 less than $200 million face amount of current loans had LTVs over 110%.
This is only about 4% of the current loans.
On Page 13.
We show realized losses experienced on the portfolio over the last 3 calendar years and for the first quarter of 2015.
Keep in mind that these realized losses are fully expected and precisely why we have established the credit reserve.
Note that after realized losses of $164 million in both 2012 and 2013 losses in 2014 decreased to $90 million.
During the first quarter of 2015 realized losses were $20 million.
Now the $874 million credit reserve has already been reduced by all actual losses already realized.
At one point these credit reserve was as high as $1.5 billion.
These realized losses occur when the property securing mortgage loans are liquidated for less than the outstanding loan amount.
In addition for many of the fixed rate bonds in the portfolio unrealized losses are generated when mortgage loans are modified through coupon reductions to troubled homeowners.
While the loan modification reduces the interest rate paid by the borrower the bond that we own has a contractual fixed rate coupon.
So the interest collected from the borrower may be less than interest owed to us to the bondholder.
In order to cure this interest shortfall the trustee uses principal receipts to pay interest on our bond.
This use of principal to pay interest effectively undercollateralizes our bond as the underlying principal balance of the loan is now less than the principal balance of the bonds that we own.
In some rare cases this loss is recognized in the period in which it occurs and pass through as a realized loss.
But in most cases the loss is not realized until the loan balance is reduced to 0 and yet we still have a bond balance outstanding which is very likely many years from now.
At that point the unrealized loss will become a realized loss.
Turning to Page 14.
We have become increasingly active in the credit-sensitive residential whole loan space growing this asset class threefold since September 30 to $387 million.
We're excited about this asset class for several reasons one investments in this asset class utilize much the same residential mortgage credit expertise that we have effectively deployed in the legacy non-agency space since 2008.
Two supply dynamics suggest that we will have significant opportunity to purchase these assets as current holders are obliged to shed them.
Total supply is estimated at anywhere between $500 billion and $1 trillion with $30 billion to $50 billion of expected annual sales in 2015 and 2016.
Compare this to legacy non-agency which is the shrinking market with fewer and fewer opportunities to purchase bonds.
Three we're excited to have the ability to oversee servicing decisions on troubled loans.
For instance by offering modifications to borrowers with such a modification will produce a better NPV outcome than a foreclosure and liquidation.
Again compared to legacy non-agency MBS where we have no seat at that table no visibility into the decision and often see losses pass through on these bonds that look excessive.
Four residential whole loans are good assets for us.
That is the qualifying interests for purposes of the REIT qualification which most RPL NPL mortgage-backed securities are not.
And residential whole loans are qualifying interest for the purpose of the 1940 Act exemption which legacy non-agency MBS are not.
And finally we believe that credit-sensitive residential whole loans further round out MFA's focus on credit versus pure interest rate risk.
Turning to Slide 15.
We are buying these credit-sensitive whole loans at material discounts to both their unpaid principal balance and also to the underlying property value.
Our $387 million portfolio comprises 2 700 loans acquired through 13 transactions with 11 different counterparties.
We've established relationships with dozens of key market participants most of whom are different than our traditional trading partners for agency and non-agency MBS.
We added some leverage to this asset class in the fourth quarter and we're in discussions with additional lenders to add more financing in 2015.
Leverage ratios on this asset class could be 2 to 3x debt-to-equity.
And with that I'd like to turn the call back over to Bill.
Thanks Craig.
So to summarize we continue to execute on our strategy of acquiring attractive credit-sensitive residential mortgage assets.
Not a lot of change not a lot of variance based on our guess of what the fed is going to do with its next meeting.
This is a more consistent strategy that works over time.
You've seen over the last year that we've substantially grown our holdings of RPL NPL securities and loans.
The credit-sensitive assets we own continue to perform well.
Future Federal Reserve actions will depend on incoming data but whatever their decision is we believe we are well positioned for both changes in interest rates and the [indiscernible].
That completes today's presentation.
Allan could you please open up the lines for questions? [Operator Instructions] Our first telephone line question comes from the line of Dan Altscher with FBR Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> This is actually Cole Allen on for Dan Altscher.
I guess I wanted to first touch on your residential whole loans and actually just your whole credit-sensitive portfolio.
You've talked a little bit about the servicing decisions that you guys are -- you get to make on the new whole loans versus the legacy non-agency that you guys have? I guess how are you monitoring those servicing decisions? And can you walk us through I guess that whole process and how they've been performing the services thus far? So again we are involved in overseeing those servicing decisions.
So we have an asset management process that's pretty much works loan by loan.
So while the servicer obviously has a contact with the borrower we work very closely with the servicer communicate multiple times per day.
As far as how those decisions get made they're really made in the best interest of the best net present value solution.
So -- and when I refer to legacy because those are bonds and we face the trustee and the trustee faces the servicer we don't really have any knowledge of how those decisions get made.
All we see are results.
We see a liquidation typically or we see a coupon reduction.
So we think that we can make much more meaningful decisions in real time that hopefully produces better net present value outcomes.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess this quarter you've -- we actually saw credit risk transfers kick up again.
I'm just wondering what are you guys seeing in this market.
And I guess are you going to continue to expand it? And will this eventually maybe get broken out as its own segment? Well $100 million is still a very small amount but we just put it in because we know people are very focused on this segment.
We are opportunistic.
When the spreads are very wide we're a buyer.
And when the spreads are not as wide we may not be a buyer.
So it's hard to forecast whether this portion will grow.
We do own some and we didn't want to point it out but $100 million is a very small portion of our whole portfolio.
Research Division</strong> That's fair.
That's fair.
And then I guess one last quick one.
You mentioned that some of the RPLs and NPLs have been called and there's a good amount of them called over the next year or so.
What are your guys' expectations for that? And I guess is there a time frame that you expect? Or is it just going to be kind of lumpy and you don't have great insight into it? Well as you know call is the option of the issuer not the investor.
But based on historical precedent because as Craig mentioned all the cash flows go to the senior portion.
They delever very quickly for the issuer so they are incented to call them probably before the end of third year but it's their option so it's hard for us to forecast.
Just to add to that most of the time that deals get called not all the time but most of the time that a deal gets called the issuer reissues the deal within collateral.
So a deal gets called but there's usually an opportunity to participate in the new deal that follows on very quickly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you guys have access-- that you usually get to look at that deal? Of course.
We'll move now to the line of Steve Delaney with JMP Securities.
Research Division</strong> Looking at Page 14 and hearing Craig's comments about the significant expected future supply.
I mean you guys have definitely been able to find access but I'm just curious if you see the possibility of some kind of mega trades coming down.
We noticed in late March Freddie sold about $1 billion in UPV of nonperformers.
I think that was their first trade and we haven't seen that Fannie has announced anything yet.
But I'm just curious if you're hearing any chatter in the trading community.
If this $1 billion is settling here in May are you expecting that there might be a large securitization coming out this summer from the buyer of those lines? Or what is your thought about the GSE role in contributing to the NPL/RPL opportunity? Just generally if that's more appropriate.
Steve this is Bryan Wulfsohn.
Yes I guess we would expect significant supply to come from the GSE.
We have seen Freddie sell some loans.
We wouldn't be surprised if Fannie might come behind that and sell some loans and we would expect sort of a steady continuous supply then of nonperforming loans coming out from the GSEs.
They have somewhat I would say in around $100 billion of nonperforming loans.
So that can be significant supply coming out from there.
And Steve you're right.
Typically home loan trades of this type turn into securitizations a couple of months later.
So you're correct.
Research Division</strong> Yes that's where I was kind of going.
And obviously as we saw with CRT right? I mean CRT got so tight you couldn't even buy it.
And as the volume picked up the spreads came out.
I think you found it attractive again because you weren't involved so much early but you kind of got involved after spreads widened and it -- just kind of trying to get a sense for whether the NPL or RPL securitization game whether it might even become a better rate if the volume actually picks up? So Steve you sort of highlighting our strategy we -- the residential mortgage universe is not a small one and we can pick and choose our spots basically reinvesting our runoffs.
So -- which you point out is correct.
If the spread is wide we're there.
Otherwise we will find another track of investments from the same asset class.
Research Division</strong> And if the whole loans pick up obviously you've got a little more control over the servicing et cetera there.
Then you found some repo financing but could -- as you're volume picks up and maybe you've got $0.5 billion instead of $300 million is that something where you could actually -- have you guys considered actually being an issuer of securities yourself to finance your whole loans? Absolutely.
Although you sort of go home and now you think "Gee am I a buyer or seller?" Research Division</strong> Yes.
No no I hear you.
I hear you.
But of course you're still -- even if you're a seller you're really in financing because you still got that inherent credit-sensitive subordinate piece that you're really looking for your return on.
So one -- just one final -- I appreciate the comments on it guys because I think that's -- looking at where you're positioned this is probably the biggest clear and present opportunity that you have.
Just I guess for Steve Yarad.
The accounting distinction on your NPL/RPL whole loans you -- the 40% are fair value.
Should I just assume that when you put something at fair value there's a serious level of delinquency and you're actually at that point looking to the fair value of the underlying real estate rather than the performance of a loan? Steve that's correct.
When we acquired these packages and loans we go through them and we segregate them into what we consider to be more in the nature of reperforming loans and nonperforming loans based on the delinquency at the acquisition date.
And we under the accounting standards we make an election to either account for them as fair value or to account for them at a carrying value basis.
And the ones that we account for fair value you're correct are the ones that are more delinquent and more in the nature of nonperforming loans.
We have a question in queue from the line of Jason Weaver with Sterne Agee L.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to dovetail a little bit on Steve's comments here.
On the NPL and RPL assets you purchased during the quarter what would you say the average cost to underlying principle is on each of those segments? There are the purchases in the first quarters? Securities and loans.
You term up your loans.
Correct not the RPL/NPL securities.
Research Division</strong> RPL and NPL securities.
The securities are about pars.
Research Division</strong> About par.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And the other thing am I right to assume your credit reserve at this point is almost exclusively dedicated to the non-agency legacy MBS portfolio? Yes.
Research Division</strong> So with -- I didn't catch Craig's comment on the percent that we're amortizing but I did hear that only about I think 4% were significantly above 100% of LTV? How just -- can you walk me through how you get to your 24% implied credit reserve on that? Is that really just the function of more modifications going through the pipeline? And you touched on this during your comments but I'm trying to make sure I'm understanding correctly.
So it's 2 things.
One we presently have about 15%.
I think it's 14.7% that are 60-plus days.
And then in addition our assumptions assume that loans in the future will also default.
Loans that are current today will also default.
And the page I think the page you referenced I said that about 4% of the principal balance of the loans that are current today have LTVs over 110%.
So as far as how those assumptions all interrelate remember that it's not just loans defaulting it's also prepayment assumptions that drive that.
It's loss severities on loans that default.
So it's a pretty rigorous process that we go through every quarter to review that credit reserve.
And as you point out modifications also cause losses right? Although those losses might not be realized for many years but modifications will also cause losses to the extent that principal is used pay interest because every dollar or principal that's used to pay interest can never pay principal back on the bond.
Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
Okay.
And one final.
Aside from your multiyear set repurchase agreement facility any other opportunities on the horizon to expand financing beyond the traditional repo space? Well as we've talked about if we did grow our loan portfolio.
We would look at the securitization market.
And we'll now move to the line of Joel Houck with Wells Fargo.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm just wondering if you can do a compare and contrast risk and reward trade-off between the CIP bonds and reperforming NPL that you're buying to replace runoff.
What is that in terms of IRR versus the overall credit risk profile? I think -- so what we sort of did -- do this.
We've sort of tried to do the unified theory of quantum physics and -- it all has to tie together right? Because you can trade off any one of these assets.
We can try to solve it all and I think the ROEs on the CRT bond looked very good.
But you have to remember there's a low cushion there.
So we think depending on the wider range of potential events if nothing extreme happens the CRTs look very good especially if you're down towards the bottom pieces.
But the variability of the returns changes based on your assumptions.
That's how we do look at it.
You're exactly right Joel.
And they all look relatively comparable but I think historically we felt that we could deal with more uncertainty not investing in the CRTs because the pieces are so thin at the bottom.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And how does the volatility in these spreads allow you to be more opportunistic or less opportunistic in each one of the asset classes? Because I know the CRT bonds have moved around quite a bit.
And people I think including yourself have tried to take advantage of wider spreads at times.
I think they've come in here this year but maybe if you could wrap it up by commenting on that that aspect of it.
So there's 2 decisions are whether you're buying or whether you're selling.
So we've only bought when they have widened.
But they haven't tightened to the extent we did decide to sell.
On our legacy non-agencies we bought when they're very wide.
And if a particular asset does tighten we'll opportunistically take those gains which we've done 11 quarters in a row.
So those are both really the 2 decision points.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
Is one more powerful than the other? Or is it -- are they kind of independent -- move independently of one another? Well the CRT prices did change pretty rapidly.
So I would say since the CRTs have been just dated they've probably been more volatile.
And we now have a question in queue from the line of Mike Widner and he's with KBW.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Let me follow up a little more with some kind of basic questions on the RPL and NPL whole loans.
Just first I think I know the answer to this but when you make that designation at purchase you split them out into the 2 buckets loans of carrying value versus fair value.
I assume that's a designation that kind of sticks around for life -- for the life of the loans? Or is there any movement back and forth I guess over time? Well -- it's Steve Yarad.
Once you make the designation to account from the fair value that's irrevocable.
So once they're a fair value they stay at fair value.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> And how about the other way? I mean because I mean I would think the main distinction is if it's a nonperforming loan there's no interest income on it obviously.
And so I mean can you move it from the carrying value bucket into the fair value bucket if you want to if it goes NPL or whatever? Once -- no that doesn't happen either.
So once we account for it a carrying value to the extent that they do become a nonperforming loan later in life we still account for them using a yield-based approach.
But as you might appreciate if enough of them in the various buckets that we bought go non-performing then you would take impairment later down the road if those cash flows deteriorate.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay.
And then on the ones that are in the fair value bucket I just wanted to understand a little bit.
I don't need great detail but what's the basis for what you're using as fair value? And I mean is it a lifetime cash flow NPV sort of thing? Or is it a value of the underlying property? Or is it basically your assessment of the market value if you were to liquidate those today? So it's really all of those things.
So right you're looking at the cash -- you're looking at the projection of cash flows by taking into account the underlying property value.
If you're -- if it's a nonperforming loan right? There's the time to liquidate and the cost associated with liquidating.
And then basically you're discounting that back at some market discount rate and that's how you come up with the market value.
And we use sort of a third-party valuation service to assist us in that marking process.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> So I guess I mean specifically the question there is because we see this with other companies that are holding stuff at fair value.
If the market decides that hey these things are actually great because the market's implying either increasing property values or lower discount rate or whatever.
I mean the market can choose to pay a lot more for these things 2 or 3 quarters from now.
I guess what I'm trying to figure out is what ends up dominating the equation? The underlying fundamentals or sort of-- the market -- because what you guys think about credit losses and discount rates may be very different than what the market chooses to pay at some given time.
So yes.
I mean the market discount rate would definitely affect the value of the nonperforming loans.
Just right if someone was paying using a 7% discount rate initially and then the market moved to a 6% that would definitely impact the price.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
And so what I'm trying to figure out is again to what degree is the market's assessment of -- it doesn't really matter if it's credit spreads or whatever but I mean as we saw with the GSE CRTs right those prices can be very volatile.
And since you're not -- well and so the question would be since you're carrying them at a fair value is is this going to get swung around quarter-to-quarter by the market's assessment of what they're worth? Or is it more -- I know it's not black-and-white but is it more your assessment of underlying fundamentals or is it more just whatever the market feels like paying for these things today? Because it is a pretty big asset class and we're seeing more people in it.
And so there is an argument that you can get a market value rather than an economic value if you will.
Mark I understand the question.
And the way that -- when you account for -- you talk of assets at fair value and maybe Level 3 assets you do have to make your best estimate of what the market values them at.
You can't sort of value them necessarily at your own estimate of fundamental value.
You have to use market participant approach.
And that's the approach that we're taking in valuing these assets from quarter-to-quarter.
It's hard to say whether that's going to mean they're going to be responding very volatility or not.
It's going to depend on how the market perceives the value as we move forward.
I also think you see more volatility in the credit risk transfer deal simply due to technicals.
I think the last sale that was done there were some functions.
There were 17x oversubscribed or something like that.
So I think you'll see a lot more volatility because those spreads can get whipsawed by technicals.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes -- no that makes sense.
I just wanted to make sure -- I mean the answer you gave is what I thought the answer was.
So I appreciate it.
I guess one more little minor thing on this and just want to make sure I know what I'm looking at in all these tables.
In the slide presentation I think it was Page 6.
Yes Page 6.
You show a yield.
So actually return on the RPLs of 5.84%.
And then over on the table the first -- well the second table I guess in the press release you list the yield on average earning assets for that bucket at 6.475.
And I'm just wondering is that -- well what's the difference there? And should I be thinking of those as the same thing? Is one a quarter average versus a quarter end or...? No no.
The simple answer.
The difference I believe is servicing cost.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the 5.84% showing strips out would do you say 60-something basis points for servicing? Correct.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes the 63 basis points for servicing.
Okay.
Perfect.
And then -- okay.
So I've beaten that stuff.
Quick question I mean any thoughts on FHLB membership? It seems to be all the rage these days.
So thanks for bringing it up.
Yes we've look at the strategy.
We believe it has merits.
And historically it hasn't really matched with our types of assets.
We -- our agency book really hasn't grown.
Typically legacy non-agencies which no longer of high ratings would not be good assets to borrow against but it's something we look at.
We believe it absolutely has merit and it's something that might impact MFA in the future.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Got you.
That makes perfect sense.
And then this is the last one.
You mentioned switching to a holding company structure.
I hadn't really thought much about that but I mean is that a new thing.
And sort of what's the -- is there anything in particular we should think about as to why that matters or why it happens? Well why it matters it give us more flexibility.
And actually I believe we first reported this change in the first quarter of 2014.
So it's been about 12 months.
Bruyette &amp; Woods Inc.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Actually I thought it had been awhile.
But I mean you guys brought it up again.
And I mean is there anything particular about where you're placing assets? I mean it came up again.
No thank you.
Part of the reason that we made the change was to allow us to set up entities that would be licensed to own loans.
So you're exactly right.
There's movement towards loans is the genesis of this new structure.
[Operator Instructions] We have a question in queue from the line of Doug Harter with Crédit Suisse.
This is Sam Choe filling in for Doug Harter.
Our questions have been asked and answered.
Operator I guess that's all the questions? No further questions in queue at this time.
All right.
Well I want to thank everyone for joining us today and for the thoughtful questions and we sure look forward to speaking talking to you next quarter.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay beginning at 12 noon today May 5 2015 until August 5 2015 at 11:59 P.M.
To access the AT&amp;T Executive playback service during that time please dial 1 (800) 475-6701.
Internationally dial area code (320) 365-3844 and enter the access code 359138.
That will conclude your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation and for using AT&amp;T Executive TeleConference Service.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for your patience in standing by.
Welcome to the MFA Financial Incorporate Second Quarter Earnings Call.
At this time all participant lines are in a listen-only mode.
And later there will be an opportunity for question.
[Operator Instructions] And as a reminder today’s call is being recorded.
Right now I’d like to turn the floor over to Danielle Rosatelli.
Good morning.
The information discussed on this conference call today may contain or refer to forward-looking statements regarding MFA Financial Inc.
which reflect management’s beliefs expectations and assumptions as to MFA’s future performance and operation.
When used statements that are not historical in nature including those containing words such as will believe expect anticipate estimate plan continue intend should could would may or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
These types of statements are subject to various known and unknown risks uncertainties assumptions and other factors including those described in MFA’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 and other reports that we may file from time-to-time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
These risks uncertainties and other factors could cause MFA’s actual results to differ materially from those projected expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements it makes.
For additional information regarding MFA’s use of forward-looking statements please see the relevant disclosure in the press release announcing MFA’s second-quarter 2015 financial results.
Thank you for your time.
I would now like to turn this call over to Bill Gorin MFA’s Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Danielle.
I’d like to welcome everyone to MFA’s second quarter 2015 financial results webcast.
With me today are Craig Knutson MFA’s President and Chief Operating Officer; Gudmundur Kristjansson Senior Vice President; Bryan Wulfsohn Senior Vice President; Steve Yarad CFO; and other members of senior management.
In 2015 we continue to build on our robust residential mortgage asset strategies.
When investment opportunities arise in the residential mortgage asset sector and in my experience if you are patient they always do MFA remains focused and is very capable of analyzing the opportunity and being an early and often sizable investor.
I assume we’re on Page 3.
So despite the lower interest rate environment we continue to identify and acquire attractive credit-sensitive residential mortgage assets.
In the second quarter of 2015 we generated net income of $74.3 million or $0.20 per common share.
The dividend was again $0.20 per share and book value per common share was $7.96.
It’s been nine years since the last federal funds rate increased.
The unemployment rate has declined and may continue to decline in 2015 yet the labor-force participation rate remains low inflation remains low in the U.S.
and borders on deflation in Europe and Japan.
Interest rates remain low across the yield curve on a global basis.
Commodity prices are weak and the strong dollar is impacting U.S.
companies.
As a result future US Federal Reserve actions remain dependent on data as it comes in.
We remain positioned for a more flexible monetary policy by the Federal Reserve that is responsive to measures of labor markets indicators of inflation international developments and other economic data.
The probability of changes in the fed funds rate does go up with time.
The exact liftoff date remains uncertain but we currently anticipate that changes in monetary policy will be measured and gradual.
At MFA we continue to limit the interest rate sensitivity of our portfolio.
Our net duration was 0.61.
Our leverage ratio was 3.3 to 1.
And 73% of our mortgage-backed securities are adjustable hybrid or step-up.
In addition as Craig Knutson will discuss later in the call as a further step in the diversification of our lending counterparties wholly-owned subsidiary MFA insurance Inc.
has joined the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines.
Turning to Page 4 please.
In the second quarter we continued to identify and acquire credit-sensitive residential mortgage assets to generate earnings without increasing MFA’s overall interest rate exposure.
We increased our holdings of securities backed by re-performing non-performing loans to approximately $2.6 billion while increasing our holdings of credit-sensitive residential home loans to over $400 million.
In the quarter our more interest-rate-sensitive investments agency MBS continued to pay down.
Staying on this page Page 4 looking at the change column you get to see how our assets turn into cash on a fairly regular basis.
This is what we mean by saying mature assets.
They indicate good yield to own these credit-sensitive assets but they are not long assets.
As we’ve repeatedly said we do not own 30-year agency assets.
Agencies pay down over $300 million in the quarter.
Legacy non-agency some small amount of sales but that balance went down about $250 million in the quarter.
Now the three year step-ups we showed positive $274 million.
There’s moving parts there.
We actually purchased over $600 million of assets while we had pay-downs of close to $400 million.
Turning to Page 5 please.
As you can see MFA’s yields and spreads remain attractive despite the interest rate environment.
Leverage remained constant at a 3.3 debt-to-equity ratio.
Page 6 please.
Turning to Page 6 we present yields and spreads for our more significant holdings.
Given the leverage we are utilizing or may utilize in the future each of these asset types are generating attractive returns to MFA’s shareholders.
Turning to Page 7.
On Page 7 we illustrate our holdings have evolved from 2014 to 2015.
This is neither a rebalancing or a reinvestment; this is continued planned evolution of the company.
We’ve incrementally increased our holdings to more credit-sensitive less interest-rate-sensitive residential mortgage assets over this time period.
Turning to Page 8.
MFA’s book value was down approximately 2% and that is due primarily to slightly lower non-agency prices.
But let’s turn to Page 9 to give you a deep-dive into the impact of non-agency MBS on MFA’s book value because there are multiple moving parts.
We talked about some of this before.
Now the impact of changes in market prices of non-agency MBS was approximately negative $0.09 per share.
There were realized gains of $0.02 per share which was included in net income and was distributed to stockholders.
Discount accretion which is basically income in excess of coupon on non-agency MBS purchased at a discount was approximately $0.06 per share.
This is also included in income and was distributed to stockholders.
Let me remind you we purchased these assets at deep discounts and part of the returns is the coupons and part of the returns are capturing more than our initial share price.
So it’s not surprising that this is part of our income and is part of our dividend.
Principal pay-downs in excess of the market value increased book value and realized losses decreased the face amount of non-agency MBS and reduced book value.
Gudmundur Kristjansson will now present Slide 10 which is an update on MFA’s interest-rate sensitivities.
Thanks Bill.
On Slide 10 we take a look at MFA’s interest-rate sensitivities.
We continue to maintain a low sensitivity to changes in interest rates as can be seen by our low net duration of 61 basis points.
What equally as important is the fact that our assets have very limited sensitivity to changes in long-term interest rates.
This is due to the fact that 73% of our assets are adjustable hybrid or step-up; and our agency MBS are in average five-year seasons and our legacy non-agency MBS are in average nine-year seasons.
Another important benefit of our seasoned portfolio is a lower sensitivity to changes in mortgage spreads than on newly-originated mortgages.
In the second quarter long-term Treasury rates increased about 50 basis points while shorter term Treasury rates increased only about 10 basis points resulting in the steepening of the curve.
Because our assets have limited sensitivity to long-term interest rates our book value was only modestly affected as Bill discussed in the last two slides.
By maintaining low net duration and limited sensitivity to the long end of the curve MFA has been well positioned for the increased interest rate volatility experienced this year and is well prepared for a potential gradual increase in Fed funds in the near future.
With that I will turn the call over to Craig who will talk about MFA Insurance Inc.
membership of the FHLB as well as our non-agency investments.
Thank you Gudmundur.
So Page 11 as Bill mentioned earlier our captive insurance company joined the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines in July.
As a condition of membership MFA Insurance has purchased stock in the FHLB of Des Moines so we view the FHLB as a partner as well as a counterparty in fact when we access FHLB advances to finance a mortgage position we purchased additional stock in the FHLB in the form of activity stock on which we earn a dividend.
So we were effectively capitalizing any borrowing we undertake with the FHLB.
The Federal Home Loan Bank offers a very wide array of sophisticated and attractive advances from which we can select to match specific borrowing needs or asset classes.
MFA insurance has accessed a small amount $50 million thus far of the FHLB advances using agency MBS collateral.
We are very excited about this partnership with an extremely solid counterparty and we look forward to working together with the FHLB to further their core mission of supporting housing finance.
Turning to Page 12.
As Bill also mentioned we purchased $663 million of RPL/NPL mortgage-backed securities in the second quarter while experiencing pay-downs of about $390 million thus growing this portfolio by a little over $270 million.
We find these assets to be attractive due to their low sensitivity to interest rates in what we believe to be low credit risk while at the same time providing low double-digit ROEs.
Their low duration is due primarily to the 300 basis point coupon step-up after three years which gives us confidence that they will have at most a three-year final.
In fact most of these deals typically get called well prior to this three-year soft final.
While the underlying re-performing and non-performing loans certainly bear credit risk the combination of significant credit support approximately 50% and the locked out nature of the cash flows on the subordinate piece ensure that the senior bonds that we own are well protected and this credit protection increases over time as the deal seasons.
Turning to Page 13 the credit metrics on the loans underlying our legacy non-agency portfolio continue to improve.
Home price appreciation and principal amortization approximately 63% of the underlying loans in this portfolio are currently amortizing.
Both of those combine to reduce LTVs.
Delinquencies are curing 60-plus-day delinquencies as of June 30 for the portfolio have declined to 14.0%.
As Gudmundur mentioned the loans are on average 111 months seasoned and more than nine years seasoned.
So on this page we illustrate the LTV distribution of current loans in the portfolio and in particular we focus on the at-risk loans where the homeowner owes more on the mortgage than the property is worth.
Although these mortgages are current these borrowers are not delinquent today.
These are the loans that we worry most about transitioning to delinquent in the future because of the fact that the borrowers are underwater.
As of June 30 less than 4% of the current loans in the portfolio had LTVs in excess of 110%.
On Page 14 we show realized losses experienced on the portfolio over the last three calendar years and for the first-half of 2015.
Keep in mind that these realized losses are fully expected and precisely why we have established a credit reserve.
Note that after realized losses of $164 million in both 2012 and 2013 losses in 2014 decreased to $90 million.
During the first-half of 2015 realized losses were $41.2 million.
The $847 million credit reserve has already been reduced by all actual losses already realized.
At one point this credit reserve was as high as $1.5 billion.
These realized losses occur when properties securing the mortgage loans are liquidated for less than the outstanding loan amount.
In addition as we have discussed previously for many of the fixed-rate bonds in the portfolio unrealized losses are generated when mortgage loans are modified through coupon reductions to troubled homeowners.
While the loan modification reduces the interest rate paid by the borrower the bond that we own has a contractual fixed-rate coupon so the interest collected from the borrower may be less than the interest owed to the bondholder.
In order to cure this interest shortfall the trustee uses principal receipts to pay interest on our bond.
This use of principle to pay interest effectively under-collateralizes our bond as the underlying principal balance of the loans is now less than the principal balance of the loans is now less than the principal balance of the bonds that we own.
For some bonds this loss is recognized in the period in which it occurs in this case a realized loss.
But in most cases the loss is not realized until the loan balance is reduced to zero and we still have a bond balance outstanding which is likely obviously many years from now.
At that point those unrealized losses will become realized losses.
As indicated in our press release we again lowered our estimates of future losses in the portfolio and transferred over $5 million from our credit reserve to accretable discount.
All else equal this increases the yield that we will recognize over the remaining life of the bonds.
Turning to Page 15.
We’ve also become increasingly active in the credit-sensitive residential whole loan space growing this asset class to $429 million as of June 30.
We like this asset class for several reasons.
First investments in this asset class utilize much the same residential mortgage credit expertise that we have effectively deployed in the legacy non-agency space since 2008.
Second supply dynamics suggest that we’ll have significant opportunity to purchase these assets as the current holders are obliged to shed them.
Total supply is estimated at between $500 billion and $1 trillion with $30 billion to $50 billion of expected annual sales this year and again next year.
Compare this to legacy non-agency which is a shrinking market with fewer and fewer opportunities to purchase bonds.
Third we are excited to have the ability to oversee servicing decisions on troubled loans.
For instance by offering modifications to borrowers when such a modification will produce a better NPV outcome than foreclosure and liquidation.
Again compared to legacy non-agency MBS where we have no seat at the table no visibility into these modification decisions and we often see losses pass-through that look excessive.
Fourth residential whole loans are good assets for us.
That is they’re qualifying interest for purposes of REIT qualification which most RPL/NPL mortgage-backed securities are not and residential whole loans are also qualifying interest for purposes of our 1940 Act exemption which legacy non- agency MBS are not.
And finally we believe that credit-sensitive residential whole loans further round out MFA’s focus on credit versus interest rate and prepayment risks.
Turning to Slide 16 we are buying these credit-sensitive whole loans at material discounts to both their unpaid principal balance and also to the underlying property value.
Our $429 million portfolio comprises almost 3 000 loans acquired through 15 transactions with 13 different counterparties.
We’ve continued to expand our relationships with key market participants in this asset class.
We did add some leverage to this asset class in the fourth quarter of last year and we’re in the process of setting up an additional warehouse borrowing facility which will likely increase our leverage slightly in the third quarter of this year.
And now I would like to turn the call back over to Bill.
Thanks Craig.
So to summarize we continue to utilize our expertise to identify and acquire attractive credit-sensitive residential mortgage assets.
We’ve substantially grown our holdings in RPL/NPL securities and loans in the last 12 months.
Credit-sensitive assets are performing well.
Future Federal Reserve decisions remain dependent on data as it comes in and we are well-positioned for changes in monetary policies and/or interest rates.
I think from today’s call you can see we’re making good progress on lots of fronts.
In addition today we tried to give you a little deeper dive and hopefully that was constructive.
Operator this completes our presentation.
If you could please open up the lines for questions.
Certainly.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from the line of Jason Weaver of Sterne Agee.
Hi guys.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Good morning Jason.
Just one here.
I was hoping you could talk about your comfort zone around the leverage ratio as the upcoming interest rate environment gets clearer.
That is if things look more certain that we will face one or two hikes on the short rate alone as opposed to a prolonged cycle.
Would that give you enough confidence to increase leverage? So historically it’s not been a forecast of interest rates or accessibility to leveragability that made our decision.
It’s a question of gathering assets with like matched liabilities.
So one you are never going to know exactly what the Fed is going to do.
But no the answer is no if the Fed declares two and done that doesn’t mean our leverage is going up.
We’ve kind of been in this range for a long time and an opportunity can come and that can change.
But our use of leverage is not dependent on us forecasting the interest rate cycle.
Fair enough.
So I take that as partially an answer that – let me put it this way.
How much could you expand your purchases of credit-sensitive loans and RPL/NPL securities from above the current pace that you are buying here? I mean do you have extra bandwidth or are you finding sort of cost prohibitiveness as you participate [ph] more aggressively? So Jason we will give you the theoretical answer but it does not mean that we plan on putting it in practice.
If you want to know requiring haircuts in funding Craig would be glad to share with them with you or Bryan.
Sure.
So haircuts on RPL/NPL MBS are going to range between 20% and 25%.
So you can obtain 3 to 4 times leverage when you are purchasing these assets.
And when you are talking about credit-sensitive loans their haircuts would be in sort of a range of 25% to 30% so again 2 and change leverage to 3 times leverage.
So you can sort of extrapolate there on our liquidity.
I mean we also have many – we get many paydowns so redeploying those paydowns into those asset classes I don’t think we’re capital constrained at all when it comes to RPL/NPL security [indiscernible] for credit-sensitive [indiscernible].
Fair enough.
Well thank you very much.
Jason just keep in mind the paydowns that we get and when we say we have a short portfolio we had almost $400 million of paydowns on the RPL/NPL mortgage-backed securities portfolio agency paid down what $250 million $300 million? Even legacy non-agency paid down $250 million.
So that’s all cash that comes back and that obviously can get redeployed.
Very good.
All right.
That’s very helpful.
Congrats again on a solid quarter.
Thanks Jason.
And our next question will come from the line of Steve DeLaney of JMP Securities.
Good morning and thanks for taking the question.
I would like to start with pre-pays it’s obviously one of the hot topics of the earnings season.
Your agency speeds jumped up about almost 5 CPR and knocked 33 basis points off that agency yield.
So while that’s not your focus everything kind of goes into the pot in terms of where earnings come out.
So I was wondering I guess this is for Gudmundur if you could give us a sense I’m speaking specifically to the agency book where you see speeds coming down in the third and fourth quarter? I’m curious do we retrace over the next six months all the way back to sort of where we were in the first quarter which was about 11 CPR or do we end up somewhere in between? Thanks.
Yes.
Hi Steve it’s Gudmundur.
So two things.
So obviously rates fell pretty fast and rapidly in the first quarter.
10-year total went down to probably 1.67.
And what happens through refinancing is there is always a delay between when rates hit rock bottom and between people refinancing and so on and so forth and that delay can be anywhere from one to three months.
Basically part of the increase in speeds in the second quarter is just the fact that rates fell a lot in the first quarter.
Right.
Another piece of the puzzle is seasonality.
And this is often forgotten when people think about prepayments in general is that speeds in the summer months tend to be much higher than in the winter months just because people are moving and there is more turnover in those months.
So what we’ve seen over the last couple of months sorry last couple of years is an increased seasonality in terms of speed.
So the change from lows in January or February versus the highs in July or August can be anywhere from 30% to 40% in terms of prepayments.
So those are the two things that kind of came to push speeds higher.
What I would expect looking forward is that so what you would expect in the third quarter speeds should remain somewhat elevated but as you head into the winter months they should absolutely come down absent any significant rally in rates.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
Thanks for clarifying that Gudmundur.
And on the agency book obviously I think you haven’t bought an agency bond for three years now or some extended period but it came down $340 million.
I’m just curious as you guys look at all your various tests do you – the RPL/NPL whole loans obviously you are very attractive in terms of that 1940 Act exemption.
So how much – the question is how much room do you still have to let the agency book come down further below the $5.3 billion? Thanks.
Steve you’re right.
The credit sensitive loans do satisfy that same criteria and we’re not all that close on those tests.
As you know we adopted a holding company structure before we embarked on the whole loan business… Right.
…and that gave us some additional flexibility.
So we’re still pretty comfortable.
Okay.
So I mean the magnitude would be hundreds of millions of dollars of room for agency to continue? Well easily yes.
Easily okay maybe $1 billion.
Okay guys.
Thanks.
It’s Bill.
I just want to add when you read what you read in the papers about how inefficient very large holdings of re-performing non-performing loans are the more and more convinced we are that we will have opportunities to buy very large volumes at attractive yields.
So this is really not an issue now.
We’ve want to make this evolution for a while and you will see us owning more credit-sensitive loans.
That’s very positive color.
That business has seemed lumpy but you guys are on the front lines and that’s encouraging to hear.
Thanks everybody for the comments and Bill all the best as you start your treatments.
Thank you.
Thanks Steve.
And our next question will come from the line of Dan Altscher of FBR.
Hey thanks.
Good morning everyone.
And Bill also let me reiterate Steve’s comments that we are all wishing you the best as you go forward.
I think just maybe talking about the FHLB facility a little bit do you guys have a sense as to how much capacity you might be able to get on that either initially or maybe looking to increase too over sometime? So Dan thanks for the question.
There is definitely significant capacity there both initially and in the future.
As you know this notice of proposed rulemaking is still not finalized so there is really no definitive word on what direction that takes.
And because of the way that’s worded any new captive insurance companies that get admitted to the Home Loan Bank system you may have to leave the Home Loan Bank system depending on what happens with that rule.
So we will proceed obviously cautiously and slowly really pending any final resolution of that.
Okay got it.
That’s fine.
And just related to the non-agency book value move since I guess specifically you all called it out and provided a lot of good detail around it this quarter.
In particular just the book value move on the actual securities that I think was the $0.09.
Was there any sort of vintages or any particular type of security you saw that was maybe outsized from a mark-to-market standpoint or was it just kind of just general across the board? I would say it’s general across the board and it’s not that much.
That $0.09 is a little more than 0.5 point on $4.8 billion face or so… Yes.
So but I think it was pretty much across the sector maybe a little more on hybrids and fixed rate but we are really splitting hairs.
Got it okay.
Thanks Craig.
Appreciate the questions.
And our next question will come from the line of Mike Widner of KBW.
Hey thanks guys.
I think I just have a few follow-up questions.
Maybe Bill I think Steve asked the question about the good versus non-good read assets.
And I was just I mean as we look at it on the surface I guess very simply bottom line there is about $6 billion of whole loans or pass-throughs and about $7 billion of stuff that’s not.
And again it’s pretty kind of simple high level most people are sort of used to looking at these things and saying you have to be at least 50/50.
So I mean where is the line and I guess maybe if you could talk just a little bit more about I mean you clearly indicated you have plenty of room left but how does that specifically work out and how should we think about that? Thanks.
So I’m not sure about that 50/50 rule.
But it’s a question of making sure that the holding company passes its requirements so it’s a different test than what you are used to.
And we could take this offline but we watch this every day.
As Craig says we have a lot of capacity and I know where our investment opportunities are.
If you want more detail we could take this offline later.
Okay.
Yes I guess we can do that.
Just a detailed question just for modeling premium amortization in the second quarter do you happen to have that number for the agency book? Sure Mike.
This is Steve Yarad.
So for the second quarter the premium amortization on the agency book was about $11.9 million.
Okay great.
Then I guess just thinking about the reserves I think it’s really Slide 14.
The credit performance is clearly improving and as we look at the amount – and you guys have obviously been taking down the reserves over the last couple years.
But just looking at that and thinking about it going forward $847 million credit reserve you’re running $90-ish-million a year I mean that’s nine years or so worth of credit reserves there.
Doesn’t that still seem pretty high I mean what kind of loss estimates do I need to get to make it seem like that’s a number that’s not going to keep coming down or that we are not going to keep seeing reserve releases? So thanks for the question Mike.
So as we’ve said before we do a pretty intensive evaluation of these securities every single quarter.
And yes you’re right; we have continued to knock down the credit reserve.
You mentioned that at the current rate that’s nine years.
These loans are 11 years old they’ve got 19 years left to go so obviously it’s a declining balance.
Also keep in mind that credit reserve is not just for the traditional loans that go bad and get liquidated with a loss.
As I talked about there is also this phenomenon with fixed-rate loans where they get modified and get lower coupons where we end up with a principal loss that’s way down the road.
And I think we’ve said that that amount is about $47 million right now and that grows every year.
Okay.
So yes I mean so that’s not a huge number but I guess if it’s – I mean what’s the rate of growth of that I guess is another I mean not it’s [ph] usually material but…? It went up by – that slide says it’s $47 million it was $31 million last year at this time.
Okay great.
Yes I see that there.
And again we don’t know what happens in the future Mike.
So if those loans that were modified and the coupons came down if we sell that bond then obviously that changes the loss assumptions.
If the servicer increases the coupon sometime in the future and the borrower continues to perform with the higher coupon that will decrease the loss.
So there are a lot of moving pieces.
Yes absolutely.
I thought you guys did know the future so that part is a surprise to me but [multiple Speakers] all right.
Well thanks for the comments as always and my best wishes as well Bill.
Thank you.
And our next question will come from the line of Douglas Harter of Credit Suisse.
Hi.
This is actually Sam Choe filling in for Doug Harter.
So actually most of my questions have been asked and answered but just had one regarding the credit-sensitive whole loans.
I was – I mean you guys talked about the supply dynamics.
But I was wondering if you can provide some color on the pricing trend you’ve seen in the asset class post 2Q and maybe the competitive landscape for these assets after the quarter? If you want to focus there are kind of two sides here when you are talking about credit sensitive loans there re-performing and nonperforming.
Right.
I would say on the non-performing side prices have remained pretty steady.
I mean you’ve seen results recently Freddie Mac had a sale and they published their results and those prices seem in line to where things are – where loans are trading in the last quarter.
And then on re-performing loans it’s very – I would say the general trend is a little bit higher but it is tricky in that some re-performing loan pools can look very different from others.
So it’s harder to sort of pinpoint and say okay they are up one point two points three points but I would say that the general trend on re-performing loans has been a little bit higher.
Got it okay.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Joel Houck with Wells Fargo.
Good morning.
Did you guys talk about what type of collateral you will pledge to the Federal Home Loan Bank what type of assets you are going to finance? Well we initially – and again we just were granted membership in early July so we posted agency collateral initially.
But it’s actually a good question because if you look at our asset classes a lot of those asset classes don’t necessarily matchup particularly well.
So our legacy non-agency book really doesn’t work very well because typically they would have to be rated even better than investment grade which as you know those are not.
The RPL/NPL securities portfolio those are not rated.
Non-performing loans are not pledgeable.
So right now I would say the best fit is with agency collateral.
However again as I said before any significant growth there will really probably wait on some final resolution of this proposed rulemaking but it might open additional asset classes for us for instance newer production loans.
Okay.
I’m not reading anything in here but do you guys have any plans of going into commercial? I know a lot of the REITs have used commercial mortgage loans in the FHLB.
Joel we are always looking at all options.
But I would say as of this moment no we’re not particularly looking at commercial investments.
Okay.
And last one I guess is more conceptual.
I mean one of the themes that has emerged last several quarters is that everybody is kind of moving away from agency assets where they can and MFA is no different.
We are now seeing and I guess one can make the argument we see this every year where you get hope spring eternal in terms of growth in the spring and then as we get for the end of the summer it looks like the economy is slowing.
This time however there does seem to be a lot of data out there that suggests we are near a recession or perhaps entering a recession and this year it now seems like the Fed is actually going to raise rates.
At a point the 10-year is barely above 2.20%.
I mean what’s the risk reward thinking of the company in terms of continuing to deemphasize agency assets at the – obviously you’re putting more credit sensitive assets and we may be heading into a recession.
I don’t know if you agree with that or if your views of the probability of a recession have changed in the last quarter or two but Bill it might be helpful to kind of hear your overall thoughts on that? Sure.
I need to complement Joel.
Joel had a good read on interest rates [indiscernible] but we believe fundamentally nothing works – and he has been saying this for years – unless housing is stable.
And we are very comfortable with our credit-sensitive assets because what are the absolute yields the spreads the return relative to interest rate exposure? We continue to feel that way the absolute yields on agencies – and this is not the last two years for us.
This is more like seven years we’ve been sort of saying the same thing.
In terms of interest rates let’s be real big picture.
Unemployment is not low – or high.
GDP is not exceptionally low yet federal funds rate still looks like an emergency rate of zero to a quarter.
So what do we all know together? I will have to quote a British girl band here the Fed has told us what they want what they really really want.
It’s to raise the Fed funds rate this year.
That is the reality.
Your argument is a correct one.
There’s no compelling economic reason to do so but we do want to attack some of the complacency.
None of this makes us alter our strategy.
We continue to expand our strategy on the credit side.
Yields we generate – if you look at the cash flow last quarter on the paydowns it was nearly $1 billion in a quarter.
If you’re getting paid a 4% yield and you’re getting $1 billion back that is high value-added for investors.
That is generating a good ROE with a very short asset.
So we are not adjusting our thoughts on strategy.
We probably like our credit strategy more now than ever.
Okay.
I appreciate the comments.
And again Bill best of luck with your procedure going forward.
Thanks Joel.
And the next question will come from the line of Rick Shane of JPMorgan.
Hey guys thanks for taking my questions.
Bill you just made me smile with your response to Joel’s question and I did want to wish you all the best in your treatment as well so thank you.
In terms of business stuff I would love to just talk a little bit about the whole loan purchases and I would actually like to talk about two aspects of it.
I think we understand the asset class in terms of what it means on the left side of your balance sheet but I’d love to talk about operationally how you due diligence this what the flow of the business looks like.
And then secondarily right now you are financing it primarily with equity and a modest degree of repo.
Is there an opportunity to be long-term to permanently finance those once you build critical mass? Rick we will address your question.
I just want to preface it by saying we pretty specifically said on this call this is what we are investing in so don’t expect us – we want to keep you comfortable and informed but we need to keep our competitive advantages.
So I just want to preface the answers that will come with that.
Fair enough.
So I guess first we could look at the long-term financing aspect.
So we would potentially in the long-term – one we have the ability to borrow against the re-performing and non-performing loans we have the loans that are particularly unpledged.
We have that ability.
We may choose to borrow against those in the future.
It’s just there are – it’s somewhat of a process so you would rather have – like you said you’d rather have a critical mass to go do that rather than to just get financing on a sort of onesie-twosie basis just because of the work that goes into it.
So yes we have that ability to do that in the future.
In terms of diligence we take a pretty – we have a strong approach to our diligence.
We do pretty much – we do 100% diligence on everything we buy when it comes to all – I guess standard industry practices.
Title work service in common history all that collateral work; so I would say we are very strong from a diligence perspective.
And just to follow-up on that a little bit when we think about this business evolving should we be thinking about your infrastructure evolving either from an expense perspective or – are there implications of this that we should be thinking about longer term? Well we have always attempted not to build a high fixed cost base but incrementally yes we do have to add key people in certain places.
But I don’t see it being a very high headcount change.
But you’re right systems-wise key personnel there incrementally is some impact.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] And our next question comes from the line of Brock Vandervliet of Nomura Securities.
Thanks for taking the question.
So I guess going back to one of the first that you got given the interest rate inflection that we seem to be at what is your perspective on the shape of the curve? Do you think we can enter this new phase essentially as steep as we are now or do you really think it’s going to flatten materially? Thanks.
Our strategy is not based on us forecasting the shape of the curve.
With that being said Gudmundur would be glad to offer his views.
Yes.
I mean as Bill said it’s not essential to our strategy and you can see that in our book value change it says it’s long and it’s moving up or down it really doesn’t affect our book value that much.
But I mean if you look big picture you can think of two things.
So in the U.S.
there’s modest growth there’s not great growth.
Unemployment has come down with – the labor market keeps getting stronger.
So that would indicate all else being equal that the Fed is probably close to raising rates.
And they’ve told us numerous times this year that they are on track to raise rates which would mean that the front end would move up.
But they’ve also told us that’s going to happen gradually.
Now the long end is the more complicated story.
The long end tends to react to inflation and inflation expectations.
And as you look across the globe you can see that inflation pressures around the world are actually pointing towards deflation or at least not increasing prices.
You see commodity prices falling and the dollar strengthening.
All these things mean that the long end comes with a downward pressure.
So if the Fed is moving my personal view is that they would move gradually because they would probably concerned about flattening the curve out at too low of a rate.
Okay.
Thank you.
And separately with respect to the credit sensitive initiative on the loans that you are acquiring are you swapping out any servicing relationships number one? Two are all these loans typically serviced by one servicer or are you dealing with a collection of third-party servicers? Thanks.
All of the loans that we buy and have purchased have been servicing released so that means when we buy the loans we take them to a third-party servicer of our choosing.
So I would say almost 100% of the time servicing is being moved.
There may be instances where the loans may be re-performing and they are at a servicer that we already think does a good job.
In that instance we may leave the loans where they are.
But still we purchase them servicing release so if we would then decide to move the servicing in the future we have that ability.
So and I guess to answer your question about the number of servicers we currently utilize three different servicers that we are pretty happy with and that sounds like a good number to us.
You want to have a backup in case anything happens to one of them.
Got it.
Thanks for the color.
Thanks Brock.
Operator could we wrap up the call.
Absolutely we have no further questions in queue for you.
And ladies and gentlemen here at this time that does conclude the presentation for today.
We thank you for using the service and for participating.
And this conference will be available for digital replay.
And you may access it by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the code of 365169.
International dialers may access the same replay by dialing 320-365-3844 and utilizing the same code of 365169.
Again those numbers are 800-475-6701 or internationally 320-365-3844.
Ladies and gentlemen you may now disconnect.
Welcome to the MFA Financial Incorporated Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
[Operator Instructions].
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Mr.
Bill Gorin.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
The information discussed on this conference call today may contain or refer to forward-looking statements regarding MFA Financial Inc.
which reflect management’s beliefs expectations and assumptions as to MFA’s future performance and operation.
When used statements that are not historical in nature including those containing words such as will believe expect anticipate estimate plan continue intend should could would may or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
These types of statements are subject to various known and unknown risks uncertainties assumptions and other factors including those described in MFA’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 and other reports that we may file from time-to-time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
These risks uncertainties and other factors could cause MFA’s actual results to differ materially from those projected expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements it makes.
For additional information regarding MFA’s use of forward-looking statements please see the relevant disclosure in the press release announcing MFA’s third quarter 2015 financial results.
Thank you for your time.
I would now like to turn this call over to Bill Gorin MFA’s Chief Executive Officer.
Thanks very much Danielle.
I'd like to welcome everyone to MFA's third quarter 2015 financial results webcast.
With me today are Craig Knutson - President &amp; Chief Operating Office Gudmundur Kristjansson Senior Vice President; Bryan Wulfsohn Senior Vice President; Steve Yarad CFO; and other members of senior management.
In 2015 we continued to execute our strategy for orderly investment within our expanding residential mortgage asset investment universe.
As we identify opportunities in the residential mortgage assets sector MFA has the focus and the requisite capability to analyze investment and to be a significant investor.
Turning the page 3 despite the low interest rate environment we continued to identify and acquire attractive credit sensitive residential mortgage assets.
In the third quarter of 2015 we generated net income of $75.8 million or $0.20 per common share.
The dividend was again $0.20 per share.
Book value per common share was $7.70.
Through nine years since June 29 2006 since the last federal funds rate increase the unemployment rate has declined and may continue to decline.
The Fed certainly has signaled a desire to raise the Fed's funds rate in 2015 yet the labor force participation rate remains low inflation remains low in the U.S.
borders deflation in Europe and Japan.
Interest rates remain low across the yield curve on a global basis.
Commodity prices are weak and the strong dollar is impacting U.S.
companies.
As a result future U.S.
Federal Reserve actions including those to be potentially announced at the next Fed meeting scheduled for December continue to remain dependent on incoming data.
The probability of changes in the Fed funds rate has gone up with time.
The exact lift off date still remains uncertain but we currently anticipate that changes in monetary policy will be measured in gradual.
At MFA we continue to limit the interest rate sensitivity of our portfolio.
We have a net duration of 0.58 we have a leverage ratio 3.3 to 3.1 [ph] and 73% of our mortgage backed securities are adjustable rate hybrid or step up.
Turning to page 4 in the third quarter we continue to get identify and acquire credit sensitive residential mortgage assets that generate earnings without increasing MFA's overall interest rate exposure.
We significantly increased our holdings of credit sensitive residential home loans from $429 million to $777 million.
In the quarter our most interest rate sensitive assets agency MBS continued to pay down.
Turning to page 5 as you can see MFAs yields and spreads remain attractive despite the interest rate environment leverage again remain consistent at 3.3 debt to equity ratio.
Turning to page 6 we present yields and spreads for more significant holdings.
Given the leverage we're utilizing or may utilize in the future each of these asset types are generating attractive returns to MFA shareholders.
On page 7 we illustrate how our holding to credit sensitive loans has grown throughout 2015.
At today's market prices these mortgage loans generate higher yields and residential mortgage backed securities.
Importantly these loans are qualifying real estate assets they are more credit sensitive and less interest rate sensitive.
The third quarter increase was due to access to a good supply of investment opportunities within the sector.
Turning to page 8 undistributed retaxable income was approximately $0.04 per share at the end of the quarter.
There were two items that we want to highlight which we believe may increase taxable income but not gap income over the next several quarters.
So it's important.
What we’re not trying to do here is forecast absolute gap earnings or taxable earnings what we’re trying to highlight to you is why we currently estimate there will be a difference that taxable income will exceed gap income over the next couple of quarters.
We anticipate a resecuritization unwind in 2016 which is expected to generate taxable income by an amount estimated to $0.15 per share.
In addition there is an expected countrywide settlement which we expect to increase taxable income by an estimated $0.05 per share.
Turning to page 9 Gudmundur will present the slide which is an update on MFA's interest rate sensitivity.
Thank you.
On slide 9 we show the interest rate sensitivity of MFA assets and liabilities.
In the third quarter our asset duration declined eight basis points to 142 basis point at the end of the quarter the decline was primarily caused by an increase in assets with low sensitivity to interest rates and a reduction in assets with higher sensitivity to interest rates.
As we added approximately 350 million of non-performing whole loans in the quarter while our agency MBS portfolio declined by about 310 million in the quarter.
The notional amount of our swap heads just remained unchanged was approximately 3 billion At the end of third quarter but the hedge [ph] duration declined 20 basis points to minus 3.7 at the end of the quarter as our swap heads had shortened naturally over time.
In aggregate MFAs portfolio net durations declined modestly to 58 basis points at the end of the third quarter from 61 basis points at the end of the second quarter.
MFAs strategy of limiting interest rate sensitivity to asset selection has allowed us to be well positioned for the substantial increase in interest rate volatility we've experienced this year.
And our portfolio continues to exhibit limited sensitivity to changes in long term interest rates and spreads.
By maintaining loan [indiscernible] and limited sensitivity to the long end of the curve we really MFA is well positioned for continued interest rate volatility and a potential gradual increase in fed funds in the near.
With that I will turn the call back over to Craig.
Thank you Gudmundur.
Moving to page 10 we continued to increase our usage of the Federal Home Loan Bank advances in the third quarter and subsequent to quarter end we currently have $800 million of borrowing with the Federal Home Loan Bank of the Des Moines.
The average cost of this borrowing is 25 basis points with the term of a little less than five years.
For the time being we have put agency collaterals to secure these advances.
We're excited about this partnership with an extremely solid counterparty and we look forward to working together with the FHLB to further their core mission of supporting housing finance.
As a condition of membership MFA insurance has purchased stock in the FHLB of Des Moines thus helping them to build their capital base.
In addition when we access FHLB advances to finance the mortgage position we purchase additional stock in the FHLB in the form of activity stock.
So we are effectively capitalizing any borrowing that we undertake with the FLHB.
Moving to page 11 we purchased approximately 232 million of RPL/NPL mortgage backed securities in the third quarter while experiencing pay downs of about 333 million.
We continue to like these assets due to their low sensitivity to interest rates and what we believe to be low credit risk while at the same time providing low double digit ROEs.
Spreads our new issue deals have widened somewhat recently and we've been able to invest at attractive yields of 4% and better since quarter end.
The fourth quarter has been a heavy issuance quarter in past years.
So we are hopeful that there will be attractive opportunities to invest in these assets in the next two months.
Moving to page 12 the credit metrics on the loans underlying our legacy non-agency portfolio continue to improve 76% of the loans underlying our legacy non-agency portfolio are now amortizing.
This principal amortization together with home price appreciation continues to reduce LTVs delinquencies are curing 60 plus day delinquencies as of September 30 for the portfolio has declined to 13.8%.
On this page we illustrate the LTV distribution of current loans in the portfolio.
The red bars represent at risk loans where the homeowner owes more on the mortgage than the property is worth.
These are loans we worry most about transitioning to delinquent in the future because the borrowers are underwater.
As you can see these red bars are disappearing.
Please also note the increasingly large green bars on the left side loans with LTV below 80% are attractive refinance candidates.
A combination of low rates available today and a thirty year amortization term versus the 20 year remaining term on most of these loans today can offer homeowners substantially lower monthly payments.
And of course given our deeply discounted purchase price for these assets we're very happy when the underlying loans pre-pay.
On pages 13 and 14 we show home price appreciation in the two states with the highest concentration of loans 44% of the underlying loans are located in California although HPA has declined from the frothy levels of the last couple of years we have still seen good progress in the last 12 months.
Page 14 illustrates the last 12 months of HPA in Florida are second largest state concentration.
Improving home prices obviously bodes well for the credit performance of this portfolio.
On page 15 we show realized credit losses experienced on the portfolio over the last three calendar years and for the first nine months of 2015.
After realizing losses of 164 million in both 2012 and 2013 losses decreased to 90 million in 2014.
The run rate thus far in 2015 is a little lower than it was in 2014.
We released 6.9 million of additional credit reserve in the third quarter based on updated projected future performance on the underlying loans in this portfolio.
Our credit reserve now stands at $815 million and will be reduced in the future as actual losses are realized on the underlying loans.
These realized losses occur when the property securing the mortgage loans are liquidated for less than the outstanding loan amount.
In addition as we have discussed previously for many of the fixed rate bonds in the portfolio unrealized losses are generated when mortgage loans are modified through coupon reductions to troubled homeowners while the loan modification reduces the interest rate paid by the borrower the bond that we own has a contractual fixed rate coupon.
So the interest collected from the borrower maybe less than the interest owed to the bondholders.
In order to cure this interest shortfall the trustee uses principal receipts to pay interest on our bond.
This use of principal to pay interest effectively under-collateralizes our bond as the underlying principle balance of the loans is less than the principal balance of the bonds that we own.
For some bonds this loss is recognized in the period in which it occurs as a realized last but in most cases this loss is not realized until the loan balance is reduced to zero and yet we still have a bond balance outstanding which is likely many years from now.
At that point the unrealized loss will become a realized loss approximately $50 million of these unrealized losses have already occurred.
Turning to page 16 we made good progress growing our credit sensitive residential home loan portfolio in the third quarter increasing this asset class to 770 million as of September 30.
Our credit sensitive home loans appear on our balance sheet on two lines loans held at carrying value and loans held at fair value.
This election is permanent and it is made at the acquisition of the loans.
Typically we elect carrying value for reperforming loans and fair value for non-performing loans.
We added additional warehouse borrowing capacity during the third quarter.
And now have three warehouse lines with aggregate borrowings of approximately $427 million.
We've also added additional staff to help with the asset management function.
associated with this portfolio.
We're excited to have the ability to oversee servicing decisions on troubled loans and we believe we can achieve improved returns on these loans through thoughtful and diligent asset management.
On slide 17 we owe the five largest state concentrations in our [indiscernible] portfolio with five states comprising over half of the portfolio.
Property value is typically the single most important metric in determining the value of reperforming and non-performing loans.
So obviously home price appreciation is a good omen for returns on these investments.
And with that I'd like to turn the call back over Bill Gorin.
Thanks Craig.
In summary we continue to utilize our expertise to identify and acquire attractive credit sensitive residential mortgage assets.
We have substantially grown our holdings of RPL/NPL mortgage loans in 2015.
Our credit sensitive asset continued to perform well.
Future Federal Reserve decisions or monetary policy will remain dependent on incoming data but MFA is well positioned for changes in monetary policy and/or interest rates.
This completes today's MFA presentation.
Operator could you please open up the line for questions? [Operator Instructions].
And we do have a question here from Dan Altscher from FBR.
Your line is open.
I want to touch on the slide Bill that you referred to with I think the slide 8 with the future items to future taxable income.
I guess one -- can you just talk about what or why they do not impact GAAP and why they only impact taxable income? And I guess is the point you're trying to make also that when we think about distribution requirements for 2016 that these are obviously favorable items that support the dividend or regardless of the GAAP or that have implications that would drive a higher distribution because of the taxable income.
So the second part of your question it's also almost algebraic.
You got three variables in the [indiscernible] so I won't be able to answer your question.
What we're saying is as I pointed out I'm not forecasting with GAAP income is based on what we currently know we imagine that taxable income will exceed GAAP income.
And yes you're right historically taxable income has driven the dividend which is a Board of Director decision.
So I would say to the extent that taxable income exceeds GAAP income and to the extent that dividend is more in-line with taxable income we shouldn’t be surprised if the dividend possibly exceed GAAP income.
So I think I answered part two of your question.
Part one I will actually hand over to our tax expert Terry Meyers.
As it relates [Technical Difficulty] tax purposes and not for GAAP purposes it is really because the transaction the resecuritization that we’re planning to is not tax transaction for financial reporting purposes it was however for tax purposes it is not.
And as a consequence if the securities have increased the value since we originally undertook the transaction [indiscernible] recognize the results from that increase in value.
I will just add to that from a GAAP perspective when we did this resecuritization transactions there was no impact on GAAP financial reporting when we did the initial transaction because we can sell it at the underlying assets transferred to trust.
And similarly when we unwind these transaction there is also no impact on GAAP reporting because everything remains on the balance sheet before and after.
I don't think any of us are surprised to once again see gains from sale of non-agency.
I think what was striking in my view was I guess the size of the gain relative to I guess the notional amount of security sold.
So to me just press a little bit of context as to what those bonds actually look like whether it's vintage or credit or anything like that? It's relative to the cost basis.
You saw bonds are traded we like the prices we sold comparable assets and really is relative to our particular cost basis.
But you're right that's not indicative of the whole portfolio for average advertise cost about 74 when we have these marked at 90.
It just so happens these gains were above average and it's probably due to the fact that these were assets we acquired earlier on and that's why such a large gain.
And I actually I want to talk a little bit about FHLB Craig I think you mentioned in your script that you pledged agency collateral in terms for five years so I guess one can you just give us a little bit sense of the differential in terms of the borrowing rates that you're seeing for five years versus if you were trying to get be like a five year term repo or anything of that nature? And then also was is that is or is that exposure also does that have a hedge against it too often not maybe protect against the duration of the borrowing but you know I guess a comparable move against the asset if you will from a book value perspective? Well the hedge against the assets we have had it all along we haven't bought agency securities in almost two years so we pledged agency securities and they have been hedged as they have been hedged for years.
As far as the borrowing rate it's a five year term but it's a monthly reset.
So you know yes it's actually is a five year term but it adjust monthly so it's unlike normal repo other than the fact that the cost is lower.
Can you help us just get us a sense as to what the differential has been in the cost? Well I said that the average cost is 25 basis points monthly repo cost is what 36 or so.
So 36 to 38 and in addition not to make it more complicated but because we purchased activity stock and the activity stock is typically 4% of the borrowings that activity stock actually pays us the dividends which is currently about 3.5%.
So if you factor the 3.5% dividend and the 4% activity it probably lowers our cost by another 12 13 14 basis points.
It doesn't show up as lower interest expense it shows up as an income item but the two are obviously related.
The next question comes from Doug Harter from Credit Suisse.
Can you guys talk about the liquidity in the whole loan market and the availability of the product? We’re assuming sort of significant supply of whole loans throughout this year so we’re seeing almost $30 billion - $38 million worth of supply across the non-performing and reperforming loan and that has been [indiscernible] demand as you see the few large players which we five and six tend to soak up the majority of the supply and then you’ve a lot of other participants that participate on a smaller level as well.
And I guess is there a typical size deal that you guys prefer to play in or that you find is more economic? So it will really depend on the assets underlying so really we can look at deals as small as 10 million and as large as 300 million it's really all going to depend the specific pricing and the specific underlying assets.
And then taking a step back you guys have run a conservative leverage historically.
And I guess how the spreads wide enough that you'd be willing to put a little extra leverage on or are you going to sort of maintain leverage around current levels obviously depending on the mix.
Yes.
I look at that question as do you want to grow your asset base at this particular time? Because how you fund it is how you fund it and basically we're placing asset run off.
It's hard to say that spreads are wider than they will but we have been very active in acquiring loans and at a rapid pace while allowing more interest rate sensitive assets to runoff.
So there's 3.3 number plus or minus has been the right number for years now.
So there is nothing I see in the availability of assets and mix that number is going to change a lot at the moment.
We have a question from Joel Houck from Wells Fargo.
Thank you Bill with a question from a Joe Hockey.
From Wells Fargo.
Thanks and good morning guys.
So you guys are in a unusual position and that the price to book has come down with the rest of the group and so you haven't really been asked about buybacks curious as to your thoughts about the merit of buybacks relative to opportunities you’ve on the investment side and at what level if it all makes sense to go to the board authorized buybacks and actually start doing buybacks.
So even though you've had some certainty about interest rates to us it's an uncertain interest rate environment.
Volatility has increased we've said before right size we very much like our investment strategy and our investment opportunities and as you point out we’re not at a large discount about a 10% discount is friction cost to raise an equity.
So I don't envy people that trade at large discounts but I guess at a large discount at times when we share price good investment opportunities like I don't rule it out forever but we're very happy executing our strategy which is a very high value add strategy for investors.
These are assets that they really cannot buy themselves particularly our focus on loans now.
And I think that's -- premium or a book we can't control moment to moment but we have not been trading at large discounts and I think that reflects the market's comfort with our strategy and execution.
And on the investment allocation I think for you guys it makes sense.
Your strategy makes sense given the opportunities that you have on the non-agency side.
Nonetheless I'm curious as to what would it take either spread widening in agency or fed action or lack of action in order to get more enthusiastic about agency and I asked the question more for insights because it does seem that it seem we've now heard from many quarters on these calls you and your peers is that no one likes the agency complex risk reward tradeoff.
So I would say that on a number of these phone calls I’ve said that our expertise which I believe exists here and I'm sort shown is to make superior credit decision and in no way our investment strategy is based on the saying that we have the best call into the Fed or even the best call prepays.
Agency asset the absolute yield because historically we’ve refrained from investing in fixed rates.
Absolutely yield to close to 2% two that’s really a leverage gain and a hedging gain and even if you have the exact right call on interest rates in the prior quarter the hedging proved difficult.
So I think ours is the more value added strategy.
How many companies do you need to invest in agencies for you over time and I think we've evolved to a less strategy less dependent on leverage less dependent on interest rate exposure and more dependent on doing credit work.
So if the yields were very different I'd give you a different answer but based on what you’ve seen we do the last two years I think we continue to focus on the credit assets which we’re very interested in and we’re seeing very good supply and good investment opportunities.
We have a question comes from Rick Shane with JPMorgan.
Your line is open.
I really appreciate slide 6 where you break down the spreads in and cost of funds by line and show leverage when we do the quick math it looks like in general the ROEs for the different products are pretty similar.
I would like to hear how you think about that and I think it really goes back to Joel's comment that this is not a strategy as you migrate into -- you grow the RPL/NPL portfolio of trying to per se enhance ROE but given the volatility given the environment we're in.
Well said Rick and you’re right.
When I think what I said in my preamble was we’re looking to add interest rates earning assets without increasing our interest rate exposure.
So we're not an ROE maximizing strategy it's a very -- zero interest rate environment how can I continue to generate ROEs close to 10% without incrementally adding interest rate risk because if we added interest rate risk on the asset side you would have to be adding hedges and sometimes that’s difficult to do.
I think it is in a zero interest rate world when you’ve look at how much risk you have to take to earn something we’re very excited to continue to invest in assets to generate ROEs close to 10%.
I think that's similar to what you said but that's how we look at it.
Our next question comes from Mike Widner from KBW.
So I think you covered everything pretty thoroughly and most of the reasonable questions had been answered so I'm going to ask you one that's maybe a little out there.
You have had the agency MBS portfolio pretty much on rundown or autopilot every one want to look for a couple of years and in the non-agency party of your portfolio you guys have been opportunistic from time to time this quarter included of selling things that are at prices that you think are full or perhaps at prices where you wouldn't buy them today so it makes sense to sell them.
So my question I guess is if you look across your whole portfolio and I think this is universally true across mortgage REITs but you know the one asset you couldn't fathom buying at current prices is current reset ARMs.
And so you know I'm just wondering you know why not sell those why continue to hold on to them if the market yields are so low the prices are so high so at a line with kind of historical norms.
I know that they show as having no duration on paper and I'm just not sure that you know that risk is worth taking given where the prices.
So just kind of interested in your view specifically on current reset ARMs and why hold onto them? As you know there are certain REIT requirements and 40 Act requirements which we need to have qualifying real estate assets.
And I think what you're seeing during our evolution which has been orderly is qualifying real estate assets in the -- and the main have included agencies but now the growth is in loans which are also qualify real estate assets.
So you sort of see one asset running off while another one is growing keeping us in the required compliance.
So hopefully that will give you an answer to the flows in and out of those two asset classes.
Does that answer your question Mike? Well I mean sort of.
But I guess you know what I'd say like the issue with current reset ARMs and sort of the longer reset ARMs and turn into current reset ARM.
So if I look specifically at those you're not really don't appear to be shrinking your balances current reset ARMs again as the other stuff runs into those is probably shrinking but not as much as the whole portfolio the whole agency portfolio is shrinking.
Well that’s actually a very good thing that your shorter duration less interest rate sensitivity asset is not growing rapidly.
Gudmundur can actually give you an update on the merits and if people talked about I wish I had a highly seasoned burned out portfolio.
Well that's what we're talking about here.
Gudmundur do you want to talk about some of the merits of our short duration? Yes.
So I guess when you talk about the short reset I mean you’re referring to the fact that the trading in a premium in the marketplace and so the risk to that is the rapid increase in prepayments so you have to go really quicker than you expect.
Over the last of couple years what has surprised people actually got who have current reset ARMs is that the speeds have been very low and therefore the carry has been fairly nice on them.
So one has to think when one looks forward what will cause that to change and why would prepayments increase? Well one of them would be okay if the Fed is about to raise rates very quickly and then a rational home owner would say well maybe my rate [indiscernible] should lock in a fixed rate as 150 basis points higher.
And I don’t think a lot of people on this call expect fed to raise rates rapidly.
So the rational homeowner is in no rush to reach out of his very low mortgage rate that he has on the current reset ARM.
So the risk to the market value of that part of the portfolio.
I don't view that as being large but you know I'm sympathetic to your view that there is potential risk regarding high prepayments but that will predominately come to Fed is raising rates quickly and these people would feel the need to lock in lower funding rates for 30 years or 20 year mortgage.
So I certainly appreciate that and that's a thoughtful response I guess what I'd say is you know my personal concern isn't at all with the prepays I don't think there's a whole lot of risk of pre-pay speeds on those jumping higher rates it's more of the absolute price and it's you guys are carrying them in the vicinity of 107 I think you guys know historically if you look back at the last tightening cycle and I don't want to say we're heading into a similar tightening cycle but you know a $1 price around 103.5 might be more normal and I guess you know very specifically my question is have you looked across your portfolio you know your entire assets I'm pretty sure if you had to rank what I buy today at current market prices those -- I'm pretty sure would be dead last on your list.
You know 107ish and so again I do believe there's pricing risk that doesn't have to do with prepayment risk and it has to do with more distortions created by the Fed being at zero and anyway I mean it's just a more philosophical question if you wouldn't buy them here why sell other things that aren't quite as low on your list of things you'd buy at current prices.
Well the amount of sales was $25 million so it's not like we're actively selling.
It's really making sure we're in compliance that we need to be not adding interest rate risk.
These are very short duration assets you're right.
They're highly valued in the market.
But these are pretty burned out in terms of prepay.
So incrementally we’re not growing there.
They are going away at their own pace and part of the rationale is 40 Act compliance and our recompliance.
[Operator Instructions].
Our next question comes from Steve DeLaney from JMP Securities.
Your line is open.
One quick one obviously the big change in the balance sheet in third quarter was the 348 million doubling almost doubling of the RPL/NPL whole loan portfolio and Craig thanks for the color I think it was slide 16 you told us how you were financing those currently with warehouse lines.
I'm just curious guys if you look at that portfolio in terms of the scale diversity of RPLs and NPLs is securitization an option for you going forward in that asset class? And is there any possibility to either boost the spread or increase the leverage through a securitization transaction? Thanks Well in interest of boasting the spread I think I can safely say that that would not boast -- a securitization would not boast that because you know active participant in the RPL/NPL security space and we can purchase this 4% yields and slightly higher.
So we look at that as an attractive asset and therefore I think we would have to say that we view it at the same time as an expensive liability.
So yes it's certainly a possibility we certainly could do that but I think right now I would say that we're a better buyer of those securities that we are a seller.
As far as the leverage on that portfolio it's a little more complicated to add leverage on the loans because the lender has to do due diligence on the package so it's typically easy to do when we acquire a package because we're doing that diligence together with the lender.
It's a little more of a process to take loans that we maybe have owned for a while and finance those so we've said all the time that our leverage there will increase and it has and obviously as you can see we do have additional borrowing capacity there.
And so Craig to think about the leverage obviously it looks like if we blend it between the two given the 427 it looks like about 1.2 times on 350 million of equity are we thinking about that right? You’re and again -- we have said before we don't target leverage we don't try to optimize that but if you consider that it's typically 25% haircut maybe a little bit higher.
We certainly could -- that leverage number could be a little bit higher.
I think what is it 2.5 or so on the non-performing NPLs.
So we don't have that much leverage on that reperforming book but that could change over time.
We have a question from [indiscernible].
I’ve two questions one is on the $0.20 I guess taxable income that you will have to distribute can you just let us know how quickly you have to distribute that income just hypothetically assume you've got it in the first quarter.
How long until you have to distribute it? And two if that gives you a cushion on your dividend did you change your investment strategy a little bit? Investing in securities with higher capital gain? Are you buying at a discount you got a capital gain versus the net interest income you know what changed metrics of what analysts look at but actually it's a better total return.
So let me go back to what I said originally.
We’re saying there's a differential GAAP and tax of $0.20 as you point out but we're not telling you what the GAAP income is so it doesn't necessarily mean there is some excess relative to the dividend.
So starting and I know you understand what I'm saying.
But starting with that in terms of one -- when one need to distribute taxable income.
It's when you file your taxable return which is September of the following calendar year.
So the answer would be we have approximately 18 - 19 months to distribute all your taxable income.
Does that answer question Alan? Yes that answers that question.
What about on the strategy that it gives you somewhat of a cushion that you can buy things at a discount capital gain versus spread income is it an alternative of that strategy because you have-- Not really we would look at the way you look at we look through investments that gives the best total return.
We have always operated that way so it does not increase our flexibility.
By the way when we purchase an asset at a discount we’re accreting to the appropriate number which generates taxable income and generate GAAP and taxable income so realizing a gain through the income statement we’re in different we own we as invest for total return and there has not been any tax or dividend problem with that.
Yes I know that I look you look at it that way I look at it that way but the analysts always look at it as one time in nature.
So okay thanks.
And there are no further questions in queue.
I'll turn it back over to you.
Great.
Well I want to thank everyone for participating today.
And we look forward to speaking to you again next quarter.
Thanks.
Operator you can disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 1 PM today until February 4 2016 at mid-night.
You may access the replay system at any time by dialing 800-475-6701 and entering the access code 372065.
International participants can dial 320-365-3844.
Again we like to thank you for your participation and using AT&amp;T Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen we do appreciate your patience.
And welcome to the MFA Financial Inc.
Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we’ll conduct a question-and-answer session.
Instructions will be given at that time.
[Operator Instructions] As a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the conference over to our host Danielle Rosatelli.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
The information discussed on this conference call today may contain or refer to forward-looking statements regarding MFA Financial Inc.
which reflects management’s beliefs expectations and assumptions as to MFA’s future performance and operation.
When used statements that are not historical in nature including those containing words such as will believe expect anticipate estimate should could would or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
These types of statements are subject to various known and unknown risks uncertainties assumptions and other factors including those described in MFA’s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2014 and other reports that it may file from time to time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
These risks uncertainties and other factors could cause MFA’s actual results to differ materially from those projected expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements it makes.
For additional information regarding MFA’s use of forward-looking statements please see the relevant disclosure in the press release announcing MFA’s fourth quarter 2015 financial results.
Thank you for your time.
I would now like to turn this call over to Bill Gorin MFA’s Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Danielle.
I’d like to welcome everyone to MFA’s fourth quarter 2015 financial results webcast.
With me today are Craig Knutson MFA’s President and Chief Operating Office; Gudmundur Kristjansson Senior Vice President; Bryan Wulfsohn Senior Vice President; Steve Yarad CFO; and Terry Meyers Senior Vice President Director of Tax; and other members of senior management are also present.
In 2015 we continue to execute our strategy for expanding investments within our residential mortgage asset investment universe.
As opportunities in the residential mortgage asset sector are identified MFA has a focused and the requisite capability to analyze the investments and to be a significant investor.
Turning to Page 3 despite the low interest rate environment we continue to identify and acquire attractive credit sensitive residential mortgage assets such as credit sensitive loans and three-year set-up RPL/NPL securities.
In the fourth quarter of 2015 we generated net income of $69.7 million or $0.19 per common share.
The dividend was again $0.20 per share.
And book value per common share at December 31 was $7.47.
Turning to Page 4 MFA began operations nearly 18 years ago and has generated strong long-term returns to investors through volatile markets and through various interest rate and credit cycles.
Since 2000 we’ve generated annualized shareholder return of approximately 14%.
And over the last 10 years have generated annualized shareholder returns of 13.5%.
Turning to Page 5 we had laid out MFA’s strategy for 2016.
First we continue to focus on high value-added credit sensitive residential mortgage assets.
The credit assets we’ve acquired continue to perform well.
Credit assets we’ve acquired also tend to have less interest rate sensitivity.
Second our strategy does require staying power and the ability to invest in and hold long-term stressed less liquid assets.
We have permanent equity capital.
Our debt-to-equity ratio of 3.4 times is low enough to accommodate potential changes in marks.
This is why historically we’ve been able to invest significant amount at advantageous prices while other investors were facing capital outflows.
Our significant market cap is relevant to investors and counterparties and potential mortgage industry partners.
Let me add that being right size is a two way street and we will refrain from raising equity base during the last cycle of industry equity growth as we wanted our existing shareholders to capture the benefits of our investment strategies.
As a reminder and I’m sure you now we currently advise in compensation is not tied to size.
Turning to Page 6 in the fourth quarter we continue to identify and acquire credit sensitive residential mortgage assets.
We increased our holdings of credit sensitive residential whole loans to $895 million and our holdings of three-year step-up RPL/NPL securities to $2.6 billion.
In the fourth quarter we did not acquire any Agency MBS or Legacy Non-Agency MBS.
Turning to Page 7 as you can see MFA’s yields and spreads remain attractive despite the interest rate environment.
Turning to Page 8 we present yields and spreads for our more significant holdings.
Given the leverage we’re utilizing or may utilize in the future each of these asset types are generating attractive returns to MFA shareholders.
Turning to Page 9 Terry Meyers our Director of Tax will present Slide 9 which is update on items that will be impacting taxable income.
Thank you Bill.
As can be seen from the slide the company’s undistributed taxable income as of December 31 2015 was approximately $0.02 per share.
As we look forward to 2016 certain events during the first-half of the year are expected to significantly impact our taxable income but will not impact our GAAP income.
These items include the recognition of taxable income from the qualified liquidation of one of our REMIC securitizations.
And from the company’s receipt of certain amounts it expects in connection with the countrywide settlement.
We estimate that the REMIC liquidation will generate taxable income of approximately $0.19 per share.
And that the countrywide settlement will generate taxable income of approximately $0.05 per share.
I will now turn the discussion over to Gudmundur.
Thanks Terry.
We’re going to move to Slide 10.
On Slide 10 we are going to look at the interest rate sensitivity of MFA’s assets and liabilities.
MFA’s asset durations were approximately unchanged in the fourth quarter at 141 basis points despite interest rate rising by about 35 basis points across the curve in the fourth quarter.
This was primarily caused by a continued growth in our holdings our credit sensitive loans and RPL and NPL securities both of which exhibit limited interest rate sensitivity.
While our more interest rate sensitivity Agency MBS and Legacy Non-Agency MBS continued to run off.
A notional amount of our swap hedges remains unchanged at approximately $3 billion at the end of the fourth quarter but the hedge duration declined about 30 basis points to minus 3.4 at the end of the quarter as our swap hedges shortened naturally over time.
In aggregate MFA’s interest rate sensitivity remained very low in the quarter and net duration was almost unchanged at 59 basis points at quarter end.
With that I will turn the call over to Craig.
Thank you Gudmundur.
On Page 11 as I am sure everyone knows by now the FHFA adopted a final rule last month that excludes captive insurance companies as eligible Federal Home Loan Bank members.
Thus the Federal Home Loan Bank membership of our captive insurer will terminate in the year.
We had $1.5 billion of advances all using Agency MBS collateral at year-end 2015 and as of the final rule adoption because the term of our advances is longer than one year we will have no roll-over issues with our advances.
But all of these advances must be repaid by February 19 2017.
We have already reduced these advances from $1.5 billion to $1.2 billion.
And please keep in mind with our Agency MBS pay downs running at approximately $75 million per month we expect about $900 million in pay-downs over the next year.
So while we are disappointed in losing the Federal Home Loan Bank of Des Moines as a lending counterparty and a partner in housing finance this development has really very little impact on our business today.
Turning to Page 12 although the general health of the U.S.
economy is the subject of nearly daily debate these days the residential mortgage credit market enjoys significant fundamental and technical support.
The labor market and employment numbers continue to improve.
Interest rates and mortgage rates remain very low.
Case-Shiller National 20-City and 10-City Indices are all up over 5% year over year.
Sales of existing homes rose 6.5% to $5.26 million in 2015.
According to a recent CoreLogic National Foreclosure Report the U.S.
national foreclosure rate is now down to 1.1%.
We last saw that level in November of 2007 and foreclosure inventory is down 23.8% in the last year.
Total housing inventory is declining.
Available listings are down 3.8% from a year ago.
Seriously delinquent defined as 90-plus-days mortgages are down 23% year over year and underwater homes are down 21% year over year.
Turning to Page 13 we made good progress on growing our credit sensitive residential whole loan portfolio in the fourth quarter increasing this asset class to $895 million as of December 31 nearly tripling the size of this asset class during 2015.
The supply picture for 2016 looks very promising with continued selling expected from GSEs large banks and other market participants.
And just to remind you these residential whole loans are qualifying interest for purposes of the REIT qualification and the 1940 act exemption.
Moving to Page 14 our credit sensitive whole loans appear on our balance sheet in two lines: loans held at carrying value which is $272 million; and loans held at fair-value which is $623 million.
This election is permanent and is made at the acquisition time.
Typically we elect carrying value for re-performing loans and fair-value for nonperforming loans.
We added additional warehouse borrowing capacity during the fourth quarter and we now have three warehouse lines with aggregate borrowings of approximately $488 million.
We’ve also added additional staff to help with the asset management function associated with this portfolio.
We’re excited to have the ability to oversee servicing decisions on troubled loans and we believe that we can achieve improved returns on these loans from thoughtful and diligent asset management.
Moving to Page 15 we purchased approximately $345 million of RPL/NPL mortgage-backed securities in the fourth quarter while experiencing pay-downs of about $189 million.
This portfolio was at $2.6 billion at year-end.
We continue to like these assets due to their low sensitivity to interest rates and what we believe to be low credit risk while at the same time providing low double-digit ROEs.
Spreads on new issue deals have widened somewhat recently and we’ve been able to invest at attractive yields of as high as 4.5% recently.
Finally moving to Page 16 the credit metrics on the loans underlying our Legacy Non-Agency portfolio continue to improve.
79% of the loans underlying our Legacy Non-Agency portfolio are now amortizing.
This principal amortization together with home price appreciation continues to drive down LTVs.
Delinquencies are also curing.
60-plus-day delinquencies of this legacy portfolio as of December 31 have declined to 13.5%.
On this page we illustrate the LTV distribution of current loans in the portfolio.
The red bars represent at risk loans where the homeowner owes more on the mortgage than the property is worth.
These are loans that we potentially worry most of our transitioning to delinquent in the future because of the fact that the borrowers are underwater.
As you can see these red bars are quickly disappearing.
Please also note the increasingly large green bars on the left-hand-side.
These are loans with LTVs below 80% which are attractive refinance candidates.
A combination of low rates available today and 30-year amortization term on a new mortgage versus the perhaps 20-year remaining term on loans outstanding today can offer home owners substantially lower monthly payments.
Of course given our deeply discounted purchase price for these assets we are very happy when these underlying loans prepay.
And I’d like to now turn the call back over to Bill.
Thanks Craig.
So in summary we continue to utilize our expertise to identify and acquire attractive credit sensitive residential mortgage assets.
We substantially grew our holdings of credit sensitive mortgage loans and three-year step-up RPL/NPL securities in the year 2015.
Credit sensitive assets that we own continue to perform well and we are well-positioned for changes in monetary policy and our interest rates.
This completes our fourth quarter 2015 presentation.
Operator could you please open up the lines for questions? Certainly.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from the line of Dan Altscher with FBR.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good morning everybody.
I know you’ve generally been a little bit more hesitant to maybe buyback some stock in recent memory.
But I guess with the stock heading down the way it did through the end of the year-end particularly into January has that tone around a potential share buyback maybe changed at all at this point? Thanks for the question.
So as you know better than I most if not all of the mortgage REIT sector is trading at some discounted book value.
And I believe the situation extends to many types of financial institutions including major banks.
Also as you know as well as I MFA has in general traded much less of a discount than other companies in this sector.
I believe this is primarily due to our investment strategy in execution.
MFA has made high value-added less interest rate sensitive investments within the residential mortgage universe.
And it generates very attractive shareholder returns throughout different cycles which I think we showed up in the early part of the presentation.
Now many companies with very significant discount have announced and executed share buybacks but what really has been the income accretive impact.
On the other hand maintaining permanent capital and liquidity gave MFA the opportunity to make investments in less liquid and out-of-favor investments that over time have proven to be very large impact in earnings.
It’s why we were able to invest many billions maybe $4 billion $5 billion in Legacy Non-Agency MBS at deeply discounted prices.
Also as we all read in the papers there’s less liquidity in trading market.
This trend is continuing.
MFA is currently finding very attractive investment opportunities as trading liquidity declines.
Now we are disciplined in our capital allocation which is important.
Remember we distributed approximately $300 million in dividend in 2015 to shareholders.
We are internally advised in there is no compensation of fees that are tied to equity size.
The positive impact in earnings of lower G&amp;A expense due to our self-advised structure and our critical scale frankly dwarfs the income impact of any share buybacks we’ve seen.
That being said while this is our current view.
We do like to keep all our options open to best maximize long-term value creation for shareholders.
And the facts and circumstances change we currently do have an existing share buyback authorization of 6.6 million shares which is approximately $40 million.
Hopefully you could see we’ve given the subject a lot of thought and our view is based on many years of experience as a public company.
All right.
Thanks Bill.
Sure Dan.
Yes.
Now I think I get the message pretty loud and clear for right here and now.
On an unrelated topic certainly there has been discussion and I think evidence of increasing maybe stress in the repo markets at counterparties.
Can you maybe give us an update or feeling as how that discussion is gone kind of in recent times with some of your counterparties in terms of offering capacity or how they’re talking about financing rates particularly as a lot of the Basel III starts to work its way in? If maybe give any sort of sense or feeling as to how long or how along we are towards implementation or what is it just SLR based or have they even gone to HQLA or anything else besides that at this point? Well I’ll start with the long-term trend and then we’ll get you up-to-date on the market.
This long-term trend has been foreseeable for five or six years.
And that is part of the reason we changed direction going back 2007 2008.
Certainly we can’t compare the environment now to then.
But having lived through that we have had the company become less reliant on leveraging.
That’s why historically while we might have been 10 times levered right now it’s a 3 handle the reason we changed the investment class with that higher yielding assets that frankly required less leverage to generate attractive ROE.
So that’s the long-term trend.
In terms of getting you up to speed on the current market we’ll have Gudmundur talk about the agency market and Bryan will talk about the non-agency market.
Yeah.
These availability of funding remains good.
There is nothing no changes on the fourth quarter or in the first quarter.
I think some of the things that Bill mentioned some of them have largely played out.
So the impact has already been felt and so we’re not feeling it incrementally over time over the last couple of quarters.
Repo rates in general on the agency side are about 65 basis points which is one month LIBOR plus 20 to 22 basis points which is in line with what’s been over the last year or so.
Yes.
On the non-agency side repo was still widely available demand has remained constant if not we have even seen some tick-up in demand for credit.
In terms of spreads we saw some widening going into the fourth quarter but haven’t really seen any change thus far in this New Year.
Okay.
And then maybe just one other one and then I’ll jump off.
Just related to CRTs the Credit Risk Transfers it - just glancing at the numbers it looks like you probably added to that book a lot or somewhat during the quarter because I don’t think the market pricing was all that helpful.
Has that kind of changed over that you’re seeing now more interest from your end on it? I mean is it just that the yields blew out and that made it really attractive? Or were these primary transactions or is it increased liquidity in the secondary market that’s helping that take time make that maybe a more developing - developed market? Dan this is Bill.
And I’ll have the experts to give you the answer.
But so it’s little clear on Slide 6 hopefully that shows that we bought $30 million the change was $30 million in the fourth quarter Credit Risk Transfers.
So they were just opportunistic buying on days when spreads are wide so.
And Dan it’s Craig.
It’s just - it’s really opportunistic as Bill said.
As spreads widen out they become more attractive.
It’s difficult to grow that to buy any sort of size.
Some of these trades could be as small as $3 million.
We’ve also been somewhat particular about the vintages of the - the product that we own tends to be the more season product which has already experienced some home price depreciation.
So not all those are created equal but it’s still - in the scheme of things it’s not a very big asset class for us.
Okay thanks.
I appreciate the answers.
I will drop off.
Thanks.
Next in queue we’ll go to the line of Doug Harter with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Bill before in your answer you said you’re seeing some trading opportunities around kind of the current market volatility.
I’m wondering if you could just flush that comment out in sort of which asset classes you’re seeing that.
Okay sure.
So I think Craig spent some time on the three year step up RPL/NPL securities.
And I believe the average coupon as of the fourth quarter was in the 3.70 handle.
Clearly new deals are being priced with the 4 handle.
So to the extent we do have run-off which we do the average yield is going up.
So we need to find opportunities in the RPL/NPLs.
Legacy non-agencies have widened.
And sometimes we are a buyer and sometimes we are a seller of those assets.
Generally to buy an opportunity in the first quarter were better than anything we’ve seen all of last year.
Right.
We actually - even though it’s not your question but perhaps the next question - people have often asked what’s happened to the value of the assets since the end of the year.
So we will give you an update through January.
So Craig you want to take that? Sure.
So legacy is probably in the month of January.
It was probably down about a point.
Again be careful because it really depends what proportion of the legacy market that you speak about.
So our portfolio is more of the higher quality prime maybe some better quality of Alt-A.
So there’s been less price erosion there than in the lower credit quality paper but it’s probably up about a point in January.
Great.
That’s helpful.
And then on the - to understand the tax benefit that you will get this year is that a one - is that just specific to the one securitization that’s unwinding or will that occur in further years as well? I don’t know if it’s a benefit.
But well for sure… Now that’s transaction-specific.
So that’s a one-time event with respect to the liquidation of that securitization.
There is no reason follow-on.
Once the liquidation occurs there will be no subsequent impact from the securitization itself.
With that said we do have one additional REMIC securitization that we did back in 2011 or maybe at the beginning of 2012.
The senior bonds on that is not paid off yet.
So I think it will be a lesser effect than the one that’s close to us now but I don’t know if that will even occur this year.
That might not be until 2017.
Got it.
But there could be a similar taxable gain from that in 2017 as things play out similar there? I think similar but I think smaller.
It’s a smaller deal.
So it will be similar but not as large.
Great.
Thank you.
Next in queue we’ll go to line of Joel Houck with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
I may have missed it but I didn’t see it in the slide-deck.
Can you tell us how much was transferred from the credit reserve to the accretable discount in the fourth quarter? Go ahead Steve.
Joel it’s Steve Yarad.
In the quarter we transferred approximately $6 million taking the total for the year to about $41 million.
Okay.
I believe that’s in the press release.
Yes.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks guys.
Sure.
Next we’ll go to line of Rick Shane with J.P.
Morgan.
Please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Hope you’re well.
Bill it’s nice to hear your voice.
Just a couple of questions and look I think Dan really hit the question that most investors are focused on about buybacks.
And I think Bill telegraphed your view pretty clearly.
One thing I would like to talk about is that if you heard some of your peers talk about the relative value in the agency market it seems obviously like you are focused on the non-agency side.
I am curious with spreads above historical average in terms of - spreads trading above historical average why you are not pursuing that a little bit more.
Do you think that we are approaching a period where spreads are going to be persistently wider given some of the changes you are seeing in financial markets? Thanks.
Thanks for the question Rick.
And I don’t know why your name gets mispronounced more than everybody else’s.
Definitely… I would think it’s pretty easy.
I agree with you.
So you’re right about the spreads.
But let’s take in historical perspective.
So historically you earned what you earned on your equity investment in the agencies plus your spread times your leverage.
So go back way back when - and your unlevered yield is 4% 5% then your interest spread of 100 basis points times your leverage.
The absolute yield is very well on the unlevered equity.
And you’re right with your leverage; you still get to a good spot.
But being that this is the fourth quarter 2015 webcast I still fair - I still find it fair to bring up 2013 where the 10-year was very low at the being of the year and ended up much higher.
So there is some risk to buy 30-year assets hedging the duration known for well the duration can change especially right now when people aren’t sure if the 10-year is going up or down.
We’re going to have either extension or contraction.
But we don’t disagree about the spreads.
It’s the absolute yield.
It’s the yield on unlevered portion of your investment.
That makes us refrain from growing the agency book at this time.
Got it.
It’s interesting.
Look we see some value in the agency market.
But I hear what you’re saying that there’s really a sort of two-way risk in that market right now.
That’s a lot harder to calibrate.
And we’re probably at a period of greater uncertainty than we’ve been in some time.
We agree.
Great.
Thank you guys.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] We’ll go directly to line of Bose George with KBW.
Please go ahead.
Hey good morning.
Actually an accounting question just the NPLs that you hold at fair-value does the fair-value mark through the income statement is that just the equivalent of interest income? So Bose that market has a couple of components.
It includes the coupon interest that we receive in cash during the period.
And it also includes an unrealized gain - unrealized gain or loss component.
So in our 10-K which I think you’ll see filed later today we have some additional footnote disclosure which gives you some more detail on that.
Okay great.
And then actually just in terms of modeling that number should we just kind of use the discount rate and assume that if nothing changes on the fair-value mark the discount rate is what your yields going to be? Yeah that’s a pretty fair way to model it.
Okay.
Yeah okay.
Thanks.
And then just in terms of big gain - a gain from asset sales this quarter can you just discuss what drove that? Yes sure.
Often we will see a security trade that we own a smaller piece of.
So to the extent we know there is a buyer for larger piece it’s an advantageous time for us to sell a smaller piece just as an add-on.
So typically that’s what’s driving the trade in the market because we owned so many CUSIPs and we’ve owned them for a while so some of them have reduced in size due to prepays.
We’ll just see what the market has given us in the particular CUSIP.
And often we’re just an add-on seller to [when these] [ph] fluctuate.
And those small pieces you typically trade at some concession to the market.
So again as Bill said if we can add that on to a larger piece it’s a better execution than we could get in isolation.
Okay.
And that makes sense.
Great thank you.
Thank you.
And speakers currently we have no additional questions in queue.
Please do continue.
All right thanks a lot everyone for participating in the phone call.
And we look forward to talking to you next quarter.
Thanks operator.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen this conference will be available for replay after 1:00 PM today through to May 18.
You may access the AT&amp;T Executive Replay System at any time by dialing 1-800-475-6701 and entering the access code 385822.
International participants please dial 320-365-3844.
Once again those numbers are 1-800-475-6701 and for international participants please do dial 320-365-3844 with the access code 385822.
That does conclude our conference for today.
We thank you for your participation and for using the AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for standing by and welcome to the MFA Financial Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
At this time all lines are in a listen-only mode.
Later there will be an opportunity for your questions and instructions will be given at that time.
(Operator Instructions) And as a reminder this conference is being recorded.
I’ll now turn the conference over to Danielle Rosatelli.
Please go ahead? Good morning.
The information discussed on this conference call today may contain or refer to forward-looking statements regarding MFA Financial Inc.
which reflects management’s beliefs expectations and assumptions as to MFA’s future performance and operation.
When used statements that are not historical in nature including those containing words such as will believe expect anticipate estimate plan continue intend should could would may or similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date on which they are made.
These types of statements are subject to various known and unknown risks uncertainties assumptions and other factors including those described in MFA’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2012 its quarterly reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31 June 30 and September 30 2013 and other reports that it may file from time-to-time with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
These risks and uncertainties and other factors could cause MFA’s actual results to differ materially from those projected expressed or implied in any forward-looking statements it makes.
For additional information regarding MFA’s use of forward-looking statements please see the relevant disclosure in the press release announcing MFA’s fourth quarter 2013 financial results.
Thank you for your time.
I would now like to turn this call over to Bill Gorin MFA’s Chief Executive Officer.
Thank you Danielle and I want to welcome everyone on the snowy day to MFA’s fourth quarter 2013 financial results webcast.
With me today are Craig Knutson MFA's President; Gudmundur Kristjansson Senior Vice President; Steve Yarad CFO; and a number of other executives.
Now despite variability monetary policy interest rates and pre-payments MFA generated consistently good results throughout the year and in the fourth quarter.
This is due in large part to our focus on strong fundamental analysis when investing in credit sensitive residential mortgage assets.
To summarize the quarter in the quarter we generated net income of $74.8 million or $0.20 per share.
Book value per common share increased approximately 3% to $8.06 as of December 31 from $7.85 at the end of the third quarter.
This growth was due primarily to non-Agency MBS price appreciation.
In the fourth quarter we again transferred a sizable amount.
In this case $47 million from credit reserve to accretable discounts bringing the total transferred in the year to approximately $208 million.
Due to the increases in accretable discount and to changes in the forward curve the loss-adjusted yield in our non-Agency MBS portfolio increased to 7.77% in the fourth quarter.
now hopefully you all have access to the webcast.
Turning to Slide 3 you will see as I mentioned net income per common share was $0.20 the dividend was $0.20 and the estimated taxable income per common share was also $0.20.
With that dividend we end the year approximately $0.17 per share undistributed in terms of taxable income distributions.
Turning to Page 4 which I think is a pretty unique metric for our company relative to all financial companies throughout the year.
despite change in interest rates and pre-payment fees our key metrics remained generally consistent throughout 2013.
Spreads started the year at 2.32% ended the year at 2.34% with not much variation in between.
Debt-to-equity ratio started the year at 3.1 times ended the year at 3.0 times again without much variation during the year.
In general throughout the year through all four quarters over 55% of MFA’s assets remains in agency hopeful assets with the remainder in non-Agency MBS.
Turning to Page 5; you can see as I mentioned book value started the quarter at $7.85 grew to $8.06 primarily due to change in the value of non-Agency MBS.
Page 6 and hopefully this will be the last time we need to have a separate slide on taxable income in our earnings call.
We’ve now distributed stockholders an amount equal to all taxable income for years prior to 2013.
We currently estimate that for 2013 REIT taxable income was approximately $374 million while distributions not attributed to prior years was approximately $313 million.
Now we have until the filing of our 2013 tax return which should be around September of 2014 to declare a distribution of any REIT taxable income not previously distributed.
Again talking about consistency we ended the quarter with our interest rate sensitivity as measured by net duration below one.
Gudmundur Kristjansson will give more detail about the interest sensitivity of MFA’s assets and our distribution.
Thanks you Bill.
On Slide 7 we show the duration of our assets and hedging instruments.
In the top part of the table we display the duration of our Agency and non-Agency asset broken down into buckets by coupon resets.
We estimate that the total duration of our assets is 2.1.
And in the bottom half of the table we summarize the duration of our hedging instruments which currently are interest rate swaps with maturities of up to 10 years.
The duration of our hedging instrument is negative 3.7.
When we combine durations of assets and hedging instruments we estimate that our net duration is 0.9.
Although net duration is the good indicator of interest rate risk it is also important to understand that expense risk in our portfolio is limited.
This is because 70% of our non-Agency securities are Hybrid ARMs and 60% of our Agency securities are Hybrid ARMs while the rest of our Agency MBS securities have 15 years or less to maturity.
These structural features limit the extensive risk of our mortgage-backed securities.
Because of the limited extensive risk in our portfolio we did not need to add interest rate hedges in the fourth quarter and are comfortable with our interest rate risk as it is.
And with that I’ll turn the slide over to Bill again.
Great.
thanks Gudmundur.
And now Craig Knutson will provide some detail as to the improved housing market metrics and more importantly the impact on MFA’s portfolio.
So thanks Bill.
Turning to Slide 8 we continue to see improvement in the credit fundamentals of the underlying mortgages in the non-Agency portfolio and the key metric that we focus on here is the loan-to-value ratio or the LTV.
now as I’m sure you know the loan-to-value ratio is a fraction where the numerator is the loan amount and the denominator is the property value.
and so we have two moving parts here.
The first is many of the loans in fact more than half of the loans in the portfolio are now amortizing.
So as loans amortize as homeowners make monthly payments of principal and interests they are lowering their loan amount.
That amortization lowers the loan amount.
So what does that do? Well that lowers the numerator of that fraction thereby lowering the fraction lowering the LTV.
But in addition we also have home price appreciation.
So the property values are increasing in value.
So that increases at the same time the denominator of that fraction which again further lowers that loan-to-value ratio.
So why do we care about loan-to-value ratio? Well the lower the loan-to-value ratio the fewer defaults that we would expect to occur in the future.
And in addition we would expect lower loss severities on loans that due default.
So as a result again primarily of lower LTVs we have lowered our estimates of future losses in the non-Agency portfolio.
As Bill said previously in the fourth quarter we transferred $47 million from our credit reserve to accretable discount which is for the year over $200 million that we moved from the credit reserve to the accretable discount.
We move to Slide 9.
So credit reserve reductions what happens when we move money from our credit reserve to accretable discount? What I’ll point out is the accounting here is different than it would be for for instance loan loss reserves for a bank.
When a bank changes their loan loss reserves that change was directly through their income statement and therefore through retained earnings.
For us the treatment is different when we reduce our credit reserve and increase our accretable discounts we increase the yield on those assets – on those non-Agency mortgages we increase those yield prospectively.
So it increases our future earnings as it increases the yields on those securities.
So we moved $207 million during the year 2013 that $207 million will be recognized as additional income over the remaining life of those assets.
Now just to give you some perspective the total credit reserve transfer over 2012 and 2013 if – again if we freeze all the other elements and there are the moving parts pre-payment fees forward curve and so forth.
But if we just isolate the effect of the credit reserve reductions that has probably increased the non-Agency security yields by approximately 70 basis points.
But again this is perspective it’s future earnings as we recognize that over time over the remaining life of those assets.
Finally although that the credit reserve reductions do not impact our book value again this is different than it would be for a bank.
Our book value is determined solely by the fair market value of those securities.
So again these changes do not directly impact book value.
If we turn to Slide 10.
So Slide 10 two graphs here the one on the left is the average non-Agency LTV.
So I’d call your attention to the grey line.
You can see in the grey line that the average LTV of delinquent loans in the portfolio has declined from the beginning of 2012 to-date from about 120% to less than 90%.
So again this is average LTV but that’s very significant because those lower LTVs should lead to fewer defaults and lower loss severities on loans that due default.
Now while this average LTV and the lower average LTV is certainly a good thing it’s only one element and the graph on the right illustrates another very important point.
So if we look at average LTV again lower average LTV is good but a 65 LTV loan when averaged with a 125% LTV loan may show an average of 95%.
But the fact is that 125% LTV loan is still very much at risk of default.
So the graph on the right shows the percentage of loans with LTVs that are over 100% that are still over 100%.
And you can see in the beginning of 2012 probably two-thirds of the delinquent loans in the portfolio had LTVs over 100% and now that number is less than a third it’s down to almost 25%.
And then finally I’d call your attention to the orange line on the right graph.
So these are the loans that are current in the portfolio.
These loans are not delinquent.
And again some of those loans we expect will default in the future.
But as those LTVs and as the percentage of loans with LTVs greater than 100% declines and that’s gone from 50% down to about 15%.
those loans are certainly at less risk of default.
And again if they due default we would expect lower loss severities as they have lower LTVs.
Moving to Slide 11.
We show the – Slide 11 and 12 show the two largest geographic concentrations.
The Slide 11 is California which comprises approximately 46% of the portfolio.
And you can see the key counties where we have concentrations of loans.
And in general those home price depreciation numbers for the year are up 20% or more which again speak to the LTV.
Slide 12 which is Florida again not up as much as California but that’s about 8% of the portfolio and their double-digit increases more than 10% in all those key counties where we have concentrations.
So good news for the two largest states and also note in the middle of a blizzard in New York both those states are much warmer than we are here today.
Slide 13.
This is another key metrics so we look at the transition rate.
So these are loans that are current today at what rate are those – are loans that are current today transitioning to delinquent.
And you can see that after peaking in early 2009 the transition rate has declined we’re back to almost early 2008 levels of loans transitioning from current to delinquent.
So again another very good sign for the credit fundamentals.
And finally Slide 14.
So this just shows how we account for these securities.
So if you look on the left hand side you can see the blue part the purchase price is 73%.
So think of that as a price of 73% average purchase price is 73% at par.
Now therefore there was a discount of 27%.
In this case if you takeout OTTI 26% was our net purchase discount.
So what do we do with that purchase discounts? Well if you look over on the right you can see that the majority – the vast majority of that purchase discount is still held in a credit reserve the purple portion at the bottom the accretable discount that’s the portion that we accrete into income along with coupon income.
the credit reserve which is still a little bit over $1 billion is not accreted into income.
The other way to look at this is our purchase price over – on the left is 73% at par and because our credit reserve represents 19% of the face amount of these securities.
then in essence we’re assuming in those yields that we get back $0.81 on the dollar.
So we paid $0.73 on the dollar to these securities and we’re expecting to get back $0.81.
and with that I will turn the call back over to Bill.
Thanks.
Operator we are available to take any questions.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question will come from Dan Altscher with FBR.
Go ahead please.
Hey thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Greetings from a snowy Washington D.C.
winter wonderland.
Thanks.
Glad to have you on the call.
Yes we made it.
I was wondering if you talk a little bit about the Agency portfolio clearly the pre-payment fees were down quite a bit which probably helps the overall asset yield this quarter.
Where are we looking around for first quarter so far my sense that may have been – maybe better than normalized or normal – better than expected number per se?  Hi Dan this is Gudmundur.
You’re right pre-payment dropped a lot in the fourth quarter it came down by about 30%.
And in the first quarter fees are down a little bit and I expect the first quarter to come in a little bit lower than the fourth quarter.
Looking-forward to one of that I was cautioned to say that right now we have the – lower parts of turnover and CPRs.
So for the foreseeable future and the next quarter could be probably a little bit lower but then they should pick up as we move into the year.
Okay.
Yeah that makes sense.
And switching – turning to a little bit of a different topic.
You did increase the buyback authorization just recently but didn’t quite really bought back any shares in this quarter or at least in the fourth quarter.
How do you think about that moving forward; was the authorization just to increase the flexibility or is there actually like an intent to buyback the stock? Good question Dan.
Let me give you the longer answer.
So as you know in 2013 we distributed special dividends of about $300 million to investors.
So we were very shareholder friendly and basically – and that was capital you couldn’t use for share buyback.
Strategically based on the consistency of our earnings I would say our strategy is working; in no way are we competing with a non-profit maximizing government entity that can’t [indiscernible].
So we’re very happy with our strategy I must call our strategy ground and pound versus other people that might be somewhat defensive at this time in their strategy.
That being said in the fourth quarter some days and discounts were very intriguing and we actually did purchase 2.1 million shares at the average price of $7.20 in the fourth quarter.
So it wasn’t just to give us the flexibility we implemented that.
Okay that’s really interesting sounds good.
And then just one quick one on the hedge portfolio it looks like you got rid of the TBA shorts that were in the last quarter maybe like an experiment we’re just trying to see how those would work was there anything fundamentally wrong within that weren’t working or simply why we give it as a TBA shorts? Yeah.
Well the TBA shorts was not an experiment it was – could there be unknown uncertainty as the market accepted the concept of tapering.
And we think we’re sort of through that.
So it was just extra protection towards seeing like in extra volatile less predictable period of time.
Okay got you.
Thanks so much and enjoy the snow.
Thanks.
You too.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Douglas Harter with Credit Suisse.
Go ahead please.
Thanks.
You gave some Craig; you gave some good color around the impact of the switching of the – releasing of the reserves from – into basically earnings over time.
Can you talk about how much of the impact you also saw from yield curve shifts in the Non-Agency yield this quarter and sort of what we’ve seen in the first quarter if we should expect some of – for all of that?  Sure.
To be honest I think the effect of the forward curve I don’t have the exact number Doug but the effect of the forward curve was not that significant in the fourth quarter yield that that was primarily due to the credit reserve adjustment.
So yes there is some sensitivity to forward curve but I can say primarily it’s been the credit reserve that’s driven that.
And did we see more of it in the – more of a pickup in the yield in the fourth quarter just from the cumulative impact of everything that you've talked about and the fact that you’ve been doing it sort of over the course of the year and it just kind of builds to the point where it gets to be more meaningful?  Exactly that we’ve tried to isolate that and that 70 basis point yield number is an attempt to strip out all the other affects and that’s the cumulative effect of 2012 and 2013 of those credit reserve adjustments.
Got it.
Okay.
so there is nothing there is no reason to think that just because what’s happened in the yield curve kind of quarter-to-date but that yield shouldn’t be sustainable.
Again tomorrow…  They’re all being equal.
Tomorrow is the new day but I would agree.
Okay I appreciate that Craig.
Thank you.
Thank you.
We’ll go next to Steve DeLaney with JMP Securities.
Go ahead please.
Good morning everybody and congratulations on yet another very solid quarter.
I want to thanks for the clarity on when you had some unique things last year with taxable EPS with that change and accounting method for tax.
So it’s helpful to have this disclosure the $61 million and the $0.17.
Bill I was wondering last year you actually paid two specials.
I get the impression from the way you presented this that since you have until September to deal with this in terms of distribution that you’ll just use this amount to sort of maintain and contribute to the 2014 dividends and possibly have a carryover at the end of next year into 2015.
and am I reading you right on that?  Well one I – the Board sets dividend policy we do not  Yeah.
But I think what you are saying mathematically makes sense that’s just keeping the regular dividend clearly will be fully distributed for 2013 by September and we’re not – it doesn’t appear as if that shortfall would be growing.
Got it got it.
And I guess shifting to the book value nice increase there seeing some of the earlier reports there seems to be comments and some of the book value moves that actually exceeded expectations; it seemed to be focused on the seasoned hybrids.
We kind of can see what the 15 years are doing sort of down a point and a half maybe in the fourth quarter up a point a half now sort of a round trip.
But it seems like the seasoned hybrid ARMs have materially outperformed say new hybrids or 15 years.
And I was wondering Gudmundur if you could give us any color from what you’re seeing kind of within your portfolio how the hybrids – your more seasoned hybrids have performed in 4Q and 1Q?  Yeah I mean in general short cash flows where that seasoned hybrids or 10-year or seasoned 15-year units did or high coupons hitting it for that matter did pretty well in the fourth quarter and continued to do well in the first quarter.
So I would definitely agree with that.
Okay.
so you are seeing continued whatever happened in the fourth quarter you are seeing some pull-through and continued strength there…  Yeah.
Kind of with the broader markets.
Absolutely continue to perform well not necessarily that they’re increasing in price but whatever they gained the momentum that they gained has kind of stayed in the fourth quarter.
See when you’re saying we agree with it seems to be great demand at any short asset.
Yeah.
At this point in the rate cycle I think people assess the banks just want to be at the short-end.
And Bill just one last thing and I’ll hop off.
This is big picture just looking at 2014 it seems like there are a lot of emerging kind of opportunities for a broad residential mortgage REIT is suppose to sort of the more narrow Agency REIT.
It gives you guys a lot of flexibility.
Just curious if you have any thoughts about what might be some of the best opportunities for you in the broader residential credit area as you look out 2014.
Thanks.
Right.
Thanks and look we appreciate the opportunity to share our strategy in this forum.
So thank you for that.
So approximately 5 6 years ago we adjusted the strategies from Agency assets which basically are dependent upon interest rate sensitivity and prepay sensitivity to Non-Agency assets especially when they cheapened.
We believe that the assets don’t move – the movements are not highly correlated.
That is shown in the consistency of our returns where I would say over the year maybe the yield on the Agency portfolio was trended down while the yields Non-Agency has trended up.
I would say our competitive advantage is credit analysis.
So – but we are completely supportive of people widening beyond few agencies because again you’re dealing with a non-economic competitor in the government.
If we looked at mortgage servicing rights for example but there we think that asset well its great it’s not correlated with agencies it is negative correlation is dependent upon prepays which are therefore dependent upon interest rates and we’re not saying that we’re the best predictor of interest rates or prepays or the weather but I think we’ve done very well by focusing on the credit performance of mortgage assets of the certain vintage and we continue to find a lot of opportunities there Steve.
So I think you are going to see more of the same in 2014.
All right.
I appreciate that color and good job guys.
Thank you  Thanks.
Thank you.
We have a question from John Hall with Wells Fargo.
Go ahead please  Yes thanks and good morning and again thanks for the color on the strategy.
It seems like the strategies amongst superiors are evolving and you guys are back kind of step to knitting.
Just back on the – that the yield interest earning assets that was up 21 basis points in the fourth quarter.
I know you disclosed the 70 basis point cumulative benefit I guess from the credit reserve releases.
But in the fourth quarter with that job how much of that was attributed to the credit reserve release specifically and how much was just due to lower prepayments fees on the Agency MBS?  All right.
so we could tell you the change in the yield on the Agencies and by the way we’ll be filling the 10-K soon today.
But I believe the Agency yield went from 213 in the third quarter to 237 in the fourth quarter.
And I think that’s where you seen the impact of the slow down in prepayments fees.
In the non-agency yield as we have already said went up 733 to 777 the majority of that is due to improve credit and some portion of it is due to change in the forward curves.
By the way I want to point out the change in the forward curve is really only significant for the adjustable rate of non-agency.
The fixed rate non-agency are not impacted which is why we are comfortable saying most of the change is due to change in credit assumptions.
Okay good.
Thanks.
And then just the last question I guess more on a strategy question around your agency obviously the seasoned ARM strategy has been a good one.
If we – as the Fed – if we assume the Fed continues to taper and eventually gets out of the markets some believe that that could cause OAS to widen out significantly for fixed REIT 15 to 30-year product.
If we were to see that the hypothetically what would MFA approach be if they were good risk adjusted returns kind of after the market had moved or would you just say strategy is working for us we are not really interested in moving out on the curve with respect to the agency opportunity?  So your question is would we ever consider going beyond a 15-year Agency?  Yeah basically.
So the answer would be we would be reluctant too but if with the appropriate hedging if the spreads were appropriate we would consider it definitely.
Okay thank you guys very much.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question is Daniel Furtado with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</strong> Good morning everybody.
Thank you for the opportunity.
Sure.
Inc.</strong> First question I guess you know the Non-Agency continues to perform very well congratulations there everyone.
But here is the bud at the same time it is – it continues to run off pretty steadily we all know that the universe of the non-agency shrink.
And I think you talked about this a little bit with the DeLaney’s question.
But most specifically to this strategy or how active are you on the new purchase front today.
And how do you see that market going forward?  Let me start my usual speech which is on everyone of these calls the question either asked me too early or too late you might have heard this before but that being said we are very active in the markets.
Yes and then the market wall it is shrinking I think it’s still probably $700 billion or so.
And probably been new supply or bonds we trading in the last month its several billion dollars.
And we probably put – so far this year we probably put $200 million to work in Non-Agency.
So it’s not hard to reinvest one-off at all.
Although our run off on Non-Agency typically runs about $60 million very rough numbers $60 million a month and about half of that pays down re-securitization so it leave us about $30 million should reinvest which again it’s not very difficult.
So yes at some point at some year there will certainly be less supply and less opportunity.
But at least for now we don’t feel like we’re constrained at all.
Inc.</strong> Got you.
And so I guess not looking for guidance but despite the contraction on say the principal on this portfolio it wouldn’t be out of the question if we were to see the principal balance on this piece grow over the course of time even from here.
Well as Bill said about 55% of our assets are hopeful agencies.
Inc.</strong> Right.
As you know that’s a limiting factor.
So I think that’s been fairly consistent for the last year or so.
Inc.</strong> Understood there.
and then speaking of the re-REMIC bonds what are your thoughts about potentially leveraging the next step down as the AAAs burn off and the next sequential bond then becomes defacto AAA.
Is that something you’d look to do and if so how far how to you think we are before that becomes viable option for you guys?  Well it’s a good question Dan.
We’ve actually already done that on the first securitization that we did DMSI deal that we did back in 2010.
That a one paid off and we’ve sold the A2 and actually the A3 on that as well.
So that was a REMIC transaction which makes it easier to sell those securities.
Several of the other deals were debt for tax structures and not to get too complicated here.
But those we would have to wait until the senior bond pays off to then sell the second bond because we can only have one sold at a time.
But another option on those Non-Agencies would be if the senior bonds payoff and we are now the holder of all remaining pieces.
We could also potentially collapse those deals and get the underlying bonds back.
So we certainly have a lot of flexibility like I say it’s a good question and something that that we talk about a lot.
our guess is that the second two deals that we did are probably going to pay off; those senior bonds will probably pay off in the middle and then latter part of this year.
So again we have a lot of flexibility and a lot of different options open to us there.
Inc.</strong> Great thanks for the color there Craig.
Have a great day.
Thanks Dan.
You too.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Rick Shane with JPMorgan.
Please go ahead.
Hey guys.
thanks for taking my questions this morning.
A couple of things one I guess I’d like to take a slightly different take on the question that’s Steve DeLaney had asked related to the rollover dividend.
Going back to some comments Bill made last year which played out pretty consistently with these expectations we’ve seen the convergence between GAAP and tax.
Tax actually fell $0.03 this quarter and it’s now right in line with the dividend.
I’m curious if you think that trend is going to continue.
And then obviously we see that $0.17 rollover is basically cushion to continue to make REIT taxable distributions.
Right.
Good question.
So one in order to forecast taxable income we’d have to forecast a number of things which we’re not prepared to do.
But the trend you point out is correct and the way we look at it taxable income sets your minimum distribution in no way does it set your maximum distribution.
and we had some strange tax results because we purchased senior most pieces at very large discounts which require us to make these large distributions over the last year.
So we don’t see taxable income as a ceiling.
And I think going forward we certainly will focus on taxable income and economic income.
Got it.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then the second question is I’m surprised that you didn’t comment this question and maybe we’re missing something.
But historically one of the metrics that you guys have focused on is core income.
And there has always been a reconciliation associated with GAAP to core that didn’t appear this quarter.
I’m curious what the rationale for that was and actually there is a new one that we always put the weighted average share count from the core reconciliation.
So we don’t have a weighted – at least we’ve been unable to find the correct weighted average share count for the quarter.
Rick it’s Steve Yarad.
Thanks for your question on that.
The reason that we started to practice of disclosing core income a number of years ago it had a lot to do with the fact that we – of the accounting we had to do for linked transactions.
and you might recall if you go back a year or two that the impact that linked transactions on our financial segment was certainly significant.
Overtime those Linked Transactions have run off and we have much less of that in our portfolio now and so the impact on our income statement of the mark-to-market on the Linked Transactions is now virtually de minimis and it has really no impact on yield and on Non-Agency portfolio for our disclosed leverage numbers.
So we’ve taken the decision in this quarter to take out the GAAP to call or reconciliation which in the past has driven heavily by the Linked Transactions.
If you note in the press release we still listed out the gains on sales of these securities so it can pretty easily back into what the core number would have been for the quarter.
In terms of your question on the weighted average shares when the K gets filed shortly after this call a little later today you will see in the EPS footnote the weighted average shares and that will help you to do the calculations you need on that front.
Sure I think I’m assuming that just not including it the way that this quarter was sort of disconnect between removing the slide.
I would ask if you could going forward just throw it in the press release of that we can dial-in our numbers right way?  Sure.
Awesome.
Thank you guys very much.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question is from Chris Donat with Sandler O’Neill.
Go ahead please.
Hi good morning.
It’s Chris Donat.
Thanks for taking my question.
I had one question I want to clarify on the timing of how you addressed the credit reserve and accretable discount.
Am I correct that you look at a third of the portfolio every quarter is that how you do it? And then for your LTV calculations when you’re looking at the home values is that something you’re looking at real-time or is it on a similar sort of cadence that one-third every quarter for the home values?  So Chris we do look at the credit reserve every quarter.
it’s not exactly a third of the securities every single quarter.
But there is no event where we don’t look at a security at least every nine month.
So we might our credit reserve work might encompass 45% or even 50% of the portfolio in a particular quarter.
but again there are no bonds that go unlooked at for more than three quarters.
And I’m sorry the second part of your question?  Just on the LTV calculation the value part of that you’re looking at that basically real time or monthly right.
You’re not assessing home values on a – some sort of lag basis are you or what is the …  We look at that monthly but again we don’t have BPOs on these properties.
So we’re doing zip code level work.
Right.
But zip code level work is typically median home price in that zip code.
so to the extent that the specific mortgage is a lot less than the median home price or lot greater then obviously we are making some assumption that their prices move in line with the medium prices.
But those are pretty much real time and we get those monthly.
Okay.
Okay.
And then just asking on the share repurchases.
Looking at the average price for the quarter looks like a 10% discount to book is where you pull the triggers out of fairway to think about where you might be active in the future or does it depend on about factors.
Yes it’s depends on number of factors.
Okay.
Not currently quantified but thanks.
I appreciate it.
Sure.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And Mr.
Gorin we have no else in queue.
Thanks very much operator.
And thanks everyone for participating.
We hope everyone gets home safely today.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude our conference for today.
Thank you for your participation and choosing AT&amp;T Executive Teleconference.
You may now disconnect.