[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I've got a couple of quick ones hopefully.
On the operational questions I guess if Dave's on the call the Bakken and Eagle Ford well results Dave look a fair bit better than perhaps your underlying guidance had previously reflected.
So I'm curious on whose areas.
Are you now ready to basically change your type curve on specifically on the Eagle Ford? 1 650 barrels per a day I think was the condensate window that you had originally targeted.
Are those numbers still good?  And how many -- if you could talk a little bit about how much activity you've actually had in the condensate window to write that out that'd be great.
Okay.
Sounds like several questions.
I'll see if I can get to them all Doug.
First off all on the Bakken we're going to stick with where we are.
We're pretty much consistently on where we said we were going to be type curve-wise with the 30-stage fracs in the core area of the field.
As we start getting results from the Diomedes area which is the Western area of the field which won't occur until later this month when we actually get some pump equipment out there we'll take another look at those.
Now with respect to Eagle Ford a lot of chatter about -- from wells that we put out there and some of our partners had put out there.
And what we can say is that the high GOR area is generally exceeding our type curve expectations.
We have not yet shifted our curves up.
We are seeing some variability across the play.
There are some areas that are a little bit lower.
In majority the wells are behaving better.
And these are in areas that although we classify them as the high GOR areas typically are falling at the low end of those GOR boundaries 500 to 1 000.
From an activity perspective in the first quarter we would have added approximately 20 to 25 wells and all of them would have been in the high-GOR areas.
So all of our activity was essentially in that area.
And so what we've been able to do since then in terms of our Q2 expectations is again we're largely still focused on the high-GOR area.
But importantly our cadence has improved markedly.
I would expect that we would be able to double the number of wells that we are going to add to our portfolio in the second quarter.
And of that number 25% are going to be in the condensate area.
We are currently running 6 rigs in the condensate area so we should start seeing some results from that area very quickly.
But based on the fact that the high-GOR wells are performing at or better than expectations I have no reason to doubt that our type curves for the condensate wells are going to perform as well.
And so we're looking forward to seeing those results sometime during this month.
Research Division</strong> And my follow-up is just a little quick one the guidance for this current year is that still a good number? And if you could comment on the contribution from the acquisition and I'll leave it at that.
Yes.
We're not moving off of our numbers in terms of what our guidance for the existing acreage that we have is.
I think critically in the earnings release we feel very good about what happened to us in April in terms of our ability to essentially add 1 200 barrels a day net on a weekly basis.
And now that we're running 18 rigs across the portfolio with fully subscribed 4 frac crews we believe that we're going to be able to add the 16 and 20 wells a month to the portfolio.
So that guidance remains intact.
We understand that we've got a lot of work to do there.
With respect to Paloma we've characterized that acreage position we've characterized it as something that will pick up 7 000 barrels a day when it comes into our portfolio hopefully in August.
My view is that will be the number that we get.
And you could look for that position to grow slightly over -- towards the end of the year to maybe 9 000 or 10 000 barrels a day.
We'll see once we get a hold of it we're going to be very careful with it.
But on the annualized basis I guess that puts us and being able to talk about our overall Eagle Ford of between 32-plus thousand barrels a day.
Research Division</strong> I apologize if you just said this but the 767 is not in the updated budget number for this year the acquisition.
That excludes -- correct it excludes all acquisitions.
And it does include some follow-on capital for that acquisition.
Research Division</strong> Got it got it.
I appreciate that.
Can you comment at all on what you're seeing in terms of well costs in the Bakken and the Eagle Ford and then just any update on your Niobrara drilling? Yes.
Arjun I think we're still pretty comfortable with this 8.5 range for our Bakken well.
And that's what we had kind of anticipated once we've got to 30-stage fracs.
Any increases that we're seeing there are really ones that we're driving in terms of maybe adding a little bit more fluid to the completions or whatnot.
We're actually seeing some of the heat come off of the pressure pumping market across the U.S.
And so that's going to help us hold our costs in as far as that goes.
In the Eagle Ford we're still very comfortable with this $8.5 million again well costs there.
We have fixed contracts and so we're not seeing as much price relief potentially as we'd like in that part of the basin.
But one of the things I would say is that we're seeing a lot of pressure on GOR pricing in South Texas because of the hot activity.
And our commitments I think are going to allow us to remain outside of some of that inability to get products.
So we still feel pretty good about what our pricing is in both of our key hot basins.
We're running 2 rigs in the Niobrara.
Where really in an important phase right now.
We've got 7 wells that we're doing completions on.
We've done most of these with cementless completions.
It's a change from what we had done a little bit earlier.
We brought one online this week.
It's very early days.
But it's flowing it's a little bit less than 500 barrels a day.
We're typically seeing 200 barrels a day out of these wells on pump but we'll see if the cementless completion actually works for us.
We'll know a little bit more towards the beginning part of June.
But again our big issue there is we still are concerned with the fact that these in our view are 250 000 to 300 000 EUR wells.
We're still drilling these wells for a little bit north of $5 million.
We've got to get that cost down to $4 million and get better completions.
So as we've said consistently this is an interesting exploration project that's how I'd characterize it.
But we'll get to some more interesting data in the next 30 to 60 days.
Research Division</strong> Just to -- I think you said this frankly very clearly but just to be triply sure the guidance that you previously gave on the Eagle Ford for the end of the year is reiterated.
And then any acquisitions -- the acquisitions that you just announced essentially are incremental to that guidance.
I think I've said that right if you could just confirm that.
And then if you could talk about your outlook for acquisitions going forward in that region that would be great.
Yes.
I think Paul first of all we do confirm our original guidance and the acquisitions would be incremental.
And I'd say we see additional small acquisitions.
But for the most part I think we've completed the bulk of our acquisition activity in the Eagle Ford.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That's helpful.
I just wanted to be triple sure.
And then on the pricing down there could you just talk about how that's going? It's obviously very noisy out there.
And I just wondered if you could update us on how crude prices are moving.
And perhaps what the outlook is there because it is so hard to kind of work out what's going on.
Yes.
I think Paul we're pretty consistent that we've -- since we took this over and most of the assets that we acquired were on WTI contracts we've been working very hard to move this to an LLS-based crude.
We believe we've gotten there and we are pretty firm that it's LLS minus 6 and we think that's where the market is.
There is obviously going to be some tightening over time.
But right now we think that's a good marker for you all to use.
Yes and I think to get to that point -- yesterday we actually started flowing some of our crude down pipelines which essentially secures that pricing mechanism.
And importantly it's going to get substantial number of our trucks off the road which we think is important for how we operate in South Texas as well.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Dave can you tell us that in Eagle Ford the date you picked to drill each well on average over the last say 3 months that what you've been able to do? And also the 30-day IP as well as that you already give us the well cost how about the cash operating cost that you're seeing on a per boe basis on the Eagle Ford and Bakken? Okay.
Yes.
Paul as I think we pointed out in the release our spud-to-spud days in the Eagle Ford have fallen to 25 days over the last 3 or 4 months.
Frankly I expect us to be able to drive that even lower.
And we are seeing some wells lower than that band.
We think that that's as good as there is in the basin.
We're going to continue to test our limits to drive that forward on a go-forward basis.
As I said a little bit earlier consistent with the information that we put out at innumerable conferences I'd still refer you to the charts that we have on our single well economics for the 30-day IPs for the various fields that we've got out there high GOR 675 is the number we have out there.
And you heard me mention to Doug a little bit earlier that we will see some of the condensate wells and we're expecting those at 1 650 boes per day.
Having said that as I mentioned earlier most of the wells that we're drilling out there in the high-GOR area are above those expectations and so we may continue to improve those on a go-forward basis.
We have had some cost pressure both in the Bakken and the Eagle Ford in terms of operating costs.
Eagle Ford not unexpected.
We stood up a huge business unit to prepare for what we expect is going to be 100 000 barrels a day business.
And so we're seeing some pretty significant costs quarter-on-quarter there.
And we've seen Bakken increases in the first quarter over last year as we moved into the Diomedes area which is a higher water area in the Bakken.
Generally I would say that while the basins fall within our guidance range of $8.50 to $9.50 per barrel per FLC with the Eagle Ford being toward the high end of that range and the Bakken towards the low end of it but what I would say is that once we get the businesses underway particularly in the Eagle Ford my expectation is that next year you're going to see those numbers fall back into the $7 to $8 range across our unconventional basins.
Research Division</strong> Nice.
Final question.
Dave do you have the average for your Eagle Ford and Bakken production? And also do you have the breakdown what you expect next year in Bakken and Eagle Ford the percent of frac oil condensate and NGLs from your output going to look like based on the well that you're going to drill? Yes.
The Bakken is oil plays 100%.
And so we're producing right now as we've kind of indicated 25 000 26 000 barrels a day.
And I think we've been pretty just positive on what we expect those rates to go forward and it's going to be 100% oil.
On the Eagle Ford the 20 000 barrels a day plus minus that we're producing it's 80% condensate 7% NGLs and the remainder is natural gas.
And I would expect that those ratios are going to hang in line 85% liquids and the remainder natural gas as we continue to progress up the curve that we've also been very open about sharing into the future.
Research Division</strong> The 20 000 exit rate do you have a number that you can share on the average for April? We haven't gone there yet Paul.
We have not given an average.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the Eagle Ford.
You've been pretty open how the lower GOR oil has been less economic.
Would you guys consider JV-ing or selling that acreage? No.
Well I mean -- okay let me backtrack a little bit.
In the low-GOR oil area that we classified yes.
We've said consistently we would be open to opportunities to allow somebody else to participate in those areas.
In the lower end high-GOR areas if I can be that specific no.
We would not be interested in diluting our interest.
Research Division</strong> Because you guys have flagged drilling costs in the Woodford were too high.
Have you changed the approach to help bring these down? Yes.
We've been very quick to adapt to what other operators in the areas have done both in specific areas.
But also some of their specific techniques and we've been able to dramatically drop our spud-to-spud times there from 7 plus days to 50 or less.
So we've been very pleased with our team's performance in being able to execute in the Woodford and Oklahoma.
It's actually Drew Banker [ph].
Just had 2 quick questions on the Eagle Ford.
Are the results in Wilson and Gonzalez County in line with your expectations? And how do those compare with the results in your focus area in Karnes County? Okay Drew [ph].
I think what I would say is -- we consistently say that Wilson was below our expectations and we are not conducting any activities by and large in those areas.
Gonzalez is a little bit different.
We've got rigs running across some of those areas.
And to this point we've been fairly pleased that those wells exhibit some very positive characteristics of the high-GOR oils that we've expected.
So what we call our union area and certainly a little bit south to that in the DeWitt County area we've been very pleased with.
So far so good there.
But Wilson we think is challenged with respect to the Eagle Ford.
Okay.
And where is the acreage that you picked up? It's in the core area.
So mostly in the Karnes area is what we would say.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
First on the Bakken it looked like your U.S.
crude price realizations were a little bit lower.
Is there an effect from the depressed Bakken pricing we saw in the winter months? Yes.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what have the trends been recently? Well I mean this morning as I've been pretty consistently saying we expect that the trends to close back.
And this morning the differential was $2.
So we're back into this total range of both transportation from the well and differential to about a minus 7 to WTI.
So the Bakken's recovered very nicely.
So has syn crude Pavel because as you know the OSM earnings were affected by lower price realizations.
And again the same kind of dislocations we saw that affected the Bakken affected our syn crude realizations as well.
So both have recovered very nicely.
Those differentials have come in quite a bit.
In fact syn crude is actually a little bit of a premium this morning to WTI.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Kurdistan you mentioned there is a non-operated Sarsang well that's currently drilling.
Any plans for 2012 to actually operate a well on either of your owned blocks? Yes.
We will be drilling at least one well on a Marathon-operated block in 2012 and may get the second one started.
So we will actually be conducting operations this summer.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So spudding in Q3 or...
Sometime in the second half.
Research Division</strong> You guys have already a fairly large position in the Eagle Ford.
So I was wondering if you could -- how would you characterize this transaction? Is it -- is this a transaction that you guys are doing -- or these series of transactions does this help you kind of accelerate some of your drilling program? Or are these kind of -- is this an acreage position that's adjacent or right on top of your current acreage? I'm just trying to figure out the kind of the strategic rationale behind adding more to your position in the Eagle Ford.
Yes.
I think Faisal what I'd say is these additional acquisitions are very complementary adjacent to what we already own.
And so to a certain extent as Dave said we built a very substantial and we think a very capable operating presence.
These assets will be able to develop and produce synergistically with the assets we already have so they make a great deal of sense.
And so we've been very clear upfront that to the extent we can acquire these kinds of bolt-on acquisitions whether it's additional working interest in our existing acreage or additional acreage that we can develop we believe at a competitive advantage that's of interest to us.
And certainly that's what we're doing with these acquisitions.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you remind me how much are you guys spending on infrastructure in the Eagle Ford gathering and processing and the sort of things that take your liquids to market? I'd put that number close to $200 million this year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last question for me the Ozona development can you comment a little bit about what happened? What didn't work? Or what wasn't working versus your expectations of production? Yes I can.
I think again we've run into a smallest-sized reservoir issue that has what I would characterize as very channelized flow regime and we've not seen the pressure support from any kind of meaningful drive mechanism.
It's not the same problems.
It's very similar to what we've seen in some of the other recent developments we've done.
And it's frankly it's put us all chasing these smaller targets in the Gulf.
Regarding the Bakken activity could you further delineate how much of the contribution for volume adds you're getting is from the middle Bakken versus Three Forks? Yes John.
It also gives me a chance to say that we actually do make about 5% of our volume from natural gas there.
So much as I'd like to say it's 100% oil I can't quite claim that.
To this point the vast majority of our activity is middle Bakken focused.
We started feathering in summer activities in the Three Forks.
And in fact the biggest well Marathon has enjoyed to date we saw last quarter there were 2 400 barrels a day from the Three Forks.
And so we'll start to see more and more of that feature into particularly the third well where we put most spacing units.
But to this point we're still a middle Bakken player and you'll see us increase our focus on the Three Forks on a go-forward basis particularly in the core part of our acreage there.
Okay.
Will you look at other formations like the Lodgepole or Nisku? Or is it something later on? Well as -- our practice across all of our big plays is to really try to stay focused on where we can create the most value.
We're not going to leave anything behind.
And we continue to look for that.
We'll pay attention to what a lot of the other operators are doing out there.
But our organization and people who follow this company should understand we focus on making sure we create the most value first and then chasing these other opportunities.
Okay.
Last one for me is on Poland.
Any news to speak of yet? No not really.
We basically are pretty close to done with our third well.
We had one disappointment with the second well in terms of the zone not really being present in terms of what we were looking for.
So we've got some more drilling to do.
We'll actually start doing some of our injectivity testing in the second half of the year.
And from that we'll determine if we actually frac any of this.
So it's still early days but at this point I would say it's middle of the road.
Research Division</strong> Can you update us on the progression towards your asset sale targets? Yes.
We've talked about beyond the sales we've had over the last several years that we were targeting another $1.5 billion to $3 billion by the end of 2013.
And thus far this year we've announced the sale of our Alaska assets.
So that's the only update.
We've not yet talked about the actual purchase price for those assets.
We will at the appropriate time.
But I would say that's the first this year.
We had last year over $600 million of asset sales that would contribute towards that same target.
Research Division</strong> And should we think about it as just being I guess more back-end weighted? Or kind of 50-50 over the next years? Or...
Yes.
Again we don't predict the schedule by which we'll have these sales.
We certainly only do the sales if they make economic sense.
But I wouldn't give you a projection of when to expect announcements around asset sales.
Research Division</strong> And just the last one is are you guys doing any down spacing or water float tests in the Bakken that you can comment on? Well I think we've continued to chase what other people are doing in terms of -- we started this obviously on 12.80s we're now moving very smartly to 3 wells on our drilling spacing unit and we'll probably go beyond that.
So in that vein we are continuing to down space.
We think it makes a lot of sense.
We're studying enhanced recovery in the Bakken and the other unconventionals but do not have any physical test plan or anything like a waterflood or any other type of enhanced recovery project at this point.
Research Division</strong> Dave do you have an exit rate you expect for Bakken and Eagle Ford for the end of this year? Paul we've not giving that information to this point.
But April as I've said we're 20 000 plus in the Eagle Ford.
But we're not talking about exit rates at this particular point.
Research Division</strong> I don't know what I did wrongly in the math.
But if we're going to hit 30 000 barrel per day that seems to suggest that the second half you to be average more than 40 000.
So it look like the fourth quarter you need to be in excess of 50 000.
Is that tie up expectation that we should have? Well Paul I think what I said a little bit earlier is when we have that capability which we do today to add 16 to 20 wells per month for the remaining part of the year and in April we've been able to add over 1 000 barrels a day per week I think what I would say to you is there's a number of ways you can get to that particular math.
But we now have the capacity to get to the numbers similar to what you suggested to get to our average rates for the year.
Thank you very much.
And before we close I want to take just a moment to say goodbye to an important member of our team who is retiring at the end of this month Bonnie Chisum and who has been in our Investor Relations team for the last 10 years and a 39-year employee for Marathon Oil Corporation as I said is retiring at the end of this month.
And we wish her well.
We know many of you know her.
And with that we will end the call and wish everyone a good afternoon.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the Marathon Oil Corporation First Quarter 2011 Earnings Call.
My name is John and I'll be your operator for today's call.
[Operator Instructions] Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I'll now turn the call over to Mr.
Howard Thill.
Mr.
Thill you may begin.
Thanks John and good afternoon everyone.
Welcome to Marathon Oil Corporation's First Quarter 2011 Earnings Webcast and Teleconference.
The synchronized slides that accompany  this call can be found on our website marathon.com.
On the call today are Clarence Cazalot President and CEO; Janet Clark Executive Vice President and CFO; Gary Heminger Executive Vice President Downstream; Dave Roberts Executive Vice President Upstream; and Garry Peiffer Senior Vice President of Finance and Commercial Services Downstream.
Slide 2 contains the discussion of forward-looking statements and other information included in this presentation.
Our remarks and answers to questions today will contain forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.
In accordance with Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 Marathon Oil Corporation has included in its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2010 and subsequent Forms 8-K cautionary language identifying important factors but not necessarily all factors that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
Please note that in the Appendix to this presentation is a reconciliation of quarterly net income to adjusted net income for 2010 and first quarter of 2011 preliminary balance sheet information second quarter and full-year 2011 operating estimates and other data that you may find useful.
Slide 3 shows that our adjusted net income of almost $1.2 billion was 52% higher than the fourth quarter of 2010 and 276% increase from the first quarter of 2010.
Slide 4 shows the components of the increase in adjusted net income compared to the fourth quarter 2010.
The increase from the fourth quarter was largely driven by higher commodity prices and higher refining and wholesale marketing gross margin partially offset by lower E&amp;P production sold as a result of the suspension of Libyan production operations and the downtime associated with the Droshky sidetrack completion during the quarter.
Pretax earnings increased in all segments.
Slide 5 shows the various impacts which led to a 35% increase in E&amp;P segment income.
Higher liquid hydrocarbon prices and lower DD&amp;A were partially offset by the lower sales volumes just discussed along with higher income taxes.
Slide 6 shows our historical price realizations.
Our first quarter average price realization increased $9.39 per BOE compared to the fourth quarter 2010.
Our liquid hydrocarbon realization increased $14.29 per barrel compared to an increase of $9.36 per barrel increase in the NYMEX prompt WTI price.
About 65% of our global liquid hydrocarbon sales volumes were priced off of Brent which increased substantially more than WTI during the quarter.
Slide 7 shows the production volumes sold in the first quarter of 2011 were down 4% compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 to 400 000 BOE per day.
While production available for sale decreased 5% to 398 000 BOE per day.
As previously noted the largest contributor to these decreases was the suspension of Libyan productions and the downtime associated with the Droshky sidetrack completion.
The difference in sales volumes and production available for sale was the result of an overlift for the quarter of approximately 975 000 BOE in the U.K.
Norway and Alaska offset by an underlift of 782 000 BOE in Libya and EG.
Slide 8 demonstrates the 18% growth in E&amp;P production available for sale since the beginning of 2010 excluding Libya.
For the full-year 2011 we now expect production available for sale to be between 345 000 and 365 000 BOE per day which includes the first quarter production available for sale from Libya but excludes any additional Libya production for the year.
This is about a 7 000 boepd increase to our previous guidance when excluding Libya.
Turning to Slide 9 field level controllable costs per BOE returned to trend from the higher fourth quarter level when we had higher workover costs in the Gulf of Mexico.
2010 domestic field level controllable costs were $7.10 per BOE and for 2011 we expect it to be in the range of $7.25 to $8.30 per BOE.
In International E&amp;P the 2010 field level controllable costs were $2.95 per BOE and for 2011 we expect a range of $3.20 to $4.40 per BOE with the largest portion of the increase due to the loss of the Libya production.
Exploration expense increased as a result of the approximately $159 million in dry well costs during the first quarter.
This is attributed to costs associated with the Gulf of Mexico Flying Dutchman well and the Romeo prospect in Indonesia which encountered water-bearing carbonates.
In March 2011 we completed our evaluation to determine the options to develop the Flying Dutchman were not viable.
Total expenses per BOE as shown on Slide 10 increased $0.59 per BOE from the fourth quarter primarily driven by the higher exploration expense and DD&amp;A partially offset by lower field level controllable costs.
First quarter E&amp;P segment income was $18.54 per BOE a 43% increase compared to the fourth quarter of 2010 again primarily due to increased realizations.
Turning to Slide 11 in Oil Sands Mining.
The segment income for the first quarter was $32 million an increase of $23 million from the $9 million earned in the fourth quarter 2010 largely driven by higher synthetic crude realizations.
Marathon's first quarter 2011 net synthetic crude sales which is bitumen after upgrading including blendstocks from the AOSP mining operation was 37 000 barrels per day compared to 38 000 barrels per day in the fourth quarter.
Average realizations increased $10 per barrel from their fourth quarter level.
Turning to Slide 12 in the Integrated Gas segment.
First quarter segment income was $60 million an increase of $27 million from the fourth quarter of 2010.
As a result of the turnaround in the fourth quarter of 2010 methanol sales volumes increased.
Moving to our Downstream financial results as noted on Slide 13 RM&amp;T's first quarter 2011 segment profit totaled $527 million compared to a $237 million segment loss in the same quarter last year.
Because of the seasonality of the Downstream business I will compare our first quarter 2011 results against the same quarter in 2010.
Primary factors contributing to the increased segment income for the first quarter 2011 included a wider sweet/sour crude differential increased sales volumes and lower manufacturing costs resulting from decreased planned turnaround and major maintenance expenses compared to the first quarter of 2010.
In addition during the first quarter of 2011 the company was able to take advantage of the wider-than-normal crude oil differentials between WTI and other light sweet crudes such as LLS and Dated Brent which resulted in relatively lower crude oil acquisition costs versus the comparable quarter last year.
Sales volumes increased as a result of higher first quarter  2011 refining throughputs compared to the same quarter in the previous year.
Primarily because of operating a fully integrated Garyville refinery for the entire first quarter of 2011 our total throughputs were up approximately 20% quarter-over-quarter in spite of the December 1 2010 sale of the St.
Paul Park refinery.
In addition some other work which we recently completed in our refineries to enhance the efficiency of our fluid catalytic cracking units also improved last quarter's results over the first quarter 2010 as well as the higher prices we realized in the first quarter of 2011 on our SCCU gains.
Our manufacturing and other expenses were lower in the first quarter 2011 compared to the corresponding quarter last year primarily because we had much lower planned turnaround and major maintenance expenses and other major Downstream project costs in the current quarter.
Partially offsetting these positive improvements quarter-over-quarter the average LLS crack spread decreased from $3.03 per barrel in the first quarter of 2010 based upon 57% of our production in the Midwest and 43% in the U.S.
Gulf Coast during that quarter to $0.71 per barrel in the first quarter 2011 based upon 53% of the production being in the Midwest market and 47% in the U.S.
Gulf Coast.
In addition our average wholesale price realizations did not increase as much as the average of the spot market gasoline distillate and 3% resin prices used in the LLS 6-3-2-1 crack spread calculation in the first quarter of 2011 versus the comparable quarter last year.
Total refinery crude oil throughput averaged 1 114 000 barrels per day in the first quarter of 2011 compared to 1 003 000 barrels per day in the same quarter last year.
Total throughputs were 1 321 000 barrels per day in the first quarter of 2011 compared to 1 100 000 barrels per day in the first quarter of 2010.
Speedways' refined product and merchandise gross margin was about $23 million lower in the first quarter 2011 compared to the first quarter 2010.
This decrease was primarily due to a reduction in the number of outlets as a result of the Minnesota asset sale in December 2010.
On a per gallon basis Speedways' gasoline and distillate margins increased from $0.1195 per gallon in the first quarter of 2010 to $0.1308 per gallon in the first quarter of 2011.
Speedways' same-store merchandise sales increased approximately 2% while same-store gasoline volumes were comparable in both quarters.
Slide 15 provides an analysis of preliminary cash flows for the first quarter of 2011.
Operating cash flow before changes in our working capital was $2.2 billion.
Our cash balance was increased by working capital changes of $436 million.
Capital expenditures during the quarter were approximately $1.1 billion.
Proceeds from disposals of assets were $212 million and dividends paid totaled $178 million.
This slide also reflects the financing activities carried out during the quarter in anticipation of the spinoff of our Downstream business at June 30 this year.
Slide 16 provides a summary of select financial data.
At the end of the first quarter 2011 our cash adjusted debt-to-total capital ratio was 10% a 4 percentage point reduction from the fourth quarter of 2010.
The effective tax rate for the first quarter of 2011 was 43%.
We expect our effective tax rate for the year to be in the range of 42% to 47%.
As you may recall these tax rates reflect a full year as an integrated company.
Both the quarter and estimated annual rates are lower than expected primarily due to the suspension of production operations in Libya where as you know our effective tax rate is over 90%.
The inclusion of only 2 months Libyan income and associated taxes in our estimated annual effective tax rate accordingly reduced the effective tax rate applicable to the first quarter.
With that I will turn it over to Clarence Cazalot for a few comments.
Thank you Howard.
And just a brief comment.
By the time we announce second quarter results we expect to be separate companies.
So this will likely be our last earnings conference call as an integrated company.
And so I want to take the opportunity to thank Gary Heminger and the entire Downstream team for the outstanding contributions and results that they have achieved as part of the MRO team and I know that they will ensure that MPC remains the gold standard for the U.S.
Downstream business and obviously we wish them all the best.
So with that Howard back to you for questions.
Okay Clarence thank you.
To accommodate -- before we open this up I just want to remind people that to accommodate everyone who wants to ask a question we'd ask you to limit yourself to 1 question plus a follow-up and then of course you can re-prompt for additional questions as time permits.
So John with that we'll open it up to Q&amp;A.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Doug Leggate from Merrill Lynch.
I'm going to try two very strictly the same questions.
Can you hear me okay? The first one is if you exclude  Libya it appears that your revised production guidance for the year has moved up by somewhere north of 10 000 barrels a day.
If you could help us understand what's going on there.
And my second question is if you could perhaps just give us an update on the economics in the Oil Sands given that that is going to be becoming a fairly significant part of the production outlook as we move forward.
And I will leave it there.
Okay Doug this is Dave.
I think the first question in terms of the increased guidance which we would say is in the range of 5 000 to 10 000 barrels a day largely is the result of our focus on reliability over the last several years that we believe has finally yielded some significant results expressed in the first quarter.
And that specifically we saw 100% reliability out of our Equatorial Guinea complex and we saw 95% reliability out of our Alpine complex.
Both of those for the type of assets they are are world-class results and what we're forecasting is -- well we can't expect to achieve those rates even though that we will certainly strive for that.
We are expecting to achieve industry-leading reliability in those assets which should allow us to show production increases for the remainder of the year.
In addition we obviously are showing continued growth from resource plays particularly in Oklahoma and Bakken and we do expect to bring Arizona on stream as expected during the remainder of this year.
So that I hope takes care of the first question that you had.
The second question with respect to Oil Sands what I will say is that we're very excited and Charles made the announcement today that the 10th of 11 units in the upgrader has been delivered and so basically we are fully on schedule with the upgrader being able to match the mine performance.
Essentially what that allows us to say is that we now have the capacity to actually produce this asset on a gross basis at 255 000 barrels a day Marathon has a 20% share of that obviously.
And what we expect is that our operating costs will now start to continue to decline as we have this larger fixed production against the fixed cost base.
And so while we talked about operating expense being in the circa $55 per barrel range in the first quarter we'd expect that that would continue to fall for the year to give us a year range in that particular asset of maybe $35 to $45 a barrel which continuing to try to push down to lower levels.
We already are seeing some outstanding production performance for the mine and then obviously with the ISD the fact that syncrudes are essentially trading at a par to Brent with those operating cost numbers you could see what the economic power of this asset is going to be for us we think on a perspective basis.
Our next question comes from Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
I'll start with a question for Gary on the Downstream.
You drove this bit so we'll kind of move to the Downstream first.
Gary you're beginning to see various midstream companies and refineries respond with capital investment to capture what are wider and appear to be sustainably wider TILS and TI  Brent differentials.
Can you describe or talk about the scale of potential investment opportunities that you see in your midstream system to available profitability whether it's in pipeline barge rail terminals.
Any which way and I have a follow-up please.
Yes Evan and you hit on all of the above.
We're working on all of those opportunities pipeline rail barge.
In fact we've been able to optimize our system as Howard indicated in his presentation to avail ourselves of a bigger percentage of WTI benchmark-type  crudes here in the first quarter versus prior quarters using all of those systems.
But right to the point though of incremental investment yes there's been a lot of announcements in the midstream space about different pipelines being built from point a to point b.
I think that remains to be seen  how many actually get complete.
But we are in a very good position to be able to take advantage of those crudes through our current system through some rail through the barging and some incremental barging that we've been doing.
But we do not have any major expansion plan at this time Evan.
Okay that's great.
Thanks.
And my second question on the Upstream.
It's a bit of a broader question maybe Clarence.
Your production guidance has driven off your existing CapEx and year-to-date Brent's almost 32% higher.
Your crude differentials from Mid-Con have never been wider which you of course captured.
With 5 months on the books when do you revisit your capital spending guidance from January if prices at least remain higher than where you budgeted? And do you see the ability as do some of your peers to pour more capital into the Lower 48 liquids growth.
And I'll leave it there thanks.
Yes I think Evan we continue to increase our acreage holdings.
In fact I think when you look at the earnings release we give some specific numbers around what we're doing to Eagle Ford.
Obviously we're not sitting still in some of the other liquids-rich  plays.
We continue to step up our acreage acquisition to the extent practical again in terms of making sure that what we're doing is value accretive.
We're also of course looking at what we can do in some areas to accelerate drilling.
And you may well see that become part of our program.
It won't be obviously an instantaneous ramp up but certainly something that we would transition into over several months.
Again given the opportunities that we're building in the liquids-rich  resource plays.
So that certainly is something that we're focused on.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey from Deutsche Bank.
If I could as Gary a question on refining.
Gary what are your latest observations on the demand side of the picture in light of gasoline prices and diesel prices? And I'm thinking not only of U.S.
and your  core markets but also what you're doing on the export side and how strong that looks.
Okay Paul a timely question.
As we illustrated in the documents or in the slide presentation we are about flat on  first quarter same-store volume.
However I've said many times in  presentations over the first quarter here that we expected if you get to around $3.75 or higher range that's when you would start to see a reduction in volume and that has been the case.
In fact it started at the last week of March.
We started to see a degradation in volume and we're down month-to-date here in April right around 5%.
Now let me add I don't believe all of that is demand from price across the biggest part of our market.
We've had about 25 straight days of rain which has completely shut down the farm and planting season and a lot of the outside contractor work as well.
So 5% if you take into account weather and we're up against the quarter last year that -- I mean up against an April last year that was a very very good weather season.
So somewhere probably I would say maybe half and half Paul of demand versus weather somewhere in that range.
As far as...
Can I just interrupt on the mix there between gasoline and diesel has...? Yes I was going to go to diesel next then.
I beg your pardon.
I was sort of thinking you might go into exports.
But go ahead I beg your pardon.
Yes I'm sorry.
As far as diesel we're seeing about 3% to 4% increase in diesel across our system.
And that's U.S.
diesel.
So that's mainly be over the road.
And again diesel has also I think  been tempered by the weather and the very very late agricultural season kicking in this year.
Then on exports we've been averaging about 65 000 barrels per day of exports which is a little higher than what we had expected when we built Garyville and that's all diesel exports.
So that's a little bit higher than we expected when we built the new system.
And our diesel demand has been strong for the export market.
That's great.
My brief follow-up you mentioned the Garyville's full quarter for the first quarter.
What's the outlook for utilization rates into your new start as a company in the second half.
And I'll leave it there.
Well I'd say that's a timely question Paul.
You'll recall in 2010 we had a very strong turnaround season mainly in the first quarter some of it slipped into the second quarter with the new Garyville plant as well as big turnarounds of Robinson and Catlettsburg and Texas City last year.
We just completed the Canton turnaround a week or so ago.
That's behind us and we had the normal turnaround that we have every January at Garyville to do some crude exchange work.
And I would say that we're  in a very very strong position operationally as we kick off the new season.
Our next question comes from Ed Westlake from Crédit Suisse.
This is actually Rakesh Advani for Ed Westlake.
I just have 2 questions.
Regarding the International E&amp;P tax rate it was 48% this quarter.
Just wondering with Libya removed is that kind of like a normal run rate to look at going forward? Well we don't project by segment.
What we gave you for the total company is really Rakesh all I can give you at this point.
Okay that's fair enough.
The other question is can you give some comments I guess about the exploration calendar that's coming up any catalyst...
This is Dave.
We're in the midst of drilling a well in the Norwegian North Sea.
That's called our Earb prospect.
That's the only exploration well we're currently drilling.
We do expect to get 1 to 2 wells drilled in our Polish acreage by the end of this year.
Obviously we're still engaged in some seismic activities or will be engaged in some seismic activities by the end of the year in Kurdistan.
And I think our plans are assuming our permits come forward from the United States government that we'll be in a position in the fourth quarter to move back into the Gulf of Mexico on the Innsbruck  prospect.
And we continue to test wells that have been drilled as discoveries in the Kurdish region of Iraq.
Our next question comes from Paul Cheng from Barclays Capital.
Two questions.
One is for Gary the other I think for Clarence.
Gary you indicate that you have increased the use of the WTI linked crude.
I think in the fourth quarter it's about 20%.
Can you give us a rough idea that how much is in the first quarter? And also that  is there are any additional step you can take to further increase it in the near term or that you may have to wait until the Detroit Upgrading Project for you to further increase the percentage there? That's the first one.
Okay.
Yes in the fourth quarter you're right.
It was about 20% WTI benchmark and around overall 25% between heavy and a couple of other crudes that I would say are linked more to the WTI price.
In the first quarter we were closer to 33% of what I call WTI-linked  crudes.
That would be WTI WTS as well as some of the Canadian heavy.
Okay so it's from 20% to 33%.
No about 25% to 33%.
25% to 33%.
And that's the 33% you said including the heavy oil you run down at Garyville? Yes if it was Canadian source.
Yes and then to second point:  are other things that we can do yes and we're in the process of some other optimization around some of our assets.
Let me caution you though due to the very high water that we're experiencing in the Midwest on the Mississippi and Ohio River.
There's been some slowdowns.
In fact some docks have been -- and some locks have been shut down because of the high water.
So we've had a week or so here of weather problems but we expect to get back up and running next week.
We do have some other things that we're working on Paul I won't get into the details to help us further optimize our system.
Okay.
The second question is then Clarence if I look at your cash balance it's a very strong position.
Wondering if you look at from the priority of use how we view between acquisition and share buyback that -- how you determine which one that you want to go for you? Well I think Paul go back to what we've said before and in terms of cash priorities our highest priority is to ensure that both companies at separation are well-capitalized.
So that's certainly going to be our highest priority through separation.
Past that I think as we've said all along certainly funding profitable growth is a very high priority for us.
As I indicated in one of the earlier responses we are looking at increasing our activity levels in North America in the liquids-rich plays.
So certainly that's going to be a use of capital there.
We've said all along dividend is very very important to us as a portion of Total Shareholder Return.
And again share buybacks are something that we will certainly consider as we move forward.
We recognize that certainly in the E&amp;P space metrics on a per-share  basis make a great deal of sense.
We recognize the value accretion from share buybacks and we will consider that certainly as a viable option for cash usage.
Our next question comes from Blake Fernandez from Howard Weil.
I wanted to confirm the Eagle Ford acreage that you added.
I'm assuming that's different from the original Denali transaction.
And I was hoping you could maybe give some details on location of that? Yes Blake.
It is different from the Denali so the 30 000 acres that we referenced as being additional is in the form of a number of additional transactions.
So the total number is certainly north of 115 000 acres now for Marathon potentially.
And what we would say is that it's representative of both the oil window and the condensate-rich  gas window.
Okay.
So there's specifics on county at this time on the new acreage right? No.
Okay.
And then secondly Clarence you've recently divested a couple of the assets where you had a 100% working interest with Niobrara and Poland.
Are there any other assets that pop up on the radar screen as certain ones that you'd like to kind of de-risk  from a financial standpoint? No I think Blake those were 2 that we certainly saw as in the earlier stages of development where there were still a lot of unknowns a lot of risks that -- and we had as you've noted a very high working interest.
We simply felt it was prudent to share that risk and I think when you look at the terms of those 2 agreements we think they were excellent transactions.
And I think highlight the value of being early into a play secure the acreage hopefully at times before the competition sets in and then you're really in the driver's seat as to how you go about developing it.
But at this stage I think those were the 2 highest priorities on our list.
I think we feel very comfortable about most of the other areas we're in.
Our next question comes from Faisel Khan from Citigroup.
On the in-situ Oil Sands leases now that you've drilled these 94 test wells what's the plan from here on out in terms of potential sanctioning and potential size of the project.
And then I have a follow-up with Downstream.
Yes Faisel this is Dave.
As we know we have between 1.5 billion to 2 billion barrels in place in Birchwood assets the one you're talking about.
And again that's an asset that we have 100% Marathon.
We got 94 test wells drilled.
We're doing the reservoir and core analysis as we speak that our view is that by summertime our expectations on what that project could be will be confirmed and we'll be moving towards taking decision to potentially move into pre-FID with an idea of moving to an FID at sometime in 2012 the view would be that we would stage this project down according to some of the permitting and you could potentially see a project on a scale of 10 000 to 20 000 barrels a day in our portfolio by 2016 that time frame.
Okay got you.
And then on the Downstream side in terms of where we are with Detroit just give us an update on where we are in Detroit in terms of construction completion the potential completion and if there's any sort of delays that you have for weather in the quarter or things are on target and kind of expected to ramp up second half of next year? Faisel in fact we're 55% complete.
We're right on target.
Even though the weather has hampered us we're just a little bit ahead of schedule.
But of course this is a very busy construction here for us.
But everything is still on time and on budget.
Our next question comes from Joe Citarrella from Goldman Sachs.
My question is really just digging in a bit more on the portfolio management activities and spending in shale.
You gave some color on the Niobrara and Poland still down in the quarter and bought more acreage in the Eagle Ford but moving across the unconventional portfolio any other specific areas that you're looking to either sell down or accumulate more aggressively? And do you expect any acreage acquisitions at this point to be primarily smaller bolt-on kind of deals or maybe something more meaningful than that? Well I think we're always looking for meaningful acquisitions but I think it's also wrong to get caught up in the fact that you can't build portfolios by adding on to existing positions.
And I think what we've done already in the Eagle Ford is a great example of that because certainly we're looking for opportunities to add the 10 000 plus acre positions.
But we'll certainly add on 1 000 or 2 000 acres as we go forward.
The broader question I think I'll start with the fact that we are oil-focused and so those assets that we're going to focus on are largely in liquids-rich plays as we've been pretty consistent on.
I think you'll see us continue to move away from the Marcellus as an example because while we think that's a great play and has great potential in terms of being a hydrocarbon resource base it doesn't really fit our strategy.
We would obviously like to increase our position in the Bakken since it's a key play for Marathon and we continue to think we have a leading operating position there.
But financially that doesn't make a lot of sense right now.
It's a very overheated basin and so I think where  you've seen us focus is the other 3 liquids-rich plays that we're focusing on in the Anadarko Woodford in Oklahoma where we've now pushed our acreage position at 100 000 acres which is quite substantially in that play.
The 200 000 gross acres that we subsequently farm down in the Niobrara.
We'll continue to look for opportunities there.
And I think clearly the Eagle Ford is a play that we've got a significant focus on and we'll continue to have focus on as we still think there's opportunities out there.
And I think that gives us the coverage that we need across a number of basins that give us exposure to liquids and appropriate risk profile.
That's great.
And as you're looking at the liquids-rich plays any in particular stand out as having the greatest running room to increase spending of your existing liquids-rich position? I think what we've said is in the Anadarko we're currently running 3 Marathon rigs.
We're going to 8 by the end of the year.
We see the potential to increase there.
We're running 7 rigs in the Bakken 6 drilling and 1 that's basically  looking at re-frac.
There may be potential increase there.
The real key growth area for us and expansion is going to be the Eagle Ford.
We've got 1 well down frac-ed this week.
That's a play that I think you could see us what we've talked about going to 6 rigs in 2012.
That's a play given our recent success in adding acreage you could see that number go to double digits pretty easily.
Our next question comes from Mark Gilman from The Benchmark Company.
LLC</strong> I had a couple of things.
Dave I wonder if you could talk about what you saw in the Droshky sidetrack what its implications are in terms of reserves and the profile going forward.
And what if any changes there were in the DD&amp;A rate on Droshky.
Okay Mark.
Good to hear from you as always.
I think we were able to do a successful intervention there with monoline and added that well to the production mix.
And I think what we would say is it served to bolster our confidence and the guidance that we've given for the ability of that asset to produce between 15 000 and 17 000 barrels net for the year.
Droshky is currently running at about 19 000 barrels a day and so we feel pretty good about where we've got that particular asset.
It wasn't an impact on the reserves per se and so what we would guide to DD&amp;A is $80 a barrel for 2011.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Dave my follow-up relates to Kurdistan.
Now what would you have to see in terms of assurances guarantees or potentially regulation legislation in Iraq to actually move you to a potential production status in Kurdistan? Well that's a great question.
I think we're starting to see the beginnings of that.
But the simple answer is we need to sign hydrocarbon law.
Because the impacts of hydrocarbon law are going to cover the cost recovery and the profitable splits that we're going to need to move forward.
Now the rhetoric coming out of Baghdad today and over the last several weeks that they seem to reach an understanding on how cost tool and costs are going to be recovered is very important and that would certainly move us down the path of preparing for production capacity in the country.
But I think until we get hydrocarbon law that ratifies the PSCs that we signed with the Kurdish regional government you will not see us go to a full production scenario there.
LLC</strong> But you will continue to drill that from an evaluation standpoint? I think our view is and again as you'll recall Clarence has characterized that we believe that we have an appropriate amount of risk dollars given where the country is in terms of its overall security and the continuing positive vibrations that we're getting in terms of how the laws are going to be settled.
So we are going to engage in seismic activities on our Block if we can progress things quickly enough we will move to drill if not late this year then early next year assuming that the signals and signs continue to move positively for us.
Our next question comes Pavel Molchanov from Raymond James.
Inc.</strong> Just following up on Mark's question but with regard to Poland rather than Kurdistan.
Given that your ownership structure for the Polish acreage is still taking  shape what sort of regulatory framework do you need to see in Poland to ramp up drilling to kind of a faster run rate? I'm not sure that the government structure there is going to be the controlling factor.
I mean it always is but again we're getting very positive signals on how the government is going to help us frame the loss such that we can move forward.
The real issue that we're going to deal with there is getting equipment and infrastructure there to move that play along at a pace to where they can actually see that if the resources turn out to be there that they're going to continue to have legislation and legal infrastructure that's going to support those activities.
Very early days there's been 5 to 7 wells drilled and  the information is very spotty we will obviously have a bite at the apple ourselves towards the latter part of the year.
But again the noise coming out of the government is very positive.
Obviously they're interested in doing this.
We've got a lot of work to do community-relations wise to make sure that we continue to handle things in a way that the community appreciates as we move that forward.
But again it's going to be more of an issue of getting iron on the ground to do the work in my view.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just a quick follow-up regarding Libya.
Do you have any sense of the physical state of the assets on the ground in terms of physical damage or is there just no visibility on that? We have no visibility on that.
Our next question comes from Mark Polak from Scotia Capital.
I was just wondering about a possible update on Arizona and where that project stands right now.
I believe you guys may be looking for a different rig to go and complete that and curious if you could update us on timing? The timing is consistent.
We've consistently said mid to late Q3 we have a rig contracted at Diamond Ultramar and the work that's being done on the host platform if the other platform shale is progressing as expected.
And so we see no impediments to getting this done this summer.
We have a follow-up from Paul Cheng from Barclays Capital.
Dave in Eagle Ford the well that you just frac-ed you haven't completed yet right? Or that you have some data  in terms of what the potential rate that you can share? Paul we literally pumped the frac the day before yesterday.
And so we're basically -- the frac went well.
The drilling met our expectations.
The frac was pumped well and we're basically now moving to where we can flow the well back.
How many stage that you guys are going to do on that? I don't have that data Paul.
But we could follow-up on that.
Okay.
And can you tell us what is your current production in Bakken? And also that the well now you're drilling how many frac stage that you're performing per well? We're currently producing right at 14 000 net in the Bakken and I would put a caveat on that number as many of you if you follow the weather you know that the weather in North Dakota has been very bad.
And so they literally had a blizzard this past weekend and so that our folks were able to still produce at those rates is a great testament to the folks at Marathon up there and the work that they're doing for us.
So we're still on track to continue to drive our production towards our stated goals into the future.
Paul the second part of your question is and I know there's been sort of reports out Marathon pumps multistage fracs.
I think there is this misperception out there that we somehow don't do what some of the operators are doing.
But it's really dependent on what area you're in and so when I think about the activities that we're engaged in and what we would call our Ramadan [ph] area which is an area that we think typically has 500 000 barrels plus or minus that's recoverable per well we are pumping 20 stage 3 million pounds of frac jobs on those wells.
We typically pump smaller jobs in some of the areas that we think have less recoverable oil because obviously the key there is to try to make the completions as financially attractive as possible.
In our good wells we're pumping up to 20 and 3 million pounds.
And as we see results that indicate that we should pump more then we will certainly be open to that.
[Operator Instructions] Our next question comes from Mark Gilman from The Benchmark Company.
LLC</strong> Dave I got a question about Kenai  and what the implications will be of the shutdown which I believe has either occurred or is scheduled to occur very very shortly.
Was Kenai profitable to you in the first quarter? And if that shutdown  factored into your production outlook for the year? Yes 2 separate issues.
Obviously the LNG plant has been profitable for us for the entirety  of its life and certainly some of the profitability that we saw in the Integrated Gas segment could be attributed to LNG sales into a very robust Asian market.
We expect to deliver 2 to 3 more cargoes before the facility is actually shut or shuttered in August.
That's the timeframe that we're looking at.
For Marathon because of the way that we're positioned and particularly because we have a proprietary storage and we also have firm contracts with a number of the utilities we are not going to see any impacts relative to our productive capacity.
As you know it's a seasonal market and so right now we're down a little bit from what we would normally see.
But on a productive capacity basis we're going to be in great shape and our contracts are fairly robust.
They certainly don't represent what the Asian LNG markets do.
But on the grand scheme of things the percentage relative to LNG profitability is going to be de minimis for us.
LLC</strong> Great Dave.
I had one for Gary if I could please.
Gary it seemed to me just looking at the refined product yields in the quarter that the gasoline distillate yields were a little bit low and seemed to be -- excuse me offset a bit by feedstocks and specialty products.
Can you comment on the validity of that observation? And if so what that change is all about? Gary will talk to you about some of the numbers.
Let me state though Mark.
Generally as you start to switch over into the low vapor pressure season February or so you start to max gasoline but the crack spreads have certainly forced everyone from an economic standpoint and because of the global demand for diesel that we've run a lot more diesel all the way through the first quarter as compared to normal history.
The second thing when you look at the types of crude that we were running and moving a lot of the heavy Canadian into different positions tend to lead you towards more diesel as well than gasoline.
Now I think some of the numbers -- and Garry might be able to speak to this here Peiffer but some of the numbers and feedstocks you probably need to add some of those feedstock numbers along with our finished product.
And I'll let Garry comment on that.
Yes Mark.
I think I don't know which period you're comparing it to.
But first quarter of 2010 we had -- the base Garyville plant  was basically down for most of that or at least a good share of that first quarter.
So I think some of the comparisons in the first quarter is a bit skewed.
But at least for the first quarter of this year as Gary was mentioning we've been maximizing distillate as much as possible.
So I'm not sure which quarter you're comparing to but we were down a bit compared to the fourth quarter of 2010.
But it really was more I think just the fact that we do have Garyville as Gary said a little bit of a minor turnaround we take every first quarter of each year.
So I think it was more  just the effect that Garyville was down a little bit in the first quarter as well as then in the -- March of the first quarter Canton was down.
So I think it was more turnaround-related than really anything else.
And the other thing Mark if you're comparing to both the fourth quarter we've had 2 months and the first quarter of last year would've had St.
Paul Park in both of those.
So we will be down a little bit because of St.
Paul Park not being in our numbers going forward.
We have no further questions at this time.
John we appreciate it.
We appreciate everyone's interest in Marathon.
We look forward to visiting you in the near future.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Ed Westlake of Crédit Suisse.
Yes it's Ed Westlake.
I guess the first question on the Bakken.
Obviously you've flagged that you're going to be raising sort of production and increasing recounts there.
Can you talk about any of the latest drilling results that you've had up there in terms of maybe EURs or IPs or particularly capital cost per well in light of service cost inflation? Yes Ed this is Dave Roberts.
I think we're still very happy with the estimates that we have across the play for the various EURs that we have.
And I think we've been fairly consistent that in what we would consider the poorer areas there on the border of 450 000 barrels and we're seeing 500 000 to 600 000 in our more promising areas Myrmidon and EMEA.
And we consistently see 30-day IPs across the play of between 500 and 700 barrels per day.
In terms of completed well costs we generally are on the order of $7 million to $7.5 million for our wells today.
But I'd like at this point really to talk about what's going to happen in the future because as you know we have been probably a little bit slow in the minds of a lot of people in terms of how aggressively we completed our wells.
And we got a significant stock of wells that have been drilled and are waiting on completion.
The 28 that we have waiting are -- 26 of them will be 20 stage frac jobs but they'll be pumped at 300 pounds per foot which will put us in the range of what most people are seeing in terms of the larger states frac jobs.
And we will be moving beginning in the next month or so towards outfitting our wells to be able to pump 30 stage fracs on a perspective basis for the remainder of life in the play.
We expect that that will add on the order of $500 000 to $1 million to the costs of our well.
So we'll be seeing those kind of increases on a go-forward basis but we do expect that that will at least increase the initial rates consistent with other operators have seen.
And we'll to continue to monitor the play to see if we should continue to move forward by increasing those stages to accelerate the recovery in the play.
That's very clear.
And maybe just switching topic on the corporate tax outlook of 50% to 55%.
Obviously E&amp;P in the second quarter was I guess at the low end about that 50%.
Can you just walk us through a little bit what the increase in taxes is likely to come from? Is it an assumption of about U.K.
taxes or something else in the mix? Certainly the U.K.
tax rate did increase during the year on the special corporation tax there but it's also -- it's about mix.
As we look forward with higher oil prices Norway contributes a higher percentage of pretax income with lower gas prices.
Our EG -- LNG generates lower proportion of pretax income.
As you know Norway has 78% tax rate EG has a 25% tax rate.
So while we'd like to help you and give you guidance on what to expect in terms of tax rate because of the broad range of effective tax rate in the various jurisdictions in which we operate the volatility of commodity prices it can be a little bit difficult to predict.
Okay but those are the main moving cost? Those are the 2 biggest ones yes.
Clarence over the years you've shown a willingness to adjust your Upstream portfolio.
You've not necessarily been wed to any specific asset.
I think you bought into Russia sold that at a profit and there are numerous examples of that.
I'm just curious now as an independent how do you see the areas you're in and the Gulf of Mexico is one of the areas I'm thinking about.
Droshky is obviously a recent disappointment as the Neptune before it.
It's a shorter reserve life area.
You're starting to gain some critical mass in the shale plays which tended to receive better valuations amongst the E&amp;P analysts.
How are you thinking about your portfolio now as independent and I guess specifically the Gulf of Mexico and should that remain a part of your portfolio? Arjun we certainly saw the write-up that you published several weeks ago that suggested perhaps the disposition of the Gulf of Mexico in light of the stronger onshore unconventional asset base we have that that might indeed make sense.
I would simply say that you characterize my position of the past correctly.
There are no sacred cows.
I've said many times before that we constantly review our portfolio in terms of those assets and opportunities that have the kind of growth and value creation that we want to invest in the future.
And as you've seen in the past we haven't hesitated to divest of those assets that don't fit that.
But we are indeed looking at our portfolio particularly as we seek to generate additional funds to invest in profitable growth.
We continue to see good opportunities coming our way in the attractive poor resource plays that we want to grow in.
And as we view our investment it's not all incremental.
It's really about redeploying proceeds out of again less-promising lower-growth more mature declining assets and into growth.
With respect to the Gulf of Mexico Arjun I don't want to speculate about any one asset at this time.
We certainly from an exploration standpoint see the Gulf of Mexico as one of our better high-potential exploration focus areas around the world.
And as soon as we can get some permits to get back to drilling that's what we intend to do out there.
So that's where we are.
That's a very candid and helpful answer Clarence.
Maybe just as a follow-up you've clearly made progress in the shale plays and you'll close on this Bakken acquisition -- or excuse me the Eagle Ford acquisition in November.
Do you believe that shale program is at a critical mass where you have confidence in its running room and is today a core part of the portfolio? I realize it's a subjective question but how do you perceive where you are in that? Or are there still a number of steps you still need to take in the shale areas? Well I think we certainly are approaching if not at a critical mass.
I think if you look at what we said in the press release Arjun that in terms of these unconventional plays in North America that we expect to have production of about 175 000 boe per day by 2016 again the vast majority of that in the U.S.
resource plays.
That's indeed critical mass.
But at the same time I think as we've indicated we continue to seek bolt-on acquisitions in those core areas to grow our position.
Again this is a program that we operate that we drive the value creation in and to the extent we can have a broader opportunity set or indeed even have a higher interest in the wells that we're already going to be drilling.
That's of great interest to us.
So that's where you're going to see us putting our incremental dollars in terms of building our positions there.
You know what I like about the Eagle Ford is not simply our total position but our position in the core area.
As we've indicated we believe we have a top-5 leasehold position in that core area and we see a great deal of upside certainly in terms of productivity but also the ability to down space in those areas.
So again that's where we'll focus our investment.
You guys talked about U.S.
unconventional growth but maybe I could shift to Poland where I know Marathon's acreage across the 3 major basins in the country and in fact you have the largest by factor relative exposure versus your peers.
And so I know it's early days.
I mean could you talk to me about the differences you see in the 3 the geology amongst the 3 basins and where you expect to drill.
I think it's 2 wells in the second half of the year.
And I have 2 follow-ups.
Evan this is Dave.
And I guess what we tried to do is similar to what we think we ascertained about things in unconventional plays in the United States.
We believe that there's a potential for there to be liquids as well as gas windows across this very large area.
And so that's the reason you see our portfolio spread out the way it is because we're hoping to catch on to that.
And the first well that we'll drill will be to test that particular concept and then we'll go ahead and drill out.
I guess I would say one of the reasons that we did the farm-downs that we did was to make sure that we had a very large acreage exposure but making sure that the financial exposure to the play is relevant to the size of the company we are.
So we think we've got a good spread of opportunity clearly as a portfolio because of the number of blocks that we have and we're very excited about getting a couple of drills towards the latter part of this year.
So it's interesting.
So you're looking for a potential liquids window as well.
And is that in the Baltic basin? Is that -- you'd mentioned kind of what basin your drilling your wells in? Let me check that real quick.
My Polish is kind of bad.
I think what we'll be looking at doing is -- the level in trough [ph] is what we think will be the most likely area for there to be a liquids potential.
And that's would be where we drill our first well.
Okay.
And then let me just move on to a different production guidance question.
I know you narrow the full range year end and on the first quarter conference call I thought you'd guided to your 15 to 17 on Droshky.
Clearly your comments here producing to abandonment in 1H '12.
What is the embedded Droshky volume going to in that guidance in the second half and first half 2012? Well I think that the -- right now Droshky is producing between 11 000 and 12 000 barrels a day of oil and what we're looking at is essentially -- there's a physical limitation of the ability of the reservoir to lift barrels when the total fluid gets to about 12 000 barrels a day.
We're producing 22 000 gross.
If you can think about this in terms of we're seeing about a 25% to 30% annual decline rate an issue is right now we're seeing slugging issues as you'd expect towards the latter stages of this.
And so it's difficult to use just a decline curve analysis.
But our view suggests that where the 40% water cut now assuming that's consistent my guess is that Droshky would probably end its life on the order of 3 000 to 4 000 barrels a day sometime next year oil.
Okay that's good.
And then just to confirm your new guidance includes you acquire Eagle Ford acreage.
And I guess with the offset of Droshky and plate Ozona it appears you're making up some of the balance also on the portfolio.
Can you discuss maybe some positive contributions Q-on-Q? Yes we're obviously counting the Eagle Ford acquisition post the 1st of November but it's a fairly small volume even though we're very excited about the exit rate being 13 000 barrels-a-day-plus so the mass is just small volume.
I think consistent with Clarence's earlier comments and what we saw in the first quarter we looked at the reliability issues that we had in the Norwegian North Sea and to a lesser degree in West Africa and EG is kind of an aberration.
Continue to expect those assets to over-deliver on what the expectations might be which we think is going to carry us in good stead to hitting our guidance in the latter part of the year.
I had a couple of quick modeling questions and then one broader strategic question.
On the modeling just wanted to confirm on 2012 production guidance for one does that include Libya? And then secondly on the natural gas realization it looked like they actually declined sequentially which is a little bit confusing to me because most of the benchmarks that we looked at actually increased.
Yes I -- this is Dave.
And I can answer the first one categorically.
Our guidance for '12 does not include Libya.
And the sequential gas price realizations are actually up quarter-to-quarter.
Okay.
I'm sorry I'll have to double-check that.
Clarence I had a strategic question for you.
As you move to more of a independent E&amp;P peer group obviously the integrated tend to focus more on margins and return on capital employed whereas the E&amp;P space tends to focus more on volumetric growth.
Right out of the gate you've got a nice Eagle Ford acquisition here which is going to increase your production growth.
I'm just curious is there any change to your strategic focus on running the company? Yes I think Blake there's no question that the yardsticks the metrics doing the change as you move from an integrated space to an E&amp;P.
I think the measures that you'll see us focusing on with respect to our new business are really two-fold.
One is production growth per share and we'll view that on a debt-adjusted basis.
And again that's an area that we recognized that at 5% to 7% compound average growth on a pure volumetric basis we may not be as high as some of our E&amp;P brethren.
But the reality is again from our standpoint we believe we generate sufficient cash flows internally to fund our growth.
And so we won't be issuing equity or necessarily having to go to the debt markets to fund our CapEx and indeed with sufficient free cash flow having the ability to either pay down debt or potentially in certain instances buy back stocks.
So that's a measure we think we can perform quite well on.
And the other metric of course is the generation and growth in free cash flow.
And again we believe with the strong base with a solid set of liquids-focused growth assets that we'll be executing on we believe will perform well against that metric as well.
So it is clearly a shift from what has been an earnings focus a competitive group to now what is a cash-focused group for all the reasons you know well in terms of different accounting methods between the 2 and again moving away from ROCE to really growth in volumes both reserves and production.
Blake on your gas question the reason -- the difference a large portion of our Alaska gas volumes are through long-term contracts which tend to lag in price and have alternative commodity indexes rather than Henry Hub.
Okay that makes sense.
A number of quick questions.
Maybe this is for Howard.
Alaska LNG operation when that is going to cease to operate? Paul this is Dave.
We expect to approve an additional cargo or two in August or September and then at that point our view is that the plant will reach the end of its useful life.
So Dave so you have -- what is the won-in that we're talking about in the third quarter then? I'm sorry Paul? What's the total won there average won for Alaska in the third quarter? I'll give you that offline.
Okay that's fine.
And Dave what's the actual downtime impact in the second quarter? It's on the order of 11 000 barrels a day for the quarter.
And you say it's already back up.
So did they back up at the -- before the end of the quarter or just after the quarter? No it was a shutdown in May Paul so...
Okay so that by July just everything back up? That's correct.
And U.K.
you dropped sequentially.
Is it a lifting situation or the actual production just dropped? I think in the notes we do have a lifting situation but obviously we are experiencing a continuous decline in our Brae assets.
And I think when Howard was going through he was saying that maybe I guided wrong.
We have a total underlift at the end of June of 1.6 million barrels and underlift of 2 million barrels in Alaska.
So with that should we assume that international you overlift by 400 000? And if it is the case do you have a breakdown by countries? Yes Paul for Europe at the and of period we were about 540 000 for the quarter.
To-date balance is about 450 000 for all of Europe.
For EG it's about an underlift of about 280 000.
Libya's underlifted about 850 000.
And Alaska's underlifted by about 2 million.
The total underlift is about on a to-date basis is about 3.6 million.
But the number you were looking out was excluding -- or the number we talked about was excluding the Libya underlift.
Okay all right.
And in Ozona Dave what's the total recoverable resource that we expect for Ozona? Any change? We have not changed Paul and that figure is on the order of 7.2 million barrel.
7.2 million barrels.
And you're assuming that the 9 000 barrel per day net to use so that was just about 15 000 barrel per day gross.
So you're expecting out of the 7.2 million about 5.5 million barrels to be produced in the first year? That would not be beyond expectation Paul...
Okay.
So that then in 2013 we should assume you probably drop 70% or so in the production run rate? That would be a normal Gulf of Mexico decline Paul yes.
Okay.
On Droshky Dave what's the second quarter production and unit DD&amp;A? And will the unit DD&amp;A change dramatically after the write-off in the third quarter? 17 500 was the Q2 production for Droshky and we'll get you the DD&amp;A number.
Okay.
And the final 1 Howard in the oil sand sales number 41 000 barrel per day can you remind me is that net of the royalty? Or that this is not net of the royalty? The sales number is net of royalty.
Can you talk a little bit about the discovery at Kurdistan? It seems like a fairly large oil column.
What were the plans that kind of delineate this? And kind of figure out what you guys have here? Yes Faisal we're shooting seismic across all 4 of our licenses because it's pretty important to be able to tie that down.
This particular area there's multiple other targets so we'll be drilling likely later this year an appraisal well to offset this discovery to see what we actually have.
And then there will be some follow-on exploration where I think the most important thing that we'll be doing here is we'll be setting up to install early production facilities that will be ready probably by the middle of next year.
These are fairly elementary-type systems so it's not that big of a deal but 2 things that gives you.
Number one and most importantly it tests the fiscal regime that you have because there's reports that the people are getting paid for the cost barrels in Kurdistan.
We think that's very important from an overall risk standpoint.
And then secondly these are fractured carbonate reservoirs notoriously tricky and so getting some extended production data out of this will tell us what it is that we ultimately have.
So you'll feel very good about the fact that we've only been in the country since October have a couple of discoveries and are setting up to at least have a look-see on the production side pretty quickly as well.
Okay got you.
So first production test some time second half of next year that fair? Yes.
Okay.
And then just on the rig count kind of ramp-up in North America from 15 rigs to 40 rigs by the end of next year.
It seems like a very large ramp-up.
Logistically how do you guys get there? Maybe secure these rigs under long-term contracts give out completion clues like -- how do you get comfortable ramping up to that level of rig count? We have a very deep relationship with our primary drilling rig contractor in the United States and we've scheduled -- we've worked out with them to basically take delivery of rigs as they're manufactured.
We do have contractual line of sight to be able to get to those numbers and in each of the various basins.
They're outfitted obviously a little bit differently for cold weather service than they might be for the ones that we're going to have in South Texas.
Part and parcel of that is they have a very diligent training program to make sure that we that qualified crews at the same time we get the rigs so that's important.
The same time one of the things that we mentioned is previously having a greater depth of rig inventory has given us a little bit more impact and clout in terms of being able to contract for pressure pumping services.
And we're on the cusp of getting contractual line of sight on the pumping services requirements and ancillary services that we need in order to get all the stuff done.
So we're in very good shape to go from the 15 that we're running today across the U.S.
to probably on the order of 10 more by the end of the year so that jump up to 40-plus is not that big of a leap.
Okay got you.
Last question for me.
I guess there was a USGS report that was done one the Cook Inlet of Alaska.
I know you guys have some producing field in that area.
Is there sort of an opportunity for you? Or is that kind of outside your set? No.
We're the oldest and longest-serving producer in Cook Inlet.
Marathon was one of the first companies that discovered oil and gas up there and it's produced on the order of 3 tcf from that basin.
We obviously have taken a hard look at the USGS and it's been pointed to us by the regulators in Alaska.
I think one of the things that we would say is there's tremendous number of wells that have been drilled in that particular basin.
While we're always looking for new opportunities much of the resource that was outlined in the report is going to be in an off-limits wilderness area that we operate right next to.
But the other thing we're very focused in a lot is they had the highest impact the least sale they've had since 1983 up there a couple months ago the couple of new operators and so we we'll be paying close attention to the activity in the area.
Let's see if it warrants another look on Marathon's behalf.
Inc.</strong> First just a quick housekeeping item.
As an independent company should we assume that your deferred tax component is going to generally get higher over time? On the tax deferral Pavel? Yes I'm sorry Pavel I was distracted for a moment.
Can you repeat the question please? Inc.</strong> Sure.
I mean typically independents have a higher deferred tax component in their overall tax expenditure than integrated companies and I was wondering whether you would expect that to be true of Marathon? I don't really have a good answer for that because I haven't looked yet at the deferred tax rates for other companies.
Inc.</strong> Okay fair enough let me have ask a slightly broader one.
The long-term growth target of 5% to 7% how much exploration credit is embedded within that? None.
There's -- again none of the ranked exploration the impact exploration activities that we're undertaking today factor into that.
The existing discoveries we have for example in the Gulf of Mexico like Shenandoah our interest in that or in the Gunflint discovery those are in our production growth but those are existing discoveries.
So no future exploration success -- impact exploration success is factored into our production growth.
And Pavel just thinking about it to the extent that a company's entirely domestic the IDC generates a lot of deferred taxes yes.
So I guess if a company was completely domestic then they probably would have a higher component of deferred to credit cash taxes than we would overall.
A question -- most of my questions have been answered but do you have any update on Birchwood? And the status if you're looking after submitting an application to the Canadian government at the end of this year the beginning of next year? Yes Ann this is Dave.
We're continuing with the reservoir analysis and as we've kind of indicated we're pushing that towards turning that project to an FID for the first stage toward the middle of next year.
And our permitting people are working diligently on what's going to be required to push that application forward consistent with that timing.
Got a bunch of quick ones.
Kurdistan matrix or fractured porosity? Or don't you know yet? It's too early.
I think that's the reason we're going to do a pressure test.
Obviously we hope we have both but that's the reason we need an extended production time.
Okay.
Same question for the Niobrara.
Matrix or fracture or both? Well again I think it's -- I think one of the things that we would characterize in Niobrara is very early days and it's one of the things that we'll be looking at that.
But my guess is from what we have seen at this point you're looking at more of a matrix situation than fraction.
Okay good.
Could you give us some postmortem on Romeo? And will you be drilling more in Indonesia? Well we've said that we're going to move to a non-operated status.
We've got 2 more blocks over there that we continue to evaluate and obviously 1 of them the Kumawa Block we're paying very close attention to a very high profile dryhole-ing area and a well that's currently drilling so we'll continue to look at that.
I think Romeo the Pasangkayu block in general could be characterized as pure frontier-type drilling.
Great reservoirs good concept no hydrocarbons and so it just didn't work.
Okay that's all right.
I got in the call late.
With the Gulf of Mexico do you think given Droshky and Ozona that maybe you need to reduce your network in interest exposure or diversify a little more? Or have you given that any thought? Well Clarence answered that a little bit earlier.
I think we've consistently said on Droshky that in retrospect having 100% interest there is a challenge at this particular point.
But given our optimism going in it would've a difficult decision to take.
I think we continue to look at that as we evaluate the risk of the aggregate Gulf of Mexico portfolio both on an exploration and a future production basis.
It's certainly something that we'll take into consideration.
Okay great.
With Hilcorp are we going to capitalize all of it? Capitalize the acquisition costs you mean? Correct.
Yes.
Yes.
And last one for me.
North Sea taxes any sort of adjustment? Maybe you mentioned that it's just that I got in the call late.
On the U.K.? It was...
U.K.
side yes.
Yes special corporation tax went up by 12 percentage points.
I guess I'm trying to understand.
You'd articulated a strategy that you're not very interested in buying back stock.
We shouldn't expect that and I understand you've played it out early on.
But is that a permanent goal -- permanent objective? Or are your stocks trading below 8x earnings? Is that something you would consider if the stock got to a more depressed level? Or do you always feel like you could put -- you're better off with your money back in the ground? I think our priority for cash has really never changed it's to reinvest in the business in a value-accretive way.
We think that's the best way to drive shareholder value.
We're going to keep a strong balance sheet.
Obviously for independent the dividend yield is probably less important than it was for the integrated and as it is we're that near the top end of our competitor group in terms of yield.
So to the extent that we've got excess cash being generated stock buyback is absolutely one of the tools that we would use to optimize our balance sheet.
Yes I didn't say we were opposed to it anyway.
We simply said it's an option.
As Janet said as we have a strong balance sheet that's one of the options we have.
I had a couple of quick ones and forgive me if some of these have already been addressed.
The first one is going looking into 2012 you've got a fairly large footprint still in the Gulf of Mexico but we haven't really heard anything about rig allocation or rig commitments as you head towards potentially ramping up that drilling program.
Can you just give us a feel as to where your field head is there? And I've got a couple of quick follow-ups please.
Yes Doug as Clarence indicated we have 2 permits submitted: One Dane submitted which is important it's the Innsbruck reentry if you want to call it that; and then one of our exploration projects.
I think what we're looking at is we do still believe we have a deep portfolio on the order of 20 prospects in the Gulf.
We've said previously that we thought about 3 to 4 co-op wells drilling at any one time on an annual basis in the Gulf.
I think that number's going to be smaller.
We believe there'll be rigs of opportunity in order to get after our program on that particular basis.
And so once we start getting the permits we're obviously going to wait well after hurricane season.
We'll probably get back after our drilling program in the Gulf of Mexico.
Great.
Two quick follow-ups if I may and they are quick.
Forgive give if this has already been addressed but can you quantify the opportunity cost of the change in mix? Meaning that obviously you were underlifted in the U.K.
that's some of your highest margin bowels I guess.
Can you help put a number around how that might have impacted the quarter? And the second the one very quickly is we're hearing from Noble and others that there's moves at first to maybe try to monetize gas in West Africa.
Any update as to how you see a potential second train in Equatorial Guinea? And I'll leave it there.
Yes I think we estimate the underlift on an earnings basis on the order of $15 million to $20 million decrement.
So not insignificant but not a large number.
I guess the question with respect to future LNG volumes out of EG one of the things I would say is we still believe that the Atlantic basin is grossly oversupplied in terms of LNG and we think that that's going to continue for some period of time and I think you saw something in our release that indicated our belief in that.
We continue to have discussions with the government of EG about what's the most practical way to continue to expand our position there but we continue to believe and we think the government supports the fact that the most economic and viable way is to utilize the equipment that we already have in EG LNG.
And we think most of the gas will come on in a period of time such that it can just be used to keep train one full.
And then as we get volumes beyond that then we would consider expanding our franchise.
Just on the Athabasca oil sands.
Obviously you're mid-startup.
Your costs sort of have come down but when do you think you'll be fully up and running in AOSP? And maybe what sort of OpEx do you think you can get down until its reliability improves? I think Ed the historic number has always been sub-30.
I think the partnership right now is saying that they would like to see the numbers that we're marking now at about $46 coming into the $35 range.
Clearly all the equipment is up and running.
This is a matter of keeping the equipment running reliably and obviously we're looking forward to some solid quarter-on-quarter performance to demonstrate that we can actually use the nameplate capacity that we have out there and so we'll keep a watch on that.
But we have some very good days we have some not-so-good days.
Certainly as the cooler weather approaches we'd expect reliability to improve out there.
Thank you Maika.
And we appreciate everyone's attention and interest in Marathon Oil and we'll be speaking with you hopefully very soon in the future.
Have a great day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! [Operator Instructions] And we have a question from Arjun Murti from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Two questions hopefully both short.
Bakken it looks like you're making good progress.
Can you talk about what you're seeing on the inflation front there on the well cost side? Arjun this is Dave.
We're basically targeting now between $8 million and $8.5 million per well for our wells.
I would say that we have fixed contracts for our drilling and the 10 fracs a month that we have contracted.
And so we're not as exposed to further upward pressure on the inflation side.
Most of what we've seen in terms of driving our costs up have been the fact that we're now putting 30-stage kit in the ground and all of our wells next year will be 30-stage frac jobs.
Research Division</strong> And you used the word "fixed contract " Dave.
Is there a component that moves with some sort of price index? Or is it truly kind of a fixed rate for some several year period? Well it's essentially -- I would call it fixed.
The -- really the only thing that's variable in most of these contracts is fuel.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then hopefully a very quick follow-up.
On the MPC call they mentioned as a result of the tax-free spin the inability to both issue and buy back stocks.
The buyback piece I get are you all MRO unable to issue stock if you wanted to as a result of the tax-free spin-off? And with the issued stock I mean it could be for an acquisition or whatever corporate use you might choose to issue stock for.
Yes I think Arjun that the tax-free spin requires that the shareholders who held the stock before the spin continue to hold over 50% of the stock afterwards for call it 2 years.
And so we can issue stocks but it would have to be less than 50% of our current shares outstanding.
Research Division</strong> Can you Clarence maybe talk a little bit or Janet about the rationale on the buybacks that you've started.
Is this just share price driven on valuation of the stock? Or is this sort of a signal that you want to return excess cash to shareholders? Well Ed this is Clarence.
I think it's more a signal of that particular point in time as our share price had dropped to 25.
We felt it was a prudent move to be in the market repurchasing those shares.
Certainly we have said all along that share buybacks are certainly an element of our cash flow priorities.
But as we've said consistently our #1 priority is reinvesting back in the business.
And I think you've certainly seen that here in this quarter.
You've seen it with our acquisitions in the Eagle Ford.
But again I think it demonstrates that that is a vehicle with respect to the use of our cash that we're not hesitant to use.
Research Division</strong> And then switching to the acquisitions and investments.
I'm just wanting to check I heard correctly.
You said $4.5 billion of closing cost of the Hilcorp was $3.5 billion.
And you've said that the acres goes from sort of net acres 141 000 up to 167 000.
It seems a sort of relatively high extra billion dollars for the extra acres.
Maybe just clarify that for me.
Maybe I got that wrong.
Yes.
I think you have to go back and remember June 1 when we talked about the Hilcorp acquisition.
We said 141 000 net acres for $3.5 billion.
We also said -- excuse me that the effective date of the transaction was May 1.
And so certainly any of the costs that were realized between the May 1 effective date and the November 1 closing date those costs less whatever revenue would be reflected in the closing adjustment.
So you recognize that the activity continued very strongly on that Hilcorp acreage.
They actually exceeded the number of wells they had committed to both drill and complete.
So pretty significant expenditure on the assets.
It took the production as you know from 7 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day net as of June 1 to as we said almost 13 000 barrels a day net currently.
So you certainly have the closing adjustments -- excuse me as a portion of that -- excuse me.
We also said at the time of the acquisition there was roughly 14 000 net acres made up of those tag-along rights under the existing lease agreements as well as follow-on acreage that we would attempt to secure.
And so as compared to the 14 000 as you've seen now we've actually acquired some 26 000 net acres and what I would say is that 26 000 acres is largely as Howard said in his remarks in the core part of the play.
And importantly it is associated with the Hilcorp acreage.
And so back in June we said our average working interest was 65%.
Our average working interest now in the Hilcorp acreage will be 76.5%.
The other component that's in that $4.5 billion that wasn't talked about back in June it was the purchase of the gas gathering line that is really key to these assets.
It's the main gas gathering line that runs through this acreage and allows us to tie in directly to Kinder Morgan and access their gas plant and the Southcross gas plants.
So put all that together additional acreage closing adjustments and the gas gathering line and that's how you get to the higher closing cost.
Research Division</strong> And would you be willing to give a price for just the sort of 12 000 non-tag-along right to increase in terms of dollar per acre roughly arranged? Not at this point because there's still a pretty competitive market out there.
Research Division</strong> Two questions.
Firstly just on the tax adjustment you did.
I hate to be dull about this but I think Howard you mentioned in your comments that it was owing to higher expected Norwegian production and the higher it seemed Brent price.
Can you just clarify how that works? I need to -- out of interest there's not -- they're not going the way I would have thought they would go if you were going to be reducing the anticipated tax benefit? Yes Paul.
What we basically did was took an allowance against our foreign tax credit.
Because we are seeing now with the higher Brent price we think that can last longer than we initially have at the beginning of the year.
And in fact production outlook has improved during the planned period.
We will generate more income from Norway and more foreign tax credit from Norway in the future years than we will be able to utilize.
So therefore the foreign tax credits that we are generating this year we have to put an allowance against.
But I think the important thing is that on a go-forward basis we will be able to continue to repatriate cash earnings from low tax jurisdictions without having to pay any incremental U.S.
tax because of the foreign tax credit situation we're in.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Okay that's helpful.
And if I could a second one.
The volume outlook you've clearly stated is 5% 2012 over 2011.
I believe previously you were using a range of 5% to 8%.
I assume that it's still your aspiration that you get above 5% even towards 8%.
Is there any reason why you dropped the 8% upper limit? Or are you just being conservative? Or can you just talk about the sensitivity related to production growth over the next year and any potential upside there is? Yes Paul.
I think just to clarify we have talked to a 5% to 7% compound average growth rate over the 2010 to 2016 time frame.
So that remains unchanged.
What we have said with respect to the 5% growth that's 5% growth in 2012 over 2011 excluding Libya from both years.
So as you're aware we did have some Libya production in January and February of this year.
If you take that out and assume no Libya contribution next year we're saying we're up 5%.
And then that's indeed we have a slide here in the presentation showing the Lower 48 excluding Gulf of Mexico with very substantial growth because clearly it's the Eagle Ford and the Bakken and perhaps the Woodford that are the primary drivers of that growth year-on-year '11 to '12.
Research Division</strong> Yes I'm sorry.
My mistake.
So it was a 5% to 7% target and you've clarified the years there for me Clarence.
Research Division</strong> I apologize folks.
I was a little late getting on the call.
So if this has been asked I apologize again.
I got 2 quick ones.
The first one is on the Eagle Ford.
The 17 rigs can you give any additional color as to how you're going to allocate those rigs because clearly if you go back to your original presentation when you did the deal you got substantially higher IPs in the core of the play versus in the other areas I guess.
So any clarity there? And what's assumed in your 5% growth will be helpful? My follow-up really as you look across the 3 key plays the Bakken the Anadarko Woodford and the Eagle Ford the economics in the Eagle Ford again are vastly superior it seems to the Woodford in particular.
Why would you continue to allocate capital to the Kenai as opposed to ramping up even further than you're already doing in Eagle Ford now and I'll leave it as that.
Yes.
It's a fair challenge Doug the second question in terms of -- because we get the same challenge here and we're certainly challenging our teams with that.
I think at the end of the day it's a question of efficiency in the number of workspaces that you can engage in some of these plays.
And we're clearly going to take a look at that because it goes to the first question you asked.
We're going to allocate our drilling rig resources as quickly as we can to the highest value part of this play which is in the condensate window.
So we obviously have some work to do in terms of making sure we maintain our lease position in those areas that we want to maintain our lease position in 2012.
But whenever we have discretionary ability we will devote the majority of the 17 rigs to the core of the Eagle Ford and to drilling gas condensate well.
I would say though that is consistent to Woodford as well.
All of the wells we have in the plan are going to be in the condensate window of the Woodford because clearly that is the strongest portion of that play.
We've got a lot of work to do there to understand it but we are clearly devoting our capital resources to the highest value in each of the plays that we're pursuing.
Research Division</strong> So Dave the higher IP rates in the Eagle Ford is that what's assumed in your 5% growth target already? Or how would you -- what was embedded in your target for next year? Well I think we're pretty clear in our presentations on what we think this thing is going to do in terms of driving to 100 000 barrels a day.
And that number feels in the Eagle Ford to be circa 30 000 barrels a day.
So you can assume that the majority of that is going to come from the condensate window wells that we're drilling there.
Research Division</strong> A couple of questions.
One on Alvheim I know you've bought a few more wells in the FPSO in conjunction with your allotment tax side.
I mean are we looking at a higher plateau production level there? And maybe you can talk me through that for the next few years if you would.
I think what we said is we're currently running obviously 85 000 circa net to Marathon out there.
We brought on some new wells this quarter.
We're pretty clear that we're going to be able to maintain at or near this level through next year and then we should see an additional chameleon [ph] well package come on the latter part of the year.
And again I think we've put lot of slides out that shows that we've been able to drive that plateau period out from what we previously thought was 2 years to before now.
And we'll continue to look for opportunities to keep that FPSO full.
There's a slide Evan in our investor presentation that shows that where is your higher production higher plateau versus what we thought back in 2008 when this asset was brought on stream.
So really through 2014 we maintain a very substantial level of production through these additional types as Dave referred to.
Research Division</strong> Okay good.
I thought it was a little higher from what I remember from the Howard well package.
Maybe I'll look at that again.
My follow-up on the -- and it's a follow-up to the other question on the Eagle Ford.
Could you specifically locate the 26 000 additional acres for us? I mean you've been very specific in quantifying acreage in the condensate volatile black oil and the gas windows and specifically with the new well data.
I mean just any update where you're trending versus those type wells that you provided in conjunction with the acquisition package? Yes.
I'd say virtually all maybe other than about 2 000 acres is in the core in either the gas condensate or the volatile oil window.
It's not -- certainly none of it is in the dry gas and very little perhaps really outside the core and into the black oil.
So the vast majority of it is in the core part of the trend.
And as I indicated because we're increasing our average working interest in the Hilcorp acreage specifically from 65% to 76.5% you can see what we've in essence done as we bought out other working interest operators -- owners I should say in the Hilcorp operated acreage again in the core.
So the beauty of that is in essence we're not having to drill more wells to get additional benefit both in terms of reserves and production and value.
In essence it's a higher interest in the activity we're already operating.
And Evan and I think I would just add to that the wells that we're seeing being brought online and that we anticipate bringing online the remainder of this year and the future bang on with what we thought they are going to do.
And if anything we're seeing improvements as we add some wrinkles to how the completions are being done with the different types of fluid packs.
And we'll continue to look at that but all indications are this is going to be as good or better than we had anticipated.
Research Division</strong> That's good.
Any asset sales in your guidance? I know you gave a range on that 15 to 3.
Nothing specific other than the range we've given.
And obviously we mentioned in here the Gulf of Mexico pipelines that the announcement was made on those.
But again it really doesn't make good sense in terms of creating leverage to talk about assets you're going to sell before you have a deal to sell them.
So our preference would be to continue to refine our portfolio.
We will execute on the range of dispositions we've indicated but I don't want to be specific on assets.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I meant production guidance.
That's all.
If it was included in that that's all.
No it's -- there's no impact in our production guidance either for additional acquisitions or dispositions.
Research Division</strong> Two hopefully quick ones.
With your current status as a E&amp;P company what is the percent of the tax deductible for your intangible drilling cost? And do you have an estimate that -- how much is the cash benefit in 2012? Well as you know Paul as an independent we can deduct 100% of the intangible drilling cost in the year incurred.
As part of what's integrated that's only 70% with the balance spread over I think the additional 9 years.
And what was the second part of the question? Research Division</strong> Janet do you have an estimate as how big is that cash benefit in 2012? I don't know that we've given that out yet in terms of what our cash taxes and that kind of breakdown.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Let me try a second question.
In Bakken Dave you gave a 1-day IP for the 20 frac out.
Do you have any of the wells that you have a 30-day IP you can share? And also do have an estimate for the year out? Yes Paul.
I think what we're seeing is that over 30 days these things are coming back into the ranges that we previously had experienced.
And so I'd say 600 to 800 barrels a day.
And we believe with the move to 20-plus stages that our EURs on a per well basis are going from 350 000 to let's just call it an average of 500 000 barrels of oil.
Research Division</strong> A question for you in the divestiture targets.
I wanted to confirm the $1.3 billion to $3 billion is kind of a clean slate beginning today.
So I'm assuming the $205 million Gulf of Mexico pipeline assets kind of marks the beginning of that.
And in conjunction with that is there any designated use of the proceeds? In other words would that be allocated toward buybacks or redeployed into other M&amp;A? Yes I think -- let me just clarify that that is clean slate including the $205 million Gulf of Mexico pipelines.
And on the cash uses Janet? Blake I think as we've always said our highest priority is to reinvest in the business in value-accretive opportunities.
I think as an E&amp;P company now that we've established pretty strong positions in at least the 3 resource plays through our 4 resource plays here in the U.S.
what you'll see has continued to strengthen those positions.
But as Clarence talked about earlier to the extent we believe that we've got excess cash on hand certainly stock buybacks are a part of the way that we can provide value to our shareholders.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then the second question was on the per unit cost.
Howard had mentioned that we've kind of seen it rollover here and began to decline.
I'm assuming Droshky was a large part of that.
But is it fair to believe that cost on a per unit basis should continue to moving maybe toward where we were in say first quarter through third quarter of 2010? I think that's true for the U.S.
We should see.
We think of normalizing our prices back to 2010 levels on an FLC basis.
Internationally we're seeing a little bit of upward pressure because some of the turnaround activity we have next year.
But generally it's on trend with 2010 as well.
Research Division</strong> On the Bakken the well cost of $8 million to $8.5 million is that still the same even under a 30-stage frac? Yes Faisel.
That's our prospective cost.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So the cost aren't really moving up and you're still increasing the fracs and the EORs.
Is that a fair assumption? What we talked about is we can deliver the rights as we've said for the $8.5 million.
So I wouldn't expect them to exceed those kind of levels.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And you're still expecting 2 more rigs in the Bakken next year going from 6 rigs to 8 rigs? Well we technically have 7 already.
One of them is doing re-fracs for us and so we will be moving from 7 to 8 in our current view.
Research Division</strong> Okay I got you.
And then one last question.
On the Eagle Ford the gas gathering and processing system that you guys bought how big is that system? It's about a 39-mile gathering system.
It runs right through the heart of the acreage there.
It varies from a 6- to 16-inch diameter pipe capable of handling 150 million to 200 million a day with added compression.
Research Division</strong> Is that going to be able to handle kind of most of your kind of off-gas sort of production? Yes.
[indiscernible] but yes.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask quickly about Kurdistan.
I know in your -- I guess one of your presentations earlier this fall you've got appraisal drilling plan for 2012 on your 2 minority interest blocks and you've got planning early production system start-up in 2012 and -- for both of those blocks.
And I was just curious as to the status of that whether that's going to deliver any measurable level of volume into next year and then also whether the progress on that is contingent on partner funding.
Yes Kate.
We're still on track for that.
I think we're -- in terms of the EPS we're basically in the design stage now.
This is not high-tech stuff so it shouldn't be that difficult to do.
Our partners are actually pushing quite hard on this but we're working closely together to make sure that we get that done.
You will see some minimal production effects if we continue to move down this track next year.
A lot of that I would tell you is contingent on surface issues there.
I mean the technical side of this is pretty straightforward.
We're going to be watching very carefully the above-ground issues on a go-forward basis.
And you're also correct that with similar contingencies you'll see further exploration and appraisal drilling on the outside operated blocks.
And Marathon is pointed towards actually drilling its own wells on our company-operated blocks in the country next year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Would that kind of be second half? Or should we kind of anticipate something in the first part of next year? Our view right now is you should expect in the first half.
LLC Research Division</strong> A couple of things.
Janet what if you could just talk about fourth quarter tax rate being above that in the third when one might expect the U.S.
income to rebound a little bit? I don't think we talked about the fourth quarter being higher than the third.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well it looks like the clean tax rate for the third is about 52 whereas I think you're talking 55 60 for the fourth.
Do I have those numbers wrong? Well I think that what you've got is in the third -- you have in the fourth quarter is we won't get the benefit of any of those foreign tax credits in the fourth quarter either.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
We'll try it offline.
I'm getting confused.
Let me try another one.
Dave give me an update on Droshky.
Is it still producing? When is the shutdown date? Anything that you can talk about in terms of that field.
Yes.
Droshky is still producing 10 000 barrels a day net.
So we're obviously very pleased.
We're engaged in a lot of production optimization to make sure that we can keep it going.
Obviously we're dealing with some slugging issues and we're still looking at that field falling below its productive limit sometime in the second quarter of next year.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the fact that you're not ready to assume any Libyan volumes in your guidance.
I'm curious what do you think needs to happen on the ground and with your partners for you to get more visibility on the pace of production and recovery.
Well I think Pavel we need to get on the ground and see what it is that we're dealing with there.
I know that right now the country has restored about 0.5 million barrels a day.
So that's slightly less than the third of the pre-conflict level.
But as we've kind of pointed out our production is largely driven by electric submersible pumps.
Those are pieces of equipment that do well when they're left idle for the period of time that we've been away.
And so we have to physically get out there and see what we have on the surface.
We have to be able to return a lot of our employees to be able to actually physically do that work and then we'll have to engage in some subsurface work to see exactly what it is we've got in terms of repair jobs so we can determine when the restoration is going to be.
All of that is predicated on the front-end work making sure that it's a secure place for our people to work and that the United States government is on site in terms of making sure that our re-entry is compliant with all their laws and regulations.
So it's still some time away before I think you'll see us talk with any confidence about Libya.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And have you had discussions with the new authorities regarding your existing contract and your plans for the future? Oh yes.
We've been in contact with the transnational administration and now the new administration in Libya for some time.
They're very consistent in saying that their anxious for Marathon's return as well as the other western companies.
And there is no question that they're going to honor the contract that they had in place with us and the Libyan sovereign government.
Research Division</strong> Just firstly on that tax mark off to 55% to 62% for 4Q and you mentioned the foreign tax credits but I mean is that something that will then fade into 2012? Can you sort of give us -- would you just use the numbers in the presentation? Or could you give us some guidance around 2012 tax say at the black commodity debt? Yes.
I think you know that obviously our tax rate is very dependent upon which jurisdiction in which we earn our income.
But as we look at 2012 on a broad-brush basis we would expect an effective tax rate for the year somewhere in the mid 50% range.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then 2 operational questions.
Downspacing in the Eagle Ford you're doing a pilot there and when might we get a result? And then the Niobrara I mean you've got rigs now in-situ.
So when do you think you can talk about the Niobrara drilling program? Well we actually have done our first frac on our first horizontal well in Niobrara and we have discussed that we've been flowing back.
Well the results have been very encouraging.
We've seen 500 barrel a day oil rates.
So our first foray into this into the Niobrara -- it's very early but you always like it when you produce oil on one of these wells.
We'll be frac-ing 2 more wells in November.
And so certainly by the end of the year we'll have a much broader understanding of what's going on out there.
But the big area a lot of work to do before we get too overconfident the Eagle Ford we'll be doing multiple pilots both at looking at a simple 80-acre downspacing and then further downspacing to see exactly what's an optimum drainage pattern at various places in the field.
That will happen in the first half of next year.
And so as the next 2 quarters go along we'll be able to give a lot more color in terms of what we think that we're ultimately going to be able to develop this field at but it's clearly not 160.
Research Division</strong> A quick follow-up.
On Eagle Ford Dave did you guys originally was talking about the exit the year at 11 -- I think 11 rigs and will be adding about one rig a month.
So we exit next year at 23 and not by based on what you see here that you're several rigs short.
Is that a change in your drilling program? No.
I think what we said Paul is we'll certainly exit the year at 10.
And in fact we essentially have operational control of 10 rigs right now as of about noon today in various stages of Marathon control.
And I think what we're looking to doing is adding a rig a month to get to a number of about 17.
And we think that that's going to map.
But right now our view is that's an optimum way to pursue the play.
We had previously talked about a number north of 20.
We certainly have the capability to potentially do that on the acreage but I think what we're going to do is get our feet on the ground.
We can certainly deliver the numbers that we suggested over the next 5 years with that kind of rig complement.
So I don't think it's changed.
We've been pretty consistent on 17 at least for the last couple of months.
And while you're on the phone let me clarify 30-day IP in the Bakken and what we're currently seeing.
400 to 600 is better than 600 to 800.
Research Division</strong> 400 to 600.
And Dave on the -- can you just remind me what is your current target for the Eagle Ford for next year? And also do you have an exit rate for 2012? Well I'll have to think about the exit rate for 2012 but you can pull it off the chart.
We're looking at being able to average about 30 000 barrels a day next year there.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups.
In terms of getting the crude out of both the Eagle Ford and the Bakken I mean how are you guys thinking about the logistics of evacuating that crude to the higher-priced markets? Well in terms of the Eagle Ford we're pretty comfortable -- I think we've been on the front end of this one in terms of saying that we recognize that this is 1 million barrel a day liquids basin.
And we're very comfortable that many of the big shippers are coming in and offering.
We think multiple options either taking the crude north ceiling and over to the ship channel.
But more importantly there's a lot of activity of driving towards the Corpus Christi Bay which is going to put this on a water-based market which we feel pretty good about.
We have very good coverage for our volumes for the initial stages of the play and we're currently engaged in looking at what our longer term optionality is going to be.
So we feel very good about the exit capacity there.
We've been a little bit concerned about some of the bottlenecking -- bottlenecks that have been developing in the Bakken largely around road traffic in terms of the able to truck most of our crew at least to the transit point either through rail or piping.
As you know we had a pretty solid base arrangement with what we thought was going to be our top end volumes with some local refineries.
And we've now -- are now in the process of making arrangements to get our oil on pipes and rail to get it out of there so we can continue to enjoy some of the benefit of higher netback there.
So we're in good shape in both places.
I would say we're a little bit behind the Bakken.
We're well in front in the Eagle Ford.
Research Division</strong> Is it David fair to say in the Eagle Ford that we should have -- what kind of realization should we kind of expect next year? We're looking at these volumes so it would something between WTI and LLS or more WTI linked.
Yes you're going to see a blend but basically we'll do -- we will just throw something out the current numbers WTI plus 7.
And so you're starting to see this stuff look more like LLS as it gets closer to water.
You got to remember there is 700 000 barrels a day of refining capacity between Valero Stream Rivers refinery and in Corpus and this is a very attractive crude.
So it is as Dave said attracting a nice premium to WTI to keep those barrels in the area.
So it's always good to see pipelines and refineries competing for our crude.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And one last question.
The Key Largo prospect is that here to secure a rig for that one also including Innsbruck? Yes we're looking for rigs to drill both of those next year in 2012.
And obviously our preference would be that it will be the same rig and we'll drill it back to back.
LLC Research Division</strong> Hey Dave what's the Bakken contribution to the 130 120 130 exit rate for 2012? It's going to be on the order of 20% plus or minus.
LLC Research Division</strong> 20% of what I'm sorry? 20% of the 120.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay so about 25%? Your math is as good as mine Mark.
LLC Research Division</strong> Those Bakken wells that are referenced in the release Dave what counties are they located in? I'll get back to you on that.
We're mostly in Dunn County but I'll make sure that we've got those correct counties to you.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one other real quick one.
There's 2 South Texas dry holes referred to in the press release can I assume that that was legacy Eagle Ford acreage? Or is it somewhere else? It was legacy Eagle Ford acreage.
It has nothing to do with Hilcorp.
Most of our wells Dunn Mountrail and McLean County.
Okay we appreciate your attention and interest in Marathon Oil.
I hope to speak to you all soon.
Thank you.
Have a great day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! [Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Doug Leggate of BoA Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> My first question is on the production guidance.
And I don't know which one of you wants to take this but it looks to us 2 things are going on here.
First of all Norway seems to be running an awful lot better than you had suggested this time last year.
And also if you listened to what Hess on their call it looks like Libya net to them is already doing 30 000 barrels a day which would imply something like 26 000 net to you.
So can you address those 2 things in terms of your production guidance? And then I have a follow-up on Eagle Ford please.
Okay Doug.
This is Dave.
I'll take that.
You're obviously very excited to talk about Norway.
It's a great example of the operating prowess of the Marathon folks that Clarence was talking about.
One of the things that we can highlight there is we remind people when we brought that on we had a facility capacity of 120 000 barrels a day.
Through our efforts in just simple debottlenecking in terms of non or low-cost type activities we've added about 25% capacity to the FPSO and we're capable of pushing about 150 000 barrels a day equivalent through it.
In addition to that it's a great story of big fields getting bigger and you'll hear about that when we talk about the Eagle Ford in a minute.
So we continue to have great success drilling infill wells out there continue to bring on very high-rate wells.
And on top of that we're having outstanding reliability again due to the operations capability we have out there.
We've got a full slate of drilling activities online planned for Norway.
And right now things are going very well for us and we expect to be able to continue to carry out the plateau which is what our intent was through this year and we would expect to end of next year as well.
We do have a shutdown coming in the summertime that will take the field down for a period of time.
But other than that it's a great new story for Marathon and we're obviously very proud of the team in Norway.
As far as Libya goes we have purposely removed that from our guidance because I think you're going to see some variability out there.
There -- it is true we've seen a couple more fields added to the queue.
Our rates this week are running between 25 000 and 30 000 barrels net so the numbers you talked about relative to our partners would seem correct to us.
But a couple of things are going to come into play there in terms of are we just seeing flush production from the fields? We'll have to evaluate that as we get greater experience.
And clearly our abilities to perform maintenance as was the norm before the difficulties in North Africa could prove to be a challenge as the year goes on.
So good news story in terms of their ability to restore production early but we're going to watch it very carefully and that's the reason we've been a little bit hesitant to put numbers for guidance out there.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up is hopefully a quick one.
Your Eagle Ford you said 17 rigs by the middle of the year and now you're at 18 in the first quarter.
As we look at your acreage it looks very similar to EOG and EOG of course has been reporting some well like some outstanding downspacing results.
Can you just bring us up-to-date as to where your Eagle Ford position is? Whether you can accelerate the rig count even further and whether or not you have had any downspacing pilots? And if so what are the results of those? Okay.
Yes Doug that's a great second question as far as A B and C but we appreciate you giving us the opportunity to highlight some of the things that we're working on.
First of all I think we're going to stick to our view that we'll have 18 by the middle of the year.
Obviously we're -- we'll move as quickly as we can.
And at 14 in January we're clearly ahead of our pace in the field.
The 18th rig importantly was the one that we added to our portfolio this year to do some of the downspace -- downspacing testing that we were looking at.
And that's still part of our plan for 2012.
I think the key for us is we do believe there may be an ability to accelerate some rigs into the play.
We're looking at that carefully particularly in light of some of the economic conditions across some of the other basins in the United States relative to natural gas and we'll take a hard look at that.
But importantly we're moving down towards the -- what we would call the condensate window in our acreage and we're very -- we've got 2 wells drilling right there as we speak.
We spent most of our time -- to this point the volatile window results continue to be very encouraging.
The geology is holding up.
This is going to be a great asset for us and we're looking forward to the 200 wells that were going to get drilled this year in terms of a proving out concept building rate and then also answering some of the questions about downspacing on a go-forward basis.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on some of the exploration areas.
Think Exxon sounded a little less excited about pulling yesterday.
I think you're still testing your wells.
Any update there? Any update on the Niobrara? And then what should we be looking for in terms of the Gulf of Mexico exploration program this year? Okay Arjun.
Yes Poland we -- we've essentially completed our first well.
We took a full core and got a full suite of logs from it.
The cores are in a lab in Texas.
We'll be doing some whole core analyses there.
They'll be further slabbed and then moved to our labs in Houston.
And then we'll be doing some integrated analyses against the logs.
So at this point what we've seen is consistent with what we expected.
It's -- we'll basically do 2 more wells like this in terms of taking a full data evaluation suite.
We still expect to get 6 to 7 wells drilled this year.
And so it's very early days in terms of us commenting on what one of our competitors said because we don't have any flow test data.
But...
Research Division</strong> And you're not planning to this year flow test? No no.
So we're going to do our science.
We're going to do this right.
We've done seismic.
Not -- and let me back up there.
I'm not saying Exxon didn't do it right but we're -- we have our own program here and we'll carry that out as far as it goes.
In Niobrara we've got 3 wells down frac-ed and completed.
We're producing either from a flowing state or a pumping state between 100 and 200 barrels a day.
Still very early.
We're going to run the 2 rigs through the remainder of the year.
It's a big basin as you know and we're basically testing 6 or 7 areas out there.
So again not discouraging even though we do think that -- I'm glad that you classified the play as exploration because I think it's very frontier-ish compared to what we're doing elsewhere.
The Gulf of Mexico we're participating in 2 wells right now: Gunflint an appraisal which one of our partners is drilling; and the Kiltern [ph] exploration well which Statoil is drilling and we're a participant in that.
We're going to get back on Innsbruck in July August time frame and we're hopeful as well to get that completed and then get started on our Key Largo prospect towards the end of the year.
So it's an exciting year for us in the Gulf again.
Research Division</strong> Maybe if I can ask just a follow-up to that.
Clarence you talked about selective acquisitions divestitures.
We've asked about the Gulf of Mexico in the past.
How important is this year's exploration program to giving you confidence to continue to have interest in the area? If it meets with dry holes which can happen in exploration does that push you one way or the other? Yes I don't think Arjun it'd be fair to say that one year's results particularly if it's 2 or 3 wells is going to sway us completely off the Gulf of Mexico.
But I think we're going to want to see at least a critical mass or representative set of prospects drilled out there before we make a go or no-go decision.
But I certainly expect that with the portfolio we've got and drilling over the next couple of years we're going to have the kind of success that we're looking for.
Research Division</strong> I guess you mentioned in your opening remarks or your answer to that Dave about some of the IP rates from the wells you're drilling in the Eagle Ford.
You know I've seen numbers in the 400s which obviously is a long way from the best wells that EOG has drilled perhaps not the average.
But can you explain why you think those IP rates came in a little low? Well I think it's -- and again what we've said is the geology of the play is variable across the play because it's very large.
And in the heart of the play what we've talked about in the condensate window in our presentation is where we're -- where we expect to see this 1 500 to 1 650 boe per day IPs.
In the volatile oils you're going to see this 900 to 1 000 and in the black hole you're going to see these numbers in the 400 range.
And what we would say is as our program has developed and we have drilled wells primarily in the first -- in the latter 2 areas our results are very consistent with those numbers.
And we've got 2 wells going down into what we call the Sugarloaf Sugarkane area and we expect that will prove up the concept of the much higher IP wells that some of our competitors are claiming.
But we're going to be consistent with our results.
So as I said the geology is holding up very well here.
It's an outstanding play big fields get bigger and we're very excited about getting our teeth into the heart of the play.
Research Division</strong> And just to follow up on the Woodford the liquids-rich area.
I mean obviously that's been an area which some of your competitors are also talking highly of.
Can you give us a rough range say your latest IP and well cost? 30-day IP if you have it? Yes well we're right now on the verge of just getting some of our wells in the heart of the play down and we're still seeing well costs in excess of $10.5 million.
So it's at just a little bit deeper area of the play.
We recognize we're going to have to do better there.
And we've got some tests that aren't of the 30-day vantage but just to give you an idea we're seeing 4 million to 5 million cubic feet of gas 90 barrels of condensate in the yield that you're seeing from this particular area.
I think one of the things that we're concerned about here is those numbers sound very impressive but obviously gas wells don't do us any good.
And as most of you all are aware the NGL constituents in this part of Oklahoma is a little bit heavier in ethane you'd like.
And so we're taking a hard look at this program not because we don't like it we think the geology is great but there may be other opportunities for us to invest that quantum of money somewhere else.
Research Division</strong> Good.
And just to follow up on that last question in terms of other opportunities.
I mean the Eagle Ford's a great basin.
What are your thoughts in terms of increasing your footprint across the U.S.? Well the Eagle Ford is the top basin we have in the world today and I think we've been pretty consistent on that.
We love the geology.
We think that we're establishing a viable and effective operating presence consistent with what we do in other parts of the world.
We'd like to have more of it but it's going to have to be economic for us on a go-forward basis.
And we'll certainly put as much capital work as we can down there.
Research Division</strong> David you just mentioned in the Eagle Ford that things are running ahead of schedule.
I just wanted to slightly square the circle with I think an exit rate that you said would be 18 000 barrels a day in the Eagle Ford.
You're falling just a bit short of that and I just wanted to understand what if anything there was to be concerned about there.
And as part of that same question if you could also talk about the Bakken and I believe what's amounting to an acceleration of your activity there would be great.
Yes I'd -- I'll start with the Bakken.
It's obviously a very positive story in terms of leaving last year at 24 000.
We've really been able to hold that rate through January.
And we typically have some issues with weather up there because it can get pretty dodgy up there.
I think one of the things that you'll see from us is we talk about having 6 rigs working 1 that's doing recompletions and adding 1 more in the second quarter for a total of 8.
And we're basically going to recast the rig that's doing re-fracs into straight-up drilling.
So we're very excited about being able to continue the momentum in that play.
And I would highlight one thing.
As we've obviously gone to all 30-stage fracs our early results are very good.
We're very encouraged about it.
The only thing that's -- that may hold us back a little bit in the Bakken is a lot of our effort is going to be directed towards the Diomedes area which is basically on the fringes of the play.
It's early days.
We'll see if it holds up and is comparable to the other parts of the play.
But I think I would look for continued good news out of the Bakken in terms of our ability to continue the momentum that we started towards the end of last year.
Obviously I'm never happy when we don't meet expectations because we don't make excuses here and I'm not Pollyanna by any stretch of the imagination either.
We ran into some issues that frankly were unanticipated in South Texas and we talk about the engineering terms we used as we went to choke management philosophy.
We cut a lot of wells back because we were very concerned about the longevity of the production in terms of recovery because that's what we're about as an enterprise and also the fact that we took over a lot of wells that weren't set up for long-term production.
We just didn't have any tubes or so.
And I'll be very clear here.
Hilcorp did a great job with this asset base.
They delivered us a top-class asset that was -- is built for speed and we're going to do very well with it.
But the heart of the matter is is we just had some basic production work to go back and pick up.
We're back on pace now in terms of seeing in the early part of the year 7 to 10 completions a month and that's going to accelerate to somewhere on the order of 15 to 16 by the end of the year as we pick up additional frac crews and get our cycle times right on all the drilling rigs that we have.
So it's not a positive but what I would tell you is we're just thrilled to death to be in this basin and we think we're going to be very successful and we're going to prove that to you quarter-over-quarter.
Research Division</strong> And David I guess it's worth highlighting since we covered both the difference in crude pricing between the 2 basins.
Can you just update us where your premiums and discounts lie right now? Yes as of this morning the Eagle Ford is running basically $1.50 $2 positive to WTI.
And that's something that we would kind of expect to hang in for the year.
And the Bakken is still in the minus $7 to minus $10.
It was minus $8 this morning up there and that's really a question of distance to markets.
We're seeing fewer disruptions this year in North Dakota than we did last year but -- because the weather has been a little bit more agreeable.
So I don't think those numbers are going to move around materially.
Research Division</strong> And Clarence if I could ask you one.
You've talked about 5% growth this year.
There's clearly upside with Libya.
And there are other things that were mentioned generating free cash flow which is in contrast to many of your competitors.
I think I've got the sense that you're and I think you've already said this much more oriented towards disposals than acquisitions.
Can you just confirm that that's the way -- because you mentioned both in your outlook? Just confirm that's basically the way you're thinking.
No I think certainly Paul we're thinking in terms of both.
And we've continued to say pretty consistently that we are looking at acquisitions in our core areas.
Dave already mentioned to the extent that with good solid economics we could increase our position in the Eagle Ford.
We look to do that.
Same is true with the Bakken and other areas.
And we stand by our earlier guidance of $1.5 billion to $3 billion of dispositions over the next 2 to 3 years but that's frankly going to be driven by what we see as the opportunities to divest at the right price and in fact reinvest at good prices and good economics as well.
So I wouldn't say that either is preferred at this point.
It's a balance of how we go about high grading our portfolio.
Research Division</strong> The Marathon family sure got us busy the last 12 months with restructurings.
A lot of major questions really had been covered but maybe a couple of follow-ups one on Paul's question.
I mean on the Eagle Ford pricing I know you've put it in reference to TI but has the pricing structure shifted to an LSS (sic) [LLS] pricing dynamically the LLS is under 6 versus a TI correlation for you? And then also thanks for a lot of comments on the Eagle Ford.
Any comments on kind of shortages you see in frac crew province? Or any other challenges that you're looking at kind of really managing here in your activity ramp? Right Evan.
We saw that as we talked about this last year in terms of the differentials where we were seeing LLS minus or WTI plus.
But as we see these differentials narrowing I think that's the reason that you're going to see us continue to talk about it somewhere in between the 2.
But ultimately I think you're right.
You're going to see this as an LLS marker because the -- most of this crude is going to go to the water eventually.
But it's materially changed this price point in terms of it roughly being $102 on today's price basis.
So I think it's 6 of one half dozen or another.
The interesting thing about the second question is I'm not really sure that we're going to see any pricing improvement in terms of what's happening particularly with pressure pumping as some of the companies continue to say they're going to give up natural gas drilling.
What we are going to see is the continued flow of more experienced crews into more active basins.
And we've not seen any logistical issues like we saw last year in North Dakota with some sand deliveries.
Everyone seems to be keeping up both in South Texas and North Dakota with capability.
And we're thinking that the crews are going to get stronger which ultimately will prove our efficiency and make us more money.
So we may not see it on the cost side although there's probably different opinions about that.
But we're clearly looking to getting more experienced people flowing out of some of the gas-prone basins.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
And just a second question just on Angola just to confirm you're still on track for a 2Q start-up and if you could give us color on the expected ramp.
I know it's 14 000 plateau but what does that ramp-up look like in 2012? Yes I think we're still on the view that you're going to see a Q2 start.
And obviously BP could give you more color on that.
I think that's pretty consistent with what we expect.
And we're going to play this fairly conservatively and say that we won't see 14 000 until '13.
And so I would expect some sort of incremental ramp-up from the middle of this year into that rate in Q1 of next year.
Research Division</strong> Janet on the deferred tax item in your cash flow we understand that for the total coverage you'll probably get the cash flow benefit on that item from the -- in the U.S.
due to the IDC deduction.
And then you're probably spending some money or that you're paying some additional tax spend the booked tax in the overseas.
That's why for the first 9 months of the year that that item is a negative.
Any rough estimate based on the portfolio and your capital investment program how 2012 is going to look? Are we going to see the IDC band that's actually showing up in the consolidated? Or is that going to get overwhelmed by the international? My guess is of course it depends upon the production mix as well as pricing is that because the U.K.
Brae and particularly Norway are in a position where actually our current tax our cash taxes are higher than booked as the DD&amp;A reversed that that will probably continue to outweigh or at least balance the deferred tax benefit that we did in the U.S.
Starting January 1 of course we get to deduct 100% of our IDC in the year incurred whereas as an integrated we can only deduct 70% in that first year.
And then of course it's just a timing difference but we get amortized the balance -- 30% will get amortized over the remaining 9 years.
So yes we do get the IDC benefit in the year incurred in the U.S.
but it does largely get offset if not completely offset by the international tax payment.
Research Division</strong> And maybe a little bit difficult.
Janet do you think by 2014 or so that it will fit the other way or that you think that may last a little bit longer? Well Paul I don't like to predict anything.
And certainly going out 3 years on deferred versus current taxes and foreign jurisdictions is -- there's just way too many variables is the point.
But way too many variables I'm afraid.
But our mix of production over time should be shifting to more U.S.
and we'll -- you'd see U.K.
Norway be a smaller percentage of production.
So it can certainly happen.
Research Division</strong> Dave the second question.
Can you give us a quick update of the Oceania -- Ozona in the Gulf of Mexico? Has that start up yet? Or when is it going to start up? And also that if you can give us some well data for the last 2 months when it is under your control for Eagle Ford in terms of the 30-day IP and the well cost.
Okay I'll go back to Eagle Ford.
Basically the well costs that we're seeing in Eagle Ford drill complete and equip are still consistent with what we've said publicly the $8.5 million range for these wells that we're working on.
And we have added 7 wells over the last couple of weeks.
And what I'll just point out because we don't have 30-day IPs on them yet they are consistent with what we've said in our presentations in terms of black oil rates for 3 of them and volatile oil rates for 4 of them.
So we expect the volatile oil wells to be in the 1 000-barrel a day equivalent IP when we get to those dates and the black oil ones to be somewhat less than that.
So again very consistent with what we predicted and we'll look forward to drilling some of the bigger wells as we move our program further south in our acreage.
But then it did come on in the latter part of December last year and it's had some issues with the host platform in terms of being up and down.
It's clearly going to come in at the low end of our expectations.
Currently it's producing on a gross basis about 4 000 barrels a day and 7 million cubic feet.
We're going to continue to monitor it and see what it does.
But again I think importantly what I would say is this only marks the end of our legacy portfolio in the Gulf of Mexico that was too small and we're moving into a different phase and focusing our efforts on bigger fields both in the Gulf but more importantly in the Lower 48.
Research Division</strong> Dave can I -- just quick one.
Is Droshky still producing right now? Yes Droshky is running about 7 500 barrels a day net.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on the production I guess guidance for the first quarter.
If I'm not mistaken it looked like fourth quarter actual production was about 378 000 yet first quarter guidance is 350 000 to 360 000.
And I'm just trying to reconcile where the decline is coming.
And then secondly is it fair to think that first quarter is going to represent a trough in the production profile for the year? Well I think that the issue relative to the first quarter is worth noting I think we have before is we've got a 30-day shutdown of EG coming that will begin the middle of March and then run until the middle of April.
And so we've -- that facility will be completely shut down for that period of time as we go through an extensive turnaround both of the LNG facility and a gas plant facility over there.
And so that's that key driver in terms of what the production impact is going to be.
Since we bridged it over the quarter and we did that on purpose in order to create some balanced opportunity we're clearly going to have issues across those quarters.
But we expect resource plays to continue to grow rates both in the Bakken and the Eagle Ford throughout the year.
So we should show inclining rates throughout the year.
It's a minor point Blake but the 378 000 includes 3 000 of Libya.
It's really 375 000 for the fourth quarter excluding Libya.
And the 350 000 to 360 000 that you spoke to excludes any Libyan production.
Research Division</strong> Yes got it Howard.
The second question is on buybacks.
I didn't really see much commentary in the release unless I missed it but it did look like the share count was reduced in the fourth quarter.
And I'm just curious if you can comment on whether we could expect the buybacks to continue here in the first quarter.
Blake actually the buybacks all occurred in the third quarter in the middle of the third quarter.
So what you saw in the fourth quarter was the benefit of that share count reduction for the full quarter.
And as you probably -- we get asked the question all the time: What is the priority use for our cash? Very clearly the #1 priority as we go forward is reinvesting in the business in value-accretive projects.
You will have noted that we increased our dividend last week.
And share buybacks as always are on the table if in fact that is the best thing to do with the cash.
Research Division</strong> I just want to make sure on the CapEx plans for this year $4.8 billion.
I just want to make sure I have the components right.
I mean your -- in your previous sort of slides and guidance you've said that the base business is $1.3 billion and Eagle Ford is $1.4 billion and Bakken is about $700 million.
I just want to confirm if those numbers are still about right.
And also what's the balance of the CapEx being deployed towards? Well the numbers Faisel are about right and the balance was about $500 million in exploration I think that you didn't have in the numbers you just cited.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Anything else internationally that you guys might be spending money on outside of the base business? We have an ongoing drilling program in Norway but in terms of the large quantums I think you've hit it.
It's Eagle Ford Bakken Woodford are the big drivers of our capital and then the $500 million that Clarence talked about in exploration.
Yes Faisel we put out the -- one of the first times I think we've actually announced our final CapEx budget in December.
We generally do it at the end of January and we -- so it's early December I want to say December 2 3 we put out a press release outlining our 2012 budget that will give you all those details.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
It looks like going forward if I look at the reserve replacement sort of numbers for the year it came in around $19 per barrel equivalent for F&amp;D costs excluding the acquisition of the Eagle Ford.
And then going forward it looks like based on your projections for reserve replacement ratios it looks like you're at about $22 going forward.
Is that kind of -- I think that's that the right run rate to use going forward to use going forward for your kind of F&amp;D costs.
Yes I think we would have said $21 but that general range is probably a good way to look at the business.
Obviously it's -- I mean we're clearly pursuing these unconventionals more heavily and they tend to have a much more attractive F&amp;D rate than that over time.
But we -- I would support that as a number.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a question on Kurdistan.
You talked about some early production systems coming online this year.
What's the status there just in terms of what you think production rate would be or timing? And have you spotted the second well the second Swara Tika well? Yes we're drilling -- John we're drilling that well right now.
And so it's proceeding ahead.
Tough drilling environment as you know but we're making good progress there.
We're in the planning stages for what we would call either extended well tests or early production systems because sometimes our partners use different language.
We'd expect to see that potentially on one or both of our outside-operated activities by the second half of the year.
And I wouldn't want to speculate on the well rates.
It's one of the reasons we're doing this because it's a complex geologic area and we're going to want to see what these things do in terms of coming on and how long they stay that way.
So if I can beg off on the rate I would.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
And just one on international on Equatorial Guinea.
We hear the government talking periodically about expansion on their -- expansion of the LNG facility and proving up gas in neighboring countries.
You guys have been pretty quiet on that.
Any comment on that on the government's plans or what they want to do? Well obviously we're participants in those discussions and we've done very well with our LNG franchise in Equatorial Guinea.
Clearly we think there needs to be more work to develop gas resources in the country to support a future train.
Our first priority has always been making sure that we keep Train 1 full because that's the most economically value-added opportunity not only for Marathon but also for our partners and particularly the Government of Equatorial Guinea.
I think they understand that.
We're very interested in opportunities to create value in Equatorial Guinea.
But there's -- as we've said in our responses a lot of work to be done in terms of making sure that there's sufficient gas resources and that the commercial arrangements are in place to make sure that it's a fair return for the risk that we would take in that venture.
LLC Research Division</strong> I've got a couple of things if I could.
Janet is there a potential tax on the buyback that MPC is -- has now authorized? And if so is it either insignificant or are you comfortable in giving your approval to them that the indemnification is satisfactory? Yes this is contemplated in the tax rate agreement that MPC obtained an unqualified tax opinion that the kind of stock repurchase program and the MLP prospectively would not disqualify in any way the tax-free status of the spin-off.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave let me go back to this stricter choke management issue.
I guess I'm little bit confused.
You cut some of the industry wells back a little bit yet the year-end forecast the 30 000 a day didn't seem to change.
And I don't see a change in the activity level or indicated spend.
Can you help me reconcile those? Yes I don't think that they're not reconcilable at all.
I think that the key thing for this year in terms of building rate is we're going to put 200 wells down in this play and the majority of them are going to be in very high-rate areas that's what we would say in addition to some of our leasehold activities.
And so what we would say is we're very comfortable with the fact that we're at 15 instead of 18 in terms of being able to build the rates we need on a go-forward basis to deliver the results.
Because as our teams have gotten into this play they've clearly refocused a lot of the perspective activity that we had on some of the more highly prospective areas.
So I think we're in pretty good shape.
Basically what we would say is just to go back and talk about flow management or choke management.
A lot of this stuff was done at a very rapid pace because Hilcorp wanted to deliver us an asset that we could pick up and run with.
And so we had to go back and do a lot of stuff that we would just call normal production engineering making sure that the wells flow longer before you could get our initial lift installed.
So it's -- this is nothing out of the ordinary and we consider it kind of a minor bump in the road.
Hey Mark a way to think about it it's not a change in choke management from Marathon's standpoint it's a difference in how we do it relative to what Hilcorp was doing at the time of the acquisition.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay Clarence.
Let me just sneak in one more.
Earlier in '11 you folks indicated that you were potentially going to solicit a minority partner of unspecified size in terms of your Gulf of Mexico portfolio.
Give me an update on where that effort stands.
Has it been back burnered? Is it still alive? No we certainly looked at opportunities Mark to bring in a partner in our Gulf of Mexico portfolio in large part to not just share the risk on certain prospects but really to participate across the full spectrum of our prospect inventory.
And frankly we didn't see any responses to that that were acceptable to us.
And so we have no intention of pursuing that anymore.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just 2 quick ones about Poland.
Recognizing that you only drilled one well can you share the drilling cost? Yes Pavel that well will be about $12 million.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> $12 million.
Okay great.
And then just a little bit more broadly.
Are you seeing any budding opposition in Poland to frac-ing or shale drilling in general as one of your peers recently experienced in Bulgaria? No.
On the contrary and we've actually spent a lot of time including recently here in Houston with senior Polish officials.
And we've also spent some time familiarizing them directly with our operations in places like North Dakota so they would have a sense of what it is that needs to be done here.
They appreciate that hydraulic fracturing will be required in order to develop these resources should they prove to be prospective.
And they're very interested in making sure that we do enough work together with them to make sure that popular opinion stays on the side of energy security versus making a choice of -- which we don't think is a correct choice of against the environment.
Because consistently we've said to them as we operate we can protect the environment and still deliver our results.
So far so good but it's an area that we certainly keep a close eye on.
Research Division</strong> Dave can I just go back to a comment that you mentioned about kind of testing some of the -- maybe some more noncore areas of the Bakken? Did I hear that correctly? Well I think if you look at our play fairway we have all these unusual names but in the heart of the play for us in Dunn County we talk most prospectively about our Myrmidon area and the Hector areas.
A little bit less so Ajax.
But then off towards the Montana side of the play is an area that we call Diomedes.
We took an acreage position out there some years ago which we've got to go out there and do some lease drilling out there.
It's early days.
And as -- if you followed us you know we're always pretty conservative in the Bakken.
And so we're not overhyping that particular area.
Obviously we hope it's as prospective as what we've seen in Dunn County but we'll get some drilling results and we'll see.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And so can you talk about maybe what portion of the capital in the Bakken you're spending this year is committed to that type of activity and maybe even more broadly of the -- I think it's about $2.7 billion that you have in your 4 key North American resource plays? What portion of that is maybe committed to a similar type of activity that maybe isn't drilling in the core but might be testing some prospective areas? Yes we don't do a whole lot of that anymore.
We really try to focus our efforts in -- and so basically what I would tell you is the $1.4 billion we have directed to Eagle Ford is all along stuff that we consider prospective and economic.
Obviously there's a variability in the play but it's all driven towards adding substantial value.
In the Bakken when we talk about that area you're probably only talking about one rig here.
So essentially an 1/8 of the overall $700 million program.
And then I would argue that the 2-rig program in the Niobrara would certainly fall into that type of an area.
And so round numbers I guess you'd be talking about between $200 million and $300 million of the total quantum that you referenced being directed towards things that -- it might not charm you by the end of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right great.
And then can I just quickly clarify? On the 30-day turnaround or the shutdown at EG can I confirm that that's just all your volumes in EG not just the gas volume? That's everything.
Research Division</strong> Just a very small follow-up.
Just on the depreciation particularly in the U.S.
Obviously Droshky made that a little bit some more volatile in 2011.
But $25 to $27.50 I mean is there any sort of still sort of residual Droshky impact in that? And when do you think that would start dropping as you get your production up onstream.
Hang on just a minute Ed.
We're pulling that up.
Yes I think we made a prediction for DD&amp;A in our forward estimates.
Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
The...
It's $25 to $27.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
So I just wonder that seemed a little high I guess.
I mean I know you're spending on shale and there's always upfront costs.
So I was just wondering if there's any Droshky in there or is that sort of a clean number we should use as a base.
Well I think our expectation is -- and we've said -- pretty much said that the Droshky will likely decline out of the portfolio in the first half and so you're going to have some effects from that in the first half of the year.
But broadly it's our activities in the unconventionals.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of clarification points please guys on the Eagle Ford.
Dave I understand the exit rate was done on the tubing issues.
But can you tell us what the peak rate in the Eagle Ford was in Q4 where it is currently? And what you -- whether or not you've got the infrastructure in place to accommodate comfortably your planned ramp-up this year? Yes I think we would say that the peak rate in the Eagle Ford was on the order of between 14 000 and 15 000 which is where we are today.
And what I would say is that our internal infrastructure is designed and being constructed to match our growth plans on a go-forward basis.
Our ability to connect to the larger outlets and exit avenues both for gas and for liquids are in place.
And so we do not expect there to be any infrastructure issues with our ability to grow our rate from 15 000 today to 100 000 in 5 years.
Research Division</strong> Great stuff.
And Dave you also made comments about gas when you were -- in your earlier remarks I think in response to one question.
Are you guys drilling any dry gas holes right now? And maybe you could help us with the rig allocation across your plays? Yes great.
First of all my drilling people are clamoring after me to make sure that the total well costs in Poland with all the testing we did was closer to 15.
They're good but not that good.
So I want to correct that.
You know Doug if I drill a gas -- a dry gas well I'd get in trouble.
And so we're not trying to do that.
The closest thing we have is in the Woodford.
And we were still seeing a lot of liquids plays.
We're just not directing any money to gas wells.
I don't think we have any lease expiries that we're chasing in terms of pure dry gas.
So in terms of our rig deck right now we've got 14 in the Eagle Ford and that number's obviously going to go to 18.
We're running 6 in the Woodford and obviously monitoring that very closely.
We've got 2 in the Niobrara one or 2 more up in Wyoming doing some work for us up there and essentially 7 in the Bakken right now and that will be going to 8.
So as we see it we've got 35 to 40 rigs on contract in the frame of reference for this year with obviously the ability to expand or contract that as we need to.
Research Division</strong> Two quick questions.
In Angola I think at one point you guys have been marketing your remaining interest as part of the FSS [ph] program.
Wondering if that is still being actively pursued or that you have not seen satisfaction bid so that -- similar to the other area that you are not marketing on that one? And also that -- can you tell us when the next project is going to finish and which project is going to be the next to go in your Block 31 32 interest? The second question on Eagle Ford.
I think in your forecast by 2016 you expect about 20% 25% of the production going to be coming from outside the Hilcorp asset.
When you will you start testing the area outside the Hilcorp asset? Paul I think we're -- what we said is we think Hilcorp can deliver the rate that we've -- we talked about and we're going to continue to look at areas outside of the core.
But I think it's important for people that follow us and our investors to understand we think the heart of this play which is what we thought with Hilcorp is where we should focus our activities and that's where we're going to drive the rate from.
And so we may get some more granularity on what our plans are for some of these other areas but my intention is to drive our activity in the Hilcorp acreage and deliver the numbers that we talked about from that.
Research Division</strong> Dave can I just -- I want to make sure clear.
That is why in your presentation 2016 you're looking for 100 000 barrels per day and maybe over 100 000 barrels per day for Eagle Ford.
Is that 100% coming from Hilcorp? Or is only 80 000 coming from Hilcorp? Because it seems like there's 2 different number that I recall.
From the acquisitions that we closed in the fourth quarter that's where we're going to get that rate from.
And so that all corresponds to the broader -- what we would call the broader Hilcorp footprint.
Research Division</strong> Okay got you.
Right.
So the Angola questions first of all I think you're reflecting on some speculation in the press relative to a commercial arrangement that we never talked about publicly and we're clearly owners of both Block 31 and Block 32 on a 10% basis.
And so I wouldn't comment on anything that might appear in the press relative to our intentions to the contrary.
The other thing I would say is I'm also not going to speculate on what the next opportunity for development would be.
And that's a better question to ask our partners Total in Block 32 and BP in Block 31.
Research Division</strong> Can you give us a kind of time line that when you would expect you have something announced? No.
LLC Research Division</strong> Dave a real quick one.
As you tie in some of the smaller accumulations to Alvheim Vilje my sense is that your working interest in the licenses that underlie some of these is a little bit less than what it was in the core area.
Is that accurate? And what kind of progression do you expect in terms of working interest in the volumes coming off that platform? Most of the work that we're doing now is consistent with the core Alvheim area.
And so when we talk about the Kameleon play it's -- you're talking about the difference between Alvheim being 60-ish percent and Vilje being in the high 40s.
Most of this stuff is going to be consistently in the 60s that we're adding.
LLC Research Division</strong> So it ought to stay at the current rates at least for a while? Yes I hope so.
And if the folks in Norway are listening that's their charge for this year.
Research Division</strong> Last one I promise.
I mean just some color on Integrated Gas and Oil Sands Mining in the quarter.
Obviously they were a little bit weak.
Yes Ed it's -- you got in under the bell.
So it's a good question for the last one.
Pretty clearly the fourth quarter was a disappointment in Oil Sands in terms of reliability of the mine particularly coming off what was a very solid third quarter after the Expansion 1 was delivered.
All the partners are working very closely together to see if we can focus on improving the reliability and getting our production rate up because that's critical for the cost and the profitability of what was a very large investment program.
We've had some difficulties at the beginning of the year with some cold weather but pretty clear that the operators are going to respond to the challenges in terms of making that the asset that we all think it can be.
Integrated Gas pretty clearly as Howard said there was some noise relative to smoothing out of the Alaska asset.
But there is no doubt that we're challenged in the sub-$3 Henry Hub environment since that's what we're paid on an LNG basis.
I'd remind people that the strength of the earnings and cash flow position of that asset is contained in our E&amp;P business on the liquids side.
But pretty clearly we're going to be challenged in the Henry Hub environment on the Integrated Gas side because even though I would argue it's the best LNG facility in the world no one can do very well sub-$3 in terms of producing LNG in this environment.
So it's something we're going to have to watch very carefully.
And let me assure you we're engaged with the appropriate parties and counterparties in terms of what some possible solutions might be to our difficulty.
Research Division</strong> And I look forward to some Eagle Ford updates through the year.
Thank you Monica.
We apologize for running out of time.
We appreciate all the questions and interest in Marathon Oil Corporation.
We look forward to visiting with you in the near future.
Thank you and have a great evening.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome to the Marathon Oil Corporation Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I will be your operator for today's conference.
[Operator Instructions] Please note today's conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Howard Thill Vice President Investor Relations and Public Affairs.
Please go ahead sir.
Welcome to Marathon Oil Corporation's second quarter 2012 earnings webcast and teleconference.
The synchronized slides that accompany this call can be found on our website marathonoil.com.
On the call today are: Clarence Cazalot Chairman President and CEO; Janet Clark Executive Vice President and CFO; Dave Roberts Executive Vice President and COO; and Lance Robertson Regional Vice President South Texas/Eagle Ford.
Slide 2 contains the forward-looking statement and other information related to this presentation.
Our remarks and answers to questions today will contain forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.
In accordance with Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 Marathon Oil Corporation has included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2011 and subsequent Forms 10-Q and 8-K cautionary language identifying important factors but not necessarily all factors that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
Please note that in the appendix to this presentation there is a reconciliation of quarterly net income to adjusted net income for 2011 and 2012 balance sheet and cash flow information third quarter and full year 2012 operating estimates and other data that you may find useful.
Moving to Slide 3.
Our second quarter 2012 adjusted net income of $416 million was a 13% decrease from the first quarter of 2012 largely a result of higher income taxes driven by a change in the mix of production with higher sales volumes in Libya and lower U.S.
pretax earnings.
This decrease was partially offset by higher international pretax income.
As shown on Slide 4 earnings before tax from the international portion of our E&amp;P segment increased $76 million driven by higher sales in Libya while the domestic portion of that segment decreased $62 million largely a result of higher exploration expenses.
Pretax income for the Oil Sands Mining and Integrated Gas segments each increased $13 million over the previous quarter.
Again the change in production and income mix led to higher overall income taxes.
On Slide 5 we've included a comparison of the total Upstream second quarter versus the first quarter liquid hydrocarbon sales volumes excluding Libya.
In the appendix to this presentation you will find a similar slide comparing actual second quarter to projected third quarter sales volumes to help you in modeling the company's third quarter.
Again this slide excludes Libya because of the unpredictability of those volumes.
As shown on Slide 6 the second quarter was a good operating quarter for the E&amp;P segment with higher sales volumes compared to the first quarter.
However this increase was more than offset by lower prices higher segment income tax expense and higher absolute cost although on a BOE basis costs were relatively flat quarter-to-quarter.
Moving to Slide 7.
Our U.S.
liquid hydrocarbon sales volumes increased while gas volumes decreased netting to a positive volume variance quarter-to-quarter.
Both domestic liquid hydrocarbon and natural gas realizations were lower in the second quarter.
On an absolute basis DD&amp;A was lower owing to our anticipated Alaska disposition.
As shown on Slide 8 total U.S.
E&amp;P costs per BOE remained flat with the previous 4 quarters.
Excluding exploration expenses costs per BOE were down $3.80 quarter-over-quarter with the previously mentioned decrease in DD&amp;A lower production taxes and reduced field level controllable costs.
Slide 9 graphically demonstrates the Lower 48 onshore production growth we have realized over the past few quarters with the production from the first to second quarter up almost 7%.
Excluding our pending Paloma acquisition we expect to reach between 120 000 and 130 000 BOED in the fourth quarter 2012 a 60% to 70% increase since the third quarter of 2011.
You will also see this growth is weighted to liquids with the largest increase coming from oil and condensate followed by an increase in NGL.
Slide 10 shows the positive pretax impact from the previously discussed higher international sales volumes more than offset by lower liquid hydrocarbon price realizations higher costs and higher taxes related to the mix issue previously discussed.
Slide 11 compares the international E&amp;P cost structure by category over the past 6 quarters.
Compared to the first quarter of 2012 field level controllable cost DD&amp;A and other costs increased in the second quarter partially offset by a decrease in exploration expenses.
As shown on Slide 12 quarter-over-quarter our E&amp;P segment production available for sale was flat while sales volumes increased approximately 6%.
Increased production available for sale from the continued ramp-up in the Eagle Ford Bakken and Anadarko Woodford plays plus Libya were offset by decreased volumes in EG Norway and the Gulf of Mexico as a result of planned turnarounds.
The second quarter was relatively balanced between production available for sale and actual sales volumes compared to a 23 000 BOED underlift in the first quarter.
The cumulative underlift at the end of the second quarter was approximately 5.9 million BOE: 2.7 million BOE underlifted in Libya 2 million BOE in Alaska gas storage and underlift positions of 1 million BOE in Europe and 200 000 BOE in EG.
Slide 13 shows the more than 14% growth in our E&amp;P production available for sale since the beginning of 2010 excluding Libya.
Adjusting for the impact of major turnarounds during the first and second quarters of 2012 we would have had production available for sale of approximately 376 000 and 381 000 BOED respectively.
Slide 14 shows our Oil Sands Mining segment income increased $10 million sequentially.
This was a result of lower operating costs and other expenses mostly offset by lower price realizations.
Net synthetic crude sales were essentially flat quarter-to-quarter at 44 000 barrels per day.
Slide 15 shows that the Integrated Gas segment income increased $9 million quarter-over-quarter on lower volumes.
While the terms and conditions of our offtake agreement are confidential the second quarter results are indicative of what investors can expect from this segment on a go-forward basis with similar volumes and Henry Hub natural gas prices.
Slide 16 provides an analysis of cash flows for the second quarter year-to-date.
Operating cash flow before changes in working capital was $2.3 billion while working capital changes resulted in a $575-million use of cash primarily due to international tax payments in the second quarter.
Cash capital expenditures year-to-date have been $2.2 billion dollars with proceeds from dispositions totaling $218 million and dividends paid of $240 million.
Net debt has increased $430 million year-to-date and the quarter-end cash balance was approximately $450 million.
As shown on Slide 17 at the end of the second quarter 2012 our cash-adjusted debt-to-total-capital ratio was 21% a slight increase from the first quarter.
I'd like to remind you that the appendix has a significant amount of forward-looking data for use in modeling the company's third quarter and full year results.
With that we'll move to Slide 18 and I'll turn the call over to Clarence for some remarks.
As Howard mentioned we saw another good performance from our base business with major turnarounds in Equatorial Guinea and Norway being completed ahead of schedule and under budget.
Top quartile reliability and solid operations allowed us to deliver production available for sale at the upper end of our guidance.
We also had strong growth in the second quarter in our 3 key resource plays.
Comparing the second quarter to the first quarter Eagle Ford production was up 50% Bakken was up 4.7% and the Woodford was up 24%.
We're on track to deliver annual 5% growth in production available for sale in 2012 over 2011 excluding Libya.
We're also on track to deliver greater than 150% reserve replacement in 2012 excluding acquisitions and divestitures.
And we're targeting 6% to 8% growth in annual production available for sale from 2012 to 2013 excluding Libya and Alaska.
In the face of weaker crude and NGL prices particularly in inland U.S.
markets our focus on profitable growth and our commitment to capital discipline has led us to seek capital reductions without sacrificing growth.
For the remainder of 2012 and perhaps into 2013 we're reducing our rig count in the Anadarko Woodford from 6 to 2 rigs and we're reducing our Bakken rig count from 8 to 5 rigs.
We believe we can maintain flat production in both of these areas through 2013 at these rig levels but obviously we retain the flexibility to ramp back up if prices and/or costs improve.
We've also suspended drilling in the Niobrara and plan to frac 1 additional well already drilled.
We will further evaluate the area from data already collected and from the future production history of the 16 production wells we have in the area.
A real success story is being seen in the Eagle Ford where we've continued to reduce the time needed to drill wells there.
And we're now in a position to drill and complete our target number of wells with 18 rigs rather than ramping up to 20 as planned with the Paloma acquisition.
We are focused on maintaining our growth while living within our cash flows.
To that point I'll tell you our asset divestiture program is on track and we expect to meet or exceed our $1.5-billion to $3-billion divestiture program by the end of 2013.
And you'll note in the press release that we have disclosed the potential purchase price in Alaska as being $375 million and I would also tell you that interest in the sale of our Neptune gas plant our 50% interest there has been quite strong and we'll be reviewing those bids very shortly.
Turning to exploration.
We have enhanced the potential and risk profile of our global exploration portfolio with new entries into Gabon Kenya and potentially Ethiopia.
And as you've seen yesterday we farmed down 2 Kurdistan blocks our two 100% blocks to balance our portfolio.
Lastly there's been a great deal of attention obviously and a great deal of focus by investors on our Eagle Ford position and so I've asked Lance Robertson to provide an update on our operations there.
Thanks Clarence.
Going to Slide 19 you'll see a map of the Eagle Ford and our acreage position along with where we are currently drilling.
Also in the slide are indicative well results illustrating continued strong performance across the acreage position.
During the second quarter we became active in the condensate acreage as we continued to build midstream infrastructure to support this area.
Our rig activity is currently 50% discretionary and will continue to be directed toward high-value condensate and high GOR oil areas.
We anticipate we will keep 10 to 12 rigs active in the core Karnes County area through year end.
Note we are not active in the Wilson County or dry gas areas.
Turning to Slide 20.
During the first few months of 2012 we focused on expanding our capability and growing our development capacity.
The second quarter saw us build on this solid base with increased rig and frac activity along with increasing efficiency.
With these efforts quarter-on-quarter production growth was almost 50% in the second quarter.
Net production has increased by more than 17 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in 2012 with the majority of the increase in the second quarter.
We anticipate similarly strong growth in the second half of 2012 as we continue to refine our operation practices and move into more pad-driven activities.
We have demonstrated material reduction in cycle time reducing our average spud-to-spud time by almost 50% since taking over operations late last year now averaging 23 days spud-to-spud over the last 2 months.
Driven by this efficiency we expect to continue full field development with 18 rigs inclusive of the Paloma acreage.
We also anticipate continuing with 4 fracture stimulation fleets to complement the drilling rigs.
Turning to Slide 21.
We have supported our production growth through investing in extensive midstream infrastructure.
Shown in green are 5 new large central delivery facilities that have been built in 2012.
Shown in red are 6 more central facilities now under construction.
Additionally over 210 miles of 4- 6- and 8-inch pipelines have been installed to interconnect these facilities with markets.
Building midstream capacity has allowed us to maintain a strong cycle of spud to first sales of less than 60 days with minimal shut-in or flaring.
Midstream investment will continue through 2012 to ensure sufficient access to markets.
Slide 22 updates our expected number of locations and production forecast inclusive of the Paloma acquisition.
Paloma adds 100 high-value low-risk locations to our existing inventory.
We now anticipate our Eagle Ford production reaching 120 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day in 2016 compared to 100 000 barrels previously.
Change of control of operations is in progress today in existing Paloma operations and wells will be assumed with current Marathon personnel.
And importantly no contribution from our downspacing studies has been included in either the well count or production numbers.
To that point and moving to Slide 23 we are evaluating the potential to significantly increase our drill locations and by association production resource and reserves through validating downspacing with targeted infill pilot projects.
5 density pilot projects are currently producing 2 are in progress and 3 more remain in 2012.
4 additional pilots targeting vertical lateral placement are currently producing.
We're excited about the progress we've made across the basin to date.
We have a dedicated team and while we have a lot of hard work ahead of us we're seeing great strides in operational capacity.
We're confident in our ability to deliver an average of 30 000 barrels of oil equivalent a day for 2012 and to meet or exceed our projections in coming years.
With that I'll turn the call back to Howard.
Thanks Lance.
[Operator Instructions] Christine with that we'd like to open it up for questions.
[Operator Instructions] The first question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I appreciate the additional color and it's interesting to -- it's great to have Lance on the call.
So if I may take advantage of him being here and I do have a follow-up before you go cutting me off here.
So Lance the well results -- on the last call Dave Roberts had suggested a completion rate of 16 to 20 wells.
1 200 barrels a day per week I think was the number he gave.
And you achieved -- you appear to have achieved that step-up the average step-up in production in the Eagle Ford despite completing fewer wells.
So I'm wondering if you can give us some color what's happening to the well rates a little bit maybe some color on what happened to the completions.
And if I may just generally an update because it looks like things are going fairly strong there if you could give us some guidance.
My follow-up is on tax please.
Doug I'd actually say that I think we have achieved what Dave suggested in the previous call.
We are consistently delivering 16 to 20 wells per month to sales for the last 4 months.
It does vary up and down modestly driven sometimes by pad activity.
And if we fall a little short of that one month we typically materially increase the next month.
And we've worked concertedly to build a little bit more well inventory so that we can dampen down that oscillation as we move to pad-driven activities more and more for both the opportunity to drive down costs as well as to improve the well EURs.
And regarding the well productivity themselves I think I would just say that we put out a fair amount of disclosure on that first Eagle Ford slide.
And we've gotten really positive well results from the northeast all the way to the southwest of that acreage position.
And we're very pleased with those results to date continue to see some improvements and still have a lot of work ahead to make them even better.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I appreciate that color.
My follow-up is on tax.
Obviously there's a lot being made of the very high tax rates that you guys have right now.
My question is really on Norway.
A year or 2 ago you used to give a slide showing what the trajectory was in Norway in terms of production.
And if we take the mix change of that decline in Norway along with the increase in the U.S.
one would expect a fairly precipitous decline in that tax rate.
Can you just give us an update as to when you anticipate the Norway decline to really start to kick in and whether or not -- how you would frame our expectations for the medium-term tax rate in other words beyond 2012? Doug this is Dave.
I think the charts that we're using in our updates have not changed in terms of we expect next year to still be a very strong year.
We'll have boiler production coming on to offset some of the decline that we'll see.
That comes on in late 2014.
And then you'll start to see the declines that you mentioned.
And so I'll turn -- then turn it to Janet about forecasting tax.
Of course Doug we certainly hope that the production in Norway stays as high as possible for as long as possible because generally it's very good returns for us on an after-tax basis.
But you're directionally correct.
As the mix of pretax income shifts from high tax jurisdictions such as Norway to a lower tax jurisdiction such as the U.S.
our overall effective tax rate excluding Libya will continue to decline.
So [indiscernible] prices and differentials et cetera I can't be more quantitative about that.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
Just getting some clarity Janet the U.S.
tax will be 0 cash tax.
Is that a fair assumption at this point? The federal rate is 35%.
Currently we are not in a cash-tax-paying mode given the high level of CapEx here in the U.S.
The next question comes from Ed Westlake from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Just maybe also given that we could focus on the Eagle Ford a question around the condensate window to start off with.
Just I think it's the Davila or the Davita [ph] well if I'm reading this correctly one of the first wells you've drilled in the condensate window.
How did the results compare to the sort of 1 650 30-day IP that you were hoping for in the condensate window was a whole? I'd say the Davila wells are relatively new and are performing very strongly.
I think our experience in that area is like you'd expect with many that there's diversity.
I think we're confident that that area is going to consistently produce on average wells that are about 1 650 BOE a day average for 30 days in that group.
And there are others in that area that have delivered that year-to-date.
I think we're -- essentially our acquisition model has been proven accurate at this point.
Research Division</strong> But it's fair to say the results at the moment from that well I think it's a 2000 -- just doing the math in my head it's a 2 024 IP.
So with the decline that you see in the early part of the month maybe what will change to get up to 1 650? I'm sorry I'm thinking of the math.
I mean that particular well should be in excess of 2 000 barrels a day equivalent right now and has been.
I think more I was saying is that in that broad area we'll have some wells that are below that 1 650 marker and we have some above.
But that group will average 1 650 BOE a day on a full-month basis.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good.
And then just switching to the overall corporate CapEx.
You've got $2.2 billion as a run rate for the first half and you're dropping some rigs in the Bakken and the Woodford which sort of suggests that maybe the $4.5 billion to $5.5 billion would require a big step-up somewhere else in the portfolio to keep the CapEx unchanged.
So maybe just talk through some of the moving parts around the sort of low run rate of CapEx in the first half.
Yes.
Ed I think we're right at 50% actually on a run rate basis.
So I wouldn't consider that low at all.
And I think what we're saying is we're reiterating what we said that last quarter that the number is going to be circa $5 billion.
We've seen pretty significant pressure from 1 particularly large OBO project in our portfolio and a lot of other OBO pressures in some of the unconventional basins notably the Woodford and the Bakken that have pushed some of those numbers up.
And then in the Eagle Ford we are drilling longer laterals and putting bigger completions on the wells.
And so we're seeing some cost pressures there.
But obviously we're getting better well results also.
So that and the early part of the year we actually are exceeding our pace expectations in places like the Bakken.
And so in order to balance out that's the reason we're cutting back the rigs in the 2 Northern unconventional basins.
And it's a pure efficiency decline in South Texas.
The next question comes from Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Keeping on the theme in the Eagle Ford maybe a question for Lance.
Was there any update or results you can share on your various downspacing pilots? Or how should we expect the release of that? Are you going to aggregate the data into early 2013? Or was there -- I know at one point there had been discussed plans for an Analyst Meeting in the fall.
Any update there please.
Well I'd say 3 of those infill pilot tests are producing.
When we said that 2 are in progress those are actually being stimulated now this week and next week.
And so our results are early.
I mean we have very limited production history from those.
I think we would anticipate being in a position to share results more materially in 2013.
And I think we've said before the failure case would be if it didn't work we'd know that very soon.
I think we're very optimistic based on simulation modeling and work we already had on wells in 80-acre spacing that it's not going to fail and it's going to longer both pressure and rate data to validate how well that is working.
I think we're really focused on making sure we get those early 2012 and start that data collection process so that we don't delay reaching those decision points any longer than we have to.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
And maybe another question.
I know you guys have invested a lot in midstream infrastructure assets particularly in the Eagle Ford in gathering and treating facilities.
I mean do you see any monetization potential of those assets given a reasonable tax basis and MLP cost of capital advantage there? No Evan.
We don't see that this time.
I think we needed to build out the infrastructure and we put an increased amount of capital to that to make sure that we have the capabilities to deliver on Upstream business.
So we're not contemplating any kind of special vehicles in order to release that value.
The next question comes from Scott Hanold from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Looking at your presentation Slide 20 shows the Eagle Ford wells production over the last several months and there's a bit of a lumpiness.
Can you explain if you expect that type of lumpiness going forward? Or now that you're kind of closer to development mode is it going to be kind of closer to that 16 18 wells kind of per month type of pace? Sure Scott.
I think we do expect some variability in that month to month.
And I think you're referring particularly to June was down from May.
And as it turns out those were actually large pad-driven infill densities those pilot projects being completed and brought online.
And so there were some low there.
I think what you'll see in future quarters is that we're materially up in July as account of that as we brought on those large groups of well ups in well count I would say.
I think what we expect forward is some variability but we're going to continue to dampen that by managing inventory appropriately.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I think your guidance is what is it like 200 230 wells this year in the Eagle Ford.
Is that still intact here? Or do you think you will be at the higher end now or with better efficiencies? Well we do believe we're going to be in that range from 241 and 251 wells inclusive of Paloma.
And the primary driver of not moving up to 20 rigs for the balance of 2012 is to avoid going off the high end of that range.
We've become so efficient that we're just going to capture all the wells we need and finish that development with 2 fewer rigs than we anticipated some months ago.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Now I understand.
Okay.
And then as a follow-up in the Bakken and I guess the Woodford it looks like you're scaling back activity.
So is the intent basically to kind of keep those areas flat over the next year or so or until you see some cost pressure relief? Is that sort of your intent at this point? Yes Scott.
I think as we mentioned in the release and I think Clarence echoed this in his comments it's our expectation that we'll be able to hit the exit rates we talked about in the release and maintain flat production with the 2 rigs in Oklahoma and the 5 in North Dakota.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then are your contracts coming for turnaround for pressure pumping and rig rate so you may have some leverage due to that? Or when do those go through? We're being able to release the rigs on the basis of contracts expiring.
And so as economics shift in the basins we would expect our overall pricing power on drilling rigs to be able to lead us to attractive contract rates.
And we are seeing continued pressure downward on pressure pumping services particularly in the 2 Northern basins.
And we'll try to reap those benefits as well over time.
The next question comes from Guy Baber from Simmons &amp; Company.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on the Eagle Ford just on efficiency gains there.
But you mentioned spud-to-spud days at 23 down from 25 a couple of months ago and significant improvement from last year.
My question is what opportunity do you see for further improvement there? Or are you operating right now at levels that you're satisfied with? And if you could provide more specifics on any efficiency improvements you're driving in the Bakken and the Woodford that would be helpful as well.
Guy referring to Eagle Ford I think we're really happy with how quickly we've been able to reduce those cycle times.
We're managing both the drilling as well as the moving of the rig as active as we can to drive that.
We do not think that we're leveling out to extent we're not going to continue to improve.
We've taken very little pad activity.
It's been in small groups.
And as we convert our rig fleet to more pad-efficient rigs with integrated moving systems which we're in the process of as we speak then we expect to be able to move to more and more large pads and we're going to drive that time down further.
But I think we hope to be able to talk about that in future quarters.
Yes.
And just to amplify what's going on in the Bakken just talking about year-on-year quarters we've seen almost a 30% decrease in our times.
And we've seen that really in 2 areas.
We've been consistently good in our spud-to-TD times although we've taken about 10% there.
But we've halved our moving rates and we've taken about 10% off of our completion rates as well to get to the levels that we're looking at.
And in Oklahoma at this point and with the limited number of wells that we've drilled it's all been improved drilling performance taking the well curves down from on the order of 70 days into the 50s.
And that's just drilling performance getting used to the basin and trying to be as competitive as we can.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
Very helpful.
And then my follow-up is just with respect to the role exploration will play in the portfolio strategically and longer-terms.
But obviously you guys have been very active recently in acquiring some new frontier acreage.
And we had previously been assuming that you were deemphasizing exploration to a certain extent in favor of your North America onshore development.
I think your 2012 exploration budget for example is down just under 10% year-on-year.
So I was just hoping you could provide a little bit more color there on the strategy and how it may or may not have changed.
Dave I'll take that.
This is Clarence.
Our strategy has fundamentally not changed.
We've said all along that the third leg of our stool of strong base assets profitable growth is a strong exploration program.
And we would devote 10% or roughly $500 million a year to high-impact exploration.
And what we've done this quarter is wholly consistent with that.
The next question comes from Blake Fernandez from Howard Weil.
Research Division</strong> And while we're on exploration I was just curious I see there's an increase sequentially from $58 million up to about $115 million.
Can you confirm is that expensing the Kilchurn well in the Gulf? Yes.
It is Blake.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My second one was in the Eagle Ford really on the transport side.
I see you're now up to about 70% of the volumes being transported via pipe.
And I'm just trying to understand if you could maybe give us some color on what the price realizations are looking right now on that piped crude and how that compares to maybe to like the $88-a-barrel realization that you've got for the entire U.S.
portfolio.
Well Blake that's a unique question.
We sell to multiple contracts in that because we have a variety of gravity.
I would say we've focused very hard the first 2 quarters of '12 on marketing and market access.
We sell the majority of our oil today on an LLS-less-$6 kind of contract.
We're very happy to have that pricing because you guys were aware those differentials are moving a lot in that regard.
So the majority of our oil sales are to that LLS-less-$6 and we have some other contracts as well.
And we continue to both take market contracts as we grow our production base in both gas and oil.
Research Division</strong> So just to confirm so I guess it's fair to think that as you're growing those volumes and you're increasing your pipeline takeaway we should think that the price realizations relative to benchmark should improve.
Correct.
The next question comes from Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Two quick ones.
First just to -- for the modeling.
For Droshky and Ozona what is the second quarter average? And should we assume that now you're pretty much 0? No Paul.
Let me get to my sheets here real quick while I'm look at it.
Second quarter in Droshky -- or in Ozona was just about 2 300 barrels a day.
And Droshky because we did have a turnaround is right at 5 000.
So we're still hanging in at both of them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The second one that Dave you were talking about in the Eagle Ford I think in the press release 75% oil and condensate.
Do you have a further split between what's the percent of oil -- frac oil and what is the percent of condensate? And have you seen any indication that the condensate started selling at a discount to the frac oil? And whether you could consider the C5 C4 is NGL or condensate in your classification.
So between oil and condensate it's approximately 70% oil and about 30% condensate.
And we're currently experiencing strong price realizations on both the crude and the condensate.
There's really no material change in that at this time.
Research Division</strong> And do you consider C5 C4 those molecules is NGL or condensate in your classification? Yes.
We do.
I'm not sure -- yes in the NGLs we do have a very heavy NGL mix.
And those price realizations are very strong all selling to the Mont Belvieu market.
However as you guys have seen there's been pressure on that basket of pricing over the recent 90 days.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
That's very helpful.
I just want to know that the classification that for the C5 the pentane or that the C6 are those that are being classified as the NGL in your classification or is being classified as a condensate in your classification.
The C5s are in the NGLs.
C5 C6s and heavier are all in the NGL split Paul.
There's time for one last question.
Today's final question comes from Paul Sankey from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> Clarence could you just talk a little bit about the decision to pull back on activity and stay within cash flow or close to cash flow as opposed to -- I assume you had the option to actually accelerate your growth rate by maintaining activity high.
Yes.
I think Paul again it's wholly consistent with what we've said around capital discipline and focusing on value rather than volume.
And you're spot on.
We could continue to maintain higher rig levels and grow the volumes at a faster rate.
But in the face as we've said of lower commodity prices both crude and NGL and continued high costs we don't see that that makes a great deal of sense.
We'll watch to see if cost and/or pricing improves and we've got the ability to ramp back up.
The next question comes from John Malone from Global Hunter Securities.
LLC Research Division</strong> One question on Libya.
Why the continued unpredictability? What is it going to take for you to get comfortable with including that in guidance? And the 43 000 net in production in the quarter is that -- do you think it's potentially still flush production? Well John this is Dave.
I think the critical issue is we've passed an important marker with the elections.
But we did see some disruptions relative to social unrest continuing into July.
There is no question that we have not yet returned to our full capacity in terms of our ability to direct production out there in terms of our workover capacity.
And importantly it's still an unsure enough situation where we have not had any Western expats looking at the actual production centers in terms of being in the deep desert.
And so our view is until we actually put all those things together being able to get actual eyes on actually understanding what's driving what probably is a large degree of flush production but also ensuring -- the Libyans are making great progress but that we do have a stable environment we don't think it would be prudent to forecast volumes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So once you have some guys there on the ground looking at the conditions of the wells that would lead you to be more comfortable making a decision on one or the other.
Yes.
I think obviously we're very interested in being able to predict these barrels with certainty.
They are important to us.
So when we get to that level of comfort we'll be certainly happy to share that with everybody.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And another question.
So what drove the curtailment in the Niobrara? What would it take to start up operations there again? Was it what you saw subsurface? Or is it more a cost issue? I think it's both.
I think this is a -- these unconventional plays all share similar characteristics.
Because we are drilling horizontal wells and putting very large completions the well costs are obviously an important factor of the economics.
And you have to have an appropriate amount of EUR.
And to this particular point we've not found the right mix of cost and completions versus the type of wells that we're actually able to deliver in the DJ Basin.
So we're going to evaluate what it is we have and see if it makes sense for us to either change the way we're looking at that program or do something else altogether.
The next question comes from Eliot Javanmardi from Capital One.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Just a question on the Oil Sands Mining pricing realizations that we're seeing.
I'm seeing a downward trend over the past 3 quarters.
Just would like to know what you see happening there and what kind of pricing you could expect going forward in the second half of the year.
Yes.
We did see obviously weakness in the first half relative to some of the things that drove Bakken weakness.
But frankly Syncrude has bounced back.
Our basket should be really looked at as a Syncrude basket because of what we have in terms of our upgrading capability there.
And it's comparing very favorably against the WTI.
And our expectation is that that relationship is going to be maintained.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And finally last question sort of a headliner overall-looking questions.
How would you respond to some investors who would say you have an attractive multiple from the standpoint that it is lower EBIT to EBITDA compared to some of your peers? And when you're going and looking to get a foothold exploration-wise in some of these international regions how would you respond to investors who feel that that international exploration may not pay off in the end based on investors being so favorable towards resource plays in the U.S.? How would you respond to that in regards to Marathon's strategy going forward in international exploration? Well I would say first of all I don't think that the exploration we're conducting is at all hindering or limiting the amount of activity we can pursue in the resource plays that we believe generates profitable growth.
What we do believe is that exploration in the areas we're looking where we see very significant potential has the potential to create significant value for us.
And again as we've seen and Marathon indeed has done in the past you don't have to develop and produce those discoveries out for the next 30 or 40 years.
Making the discovery commercializing it demonstrating the value gives you the opportunity to monetize at that point.
So we see it really as not conflicting.
We see it as complimentary.
Ultimately we are all about value creation and we think that we create that value by running our base assets in a strong safe way generating profitable growth from our resource plays and then complementing that with impact exploration success.
So as we've said -- as I said earlier allocating about 10% of our budget a year.
It fluctuates a little bit.
We think exploration makes very good sense and is a key part of our strategy.
The next question comes from Pavel Molchanov from Raymond James.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Similar actually to the question from the previous caller.
As you -- given that you clearly have a pretty high tax rate that you're working to lower as you look at these new frontier exploration plays Kenya Ethiopia Gabon how confident are you that the fiscal terms there will facilitate improving your overall tax structure? Well again when it comes to exploration our threshold decision isn't around tax.
It starts really with the subsurface and do we see the sort of geology and the potential belowground to make big finds? We then couple that obviously with all the aboveground risk the risk of operating in that country and infrastructure requirements but importantly the fiscal terms.
And so we look at the fiscal terms to make sure that the rewards if we're successful certainly offset the risk.
And in many cases as you look at production sharing contracts the taxes for the most part are paid on your behalf.
It's sort of rolled up into the PSC.
We have some very high tax regimes in Norway and Libya that are sort of unique relative to new production sharing contracts that we enter into around the world.
So the tax rate is not the big determinant there.
It's really what we see again as our ability to create very significant value for the amount of dollars that we're exposing there.
And as I said a moment ago you don't have to produce this out over 40 years.
You've got the opportunity with good success to monetize it upfront and capture the value that way.
And I would just add that we look at all of our investments on an after-tax basis.
And so even if there is a high tax rate if the after-tax rate of return is attractive then it makes sense to make that investment.
Right.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just quickly can you share the tax terms for either Kenya or Gabon? No.
Not at this time.
The next question comes from Ed Westlake from Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> It's a follow-on.
So I mean just in follow-on to the previous question.
I guess you're going to continue a balanced approach.
And one of the measures of success is going to be not just delivery in the Eagle Ford but also developing other shales in North America.
And to that end you've got this disposal program with quite a big chunk of assets.
Is there any way you can give us some guidance as to how much might fall within 2012 and how much might fall into 2013 as you have those discussions at this point? Ed I think the only guidance we give is sort of around what we've already talked about.
We've said in terms of Alaska that we now described as a $375-million asset sale that is still as you know going through necessary governmental approvals.
We would expect that to close this year.
As I said earlier we are going to be reviewing shortly the bids on our 50% interest in the Neptune gas plant.
And I think we feel strongly that will close this year.
Beyond that I don't want to speculate because we've not really talked about anything else that's on the asset sale list.
I'll simply tell you that again we're confident in getting to the numbers the range we've talked about before or potentially exceeding them by the end of next year.
So we're pressing it.
The final question comes from Paul Cheng from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> A real quick one.
Dave on Page 19 of your presentation you're very kind to provide the 24-hours day rate for some of the wells.
Do you have an average 30-day IP for the second quarter? No Paul.
We don't have anything like that but -- no we don't have -- we don't think about the business that way.
I guess I think what I would say is consistent with meetings that I've been in and Lance has just said this we're very confident in the type curves that we've seen.
And we'll provide updated information as we get it.
We don't expect them to change materially.
And that's the best thing -- way to think about an average is the type of wells we're bringing on versus those type curves.
Gentlemen that was last question.
Please go ahead with any final remarks.
All right Christine appreciate it.
Thank you everyone for their interest in Marathon Oil.
We hope to see you soon.
If you have follow-up questions please let Chris or myself know.
Thank you and have a great afternoon.
Thank you for participating in the Marathon Oil Corporation's Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Conference Call.
This concludes the conference for today.
You may all disconnect at this time.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to take my full quota of 2 questions.
I guess they're going to both be for Dave.
But Dave looking at the changes and the indicated rates for the wells it looks like the condensate rate the 30-day average has come down a little bit.
The high GOR rate has gone up a little bit.
But then when we look at the 60-day rate it looks like they're holding up a little better particularly on the condensate.
So I'm wondering if you can talk a little bit about what's changed there in terms of your choke management? And specific to that this morning EOG had their results and they made a point to say that "You know what? It doesn't really matter." And they're -- they've gone for the more aggressive chokes.
I wonder if you could address that and then I'll take a follow-up please.
Yes.
Doug thanks for the questions.
It's been pretty interesting reading all the comments about choke management.
One wouldn't think we've spent that much time talking about it.
But I think I would point out on the chart is we've given you actual well results.
And so previously the tight curves represented what we expected in the play and we've been pretty clear that they were based on essentially running these wells at 16 chokes across the play type.
And our practice is pretty straightforward.
We bring wells on at 12.
At 24 hours we flip them or once they settle in we flip them to 13.
Then we go to 14 and generally we put our wells down the sales line at 14 or less.
And so what we're trying to show here is the fact that our wells are holding up on a more predictive basis.
We're giving you actual details of how we're actually running these wells.
And I think importantly the most important line on that chart is the EUR number.
That number has been as consistent from what we said and that's what we're saying that these wells are performing exactly as we had anticipated.
As a second point I think we said from the beginning in this play we're very interested in what our competitors are doing and I think we've reacted very well to the range of competitors that we have in the Eagle Ford to make sure that we're engaged in best practice.
And no reason to doubt what some of these competitors say about managing chokes down or managing chokes up.
What I would say is we're going to continue to be focused on ultimate recovery in our wells.
We think it's very early days in what we're trying to do in terms of understanding all the reservoir physics.
But I think as importantly for us is just facilities optimization because there's no reason to build out facilities for a maximum rate when ultimately these -- we're going to be managing declines over time.
And so having a discipline around the CapEx and building out facilities to meet expectations in the wells as long as you get your EURs right you're doing the best for your shareholders.
And that's kind of what we'd say about choke management.
Research Division</strong> My follow-up is kind of a related question.
Obviously you've given us the Burrow as well.
I think you talked about ½-inch choke.
But what I'm doing is trying to understand is as we look at your projections going forward which you've obviously taken up for next year what are your assumptions? And what are the chances that you ultimately end up getting a little bit more aggressive in the way you flow these things? And I guess if I could layer into that you used to talk about 16 to 20 completions per quarter.
So just help us understand what's underlying that increase in target for next year between the choke and the number of wells.
And I would leave it there.
Well again I think the choke issues are really going to be around how we build out our facilities and making sure that our facilities match up with where our production.
I will tell you we are experimenting with moving more to a 16 to 18 range in the early days of choke sizes but I wouldn't get too carried away with that.
I think the key issue for us the 2 things that are going to drive our performance have driven them this year and are going to drive them into the future is kind of what we talked about in the opening is our ability really to flow past this concept of adding at least 60 wells a quarter.
We spud and TD-ed 79 wells in the Eagle Ford last quarter and that's the basis of our performance.
And we're basically in a view now where we're adding completions at a 65 to 70 well per quarter rate.
We still built an inventory of wells waiting to be completed of -- in the circa 25 area.
So what we're looking at here is over the course of the year we have driven down our cycle times spud-to-spud 25 which we think is competitive with the areas that we play in the basin.
And as importantly we've driven our well costs down in the last month or so into this $8.6 million per-well range that we have prognosed when we first got into this play.
That's with bigger fracs longer laterals and we're still beating our cycle-time expectations.
So the answer in terms of what we're doing in terms of driving production performance this year and into next year is all about execution.
We have become as good as anybody in this basin in 12 short months and we expect to be able to continue that performance into the out-years.
LLC Research Division</strong> I think you kind of covered a lot of the performance in the Eagle Ford pretty thoroughly here.
And just one question stepping back and looking at your obviously updated target that involves the Eagle Ford as well as the Williston Basin.
Is there anything from an infrastructure perspective especially in the Eagle Ford that could cause some lumpiness? And what is your like capacity through the year look like and into say 2014? Well I think the macro logistics particularly in South Texas are in pretty good shape.
My view is you've seen most of the lumpiness from us in really the second quarter of this year when our operating capacity on the drilling completion side kind of got ahead of our infield infrastructure and construction capability.
I think the rise that we've seen in the third quarter and continuing into the fourth is we're matched up very well now in terms of our construction capacity in terms of building out infield infrastructure and we're pretty much on top of getting the connections to the macro outlets.
I think we had a 2- or 3-day delay on one in the third quarter of this year.
So right now we're hitting on all cylinders and so that's the reason we've been able to increase our expectations for next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And stepping back and looking at the other I guess area of the Oklahoma resource-based opportunities that you all identified in as you look forward and determine whether or not capital needs to go there especially in some of the liquid areas like the Tonkawa Cleveland Marmaton and even the Mississippian how do you think about spending money there versus some of the international opportunities that you've kind of acquired here in the last 6 to 12 months? Well yes great questions Scott.
I think what we would say is that our international opportunities are largely exploration and they're going to sit pretty comfortably within this $500 million a year that we have prognosed as we move forward.
For instance the real shift that we've gotten into is probably lower working interest for more targets which allows us to fit our CapEx around those opportunities.
The real question about Oklahoma is going to be when price recovers relative to the commodity mix that we have there then we'll have some choices about where we shift our capital largely in the United States.
But right now we're pretty comfortable that we can wait on this.
We think we're going to see recoveries as we mentioned in the middle of this decade 2015 or so.
And then that will be queued up for us to really move after in an aggressive fashion and we'll probably have some headroom in our capital programs at that particular time.
LLC Research Division</strong> And as a follow-up onto that when you look at the Oklahoma resource opportunities there are some of the shallower ones a little bit more oil prone? Or are you not quite seeing that covering your acreage position? I think that's the general industry perception is that for instance the Granite Wash and the Mississippi are going to be a little bit more oil prone.
We're going to do some more work next year either within the program that we already have to take a hard look at that and that'll then form our opinions as we go forward.
So we got some work to do there but I think your going-in assumption is generally correct.
Research Division</strong> I had a question on the Eagle Ford.
But it was the only U.S.
basin within the presentation on which you didn't give new long-term production forecasts.
So any reason behind that? Are you still comfortable with us thinking about that as 120 000-barrel-a-day-plus basin by the 2016 time frame or so.
Just any color you can provide over the long-term ramp up there would be appreciated.
Yes.
It's a great question Guy and it's a topic of a lot of discussions around here.
There's no question in our mind that this oil field shakes out into -- say getting to those 120 000- 125 000-barrel a day ranges that we talked about.
I think what we're really focusing in on now is now that we've got our capability in hand and really have demonstrated externally we're going to take a hard look at what the ultimate peak rate and plateau should be for this field in that range.
So I think there's a lot of expectations.
We just blow past the 120 000.
But I think what we're going to look at is what's the best value optimization pathway for us in terms of how the overall facilities work how we get into overall operating rhythm on a go-forward basis.
So we still think and I think it -- the field has been demonstrated.
It will do pretty much whatever we want it to do in terms of delivering the volumes that we've suggested.
We're going to take a hard look at what's the way to make the most money out here.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then my follow-up is in the Eagle Ford it looks as if your crude oil volumes as a percentage of your total production fell to a lower level this quarter than it has been recently.
I think it's below 65% or so from around 75% before.
Just wondering if you could comment on that trend? Is that just reflective of higher activity in the condensate window? Or is that a trend that we should expect to continue based upon what you're seeing in the areas where you've stepped up activity? Just any comments there would be helpful.
Yes.
As we kind of pointed out when we first got into this thing we spent a great deal of time in the first 2 quarters of the year really focusing on the oil-prone areas and a lot of that was just taking care of our lease position.
As we move south into the higher-energy areas more gas you're exactly right.
We're basically seeing a 65% oil take and 17% NGLs plus/minus on our current production.
That's something else that we're really focusing in on making sure we optimize around.
I don't think that it's going to degrade too much further from that because we're really going to focus particularly in the commodity window we're moving into to make sure that we maximize the oil revenues and we have opportunity to take out of here.
So we'll continue to watch it.
But now we have some flexibility on where we actually drill our wells and we'll be able to probably stay in that neighborhood at least.
Research Division</strong> It's Faisel from Citi.
On the press release you guys put out not too long ago I think October 24 you've talked about how you guys are engaged in discussions with the potential of sale of a portion of your interest in AOSP.
Can you give us an update on that? And then give us an idea what you would do with the proceeds from that asset sale if it was consummated? Yes.
Faisel this is Clarence.
And really there's nothing to update at this point.
I think as we said we've engaged in discussions with respect to a sale of a portion of our interest.
And really at this point in time there's nothing to say.
If and when we have a definitive agreement certainly we'd be prepared to talk more about that at that time particularly as to what we would do with the proceeds.
Research Division</strong> Okay understood.
And is -- on this Burrow's 2-H well what's the 30-day flowing rate? I think I missed that number.
I don't know if you gave that number or not.
We didn't give that.
I don't think we've gotten to 30 days quite yet Faisel.
Research Division</strong> Clarence a bit more of kind of high-level question given we've had a lot of detail very helpful detail on mostly on the U.S.
I was just wondering given the success that you've demonstrated by I guess focusing back into the U.S.
or attacking the new opportunity in the U.S.
onshore and I guess less spending internationally how are you thinking about your spending going forward in terms of how you balance between perhaps accelerating your spending in the U.S.
and the extent to which you want to continue if you like the more legacy exploration program? That's kind of the thrust of what I was asking.
Yes.
I think Paul I would say that it's our intent to remain a global company.
You will not see us pull back our horns and become a purely U.S.
or North America company.
And so today as we look at the international arena the best opportunities we see are in exploration as evidenced by the enhanced program and opportunity set Dave talked about earlier.
I think in terms of accelerating the pace of our resource play pursuits as we indicated earlier having the opportunity set we've now developed gives us the optionality around doing just that.
But as I said in my comments we'll do that depending upon the commodity price environment and cost environment that we see.
And so I think we certainly as Dave has indicated will focus on value optimization.
And value optimization today in the resource plays really means staying away from that natural gas decreasing to the extent possible our exposure to NGLs until we see that market come back and instead focusing on the liquids on crude oil and condensate.
And perhaps that could have some impact on slightly lower rates slightly lower volume but again as we've said it really is about value optimization.
So you'll continue to see us seek the best opportunities for growth on a global basis.
And I'd simply go back to the earlier part of the decade in the 2001-2002 time frame where people had a view we were leaving the U.S.
to invest solely  internationally.
We built some tremendous legacy assets internationally that are big providers of our cash today but we didn't abandon the U.S.
And fortunately we didn't because we're back again now investing very significantly there.
And of course as Dave talks about for example some of the Oklahoma basins a lot of that is a legacy acreage that we've had for some time.
So we simply want to position ourselves in places where we know there's a great deal of resource and then we can turn our people our capital and our technology lose on creating value from that.
Research Division</strong> Yes I understand.
And then my follow up is a double follow-up.
It's related.
Does this mean given that you've essentially upgraded your volume at least relatively near term that we shouldn't think about an attendant upgrade in CapEx? And secondly I was wondering once the current disposal program is completed would you -- with what you just said it indicated that that would kind of be the end of that program or would you be looking to reload for a second round of focus if you like? And I'd leave it there.
Yes.
I think in terms of the capital programs Paul still consistent with what we've talked about before.
I think we've got some illustrations in our presentations.
And if you look at it it's between $5 billion to $5.5 billion of CapEx per year.
And with respect to future asset sales I would simply ask you to look back at what we have done historically.
And we've had a almost continuous program if you will of reviewing our portfolio looking at how we can best optimize the value of that portfolio and in many cases it results in dispositions and then reinvestment of that into what we would see as more profitable growth.
So the bottom line is we continue to review our asset base and I would expect that you'll continue to see an asset sale program from us on an ongoing basis.
Research Division</strong> My first question it's something of a follow-up on the last question.
I know it's early stage in the potential stake sale for AOSP.
Yet can you discuss the driver for considering that sale? I mean is it more than high grading the portfolio here as you get larger? And maybe some statement on the value of your shares or a emerging and better investment opportunity to elsewhere.
Is there more to read into that? So I would say Evan it's -- I don't want to speculate simply because as I've said we've not reached a decision.
But I think as you think about the AOSP project I would simply say what we've said all along and we believe it is a world-class asset.
It is tremendous resource pays with the opportunity to grow it well into the future and technology is going to allow us to do that cheaper in a more environmentally sustainable fashion.
But again at the same time it is a large nonoperated asset.
It is perhaps to your point an asset we don't think the value of which is fully reflected in our stock price.
So as we look at that is there an opportunity perhaps to capture value and either reinvest that in profitable growth to strengthen our balance sheet or return some cash to our shareholders all of those are considerations as we look at that asset and other assets that we have on a continuous basis.
Research Division</strong> Yes and that's helpful.
Maybe I have a follow-up on the Eagle Ford.
Just to confirm 85 000 boes a day is net full year guidance.
And also on the downspacing potential I know you've been testing that throughout the year yet in highlighting that potential today should we presume that you are encouraged by results which aren't necessarily early but maybe not fully ripe for disclosure yet? Yes Evan.
I will confirm the 85 000.
And trust me we've thought long and hard about that and that's another big step-up for us.
But -- so that's what we're going to do next year.
And on the downspacing as you know we're a technically driven company.
We're going to wait for the analysis.
But I will tell you we're -- I'm confident as I said that this thing is going to be downspaced.
In certain areas you're going to see some pretty close wells.
Research Division</strong> Dave can you just confirm for me whether you're already out from the HBP into oil PADD drilling at this point? No Paul.
We're -- I think we're consistently saying we're probably in the range of 75% through with that.
Next year probably about midyear we'll be in the mode of being -- have all our HBP behind us in the Eagle Ford.
Research Division</strong> And I wanted to ask that.
One of your competitor has indicated when they moved from the HBP into the PADD drilling for several months initially that have a -- probably where we see a temporary delay in the well completion and as we saw that production will become more back-end loaded or that they're pretty flat during the transition period.
Should we assume that as you move out from the HBP into the PADD drilling by mid of next year that this could potentially have some temporary effect on your production? Well Paul I mean I think the issue is how many of your completions on a given quarter are tied up in a PADD because your point is that you could have unevenness as you had to complete several wells before you could bring them on.
I think what we -- what I would say against the well stock of -- in any given year of 250-plus wells a year that you're probably going to see some of those effects but it's not going to be something to where it's going to be problematic.
Research Division</strong> So you do not expect this going to have any meaningful impact to you? Well let's -- we can talk about meaningful offline if you want Paul.
But I mean I think there is going to be some unevenness but I don't think it's going to be something where you're going to see a quarter be washed out because we're engaged in PADD drilling.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And final one can you remind me how many rigs that you're going to run in 2013? And what is the number of proved? Yes we -- right now we're still focused on keeping 18 rigs running in the Eagle Ford.
We -- our view is that we will keep our 4 dedicated crews the 2 "spot crews" that we're running in addition to that we'll run through at least the end of the year and I would expect that at least one of those crews will feature heavily into 2013.
LLC Research Division</strong> A broad question on adding rigs.
I think you mentioned if I heard correctly that you might be doing that later in the decade.
What would it take to add rigs in the bigger resource plays in the near term? Well John it's a great question.
I think the issue for us as we've said is we want to live within our means as best as possible.
And one of the things that we've already seen this year is we're gaining efficiency and so we're spending a lot of capital to do what it is we need to do.
And I think that the issue for us is we're going to continue to try to balance the business on making sure that we can pay our own way as much as possible in the programs we're in given the price regimes and the cost regime we're in.
So the real thing that's going to have to change relative to Oklahoma and some of the others is if we have a shift in natural gas and natural gas liquids and then we'll be able to make plays look more competitive with some of the oil-prone plays that we're working on.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on Kurdistan quickly which you obviously got a lot of drilling coming out on this exploration site.
You've already had some success there.
How do you see a development playing out? When do you think you'd start to see some productions to the local market and then ramping up from there? On the 2 nonoperated prospects that we already have discoveries on we do expect to see smaller scale circa 10 000 barrel a day early production systems in place in the first half of next year likely the first quarter but I'm giving myself a little room there because we do have winter in that part of the world.
I think that's going to do 2 things for us.
As we said it's going to help us test these reservoirs a little bit more effectively.
They are complicated and it's also going to give us ability to test some of the fiscal issues that we're looking at.
So you'll have small scale production next year.
These are plays that in the event that we elect to go forward with development based on the successful exploration you could certainly see production in a 5-year window.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> First of all about your hedging program.
Tell me if I'm wrong but it seems like your hedge book has increased quite a bit just in absolute terms since the beginning of the year.
Is that part of a trend or more of a onetime item? Well we actually at the beginning of the year didn't have any significant hedges on our equity production.
So this is a decision that was made in August and executed at the end of August.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean any -- your bank's encouraging you to do that or just part of your portfolio management? No.
As you know we're a strong investment-grade company.
So we don't have any issues with regard to balance sheet protection per se.
But when we looked at the markets late August it appeared to us that prices were quite attractive relative to the potential for a downside price and deterioration and so we put the hedges in place.
Now you might have remember that back in 2010 I believe we did the same kind of thing and opportunistically put hedges in place for about a year at a time and that turned out well.
This one so far has turned out well for us.
Research Division</strong> Sorry for re-prompting but I just had a couple of quick more mundane questions.
Maybe for Janet just looking at the earnings it struck us that there were some nonrecurring items in here that could have been stripped out and I just wanted to get your perspective on it.
First of all on the corporate charges there was no tax offset as you normally have.
And also on the write-off of the Eagle Ford acreage that you're selling I'm just curious as to why they weren't stripped out and if you could help us understand what was going on with the corporate tax offset.
Sure.
The unproved property impairment ordinarily comes as part of exploration expense and therefore we don't treat it as special items.
Obviously it is nonrecurring.
It's noncash and we wanted to call it to your attention and treat it as you will.
In terms of the taxes there are lots of things going back and forth in that account so -- which are offsetting.
But as you know with FIN 18 as we look at our effective tax rate for the year at the end of the third quarter we can see that we needed to increase the effective tax rate slightly.
But of course that means we have to have the full catch-up for the full year and so that's what's offsetting it the kind of blend to close to 0.
What happened is as we look at what we expect to achieve for the full year of 2012 we are outperforming relatively in the high tax jurisdictions of the U.K.
and Norway particularly and actually underperforming a bit in some of the lower tax jurisdictions which drives the overall effective tax rate higher.
Research Division</strong> So it's basically a true-up Janet? That's an effective tax rate catch-up exactly.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I reckon about $0.10 do you think that sort of magnitude is a bit -- would it have been otherwise $0.10 delta meaning on the EPS? It was about a 1% effective tax rate change.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
For the full year though? Through the third quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
My other one if I may is just very quickly for Dave.
The disclosure on the exploration Dave at least the Diaman well I'm not sure I'm pronouncing it properly in Gabon has not really got a lot of attention from you guys at least.
Can you give us some color as to what your expectations are? Obviously it's subsalt and it's in a fairly hot area.
So I'm just -- if you could give us any color and your expectations and I'll leave it there.
Well we generally leave that to the operator Total and I'm sure you could raise that with them.
But pretty clearly that's one of the most exciting areas of the world.
Gabon obviously it sets up well because you have onshore and near shore production and so we would expect this to trend out in the deepwater like we've seen in the other areas of West Africa.
And we're anxiously awaiting the spud of this well in the first quarter of 2013.
Research Division</strong> Just a couple of follow-ups.
Of the 18 rigs that you've got running in the Eagle Ford where you have these -- where do you have these rigs spaced out? Is it mostly in Karnes County or Gonzales? Or where would you have most of the operation kind of running right now? Well I guess in terms of what our ultimate for the year is going to be half of our activity is in Karnes County and then another quarter is featured in DeWitt and Gonzales and then the rest are scattered around.
So the 3 core counties is where we do most of our work.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And if you can just give us an update or a reminder of where your capital spending projections are for the Eagle Ford and what the breakdown is between production and also infrastructure for 2012.
Yes.
We're still talking all-in with the things that we're doing in between the $1.5 billion $2 billion for what we'll spend in the Eagle Ford for operating CapEx.
And I would kind of point you to on the order of magnitude of $200 million to $250 million in terms of facilities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the last question really on Libya.
It's -- the last 2 press releases you've excluded that production from your sort of guidance.
At what point in time do you bring this back in? And then if you could just elaborate a little bit more on this gas sale how it works at it -- we'd appreciate that.
I'd appreciate that.
In terms of guidance on Libya until we have a good sense of what's going on in the ground have expats located in Tripoli have been out to the field so that we can understand what is the sustainable rate and what -- it's a better sense to have a forecast of that rate.
We're going to keep that separate from the overall forecast.
So it's hard to say given some of the recent hostilities there when that time will be.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there's no company man on the ground or expats on the ground in Libya? Not at this time.
Dave? Faisel I'll take that one.
I think the distinction is that we have people on occasion rotating into Tripoli because we believe the security situation there supports that.
We do not have expats on the ground near the producing assets which are in the "deep desert." And I think that's one of the areas that we're going to have to sort before we move forward.
Now with respect to the gas contract basically the way people should think about that is we will show an increase in production relative to the gas contract of about a little over 2 000 barrels equivalent per day 14 million cubic feet until April when the second phase of the fair project comes on.
And then that number will jump to 30 million cubic feet a day for us until we make it up.
So it's over a period of about 2 years that we'll make up that shortfall.
It's the underage the underlift.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just following on Faisel's question on where rigs are located.
In Oklahoma where are you drilling currently? Where are you focusing? The rigs are running in the Knox area to the south of the wood -- Anadarko Woodford.
So -- but they'll bounce back and forth between the -- what we call the Cana which is just to the north of that.
And next year we'll probably branch out into some of the areas we've talked about.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then can you elaborate a bit on Innsbruck just where it stands right now and what the hopes still are? Yes.
I think as we indicated in the release we're near the bottom of the hole and we've gone through a series of objective zones.
They have been less than encouraging.
We probably got depending on what the well will allow us to do potentially between 2 2 days in a week to go before we get to the bottom of the hole and the last possible objective and then we'll obviously update people on what we came to.
All right John.
Thank you and thank everyone for joining us and your questions on this call.
And we look forward to seeing you in the future.
If you have additional questions please don't hesitate to call myself or Chris Phillips.
Thank you.
Have a good day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! (Operator Instructions).
And our first question is from Doug Leggate of Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good afternoon everybody.
I understand the operating cost guidance Clarence thanks for that.
But I guess my question is really on the as you shift your production goals towards the U.S.
can you help us understand what the cash tax impact is in terms of how we should think about the deferred tax is going forward and I have a follow-up please.
Let me let Doug I have Janet touch on that.
Yeah I think because of our very high capital program in the U.S.
the domestic spending is such that we would not expect to see cash taxes paid in the U.S.
in the coming year.
As you know our international taxes are largely all cash and in fact deferred tax is reversing on and is incremental cash.
Okay.
The reason I asked the question Clarence if I may based on your current capital program based on given your production outlook it seems to us you are going to be throwing off a fair amount of cash and update perhaps possibly on how your sales process in Canada is going as well.
But when you take that together it looks like you’re going have a fair amount of cash this year.
I am just curious as to what’s your priority for using that cash and I’ll leave you there? Thanks.
Well Doug I guess first of all I would say that the amount of cash we drove off obviously is going to be dependent upon the commodity price environment that we face.
But there is no question that certainly the growth in our U.S.
production is going to drive strong cash flows from those resource plays but at the same time you would recognize we are seeing declines in some of our legacy assets that have also been historically very strong cash flow providers like Norway.
As you know we will see about a 20 000 BOE a day decline in Norway this year from about 90 000 BOE a day to 70 000 BOE a day as well as the Gulf of Mexico.
So again obviously we do expect to continue to grow.
Our cash flows both on an absolute and a per-share basis but I think you just have to look at all of the elements that come to bear on that.
With respect to you mentioned Canada I would simply say that as you know and many others know we did indicate that there had been discussions around the potential sale of a portion of our interest there.
And I think what I would say to everyone is when and if that is no longer relevant or correct we will say something.
So you’ll hear something either way either in terms that we have come to a mutually acceptable transaction at some point in time or indeed – if indeed those discussions should breakdown we would still advice of that as well.
The other sales again we – outside of Canada we have said $1.5 billion to $3 billion of transactions between 2011 and the end of 2013 we continue to make progress on that and you’d have noted in our earnings release today that we did announce the sale of our 34% interest in Neptune gas plant for $170 million.
So we continue to make progress towards our overall goal by the end of this year.
To really kind of get to the use of cash clearance as opposed to the sources of cash.
I guess you get the punch line are you happy with the portfolio or do you feel you have enough debts or should we expect additions of portfolio as we go forward? No I think coming back Doug we have said first of all we’re going to spend within our cash flows and certainly the $5.2 billion CapEx program we’ve outlined for 2013 we think it fits with that.
It is straight down the fairway of the guidance we’ve given of $5 billion to $5.5 billion of spending going forward.
With respect to additional cash that may come in from asset sales certainly we’ll look at that I think we’ve indicated in the past that for the most part we believe that the bolt-on acquisition programs that we’ve been doing particularly in the Eagle Ford have largely reached their end.
We believe we’re pretty much with may be one exception exhausted that opportunity set.
Having spent quite a bit on acquiring and building the resource base we have we will now set about to spend our money developing that and additional cash we would look to either as we said potentially a share buyback strengthening our balance sheet and increasing the dividend and no one should read into that necessarily that’s a priority.
We’ll assess that at the time but clearly returning value back to our shareholders is a key driver for us and certainly that’s what we’d look to do at that time.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Hi everyone.
You outperformed again in the Eagle Ford.
Could you talk a little bit more about how far – where do you want to driving that performance and particularly we’re looking at the drilling days is exceeded our expectations in terms of how low you’re going.
How much further can you go with that plant.
Could you talk a little bit more about how much pad drilling you’re doing – just fill us more on just what’s driving your success there? Well it’s really easy answer Paul.
Let’s say it’s extraordinary people – the team we have is doing an outstanding job across the company.
But certainly in the Eagle Ford as we drill that may wells and continued to incrementally improve what we do it all cumulatively adds up to very significant savings in spud-to-spud times.
And of course as I indicated in my remarks we’ll be aided in that in 2013 by the fact that we’re moving to about 70% of our wells being drilled on multi well pads versus very few pad wells in 2012.
And as we’ve indicated in the past pad drilling significantly accelerates the spud-to-spud times and it’s not necessarily representative of everything we’ve been able to do but we’ve had occasions where three wells of one pad took us a total of 39 days so roughly 13 days a well.
So again as you see more pad drilling we’re going to bring that – that the average in January of 19 down to a much lower level.
And so as we’ve talked about driving down our overall cost in the Eagle Ford it’s a combination of savings on rig time as well as savings that we’re realizing in our completion cost that’s allowing us to drive our overall drilling and completion cost down below the $8 million level that we’ve talked about.
So I think it’s all of those factors quite frankly Paul that continue to enhance our overall performance.
Great.
Thanks.
And I know you’ll encourage only one follow-up.
So if I could jump across on the subject to people there was an abrupt resignation in the past quarter that surprised us Clarence what is your public statements on what happened there? Thank you.
Yeah.
Paul and look I know it came as a surprise and I know what you’re referring to is Dave’s resignation for the company and I think as the release said it was to pursue other interest and obviously we wish Dave well and whatever he elect to pursue.
The message I would have for investors is that we have a very strong team here at Marathon.
As I was just talking about the results in the Eagle Ford we could say the same across the rest of our business.
We have a very talented experienced leadership team and I believe the company is in the very very good hands and I would simply say that the development of our leadership team of our executives and succession plans are at a very high priority at Marathon for the management team and for the board as well.
And so again I would reinsure investors that the company is in very good hands.
Thanks Clarence.
If I could just confirm that Marathon has a mandatory 65-year-old retirement age which without wanting to embarrass you I think is going to fairly shortly affect you? Yeah actually I’m 62 Paul but I feel 52 on some days.
But to your point and it’s what I was referring to just a moment ago succession planning is a critical priority in this company and it is something that particularly with respect to CEO succession and the board spends a great deal of time and effort on.
And I again will assure you is as all the shareholders that when it’s time for me to step aside this company will be in very good hands and will be able to led into the future.
So again I would simply say there is nothing for investors to worry about at that point.
Thanks very much in deed sir.
Hi.
Good afternoon guys.
The question on Eagle Ford I think you guys plan to drill 275 to 320 operated wells.
I know you bringing as much sales as you drill in 2012 which is as expected but how should we think about the backlog for 2013 kind of building falling same ratios as it affect production.
And then secondly I appreciate your color in increase pad drilling can you update me kind of where you on oil cost today versus your 2013 target.
Thanks.
Yeah I think Evan I’m not exactly sure which backlog you’re talking about.
We and you cited the range we’ve given.
I think the most specific number is about 290 to 295 wells that we plan to drill this year and we’ve talked about the fact that while we’re at 18 rigs currently we may able to go to 16 rigs and still achieve that program.
Again we feel pretty confident about that.
We’ve been asked why don’t you keep those 18 rigs and drill more wells and I think it goes exactly to your question.
We are drilling at a pace and growing our production at a pace that aligns with the midstream development and the takeaway capacity.
So we avoid just that kind of backlog that you’re talking about and continue to be able to hookup our wells with in a very short time of when we got them fracked so that we don’t have a great deal of production shut in.
It has helped a great deal as you know that we have invested significantly in the midstream last year was around $350 million this year it’s about $190 million at central batteries and gathering lines that has allowed us to move off of trucks with about 60% of our barrels now on pipe that gives us again greater optionality and lowers our costs.
There obviously is a CSR advantage as well in the region in terms of traffic.
And we intend to move that closer to 70% by the end of the year.
So continue to move our barrels on pipe.
So I would simply say we don’t have a significant backlog we typically try to keep in terms of our fracs about 25 wells that are out and front so we never have our frac crews waiting on a drilling break.
So if that was what you were concerned about the frontend we’ve got inventory built there and then on the backend in terms of keeping our barrels moving we’re in good shape there.
Again I would say in terms of the overall drilling and completion costs we’ve been running about $8.5 million we will take that down as I said just a moment ago to just below $8 million drilling completion and then we’ll have some additional facilities cost on that that will bring that up for about $8.1 million.
I would simply indicate that as we look at our opportunities keep driving cost down in the Eagle Ford.
We do indeed see some opportunity particularly on the stimulation side the frac cost side to continue to driving – drive some of our cost down there on the drilling rig side.
The greatest savings is going from 18 rigs to 16 rigs and being able to drill the same number of wells.
So that’s what’s impacting our cost.
That’s very helpful.
Second question just on corporate expenses they were up from 3Q and maybe I missed it I don’t know if there were any kind of a onetime charges in there.
Should we expect this to revert lower in 2013 and closer to 3Q or any guidance would be helpful? Thanks.
Sure I think if you look at allocated G&amp;A was up from 83 and 134 and interest expense was up from 53 to 61 quarter-over-quarter.
And there is about $25 million of comps and comps related expenses that are really of an unusual nature and we not expect to see them recurring.
We had about actually $10 million of IT expense in the quarter.
Our IT spend did not exceed our budget our plan for the year but it was very much backend weighted.
And so that’s not a run rate that you should expect to see continuing.
In addition we have a tax sharing agreement with MPC and relatively small amount quarter in and quarter out over time they will be income neutral.
But in the fourth quarter showing up in that unallocated G&amp;A was about at a $11 million expense associated with the MPC tax sharing agreement which will be offset again that will be income neutral.
So don’t think of that is recurring either.
When you look at interest expense quarter-over-quarter it was up about $8 million and as you know we issued the debt $2 billion of debt in the fourth quarter and while it was a very very attractive interest rate.
It felt was more expensive than the CP that is replaced.
So interest expenses going to be up marginally quarter over that will be ongoing.
And then as always a little bit of noise in the G&amp;A and interest numbers a lots of other miscellaneous things.
But I think that if you look at the third quarter and allocated G&amp;A it is probably closer to a reasonable run arte.
Although with ramp up in activity levels we’re going to see some natural inflation in there but I think Clarence eluded to the fact we are looking at ways that we can more efficiently operate so that we can produce greater value for the shareholders.
Great.
Great color.
Thank you.
Clarence just a couple international questions.
I think you mentioned in the release the Kurdistan Declaration of Commerciality.
Could you just talk about next steps there? What kind of capital order of magnitude we may be looking at.
And then just on the Gabon subsalt well that I think spuds later this quarter.
Is that one where the state of the block is depending on this first well or their multiple prospects? Thank you.
Yeah.
I guess Arjun I don’t recall making a comment on Declaration of Commerciality in Kurdistan.
We have had the very successful second well drilled at Atrush.
Yeah.
And perhaps may be… I apologize it’s been filed I think according to your release.
Okay.
So maybe nothing to clear apologies.
Okay.
And of course earlier this week I think one of the partners in that projects disclosed some independent reserve reports that they had done on the asset.
But at this point obviously we’ll continue to participate there.
We’re very anxious to see the commerciality of how these barrels will be brought to market given some of the difficulties that are ongoing there today particularly because the relationships between Bagdad and Rubiel.
In terms of our spending there this year it’s the Harir well that we’ve indicated that first well was a dry hole.
We have two wells drilling today on the Mangesh and Gara wells that are on the Sarsang block and we’ll have another well the Mawawa well drilled later this year.
And then we’ll be following up with two of our operated wells one at Safen and one at Mawawa which is on the same block as Harir well.
I don’t know that we’ve given necessarily the full investment there I would simply say that we have formed down as you know 35% interest in our two operated blocks origin and we have mitigated further I would simply say our financial exposure to the drilling.
And so we’re going to get a very cost efficient evaluation of these prospects in 2013.
Thank you.
Then just on the Gabon presalt and one done or some more prospects there? Well I’m a former exploration partner so you never want to say when done it is going to be a great important test because it is on a very large structure.
These structures all defined by 3D seismic there is a question mark of course is the presence of reservoir the quality of the reservoir out there in the deep water as well as the access to source we see the salt seal above these structures.
So I’d never say that one well in that larger block can completely make or break the block but it’s going to have a very significant impact certainly in our view of it.
And so it’s a promising well and we look forward to it and I think the spud was originally mid-February and now it looks like it’s going to slip into March so we watch that with great anticipation.
That’s great Thank you so much.
Yeah.
Hi thanks for taking my question.
You guys touched on this briefly earlier but I was hoping you could comment on recent North Sea production trends but I believe about a year ago you were expecting a 2012 production at Alpine to average about 80 a day.
And it looks like it actually came in around 90.
So you’ve outperformed there can you just talk about what all you’ve done to improve the production there and may be give us your latest thoughts on extending that plateau and what declines could look like in 2013 2014.
So do you see some upside to that 70 000 barrels a day in 2013 that you mentioned earlier in light of some of the recent performance.
I wish I could answer that affirmatively but I would say that the extraordinary work that our team has done in the past not just in raising 2012 production about what we said but if you look back historically at what our 2008 2009 plans said we have really outperformed for several years here.
And to your point extended the plateau and raised the plateau to a higher level of 90 000 barrels a day in 2012 and that was a combination of additional tie-backs to Alpine but again pretty extraordinary reservoir work and operating reliability on that asset and that’s allowed us to achieve some really top quartile performance.
There is no getting away from the decline we see in the 2013.
It is about a 20 000 barrel a day decline to average around the 70 000 BOE per day.
We continue to advance projects like – that we’ll be able to tie back to Alpine and that will help flatten the decline in the future when that project comes on I believe at the end of the 2014 but the decline will still be there.
We certainly continue to look for new opportunities to tie back within the acceptable radius but I think we’ve pretty much exhausted that opportunity set.
We will continue to operate the asset on – as lower costs and reliable basis as we can because as I’ve said before despite the fact that Norway is a high tax rate country these barrels get a very premium price obviously the lower prices and at low cost.
So it is a – still a strong margin highly profitable though.
Okay.
Great.
And then also you raised the Bakken guidance but one could argue that it’s still conservative in light of some of the recent performance.
So my question is how conservative Mike that guidance be and what type of activity levels does it imply for you all through year? Sorry if I missed that earlier.
And also what might cause you to accelerate activity there certainly realizations have improved prices have been strong I assume you’ve gotten some service cost release just wanting to get a sense of what you might need to see get more active there? Yeah I think first of all with the guidance or the activity levels it will remain at five rigs.
This year we do have two frac crews active.
We may indeed be able to scale that back to one frac crew and that is to drill about 65 operated wells and to your point on the guidance I’ve recognized that in the fourth quarter we – we hit an essence what is our – was our guidance for – higher than our guidance for 2013.
So we’re certainly simply looking at that.
But I would tell you that we have to be careful because it is winter time up there.
You’ve noted that our January production is below where we were in the fourth quarter and weather can have a very significant impact on that.
But again our team continues to perform extremely well.
What we look at additional activity we will.
And to your point that we’ve seen improvements in Bakken pricing as rail has opened up additional outlets eliminating some of the bottlenecks.
We too have increased our use of rail.
If you go back to January of 2012 we only railed about 5% of our barrels.
Now we’re up to 40%.
We’ll continue to look at that as a good opportunity certainly in 2013 when we think the differentials will support that kind of activity.
But we don’t want to lock into long-term activity until we get a better sense of how overall infrastructure and builds out and differentials are impacted.
So we certainly will look at that possibility of ramping up if we see the right conditions.
Very helpful.
Thanks.
Folks good afternoon.
Thanks for taking the question.
I had a question on divestitures maybe two specific assets if I could.
One the Marcellus was noticeably absent from commentary.
I was just curious if you’re planning to move forward there or potentially exit? And I guess the similar question on Libya obviously the production is ramp back pretty aggressively here.
I’ve read recent press report that suggests there could be upside production potential in the area which could potentially garner some interest from some of your larger peers.
And I am just curious if that could potentially be an asset you would look to divest and help maybe neutralize this erratic tax rate that we’ve been seeing? Thanks.
Yes Blake I guess on the first piece it is our intent if we are able to secure the right value to exit the Marcellus I think we’ve been pretty well upfront about the fact that is not an area that is quarter less and so that certainly is something we’re looking at.
With respect to Libya as sale candidate as I have said before Blake we don’t comment on specific assets that we haven’t announced for sale simply because we believe that weakens our hand if indeed we ever do elect to monetize an asset.
And so at this point I simply would say you’re right that this asset has great upside.
We’ve said in the past and most recently the NOC has said in the past that it’s an asset capable of producing upwards of 600 000 barrels a day from the current 320 000.
The key to realizing that is going to be to develop some major projects that have already been discovered and we’re in the planning process.
So we see strong value in this asset going forward despite its high tax rate.
And I recognize it has a high tax rate but the nature of that contract is that no matter what the oil price is Libya will always generate positive earnings and as well as likely positive cash.
It is a very favorable contract in that regard and it’s a high return asset.
So we will continue to move forward with it.
Okay great.
My second question Clarence if you don’t mind just addressing quickly the another discussion of potential MLP in the Eagle Ford with regard to the midstream takeaway capacity I didn’t know if you had any updates there on where you stood? No it’s really way to early at this point Blake for us to begin exploring that.
I think we certainly see that as a possibility in the future when we finally reach a stage that we have built out the infrastructure and are convinced that we are able to capture the value of our production which is the highest priority here.
We do need to maintain control over that infrastructure to move our barrels to where we see the best value but we still got more work to do there.
And as you heard me say before we are going to have to determine ultimately what is the plateau level of production if we want to get to in the Eagle Ford.
As I have said before we are not going to run to a peak and then decline.
We want to reach the plateau that we can maintain for several years so we can build out the infrastructure to meet those needs and not end up with over capacity very shortly after reaching a peak production.
So I think for now we are going to continue to move forward building out what we need.
I want to all set and done.
We got some operating history in that asset.
We can look at whether or not at MLP allows us to capture incremental value from it but that’s not a near-term priority.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Hi this is Scott Willis on for Ed.
I sort of quick one on the Eagle Ford so I mean it looks like your production is ramping pretty nicely and the proved well economics are attractive as well.
I was just wondering what your expectation is for when Eagle Ford may begin to contribute to the free cash flow of Marathon as a whole and I just have one follow up.
Yeah we’ve said consistently I think and the time we did the Hilcorp acquisition that we saw the Eagle Ford turning cash flow positive in 2014 and that is still the case.
Okay great.
And then just on the Eagle Ford infrastructure it looks like you’re spending about $190 million this year.
I was just wondering how you’re spending may look going forward in relation to that over the next few years.
Yeah I think this year is going to be about a half where we were last year a little more than that and I think we would expect 2014 to be half again at that point and I probably don’t want to comment much beyond that in part that’s going to determine at what level again do we want to focus in on a plateau type of production that we would build out to.
Okay great.
And then just last one on the Bakken well do you have a pre-drill or resource expectation there.
I believe we did have that in our presentation and I want to say it’s we’ve said 250 million to 800 million barrels of growth resource potential above range.
All right.
Thank you.
Hey guys.
Good afternoon.
Janet I just wanted to follow up with the earlier question I just want to make sure I understood.
On the deferred tax as a company as a whole not just in the U.S.
as a company as a whole should we assume that in this year as we turn into a positive cash flow item.
Next year yeah and well – yeah this year 2013 yes.
Right.
Already turning to a positive cash flow item.
Okay.
And Clarence it’d great that you provide some data on Eagle Ford on the unit cost structure.
Do you have a similar data that you may be able to share on Bakken? I don’t think we’re prepared to show that.
The Bakken has grown at a more modest and measured pace and it has not had the kind of impact on our overall U.S.
aggregation that we’ve seen in Eagle Ford.
We’re trying to not get into a place Paul where we end up giving detailed numbers on all of our major assets.
But Eagle Ford we felt we needed to do it because at the rate that it’s growing and the impact that it’s having not just on our U.S.
business but the corporation as a whole we felt we needed to give investors’ guidance on that asset because it’s fairly unique in our portfolio at this point.
Clarence in the Eagle Ford the wells that you’re going to drill in 2013 are they – what’s the percentage going to be in the closing window and comparing that to 2012? Yeah I think Paul it’s about let me check I want to say about 75% or 75% to 80% of our wells are in the high GOR trend but the bulk of the rest are in the condensate window.
And I think that’s – we’ll confirm that but… Do you have that number for 2012 so I just wanted to see that how that is being shift? It was actually about the same Paul in 2012.
So even though we have said we’re going to focus as much as we can in the high-GOR window this year because of the lower NGO and gas prices.
Last year with trying to hold leases and meet our obligations as it turns out we’ll have about the same proportion in the high GOR window in 2013 as we did in 2012.
Had we embarked on our original plan before we saw the collapse in NGO prices.
We have a much percent in the condensate window.
That was part of our plan originally was to accelerate our drilling there but again with what’s happened with NGO prices and we redirected that to the high GOR area.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Good afternoon.
I think got the well is of the Eagle Ford at about $8.5 million per well where you guys are at right now.
Well how much of your wells coming in at the Bakken? Probably $8.5 to $8.8 million.
Okay.
We still think Faisel that’s best-in-class up there.
Okay.
Fair enough.
Any more potential improvement on that number going forward to the year or is that pretty much as kind of… Little bit we were in 2013 most of our wells are going to be on pad drilling but we don’t see as much savings on pads in the Bakken because to a certain extent we are doing at the Bakken for access to locations topography issues and we actually end up drilling longer laterals from some of the pads that offsets some of the cost savings you get in less movement less move days.
So we don’t see a lot of improvement at this point Khan but we continue to believe our costs are going to be the best in class.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then just on the per unit profitability in the U.S.
E&amp;P.
You’ve certainly have ramped up the production in a pretty high clip in the Eagle Ford and the Bakken.
And just want to understand when do we see that sort of bottom line results from all that production ramp because when you look at the 2012 per unit cost per unit profitability came down versus 2011.
So just want to understand how you guys are thinking about per unit profitability of this sort of assets going forward over the next couple of years? Yeah.
I think certainly the cash – the unit cash margins are going to – going to be strong because as we’ve shown here our cash cost whether fuel level controllables or the other costs are coming down and driven a large part by the higher volumes.
The earnings contribution is going to be a bit more muted and again it comes back to the impact that Eagle Ford has on the overall DD&amp;A rate.
So when you look at 2012 actual and the 2013 guidance we’ve given you the 2013 DD&amp;A rate is going up pretty significantly and that is largely due to the Eagle Ford barrels now being a larger component of our U.S.
production.
So as we see that Eagle Ford DD&amp;A rate come down in subsequent years as we book both performance reserves as well as the higher and hopefully initial bookings as our confidence in the reservoir performance growth.
We’re going to see that DD&amp;A rate come down but in the mean time it is going to have that impact on earnings margins while cash margins I think are going to in a continued improve.
With RF force as I mentioned before seeing declines in our Gulf of Mexico barrels which had been very strong cash flow providers in the past.
Fair enough.
And then last question from me.
On – it seems like if I read your numbers correctly on the infrastructure that you guys have spent in the Eagle Ford and what’s you plan spending in the Eagle Ford that you’ll have over $1 billion sort of invested capital in sort of midstream and infrastructure assets in the Eagle Ford.
In the long run I know there was a question on the MLP but do these assets get sold eventually when you reached sort of that peak production level or do they have to remain part of the upstream portfolio and what’s your opinion on and I believe these assets have to remain with the company or not? Well again I’m not sure that we get quite to a $1 billion.
My math that didn’t get me there.
But it is does become a very significant investment nonetheless and I think obviously the number one priority for us in terms of that infrastructure is flow assurance and the ability to move to where we see the best realizations.
So if we can achieve that that’s why I come back to this question around MLPs.
That’s not our primary interest today.
Ultimately it’s an MLP or it’s a flat out sale of the assets someone else who will own them and operate them and we’ll pay a tariff or throughput the.
We’ll certainly look at that.
But again you don’t want to have whatever ultimate production is out here well over 100 000 barrels a day held hostage to midstream assets.
You want to be able to control that.
So you can control again the ultimate commercial – commerciality and marketing of your barrels.
Great.
Thanks for the time.
I appreciate it.
Hi good afternoon.
Thanks very much.
I just wanted to ask a couple of questions on – kind of reconciling the DD&amp;A costs especially in the U.S.
and the Eagle Ford on a go forward basis for 2013 to the F&amp;D costs.
Given that you talked about preliminary F&amp;D being about 17 per BOE but attributed the lot of the bookings to the Eagle Ford and Bakken and Oklahoma.
Just trying to look at how the F&amp;D kind of reconciles with the DD&amp;A expected in U.S.
E&amp;P and further there is some infrastructure costs that are loaded into the DD&amp;A but maybe wouldn’t be reflected in the F&amp;D costs and then I’ve got a follow-up.
Well it’s not a simple calculation Kate I think there is a component of midstream in the DD&amp;A rate but it’s not a big component.
In the DD&amp;A rate obviously are the acquisition costs that we’ve incurred in the Eagle Ford so that is the substantial component of it.
The other thing is when you calculate DD&amp;A rates it’s largely on the P1s of approved developed reserves whereas when you look at our F&amp;D costs it’s proved develop and proved undeveloped.
So you’ve got a larger reserve – proved reserve figure in the F&amp;D cost than you would have in the DD&amp;A rate.
And I think those are primary reasons.
Okay and then my related follow-up is whether the idea that you are not able to book the whole well EURs initially whether we could then expect to see maybe a catch up or a sudden sort of influx of significantly more efficiently added reserves maybe in 2013 or in 2014 as you’ve kind of proved performance in the place and whether that would then turned lower F&amp;D costs in future years.
Thanks.
Yeah it’s certainly – it goes to future reserve bookings and that goes to F&amp;D costs and they are going to go to DD&amp;A rate and two things happen.
One is as you begin to produce the well in a current year you will book as I’ve said a portion of the EORs then you will book the rest over subsequent years as you see performance and as our reserve auditors get the comfort that it’s more likely than not that these reserves are going to be – are going to be recovered and so you got incremental reserve bookings strong performance.
You also potentially as you go through the future years and the confidence in the EOR grows your initial reserve booking.
At the time you bring that well on production will rise as well.
So all of that contributes obviously to F&amp;D cost as well as it does to lowering the DD&amp;A rate over time.
The way DD&amp;A rate works if you look at just the life of a project when you start out in the early days of production the DD&amp;A rate is way too high.
And when the last barrel is produced the DD&amp;A rate is way too low somewhere in between there it really is the average.
It is the right number.
But that’s kind of the nature of these emerging plays where there isn’t a lot of long production history that can give us a certainty to book the full reserves upfront.
Okay great.
Thanks for the clarification.
Yeah good afternoon.
Clarence it sounds like you want to withhold comment on the Eagle Ford pilot programs until Q2.
Can you speak it also I think the five distinct projects you are running that’s still the numbers I think falling off and also are there any open choke well as you think is going to run some of the broad object I can prove your point it does? Okay.
John we have nine pilot projects underway and we’re withholding – we’re not withholding comment because we’re trying to hide anything.
It’s just as you recognized.
It’s not until you get meaningful production performance out of these pilot projects that you can begin to draw some conclusions and as it has been suggested to me by my people where even to do so to draw conclusions by the middle of this year we’re pressing it a bit.
But nevertheless what we’re looking at is pilots to test the lateral displacement of the wells the horizontal displacement of wells within the reservoir as well as different stimulation methods including to your point some of the wells looking at larger choke sizes.
So we’re on a course to learn as much as we can as rapidly as we can in the Eagle Ford so that we can then make that part of our standard operating practice and as we drill 300 or so wells a year do so in the way that gives us the highest value.
Okay thanks.
And then just unrelated in Kazakhstan anything you could say as you’ve learned from the Europe well and how it in France what they’re going to do in the next wells there in South? It’s – we saw very good reservoir in the well that is encouraging.
There appears to be perhaps a bit more structural complexity in the – at least on the harrier prospect than we may have thought the seismic quality there is not very good so being able to image the sub-surfaces as well as we like is a bit challenging.
But I would say that at this stage the prospects we see the other prospect on the same block and the prospect on the other block are rather unique and I think we still hold out high hope for those and we’ll have those drilled pretty quickly here.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks good afternoon.
In the Eagle Ford if you keep with a 300 rig program roughly at what point does production start to flatten out or level out can you give us a sense of that.
I’m sorry did you say with the 300 well program? Yeah.
Again I think that’s the question we are going to try to resolve in the second half of this year when we have the results of the pilot program.
So I’ll give you an example.
We have previously I think at the time of the Hilcorp acquisition talked about peak production of 125 000 BOE a day.
As you can see from the numbers we’ve given for guidance for 2013 we should exit 2013 at about 100 000 barrels of oil equivalent per day.
Depending upon the overall size of the resource base we have here which again is going to be determined in large part by the pilot results.
We could have a decade of drilling out here at current drilling levels.
And so exceeding 125 000 barrels a day I think is a very likely outcome but I think as I indicated before we don’t want to build up to some peak of say – let’s just say for purpose is 150 000 barrels a day only to see that decline within a year or two.
Our preference would be to go to a lower level that we can sustain for a longer period of time again and so we can optimize our mid stream investment and not overbuild capacity that’s going to be underutilized.
So I can’t give you a number.
I think at this time I think we see tremendous upside for this play.
We’re going to be in this play for a long period of time and as we get get the full data set from our station pilots we’ll be able to give better guidance on where we see this has set ultimately getting to.
I appreciate the color.
And then just in terms of the second question.
You got a very active exploration portfolio going on.
Which one prospect you’d see the most excited in terms of the resources upside that you’re testing here in the first half.
Would it be that the Gabon well? If I do that I’m going to put the Gregory on it.
I hate to do that.
That’s bad luck.
They are all good prospects.
Okay.
Thank you.
Hey guys.
Good afternoon.
Just a quick question.
First I wanted to make sure I heard clearly the 6% to 13% stretch target for production.
Could you clarify the timeline on that and what that includes just as that totally we’re looking at excluding Libya? It’s… Yeah go ahead Howard.
That’s total upstream production excluding Libya out of both 2012 and 2013 and excluding the Alaska asset at both 2012 and 2013.
So the way we casted early last year was we were going to grow at 6% to 8% excluding Libya and dispositions.
And so Alaska was disposed so we’ve taken that out of both years and Libya as well.
So that’s where you get to the 6% to 12% to 13% excluding those.
But the target we set last year was 6% to 8%.
That’s the target we’re living by.
Sure.
Absolutely absolutely.
And just a short follow up then – or even a separate question excuse if you have it in front of you what is comprised of other U.S.
production at this point in time.
How much of that is Gulf of Mexico and what else is out there? Gulf of Mexico we’ll give you that number here.
Rocky Mountain some non-operated Permian some Oklahoma East Texas conventional plays those are the majority of the other U.S….
Okay.
Gulf of Mexico is 18 in 2013.
Well Gulf of Mexico.
Gulf of Mexico is 18 I’m sorry? Yes.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Hi guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
Apologize if you mentioned this already but did you have any negative natural gas reserve revisions last year? We did do to prices but very minimal not large parties.
Okay.
It’s immaterial basically? Yeah.
Okay.
And then just a quick one on going back to the what you mentioned about the Canadian potential sale as you know there has been a lot of political debate in Canada over allowing foreign acquisitions particularly in the Oil Sands.
Do you see that as a hurdle to potentially monetizing a portion of that asset.
No.
I would only say that I think that the recent Canadian announcements around foreign engagement in their assets is actually been a help because if we were to do a sale of a portion of our interest in AOSP.
It would be a non-operated interest in a joint venture and that is something that they’ve actually given a greater certainty around greater confidence in being approved.
So it’s actually removed an uncertainty I would say that was out there previously.
Well I appreciated it guys.
Okay.
Yeah hi.
Just a quick one on reserve bookings.
I guess philosophic.
You guys are being more conservative than your peers and as you’re getting into more on conventional exposure.
Why don’t you have comparable 5% interest.
Many of your peers are in the 30s or higher.
John I think well actually this year is pretty close to 30% then if you back out the oil sands which of course is essentially – and actually are more than that.
I don’t have all the numbers in front of me but I don’t – we’ll think of ourselves is conservative in fact we try to go straight up the middle of the fair way following the SEC guidelines which as you know are inherently conservative.
Yes right.
What we think if it is ultimate EUR is actually prove was probably because the definition of prove was first probable is as likely as not – is this likely is not that you will outperform as underperformed? Okay Janet.
Most of your larger peers are in the 40s and I don’t think you were quite that high even though just to get out but thanks.
There is a quick one for Janet.
Any new hedges you put on beyond and ones you put on back in August? No.
Thank you.
Thank you Christine.
And we appreciate the interest in all of those callers and those who listened to the call today.
If you have any additional questions please don’t hesitate to give Chris or myself a call.
Have a great evening.
Thank you and good bye.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! (Operator Instructions) From Credit Suisse we have Ed Westlake on the line.
Please go ahead.
Congratulations on the progress in the Eagle Ford.
Just diving into a bit of the detail and obviously we can all download data from the Texas Railroad Commission but one of the things that you are doing is changing the completion design.
I think you are operating certain frac spreads with an improved completion design and seeing some good results.
As you look overall in the first quarter can you give us some color of say how many wells you completed? Where on the old design how many on the design so that we can sort of date your progress on IP rates against what you are doing in the wells.
And if there is any color on longer laterals as well that would be helpful.
Yeah Ed this is Clarence.
I don’t have that kind of detail to give you today.
We will certainly look at --including some of that color as we put together or future investor presentations.
But I think as you recall when we look at the investor presentations we have been showing -- we have got a couple of slides in there that show the progress that we have seen particularly in the Excelsior East Longhorn and South Barnhart areas comparing if you will sort of our original completion design to what we have seen of late.
And of course we have seen relative to the 30-day IP rates anywhere from a 33% to a 75% improvement.
And then we give greater detail by quarter in Excelsior where we show the improvement in the 30-day IPs again where we have seen upwards of a 75%.
I think we will continue to show that kind of improvement with our first quarter results.
And I also know Ed you had had some questions about the state data perhaps not reflecting some of the higher rates that we have shown.
We have to certainly look at and understand why the state data doesn’t show certainly the results we are seeing.
Part of it we believe is that the data is reported on a lease level rather than a well level.
But we certainly when we look at some of our more recent wells we’re seeing rates of anywhere from 2 000 BOE per day to 3 800 BOE per day of which liquids or oil I should say ranging from 1 600 to 3 000 barrels a day.
So really outstanding results reflective I think of the improvements we’re making in our completion methods.
But we’ll look to provide some of that additional detail and color going forward.
Yeah helpful color on those recent 24 hour IPs.
Could you just update us on the well cost as well that you’re running because I think service cost has built a little bit coming down.
It is and I think we are targeting a drilling and completion cost here in the second quarter of about $7.6 million per well and we see that trending down by the fourth quarter to about $7.2 million.
On top of that drilling completion cost you have about $600 000 per well of facilities cost.
So we are seeing continued reduction in our costs.
But  I think we’ve extracted pretty good efficiencies out of our operations as well as cost improvements from some of our vendors.
Clarence if I could maybe follow-up on Ed's question over the last several quarters I guess we've had discussions backwards and forwards about not so much the completions but your operating philosophy as it relates to choke sizes and so on and my understanding was you're going to be experimenting with that somewhat.
So I'm wondering if you can provide us an update as to whether or not you've decided to open these things up a little more aggressively in the early days.
Well again I think the choke management Doug is one of the outcomes that will provide more guidance on when we’re through with the pilot testing.
The pilot testing as you know is both lateral spacing vertical placement and certainly completion methods to include choke size.
So more detail to come on that.
But I would simply say that I think we continue I would say to remain a bit on the conservative side at this point of not opening these wells up.
And we continue to believe stress dependent permeability is an issue out here and we’d rather constrain the early flow rates and enhance recovery as opposed to opening the wells up and getting higher initial rates.
So again more detail to come on that I think as we -- in the second half of the year we provide guidance on the results of the pilot program and what it really means if you will in terms of the wells that we’ll drill the resource and how we’ll best complete these wells.
Got it.
Thanks.
My follow-up is somewhat unrelated.
I guess you reported the first region exploration results.
I'm guessing that didn't quite come in as you expected.
My question is if Norway exploration doesn't work you've got obviously a big organization in Norway what is the prognosis for Norway as a core asset for Marathon going forward? I'll leave it at that.
Thanks.
I think as you recognize we have said pretty clearly that 2013 will be the year that we begin to see the decline in our Norway producing assets.
Again the asset has outperformed our expectation in the first quarter.
We’ll continue to do what we can to maximize its recovery.
But pretty clearly it is going into decline.
Having said that we continue to look for opportunities in and around Alvheim to extend the life of this asset and we’ll continue to do so.
We are hopeful that the exploration we do there in the third quarter is successful and that will give us an additional future development in Norway.
But as you recognized this is an asset that generates very significant cash flow for us.
It’s an asset that I think is pretty clearly misunderstood by the investment community.
I continue to see it referred to as low margin barrels.
They’re not low margin either on a earnings basis and certainly not on a cash flow basis and it’s a very high return asset.
And so I think it is an essential part of our portfolio today.
There will be a point in time obviously when it reaches a certain level of production that we would look to divest of it and perhaps put in the hands of someone for whom it creates greater value.
But at this point in time Norway is a key producing asset and we believe it has upside.
Can I ask one about Poland? Obviously you are not the first U.S.
company to exit Poland but I am curious how many wells you have drilled and other analytical work you have done before making that decision.
Pavel let me just check.
I want to say off hand it's about 11 wells that we have drilled -- I am sorry 6 wells that we have drilled.
And we have done some testing there.
And I would simply say that we believe the results are fairly conclusive.
These wells were drilled across the extent of our 11 concessions.
And basically what we found was thinner section than we anticipated and lower pressures which for the most part high pressures are pretty important in these unconventional plays.
And after recognizing this was initial stage of exploration but costs are pretty high.
And so we have come to a conclusion that while there may be some potential here ultimately it certainly doesn’t fit our criteria and as we have said we are mobilizing to move out of our Poland concessions.
Okay.
Appreciate that.
And then another one about kind of in front tier opportunity you guys are pursuing in Kurdistan where you have had a fair amount of success already.
You know what's the sequencing for moving into development mode on any of the blocks that you are currently working on? Yeah we are in the process of preparing a plan of development on the non-operated Atrush Block.
That plan of development will contemplate a development of initially of around 12 000 barrels a day scaling up to a larger operation.
And that’s on the Atrush Block that we now have a 15% interest in.
And in the Sarsang Block we are preparing for a declaration of commerciality.
On that non-operated block we have been producing the initial discovery well there on an interim basis to see how the reservoir performs and look at the commercial elements of marketing those barrels.
But those are the two existing discoveries both non-operated at this point that we are moving towards commercial development of.
We are -- with our two operated wells drilling today at Mirawa and Safen we are hopeful that we will have our first operated discovery on our existing operated acreage and will determine what's success there and what's the best way to proceed to development.
Just curious if you can provide any color on the Three Forks and the Bakken.
Any progress you are seeing there in testing wise.
And also if you could talk a little bit about the well cost you are seeing out there.
Yeah the well cost in the Bakken for us are about -- and just to put on the same basis I did the Eagle Ford there they are running about $7.9 million drilling and completion and an additional $800 000 for facilities and equipment.
So about an $8.7 million well cost.
And we will continue to do what we can indeed to drive that further down.
In terms of the Bakken and the Three Forks we continue to develop those jointly.
I think as we have talked about we see very substantial potential in the Three Forks that’s been an upgrade to our overall resource assessment for the Bakken.
In terms of current drilling activity I don’t have any numbers on that.
We’ll look to get back to you Eliot with any detail we can provide on that.
But certainly we are continuing to evaluate the additional zones and the additional benches in the Three Forks.
Thank you appreciate that color.
And also just as a follow up just get your macro perspective Clarence on the gas pricing in the U.S for 2013 and 2014 going forward.
Just curious your thoughts there.
Well our position has been one of I guess a bit bearish.
We continue to believe that the governor out there in terms of preventing gas prices from rising too much is simply the degree of switching back to coal and I think as we saw gas prices get above $4 and begin to rise a bit.
We saw coal come back into the mix pretty aggressively.
And so once again we see gas prices back down.
So we remain rather bearish and rather conservative in our views about natural gas.
We don’t really see recovery to $5 or better until 2014 or beyond.
And obviously we put our money where our mouth is when you look at where we’re spending our drilling dollars.
We continue to focus on liquids in the U.S and North America in general and it’s reflected in as we said before our lower 48 liquids production going from 55% to 72%.
So we’re well positioned.
We’ve got an opportunity set for natural gas particularly in Oklahoma.
We’ve got upside to Henry Hub prices in our EG L&amp;G business.
So we’d love to see gas prices go up.
But at this point our discretionary investment dollars are going to liquids particularly crude and condensate.
I apologize.
I’m on a cellphone if there’s background noise but I just wanted to ask quickly on the Eagle Ford shale did you discuss at all or can you discuss at all the progress to date on the down spacing what you’ve seen and any update to this point? Roger we really have said consistently and have said again today you won’t see the detailed results until the second half of this year in terms of us having enough production history and comparisons to actually then begin to come out.
Not just talk about the results but I think what you really want to hear is what are we going to do about it how many wells are we going to drill? How much resource do we expect to recover? What does the program look like for the next 10 or 12 years? So that’s information you’ll see later this year.
I would say we’ve come out I l believe in the press release and actually said we believe 80 acres is appropriate across the entire core area.
So that is what we’ll develop at the very least including in the areas that we don’t see down spacing potential.
But again we’re increasing with drilling on 60 acre spacings now beginning to move in that direction and continue and assess 40 acres as well.
So you’ll see those results and hear the impacts of it later this year.
This is more of a bigger picture question.
Could you just maybe talk through where you are on potential disposals? Obviously you gave a book loss for some of the Niobrara acreage which was non-core.
I don’t know what the cash value of that would be.
But I’m more thinking the oil sands any other assets around the portfolio.
Let me just say Ed I think that the Niobrara we talked about that that will be a second quarter event.
So it was not in there and at this point we are not able to talk about the cash side.
Once the deal closes we’ll be able to disclose what the cash number is on that sale.
In terms of to your point our earlier comment we are in discussions around a potential sale of a portion of our interest in AOSP.
As I’ve indicated there one way or the other we will tell you what happens there.
If we don’t have a deal we’ll let you know and if we do we’ll let you know that as well.
so at this point you can appreciate that discussions are still under way.
And they are taking longer perhaps than we would have liked.
It is our intent to bring this to a conclusion at quickly as possible.
But again it takes two to tango on this but we are still in those discussions.
Outside of that I think as we have said we have closed transactions of $1.3 billion and we are confident of meeting our $1.5 billion to $3 billion target by the end of this year.
I am also taking advantage of this somewhat lately attended call so apologies for the follow up.
Two for me Austin Chalk Pearsall can you give us any color as to what proportion of your acreage you believe might be potentially perspective and when can we expect to hear a little bit more in terms of your expectations of drilling plan.
Yeah starting with the Austin Chalk Doug it's still up in the air as to how much exact acreage we have.
We believe it could be as much as 20 000 net acres.
But that number is subject to change.
To date we have drilled three wells in Austin Chalk we have one in progress.
None of those have been fraced yet so results yet to come.
And in the Pearsall our view is that we have somewhere around 45 000 net acres in the Pearsall We have drilled five wells to date four of which were vertical delineation wells that we were able to better understand the reservoir.
We drilled one horizontal well and we will be fracking that well next week.
So early days I think both on the Pearsall and the Austin Chalk but certainly we see upside in these reservoirs beyond what we have in the Eagle Ford.
Thank you.
My follow up I don’t know if Janet is on the line this morning but my follow up is really on cash flow.
The cash flow this quarter looked particularly strong so I am quite keen to see what's happening on the deferred tax line particularly in the U.S.
If you could help us just on the moving parts as to why the cash flow was so strong this quarter? I am talking pre-working capital Janet.
Thanks.
I can tell you this is probably the first quarter where deferred tax a source of cash as opposed to use of cash.
I.e.
the deferred tax in the U.S.
exceeded the negative deferred tax internationally.
And of course we expect that to continue to see that grow over time.
You know I think as you know because we are spending so heavily in the U.S.
we are not paying cash taxes here.
And our typically our international taxes are primarily cash.
So (inaudible) a $6 billion prospect cash flow number so any thoughts on use of surplus cash? Yeah.
I think it's probably the same answer we give you every time we get that question which is we look at the priority uses for cash is reinvesting in the business if we have the opportunities and value accretive way to do that.
And we can do it in a way that it's cost efficient.
Beyond that we continue to look at our dividend.
We think it's a very very important part of the total shareholder return and make sure that we have a competitive and growing dividend.
We need to strengthen the balance sheet.
And when we look at asset sales are chunkier cash inflows that could potentially cause us to look at stock buyback.
Thank you Brandon and thanks everyone for your attention to our conference call.
And if you have any additional follow ups please let Chris and myself know.
Thank you good bye.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome to the Marathon Oil Corporation Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
I will now turn the call over to Howard Thill.
You may begin.
Thank you Don and good morning everyone.
I too would like to welcome you to Marathon Oil Corporation’s second quarter 2013 earnings webcast and teleconference.
On the call today with me are Clarence Cazalot Executive Chairman; Lee Tillman President and CEO; and Janet Clark Executive Vice President and CFO.
As a reminder today’s call is being recorded and the call will include forward-looking information.
As we’ve changed the format with the prepared remarks been issued last night I refer you to the forward-looking statement in that slide deck along with the period of SEC filings including our 10-K 10-Q’s and other filings which provide additional risk factors.
Before we get started I’d like to ask you to block out an important date on your calendar.
As Clarence mentioned last night in the prepared remarks we are holding an Analyst Meeting in December.
That meeting will be held on December 4th of this year which is a day we will hold our meeting in San Antonio Texas.
More information will be sent to you on this in the near future and how to RSVP and details et cetera.
Also if you’ve not RSVP for our September 10th reception in New York please contact Paula Hooper at phooper@marathonoil.com.
With that I’m very pleased to now hand the call over to Lee Tillman our President and CEO for some opening remarks.
Thank you Howard.
And let me add my good morning and welcome again to our second quarter earnings call.
Prior to opening up for your questions I’d like to share just a few thoughts as the new President and CEO for Marathon Oil.
One caveat today represents my seventh official day in my new position so my remarks should be taken in that context.
First let me reiterate what an honored is to be assuming this leadership role for what is by every measure an outstanding company.
I appreciate the confidence placed to me by Clarence and Marathon Oil Board and look forward to earning the confidence of our employee and shareholders as well.
In 2011 Marathon Oil began a journey to become the leading independent oil and gas producer.
Clarence and the leadership team put forward a compelling vision that will enhance our focus on our E&amp;P objectives and strategy that would create transparency for our stakeholders and our employees that would provide clarity on portfolio management and risk tolerance that would also establish the business imperative around agility and a bias toward action and finally bring a relentless focus to long-term shareholder value and competitive returns.
All of this supported by our steadfast commitment to the core values of safe health environment security business ethics and corporate citizenship and our traditional strength and operational excellence and large scale energy project development.
We are focused on the fundamentals that will grow our volumes profitability access the high quality material resource selectivity and development and capital allocation execution and operational excellence continuous improvement through rigorous external and internal benchmarking.
We recognize that our most critical allocation decision is the deployment of human capital -- our employees and we must continue to attract retain and develop the best professionals in the industry to provide the necessary competency and leadership that will drive business performance and ensure that Marathon will continue living our values.
Our focus on core values profitable volume growth and investing in people will delivery long term value to our shareholders.
A strategy that encompasses a base with strong cash flows growth assets that leverage our strength high impact exploration to open new opportunities rigorous portfolio management to ensure robust capital allocation and financial discipline all combined to provide competitive returns for the long term.
We are early in our journey as an independent E&amp;P company but the results today are compelling and set the stage for the future.
With that I would like to hand back over to Howard who will facilitate our Q&amp;A session.
Thank you.
Thanks Lee.
Before we get started two items.
Number one the transcript that was sent out last night had a rather large font.
I apologize for that and (inaudible) but you can go to our website this morning and there will be a new transcript with a normal font that won’t be printed out in 50 pages.
So that’s number one.
Number two is that I would like to remind you to please keep your questions to two with associated follow-ups and by two questions you know who I am talking to I don’t mean multiple part questions.
So with that Don we will open it up for questions.
(Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thanks good morning everybody and Lee congratulations on your appointment.
Two questions if I may.
First of all on the Eagle Ford so you’re going to wait until December to give us down-spacing results.
But for intention purposes I guess EOG and a lot of peers are pretty much already showing us what the asset can do.
I guess my question on the down-spacing scenario you have a 10-year drilling inventory.
Is that an inventory that you would want to accelerate going forward or is the current drilling pace optimal in your mind? And then I have a follow-up please.
Hey Doug this is Clarence and I think you are right that others are more advanced perhaps in their overall understanding of the reservoir in terms of the potential for down-spacing and recognizing that the geology does change a bit across even the core of the Eagle Ford.
I think it’s important for us to do our diligence to do the right technical work should we indeed to make the right capital allocation decisions as we indicated earlier.
I will say part of what you will hear I believe in December will be spot on relative to your question which is the issue of acceleration we all recognize the value of acceleration.
But at the same time as we’ve spoken to before it’s very important that you’re not outrun certainly the capabilities to process transport market the hydrocarbons are indeed outrun the capabilities of the overall industry infrastructure.
So I think what you will see from us is the plan we believe optimizes the value of the resource we have there but does it in an appropriate way and is the right pace.
If I may my follow-up is -- I guess either of you two gentlemen in terms of the portfolio currently you are leading the company with a great deal of cash flow tremendous balance sheet but also an international declining asset base beyond the Eagle Ford one could argue not a great deal of visibility.
So I am just kind of thinking about how -- what’s the next part of the story from Marathon is that an acquisition story in terms of… Do you feel as if you have the inventory to sustain the current visibility or how do you see using that cash and I’ll leave it there? Yeah.
Doug hi.
This is Lee and thanks for the kind words.
In terms of looking forward Doug I think we want to keep the opportunity aperture wide open.
I think we’ve talked already about potential acceleration and the Eagle Ford I would also add that probably applies to the Bakken as well.
We have a lot of running room in both of those areas.
I think we will be able to talk more in depth about that in the December Analyst meeting that Howard has already mentioned.
All of that work will be underpinned by the sound science that we’re currently doing certainly in the Eagle Ford on the downspacing pilots.
As we look more broadly we are looking at high impact exploration wells in some key place around the world that would have the net effect of potentially strengthening our international portfolio.
Within our international portfolio of base asset they are still strong performing assets.
If you look at the uptime and reliability performance clearly its top tier in the industry and those barrels are some of our most profitable barrels and we’ll continue to look for incremental investments in those base assets.
In addition to that we remain open to acquisitions that make sense to our portfolio and we’ll continue to look for bolt-on acquisitions in North America that are going to be accretive to our overall portfolio.
So I think we have a lot of levers to pull to continue to drive the portfolio.
We’ll also continue to look at those assets that may no longer fit our portfolio.
Most recently of course we announced the sale of the block in Angola and I think that’s indicative of us continuing to high grade our portfolio and look to develop a very competitive portfolio in our peer group.
And Doug I would simply say you’re right our international assets particularly in the North Sea are declining but you’ll recognize that our overall 5% to 7% growth rate incorporates that decline.
So indeed we’re managing that as Lee said these are assets that generate very significant cash flow that help fund if you will our domestic growth.
So again I would simply say we recognize those declines they’re built into our projections and our projections don’t include any acceleration which indeed could enhance or increase even 5% to 7% if we believe that’s the right thing to do.
Thanks guys and again congratulations to you both.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Arjun Murti from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
And my thanks to the new format of e-mailing out the prepared remarks the night before didn’t mind to find Howard but regardless I appreciate to get all that stuff at a time and just going straight to Q&amp;A.
Just a follow-up question… At least now Arjun you don’t have to -- at least now Arjun you don’t have to decide whether we’re live or remember it… Definitely cuts out that risk.
Yeah.
Just a few follow-up questions on the portfolio you may not be able to comment on all of this but there had been some reports about whether you continue to have an interest in Libya if you can address that? On the Norway piece I think the declines are meeting your expectations? Can you talk about things that you can do that can either alleviate that decline or is it just kind of normal course there? And then maybe for Lee comments on the oil sands which at various times have been talked about as a potential divesture candidate? How you’re feeling about that asset? Thank you.
Yeah.
Maybe first of all with respect to Norway Arjun I think the declines thus far this year have been less than we expected and that has really helped drive stronger performance or strong results out of our international production side.
And again I would attribute it as Lee said earlier very strong reliability our teams are really outstanding in keeping those assets running at the optimum rate but the reality is as we’ve talked about before that asset is going to go into decline it’s the manage decline because we have a number of offsets satellite fields will tie-back you know the Boyla project which is under development currently will come on-stream in the fourth quarter of 2014 all of which will begin to flatten that decline but nonetheless the decline.
But again as we’ve discussed many many times the Norwegian barrels are high revenue and very low cost -- cash cost and so very high strong cash margins despite a 78% tax rate but again that will be a portfolio decision we will have to make.
And then I think with respect to Libya as we have done with other assets that we are potentially reviewing we don’t comment on specific assets that we may or may not.
So again as we discussed that pushed us in an awkward position in terms of any negotiations we have or government approvals.
So we prefer not to comment on that one.
Yes I think it’s important Art to know we recognize that we have delivered though on our asset high-grading commitments we are at the upper end of the range of what we talked about in the past that doesn’t mean that we’ve completed that process.
It’s an ever-green process and as Clarence said we don’t comment specifically on Libya or oil sands but we do recognize that high-grading our portfolio is one of the tools that’s available to us to continue to deliver competitive returns and we will continue to use that.
Our next question comes from Blake Fernandez from Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Firstly Clarence wanted to congratulate you on a great career at Marathon.
I had some questions on the buyback and I know in the prepared remarks you mentioned that the proceeds from Angola would primarily be used for buyback.
So I was hoping you could give us little more clarity on how we should think about timing do we need to actually have the deal closed before buybacks commence should we be thinking more ratable purchases opportunistic and then if possible any kind of real specifics on exactly how much of that will be allocated toward buybacks? My questions Blake but I think all I would say at this point is that our expectation is the buybacks would be timed closer to when we get the proceeds.
Now how it gets done whether it’s ratable or accelerated those are all decisions that have to be made under evaluations but as we said the largest part of the use of these proceeds will be for buybacks and so I think you should look to hear more about that in the coming months.
My second question is on the exploration side I know it sounds like that Sabisa had some positive indications but the delivery has moved off.
Any indication of when you may get back on that target and then secondly on Gabon I know Total is the operator but just any indication of initial shows would be great.
I think on Sabisa as you indicated that we did find indications of a working hydrocarbon system in this first well it’s the first well in this Miocene basin.
So that’s very encouraging.
We had mechanical issues with respect to BOC they really did analysis to get a full evaluation of that well.
But rather than drill another well next to it the decision was made to move into the center of the basin to drill the next well -- the Total well to give us more information to assess the overall prospectivity of that basin.
So again as we talked about any these rift basins it really takes multiple exploration wells to get a full assessment of the potential and so that’s what we are trying to do with this second well.
And then I think with respect to the [model] well in Gabon Blake I believe we said about all we can say at this point in the press release that we are at total depth and logging operations are underway in other evaluations.
And again as those results are received and evaluated it will be up to the operator Total to announce those results.
So that’s about all I can say.
To me it’s a matter of weeks not months that you will be hearing those results.
Our next question comes from Edward Westlake from Credit Suisse.
I guess two questions just on shale first on the Eagle Ford you’ve discussed (inaudible) a decent well result.
I think it’s fair to say that [Austin shale] probably have the best rate in the industry just because of it’s more choke in our shale decline rates perhaps where other people have been drilling.
Are there any comments you could make to help us understand why the Austin Chalk might be better with the acreage that you guys hold? Yeah.
I guess let’s say the comment we made back when we first entered putting people questions some of the prices we paid we said Eagle Ford is not the same across this entire area and that the same is true for the Austin Chalk.
I think we’ve talked in the past that when you look at the core data here in the primary core part of the Eagle Ford here and you look at the Austin Chalk compared to the Eagle Ford they look very very similar.
And certainly I’d say based on the wells we drilled so far the production and the rates we’ve gotten that seems to be the case.
They are much more Eagle Ford like in terms of their performance.
It’s early days.
We’ve got four wells.
We’ll look to continue to evaluate this and determine just how extensive this prospective Austin Chalk is.
But when you think about the fact these were shorter laterals than what we’ve been drilling in the Eagle Ford and yet achieved pretty strong rates.
The performance so far kind of looks like the type curve for the condensate window in the Eagle Ford.
So pretty strong performance very encouraging and I think certainly upside to what we’ve previously thought.
And then on the Bakken I mean you’ve got a target to go to sort of 50 to 60 you announced an intriguing Three Forks well.
Obviously you’ve got some acreage that looks good and some other acreage that’s further off-peak but what’s the restriction on ongoing faster? Well that is certainly one of the things that Lee mentioned it earlier as we evaluated our business plans for 2014 and beyond.
Acceleration is certainly an opportunity we have in the Eagle Ford and the Bakken.
And we’ll be looking at that.
Certainly some of the past transportation bottlenecks have diminished.
We certainly see quite a bit of takeaway today some more profitable than others.
Rail is certainly no long the track that it was a few months ago.
But we’ll certainly look at the potential to accelerate our development of that and to your point we have had good results in the upper Three Forks.
And we’ll continue to do some of the pilot work and additional valuation we need to look at the second and third ventures as well and begin to develop our plans for those additional zones.
Thanks very much.
Good luck.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Guy Baber from Simmons.
Please go ahead.
Thanks and good morning.
Good morning Guy.
I understand it might be a little early for this question.
But I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about your early expectations for production growth in 2014.
And I’m basically just wondering if you see yourself able to grow with those long-term rates that you’ve highlighted before to at least 5%.
And how important is hitting that target for any individual year or are you just more concerned with the longer term production potential of the portfolio? Guy the 5% to 7% we gave was 2010 to 2017 and of course we got the slide here in the deck to show what that looks like in terms of general magnitude.
But for any given year again it depends upon what projects we have coming on how quickly we develop some of our assets.
With respect to 2014 our business planning process is getting underway now.
As I’ve indicated and Lee said as well a good deal of what we do in the Eagle Ford will depend upon the results of the down spacing and again you’ll hear about that in December.
And let me say this December Analyst meeting isn’t just about the Eagle Ford.
You’ll be hearing about the entirety of our portfolio.
So to the extent we look at acceleration of the Eagle Ford the extent we look at acceleration in the Bakken.
Those would all be things that we would discuss at that time.
And I would point to that Guy as to the time table in which we would give you guidance on 2014 production.
Okay.
Great.
And then my follow-up is you had some positive commentary around realizations about the Eagle Ford and was just hoping you could elaborate some of your more recent developments there about the new LLS contract also some additional infrastructure just maximizing net backs.
So my question is is there just more detail you could provide around your outlook for Eagle Ford realizations over the next couple of years.
And any plans in place you might have to maximize those realizations? Well again I would just say we’ve done a very good job I think in terms of getting our infrastructure in place moving our barrels off the trucks on to pipelines and allowing us to get to where we can realize the highest value for our crude.
I know there has been a lot of commentary in the past about some of the weakening prices for condensate and NGLs and different gravities as we talked about before.
We have about 72% of our liquids that we are realizing LLS minus $8 a barrel at the well head and about 28% that’s LLS minus $12 a barrel.
And that’s all the higher gravities and the lower gravity we do a good job of blending as much as we can to stay below 55 degrees and again I think we are maximizing our commercial advantage in the Eagle Ford.
The new contract we talked about is really a pipeline to sell into the enterprise line going into the Houston ship channel that frankly is LLS minus $6 a barrel at the wellhead.
Our best realization to date in the basin.
So our midstream teams our commercial teams are doing a good job of staying out in front of our production growth and ensuring we are getting the best value for our barrels.
Our next question comes from John Malone from Mizuho Securities.
It looks like you increased guidance a bit on North American operating costs.
Can you just elaborate of what’s behind that? John let us take a look at that and get back to you.
I am not sure we -- but we will have to get back to you on that.
And then second question clearly you got a lot of news coming out of Kurdistan in the near future.
How are your views on the politics they are involved and if you were successful and what would inform the decision between farming that down selling out of entirely versus sticking around and developing? Well I think Kurdistan like all of our opportunities we are still on the very early days.
We got to continue on operated blocks as well as to operated blocks we are very early in the exploration phase.
We are just getting the results.
Clearly Kurdistan is a long play in terms of gaining material production out of Kurdistan.
I think we need to see these latest exploration results and we will get some clarity around next step.
It’s a stellar hydrocarbon province and it’s one of the plays that we need to be involved in.
And once we get sufficient data we can take a view of how best to monetize the resource whether that is through our own operations or by some other means.
But Kurdistan is still a very early days play for us.
Our next question comes from John Herrlin from Societe Generale.
Hi this is just one for Clarence and somewhat expository you’ve been getting a lot of congratulations on the restructuring.
I just have kind of a post-mortem question for you Clarence.
Clearly Marathon today is a lot different than when it started.
One did you have revision to this type of radical transformation and specifically with upstream do you think a lot of your decisions were based on changes in technology more than resource access could you kind of give a brief post-mortem as to that whole process? You mean in terms of the rationale behind the split John? No no not the split how you’ve changed your E&amp;P business.
I mean it reduced your risk exposure for exploration added a large exploitation compound or lake I was just wondering how you envision portfolio versus when it came in and --- Well I would simply say it’s -- Lance Robertson said something to me yesterday about the last couple of years that he’s watched me he said looks like I am having a lot more fun.
And it really is.
It’s been a lot of fun running an E&amp;P company and all the things we talk about is the advantages of a resource driven company in terms of lower risk scalability the ability to accelerate indeed if you want the production in order to optimize value.
Frankly that kind of detail that we’re get into this call really getting into the business it to me is a great deal of fun.
Lee has jumped in with both feed into this.
You can imagine it’s a little different than Exxon but it’s -- I think it’s been absolutely right decision for the company.
And I think we’ve positioned the company well.
We’ve got a great deal of resource to the future and I would do it all over again John.
Okay.
Thanks.
Last one a second one how long is the Madagascar well? Let’s see here.
We will get it for you here and will give that comment John on the line in just a moment.
All right.
Thank you.
You bet.
(Operator Instructions) our next question comes from Duane Grubert from Susquehanna.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
As we look forward to meeting you and your style I was wondering if you could comment a little.
If I was to suggest three buckets of style one being a technical focus one being the focus on numbers and one being a strategy.
How do you see your style evolving at Marathon what are your natural biases? Well certainly I began my career on the technical side of the business no doubt playing in and of course our business remains the technical business that still has to be based and driven on sound science.
A great example of that is what we’re doing in Eagle Ford with downspacing.
We’re being methodical but also aggressive in our approach to technology there.
I think though in terms of splitting that dimension versus the numbers of the financial side and the strategy side I see needing to bridge across all three of those dimensions.
You really can't separate the three.
It’s an integrated proposal here.
At the end of day it’s really about risk management and capital allocation for us and really to do that adequately you have to have a focus on technical numbers as well as the guided by long-term strategy.
So I actually look forward to discussing all three with you in the future.
Yeah.
That’s a great answer.
And then just a related follow-up.
What’s your biggest ingoing surprise as an opportunity? Well I think for me it just that the sheer of running room that exist in the resource play here in the U.S.
It is a tremendous opportunity.
We’ve talked at length already about the Eagle Ford and the Bakken in the primary zones that we’re chasing there but we’ve also talked about the Austin Chalk as well.
There just an incredible amount of opportunity yet to be on lease putting the downspacing even to the side some of these stack place that exist I think we’re just beginning to understand.
I’ve also been very impressed with how quickly Marathon has ramped up from an efficiency standpoint.
We’re still relatively early to the resource play that as you look at the efficiencies and the reliability that our teams that driven in the Eagle Ford and the Bakken it’s very impressive and certainly constitute first quartile performance and that’s been a very pleasant surprise to me.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you Duane.
Good answer John Herrlin's question the Madagascar well looks like about a 90-day well.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Matt Portillo from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please go ahead.
Pickering Holt</strong> Good morning guys.
Just a two quick questions for me.
Something we get to talk a little bit about your Kenai drilling program and in particularly the Southern Kenai and how that fits into an acceleration case given the result you guys have seem today kind of how that what commodity price environment you need to pick up drilling there? And then secondly just wanted to get an update on your views on the Lower Tertiary opportunity within your portfolio in the Gulf of Mexico? And how we should think about your drilling plans over the next year or two targeting some of those high impact prospects? Yeah.
I think certainly in the what we call the Knox area or it could be Southeast Kenai we have two rigs operating today that’s been sort of steady stay just to cope on acreage continue to advance our knowledge of the reservoir continue to help drive down our drilling cost which is very important component for us there is as we noted in the press release one of our more recent well Fort Knox was a record for us in terms of drilling times down to 43 days and a very strong IP rates.
So it is indeed an area to go back to what we said before we have a great deal of resource here across the Knox and Cana area proper to the north as well as other areas of Oklahoma.
Right now we have a sort of go-slow strategy on continue to advance our technical knowledge continue to advance our drilling costs but significant opportunity to ramp up and that’s what we show in our investment presentation is this is an area as we see particularly higher NGL prices.
Natural gas prices will help as well but to see NGL prices get back up into the high 40s well could be $1 a barrel type ranges would certainly be very helpful in terms of the economics of this area.
But I think we can envision at some point in the future as we see better prices running double digit numbers of rigs in this area.
We think the potential is quite significant.
We are quite fortunate that a good deal of our acreage is HBP.
So we don’t have a compelling reason to be out there drilling wells just to hold a lot of acreage at this time.
And I guess with respect to Paleogene we have a significant prospect inventories today and when you -- when we take delivery of the rig next year with Conical that we will share that’s when we will begin to execute on our operated Paleogene prospect inventories the vast majority of which are in-board which as you know based on the [Shenadore] results the in-board Paleogene has much better reservoir properties and that’s where our initial focus will be in our Gulf of Mexico drilling.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call back to Howard Thill for closing remarks.
Thanks Don.
And before we close I’d just again like to remind you to please mark September 4<sup>th</sup> on your calendars for our analyst as Clarence said for a total company review in San Antonio Texas and we appreciate very much your interest in Marathon Oil and hope you have a wonderful day.
Thank you.
Good bye.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen this concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Marathon Oil Corporation Third Quarter 2013 Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I will be the operator for today’s call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I would now like to turn the call over to Mr.
Howard Thill.
You may begin.
Thank you Christine and good morning everyone.
I too would like to welcome you to Marathon Oil Corporation’s third quarter 2013 earnings webcast and teleconference.
On the call today with me are Lee Tillman President and CEO and J.
R.
Sult Executive Vice President and CFO.
As a reminder today’s call is being recorded and the call will include forward-looking information.
As the prepared remarks were issued last night I refer you to the forward-looking statement in that slide deck along with our SEC filings including our 10-K 10-Q’s and other filings which provide additional risk factors.
Before I’d turn the call over to Lee I’d like to remind you that when he opens the calls for questions to constraint yourself to two questions and then requeue as time permits so that we can get everyone’s questions answered.
With that I’ll turn the call over to Lee to summarize last night remarks.
Well good morning thank you.
Let me add my welcome to Marathon Oil Corporation third quarter earnings call.
Before moving into your questions I wanted to begin with a few very brief opening comments.
I’ve just concluded my third month as President and CEO of Marathon Oil and during this period I’ve had the opportunity to visit many of our sales locations engage with a large cross section of our dedicated employee base and dialog directly with the investor and analyst community.
I have also had strategic discussions with the Marathon Oil Board as we develop our near-term medium term and longer term business plans.
Our December 11th Analyst Day will give the Marathon Oil leadership team an opportunity to share with you in more depth our next steps as we strive to become premier independent E&amp;P company and will feature the business imperatives that will drive performance in 2014 and beyond.
As such it should not surprise participant on today’s call if our responses to select questions are deferred until that time.
Our third quarter results underscore our commitment to long term shareholder value.
Third quarter net income is up over 30% from second quarter and adjusted net income per share is up 30% quarter-on-quarter at $0.87 per share.
Our resource plays continue to deliver strong volumes performance with Eagle Ford third quarter production doubled that of the same quarter one year ago.
And we have high confidence in an Eagle Ford December exit rate of 100 000 oil equivalent barrels per day net as supported by an end of October rate of approximately 92 000 oil equivalent barrels per day net.
Our renewed exploration portfolio with a bias toward emerging oil firm plays that afford Marathon Oil the appropriate risk metrics as well as the optionality to operate or monetize is delivering on it’s promise with announced discoveries in both Kurdistan and Gabon.
In Gabon we were also just awarded two perspective deepwater blocks subject to successful contract negotiations.
We successfully completed the first phase of our $1 billion share repurchase program and expect the second phase to commence in the fourth quarter.
And as we look to our future we expect our 2013 reserve replacement to be in excess of 140% excluding acquisitions and divestitures.
In summary we remain well placed to deliver on our commitment of 5% to 7% compound annual growth rate from 2012 to 2017.
I would now like to open the lines for your questions.
(Operator Instructions) our first question comes from Edward Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
report from other companies of EUR Yeah.
Well good morning Ed.
Thanks for the question.
Certainly we will get into a lot more granularity on the 11th of December but I think Ed focusing on Eagle Ford certainly what we see is our well completions are performing EUR wise at or above the tight curves that we have establish in both the Eagle Ford and as well as the Bakken.
However as you know there is variability across all plays so there are various tight curves that we are comparing against.
But overall our performance is very well aligned with the tight curves that we have assumed in our go forward volumes profile.
And then on the Bakken you dropped the light from past conference 60 000 barrels a day in 2018 or so.
Can you just remind us what is the spacing savings in terms of wells per DSU for the Middle Bakken and how much Three Forks you assumed any commentary and/or details about testing the Three Forks? Thank you Yeah absolutely.
Primarily we continue to kind of be on the 320 acre spacing in the Bakken largely.
However we continue to run from high density pilots where we look at combinations of both the Middle Bakken as well as the Eagle Ford excuse me as well as the level of the Three Forks.
On the Three Forks what I would say Ed is that we have a quite a bit of production already in the Three Forks first bench as we look out in 2014 and again we'll talk more about this at the Analyst Day we are starting to also look at at the additional benches in the Three Forks but we're having very good success in the first bench.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you Ed.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning guys.
First question is on 4Q guidance.
I'm just trying to understand U.S.
volume guidance modestly up Q-on-Q I think it's 152 to 162 versus 151.
In October you were 92 and a way to 100 by year end in the Eagle Ford; in the Bakken 3Q was flat due to temporary shut ins due to adjacent well completions which I presume would come back and try some kind of increase at Bakken and Eagle Ford looking better.
Is there something in the (inaudible) or other American volumes in that guidance? I'm just trying to square the circle of your guidance looks conservative.
Well I think again the guidance is meant to reflect kind of our risk view of volumes going forward clearly it's reflecting our best estimates in the resource plays recognizing that some of that will be offset by decline in the Gulf as well as some of our other based assets in North America so all that’s really rolled into that number.
We still view that we're going to exit strongly.
And in the Eagle Ford we've talked about the 100 000 barrel oil a day exit rate in December.
We're looking to be probably just under the 40 000 barrels per day guidance that we've provided at the Bakken as well.
Okay.
So that’s good then.
Moving on to the exploration.
Interestingly you guys picked up the additional blocks in Gabon; maybe two part question where were they in relation to your other block? And on Diaman specifically do you think you may have been drilling a gas cap on drilling operations seized and the operator established Gabon a hydrocarbon column in that well; what do we know and what don’t we know about the well? Yeah.
Let me maybe first start with the two blocks in Gabon and we participate of course as you know in the leach round in Gabon.
One of the blocks is actually contiguous with the Diaba Block the other block is a bit further south and a bit more in board it’s in slightly shallower water and about 1 100 meters of water.
Both blocks in our view are highly perspective pretty solid plays in Gabon.
Coming back to the actual Diaman-1B well what I would say is that we're still in the data analysis phase we're still getting back if you go fluid samples and fluid property data for the well.
We really need this is a 2.3 million acre of block we're just in the early days of understanding what we have in the block.
Our view is that we need to be out with an additional well hopefully in the 2015 timeframe to continue to really identify the resource potential and hopefully also discover where we might have an oil column on the block.
Okay.
Fair enough.
I will leave it there.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning Lee.
Good morning.
You’ve just got quite a long list to the exploration success here and I’d like to come back to that but firstly could you just talk a bit more about the expenses the exploration expenses being as high as they were? And maybe provide a little more detail on both the dry well costs and the impairments? Thank you.
Yeah.
We’ll certainly on the exploration side there are a couple of big contributors there.
One was the Sverdrup dry hole in Norway which was of course expense in this quarter that was on the order of about $60 million in terms of dry hole expense.
In addition to that we also expense the Safen-1 well in Kurdistan.
Those really are two largest contributors to dry hole expense the Safen-1 well was on the order of about $10 million or so.
Great.
And then sold out would be firstly in Norway.
Can you talk about your appetite to stay in that relatively mix your high-techs space? And also could you expand a little bit more on the specifics of commercialization of kind of I know that you’ve given some details here about the production facilities putting could you just clarify where that oil is going to go and be sold? Thanks.
Yeah.
Well let me start with Norway clearly the Sverdrup well provide us further input in terms of our go forward strategy in Norway.
That’s part of the strategic internal discussions that we continue to have as we continue to look at our portfolio and ensure that we have the right portfolio mix but I am not going to get into any more specifics on an asset-by-asset basis relative to that.
Norway as you’ve seen continues to perform strongly.
We just completed a turnaround in Norway on schedule and on budget.
We’re back up of course after that shutdown and running at a high reliability rate in Norway.
Relative to the Kurdistan and kind of the path to profitability clearly we started in Kurdistan with four blocks; two operated two non-operated.
We now have discoveries on three blocks and essentially a field development plan filed and approved in one of those three.
That’s the Atrush non-operated block.
As you stated that field development plan essentially has us drilling three wells producing those back to 30 KBD facility and then moving those barrels ultimately to export or use internally.
I would say from a destination standpoint that’s still yet to be determined.
We are still in the very early days.
We’ve just got the approval of the field development plan.
So we’ll continue to work there with the operator Tarka on how we will ultimately market the crude that we produce there.
Thank you.
See you in December.
Thank you.
Yeah absolutely.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Blake Fernandez from Howard Weil.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
My first question is on the reserve adds.
So I was thinking you could maybe give us some color around the regions or the areas where the bulk of those adds came? And I guess specifically what I am trying to dig around on this Eagle Ford.
I wonder if that could be an impact of DD&amp;A coming down into next year as you book more reserve there? Thanks? Yeah.
Well certainly we’ll have a lot more color on reserve adds as we complete our year-end processes on reserve booking.
But clearly the resource plays will have an element of those adds.
And you’re right we state as we continue to migrate reserves in the Eagle Ford into the proved category it will have a net effect of reducing our DD&amp;A rate.
So that certainly is an objective that we have.
Okay.
The second question I had for you is on buyback.
Have been it looks like you’re going to commence the second tranche in fourth quarter.
I am just trying to see how we should think about moving into ‘14.
Is there any appetite to extent the program I don’t even recall would that fully exhaust your authorization?  Well no it won’t fully exhaust our authorization we will still have authorization under the original Board authorization.
It is our intent of course to complete the second half of the buyback as you are aware from our release.
We completed the first half the $14 million shares.
The second half we’d certainly link to driving towards financial close on Angola Block 31 which we still anticipate to be towards the end of the year.
In terms of how we view repurchase moving forward I view it as a capital allocation decision.
It will first and foremost we look to invest organically in our business and that certainly what we’ll be talking about at the December 11th analyst meeting.
Then we will consider things we certainly work hard at our dividend wanting that to be predictable in the future stock repurchase is certainly a lever that we have but I view it is more of an opportunistic lever that we may use in the future.
And then finally we also have the option of course to strengthen our balance sheet.
Okay.
Thank you Lee.
I appreciate it.
You bet.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning Lee.
I’ve got a couple of if I may.
So first of all in Norway [deploy] whole cost you mentioned so my understanding is that exploration is kind of key to further how I express this et cetera there is key to what the Norway remains a long-term portfolio even though obviously I’ve been there a few months but can you just give us an [outlook] to feel as to how you feel about those core assets given the high decline that you’re facing there and I’ve got a follow-up? Okay.
Well certainly exploration is an element of I would say our go forward plan in Norway no question.
The performance of all time asset is also a key element there.
As you are well aware Doug we continue to invest profitably in the all time asset.
We have in-fill development drilling as well as a pretty significant subsea tieback that we’ll be moving into the installation phase in 2014 with expected first [hole] in 2015.
So we continue to work the asset very hard.
And it's a very high income per barrel asset for us very strong free cash flows.
But all of that information is factoring into our continual look at at our overall portfolio Doug.
And again I won't get into specifics on Norway but sufficed to say that we continue to scrutinize all of our assets there are no sacred assets in our portfolio.
We're going to be driven by profitability and ensuring they are accretive to the overall return to shareholder.
Great.
Thank you.
Yeah.
Thanks for that.
My follow-up is if you look at your exploration program generally you’ve inherited the program which is assumingly disproportionately levered to the frontier areas or Kurdistan.
Can you help us with what confidence you have that support Kurdistan can actually get monetize in terms of confidence in exports confidence in the political backdrop there should be confidence in getting paid and I'll leave it with that? Thanks.
Yeah.
Well maybe starting first at a bit of a high level Doug.
Our exploration program is now I believe very well focused in four basins that have some very common attributes.
One they’re either emerging or demonstrated play.
They’re extremely oil prone.
And in the exploration space I would say they have a risk profile that we can tolerate.
And those four areas are of course Kurdistan East Africa Rift Gabon and the Gulf of Mexico.
Each of those have their unique grip both above ground as well as below ground that will ultimately factor into our decision on the best approach to monetize do we develop and operate or do we look for other avenues to monetize.
I would say in Kurdistan we're still in the very early days.
We just have the first field development plan approved.
So the process is working there.
We've had discoveries.
It’s certainly a high quality hydrocarbon province.
And we have a ministry that we've had a very strong and good working relationship with.
So I would just say stay tuned it’s a work in progress and it’s still very early days.
All right.
Thanks Lee.
Thanks Doug.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jason Gammel from Macquarie.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Thank you.
For my first question I'll stick with exploration and I just wanted to ask about Madagascar.
Have you discussed any churns you might have received on the farm out or you've been carrying for any portion of the well et cetera.
And if the well is successful can you talk about the running room that you have in the Northwood? Yeah.
Well certainly we’re very excited about the Madagascar well it is the North footwell which is a little bit different than a lot of the Paleo [mine] player that you see in the Gulf of Mexico.
It’s still very challenging area very deepwater greater than 8 000 feet 25 000 foot well depth.
So still challenging conditions but very prospective.
In terms of the farm out without getting into any of the confidential details I will say that there is a carry involved in that interest.
Not only do I think we have a running room in Madagascar but certainly with success there I think you will see us very quickly move toward a play on that area.
And with success we’ll also be looking to expand the position potentially in the Northwood based on acreage that maybe available.
So it’s an exciting prospect.
We still anticipate even though we of course have a little bit of a hiccup with the tropical storm moving through but we’d still anticipate tubing the Madagascar well before the end of the year.
Okay great.
We’ll keep an eye on for that one.
And then just one more if I could please and this is maybe something that just means to be referred but you’re still what you haven’t enough of this representative sample in Eagle Ford wells now that the product mix that you had in the third quarter between oil NGL and gas is going to be representative of your production profile moving forward? Well certainly that's a moving target.
As the mix of wells change as we move from the contemplated window to the high-GOR oil window those precautions can change but the zipcode that we’re in which is something on the order of 70% or greater of liquid that's our current target.
And we would like to continue to stay in the liquids prone area of the play just because those in fact are our best and highest return wells.
And any comment on the NGL relative to crude oils? Well we are still running I believe around 60% or so on crude.
And again I think that’s the statistics that we see carrying forward in 2014.
We’ll still see some shift in 2014 in inventory as we look at the mix.
And what we’ll try to do is for December 11th meeting is to give you a little bit better feel to what those 2014 profiles will look like.
Okay terrific.
I’ll leave it with that.
Okay.
Thank you Jason.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Roger Reed from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
Good morning Roger.
I guess in the risk of asking something that will be addressed early next month I am going to just ask about some of the operating cost reductions you’ve achieved in the Eagle Ford and the Bakken.
What has been the I understand year-over-year down about 20% each but what has been the recent trend? Are we seeing that flatten as a result of maybe some of the changes in the completion jobs you are getting a better -- but not necessarily lower cost on an aggregate or on absolute basis but you are on a per unit basis.
Can you help us out a little bit with that? Absolutely.
And just for clarity you said operating cost but I think you are talking about capital cost here? Capital cost yes.
Yeah.
No I understand I completely understand the question.
Yeah.
On the capital efficiency side we continue to drive our drilling time sound as noted in the press release.
The Eagle Ford now we have down to spud to TD of about 12 days.
We are continuing also to work completion optimization not just from a cost standpoint but also from a value standpoint and ensuring that we deliver the highest productivity completions to generate the best economics.
We also are seeing commercial leverage as well in the Eagle Ford.
As we look forward to 2014 we begin looking commercially at our frac crews etcetera.
We still see room there to drive some of that commercial element down a bit lower as well.
I believe I mentioned that (Bark Lee) know that some of our best wells in the third quarter we were drilling for around $7.3 million total [BMC].
On average we are drilling them at about $7.8 million in the Eagle Ford.
As we move out in 2014 we would like to see again those kind of analog best wells be down around $7 million as we are able to continue to exercise some of this optimization on the [BMC] technical side but also take advantage of some of the commercial leverage that we think exist in the play today.
And then the unrelated follow-up.
The OSM turned in a pretty good quarter we all know it’s been a erratic times.
Can you give us maybe some idea of were there good things that occurred in the third quarter recognized the guidance for the fourth is fir fairly flat but I mean we turned some sort of a corner here or as you look to ‘14 it’s going to be erratic it’s going to be seasonal and we just have to live with that? Yeah well certainly you are correct and that we have been up and down in oil sands mining.
The third quarter really reflected good performance by the operator from a reliability standpoint but then we got quite a bit of help on the realization side as well.
Those two factors volumes and realizations really drove the outstanding performance from oil stands mining.
As we talked in previous teleconferences we continue to work with the operator at OSM to try to drive the reliability higher drive the reliability to be more predictable but I will tell you that remains a work-in-progress.
As we look out in fourth quarter we recognize that we will likely have some pretty significant plan downtime looking out ahead which create a impact us but we provided some guidance around our fourth quarter view and that's certainly reflected in that guidance.
But it's a challenging asset.
Reliability continues to be our number one challenge as we look at oil sands mining.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
We have a question from Pavel Molchanov from Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
So Libya has to one surprise been a complete block box lately ahead and as bode I’d ask if you are thinking about keeping that asset has been evolving at all and if so what might get you over the hump to put it for sale? Well Libya again is an asset in our portfolio just like the remainder of our assets that gets scrutinized for the value delivers within the portfolio.
Libya right now unfortunately we are experiencing the above ground risk the labor strikes there and that are impacting our terminal.
We haven't really done any liftings there in the last two months of the quarter.
So clearly it's been a downward pull on our volumes.
We recognize the above ground risk there but you also have to recognize that Libya has an extremely strong sub-surface asset.
It’s a world-class asset that’s have growth potential going forward clearly some challenging fiscal terms there but a world-class resource.
In terms of looking at next steps in Libya from our perspective we are hopeful that the sovereign authority will be able to rectify the current impacts on the labor strikes and get this back online and that’s our number one objective today.
And then just a quick follow-up on Kurdistan.
So obviously you guys have a plenty of development now for one of those blocks following the Mirawa discovery how closer you to getting up point of development for that block? Well as you know on that particular block Mirawa was a strong discovery for us but we feel compelled now to move over and drill an analog structure which is the (inaudible) 1 well that will give us a much broader data set to come up with a realistic field development plan potentially in the future but I would say today we're still in the discovery in appraisal mode for that particular block.
Okay.
So 2014 realistic to get a plan or too early? No I was just say we're going to we’ll base that timeline on the data that we get from the wells.
Depending on what we see (inaudible) will likely drive us one direction or another so we really need to wait and see the results combined that with the Mirawa-1 results and then that will start helping us set the timeline.
Okay.
Appreciated guys.
Thank you.
I would now like to turn the call back to Howard Thill please conclude.
Thank you Christina.
And as Lee said the December 11th meeting is coming up quickly upon us.
If you did not sign up for that please send to either [Paul or myself or Chris] a note.
So when we get you signed up for that the Analyst Meeting.
Other than that this concludes our call.
We appreciate your interest in Marathon Oil.
Have a great day.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) And our first question is from Guy Baber of Simmons.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning everybody.
Good morning Guy.
Understanding it was just a couple of months ago that you may be announcing about divesting North Sea assets I was just wondering if you could talk about how that marketing process is progressing.
When do you expect to have a data room open? Just trying to get a better sense of timing and how quickly you all have been able to move that process along so far? Yes thanks for the question Guy this is Lee.
Yes we are often running on the marketing effort.
We’re still committed towards a target of closing that transaction towards the end of 2014.
Consistent with that we’re working hard to get a data room open here in the first quarter to ensure that we stay on-track relative to that timing.
Okay great.
And then my follow-up is F&amp;D cost at $16 a barrel [saw it as a] [ph] replacement the lowest F&amp;D rate for you all in a number of years.
My question is just how that compared to what you had expected and were striving for internally coming into 2013? Is there any area that may have surprised positively relative to your expectations? And then relatedly do you all have any targets that you could share with respect to your goals for F&amp;D costs on a go forward basis? Yes now we’re very pleased with our F&amp;D cost performance and I probably should emphasize that that is based on total GAAP incurred cost as well just as you start comparing that number perhaps out to some of our peer group.
A lot of that of course is driven by some outstanding performance in our U.S.
resource plays as you looked at our proved reserve adds you can see the contribution certainly from North America that is the standout and that was part of a very I would say focused effort to ensure that we had appropriately booked and accounted for the growth that we were seeing in those resource plays.
And that’s really the uplift that you’re seeing this year that’s driving that excellent reserves replacement.
As we shared at the Analyst Day there still remains an incredible amount of 2P resource and potential total resource growth in those resource plays.
And again we of course have internal targets that we look at and challenge our asset teams with but we have clear line of sight on 100% reserve replacement or greater as we move forward in the next couple of years.
Thank you for the comments.
Thanks Guy.
I appreciate it.
Yes.
And just good morning Lee and Howard congratulations on the production growth last year and obviously a strong cash flow growth.
As we look into ’14 obviously the shale plays can continue to drive cash flows higher but you will lose something internationally.
Maybe just help us understand your view of you’ve given production guidance but how sort of net cash margins should change into ’14 versus ’13 say on a flat oil price deck? And then I’ve got a follow-on around deferred tax.
Yes.
Well first Ed I think you point out a good component though looking forward in our portfolio which is we are naturally going to move toward a higher weighting toward North America volumes and the margins that those generate.
Traditionally we have seen those to be a course higher cash margin than what we’d experienced in some aspects of our international portfolio.
So we see that as a net positive.
That I think coupled with our continued focus on high liquids content at both our production as well as our reserves we think are going to contribute to very profitable growth moving forward.
So a lot of that mix effect I think we will be able to take advantage of moving forward.
And the follow-up is on deferred tax and you obviously you gave some details on it in the release.
But just looking forward I mean it seems like it was smaller than perhaps I was modeling perhaps other people on the call.
Maybe just give us a breakdown of how much deferred tax was in the U.S.
and how much was international and maybe how that will pan out into ’14 given that you are probably cash tax payor in [our time] [ph] but get some benefits in the U.S.? Yes.
Well I’ll maybe handover to J.R.
just to address maybe the tax question more on a holistic basis because we are driving our kind of statutory tax rate down over time but J.R.
if you want to comment on some of the timing effects that we saw at the end of 2013.
Yes.
Good morning Ed how are you? Lee is right as we outlined at the Analyst Day we do see our overall aggregate effective tax rate continue to decline as the mix of our production shifts more and more to North America.
When I look at Q4 Ed nothing really stands out in terms of being individually significant.
As you know there is always two factors that impact Q4 when you look at our overall tax provision including our deferred taxes.
Number one is in Q4 we always ultimately true-up our deferred taxes and all our tax accounts to the filed statutory tax returns in all of our jurisdictions U.S.
sovereign foreign as well state and local so that’s one element that’s always going to be running through Q4.
Just as well as finally truing up our final effective tax rate as you know we go out throughout the year and we estimate what we think that rate is going to be over the next 12 calendar months.
And ultimately have to true-up that based on the final mix of our earnings.
And I think it’s a little bit of both of those component pieces Ed in terms of true-up to the final tax return just as well as getting the final mix of income by jurisdiction that might have driven a few anomalies none of which are individually significant.
But just in terms of outlook in ’14 do you think that you will be paying some decent tax in Norway and having some benefits in the U.S.
is that how you…? Absolutely I mean in the U.S.
with the capital program that we have running you will not see us be a U.S.
cash tax payor for a number of years.
Norway EG all of our taxpaying jurisdictions and it’s fair to assume effectively that all of my taxes for the most part for modeling purposes are current.
And so I think you should expect to see that going forward into 2014 together with the overall guidance that we gave in terms of the effective tax rate for the year.
Thank you.
Thanks Ed.
Thanks Ed.
Well thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Good morning Doug.
Good morning.
I’ll take my two as well if I may so Lee in the event that you are successful in selling Norway and the UK.
You are going to remove some fairly high decline assets from your portfolio.
Would you be able to give us some kind of pro forma CapEx and growth rate ex the sales because the growth rate obviously has been diluted by the decline rate so if we really just focus on the onshore assets ex those assets what does CapEx and growth look like? And then I’ve got a follow-up please.
Okay yes sure absolutely.
So let me maybe take on the volumes growth piece first I believe in our Analyst Day we talked a little bit about that on a pro forma basis and the way we really couched it in a pro forma sense was to say well when you look at our 2012 to 2017 compound annual growth rate based on our current portfolio we had committed to 5% to 7% externally.
When we in a pro forma sense ex Norway and the UK assets that pro forma growth moves to 8% to 10% over that 2012 to 2017 period.
We haven’t given any specific CapEx guidance on that but what I will tell you and I think we also shared this in the Analyst Day is that we are in relatively high investment years in both the UK and Norway.
As you are aware Doug in Norway we are in the installation phase of the boiler project this year which will have a very high CapEx demand between the installation as well as the associated drilling.
In addition to that we are doing some development drilling in the UK also.
So 2014 is actually a bit of a high investment year and we’re probably north in a combined sense in 2014 north of $500 million of capital investment in the UK and Norway.
Okay that’s helpful.
I’ll put it under the numbers.
But I guess my follow-up is kind of relatedly because assuming you secure the sales of these assets at some point and given the growth in the Lower 48 it strikes us that you are fairly flushed with cash.
Obviously the buyback is part of the process but where is your -- where I guess is management’s head out at this point.
I mean bear in mind you are still relatively new to the Company.
Are you at the point now where you are ready to reload the portfolio? Are you happy with the current portfolio structure meaning that incremental cash continues to buy back stock? And I’ll leave it there.
Thank you.
Yes okay great now good question.
And probably maybe a good bridge to my previous answer Doug is when I talk about that 8% to 10% CAGR that also presumes that you are simply removing the pro forma performance of UK and Norway.
It makes no assumption about how you might use those reinvestment proceeds to grow the business organically.
So I think it’s important to make that statement.
But in terms of if we are successful in the North Sea marketing case I think we’re going to go back to the capital allocation process that we talked about and described pretty fully in the Analyst Day.
Our first call on capital is going to be looking for those long-term accretive organic investments in the business.
From there we’ll take a look at how can we do an effective job of resource capture whether that’d be through business development or through our exploration program.
After that we’re going to ensure that we deliver our dividend commitment to our shareholders and as I mentioned that’s running just around $500 million a year at current rate.
Of course and all the while ensuring that we’re protecting our investment grade balance sheet.
And I think once we work through those calls on capitals we’re going to look very carefully at opportunistic share repurchases as well as an option to bring value to our shareholder.
But that’s the strategy that you will see us apply and of course we have to do that in the context of the business environment at that point in time that we find ourselves from a commodity price standpoint et cetera.
Got it.
Thanks for the answers Lee.
Thank you Doug.
Thank you and good morning guys and thanks for taking the question allocations.
First I know utilization’s impact to the quarter and really given uncertainty and volatility in the spreads and particularly Brent LS as it relates to your Eagle Ford volumes I mean do you have any greater interest or see the potential to term-up volumes with the refiner to provide surety around that forward spread? I’ll maybe start the answer and then invite Howard and J.R.
to jump in there.
Because that’s clearly a big feature of the release this quarter as the realizations and I think you bring up a great point which is our Eagle Ford volumes are really driven from a realization standpoint to LLS.
And through a lot of activity the LLS Brent spread was under some challenge.
We also of course saw some challenge in the Bakken as well on the spread.
And then finally on Western Canada select we also saw some challenges there.
So the spreads and realizations are very important too at this quarter.
On the positive those had generally moved back in line with where we had been earlier in 2013 but maybe I’ll ask Howard just to comment specifically on some of the factors we saw impacting the Eagle Ford LLS impact and then perhaps J.R.
could comment a bit on our overall I would say risk management strategy around commodity risk.
Sure.
Thanks Lee and thanks for the question Evan.
To Lee’s point what we saw was from the third quarter where LLS and Brent were essentially imparity we saw that really widen to about an $8 differential between LLS and Brent and of course there is a lot of the crude that you wouldn’t typically think of besides just the Eagle Ford that has an LLS component to it the Bakken being one of them because of rail and other pricing mechanisms that saw that drive those prices lower.
To Lee’s point in January we’ve already seen that discount close from that $8 down to about $4 and so it continues to narrow that was really from what we’ve seen that was really driven by the opening up of the southern leg of Keystone XL as well as reversal of the Ho-Ho line into Houston.
And so what you had was that that bottleneck really moved from a WTI pricing Cushing to a Gulf Coast price LLS and as that’s been absorbed then you’ve seeing that those differentials as I’ve said really start to close and maybe not back to normal but getting back to more of where we were on a pre-fourth quarter basis.
Yes thanks for that Howard.
J.R.? Yes I mean Evan two quick things Evan not to pile on to listen to three folks answer your single question but number one is we are also looking at additional commercial solutions that would give us additional outlets for our crude to increase our optionality around what markets we ultimately go to.
The other thing I would say so that’s more of a commercial focus on the financial focus of course we have had in the past and we will continue to look for opportunistic financial hedging potential.
We just had some fairly successful positions in 2013.
I would tell you that given the strength of our financial position however I think we have a lot of optionality in terms of how we manage our aggregate risk from a cash flow standpoint.
But again we watch very carefully and confidentially those forward markets and we’ll take advantage of opportunities as they present themselves.
Great.
My second question thanks for that full response.
My second question is related on the commercial side on crude oil exports and has Marathon filed for an export permit or swap which sounds more right with commerce and if not I guess why not and what is your strategy there to help break that potential supply log jam in the Gulf Coast? Well clearly it’s encouraging to us as a Company to see the crude export issue being out there and discussed openly now.
I mean if you rewind back not so long ago that was not the case we were hard pressed to get any traction around that but now I think there is some traction in the political circle.
Bur I still think it’s a challenge to move it all the way to a full opening of exports but some of the swaps and some of the export permits that folks are talking about we’re monitoring that we’ve not entered into any swaps or any export permits at this time.
We’re really spending our time with ensuring that we communicate the significant advantages that an export option will generate for the U.S.
both on the producers the refiners as well as the consumers side.
And so we’re spending our time with the influence leaders the policy makers to ensure that they have the facts they understand how that will positively impact the overall situation here in the U.S.
whether you take a look at it from a consumer position and price at the top or whether you look at it from a balance and trade standpoint.
But certainly with the growth and the economic growth that is being generated in the North America resource plays we need to continue to enable that and to me it’s a natural next step for us to move into a commodity situation we’re in the world open market that benefits the producers that benefits the consumers it doesn’t in any way damage our energy security but rather I think creates opportunities for further growth here in the U.S.
Great thanks guys.
Thank you Evan.
Thanks Evan.
Yes hi.
Two quick ones that are unconventional.
Could you split your Anadarko Base and acreage between the SCOOP the Cana Woodford and the [misspa’s]? And is it fair to say if you do monetize your North Sea assets that capital will flow towards this region as well? Okay.
Yes I mean I would just maybe answer the question a bit generally we typically have not split out our acreage.
And we’ve shown some maps I think in our Analyst Day which gives you a feel of the general acreage spread between SCOOP as well as the Southern Mississippi trend the core kind of Cana Woodford and then also even the Granite Wash as well.
What I will tell you is that we are essentially doubling and have doubled the rig count in our Oklahoma resource basins.
You might recall from our Analyst Day we talked about ramping-up across all of our resource plays to a 28 rig program.
I am pleased to confirm that we are at that 28 rig count today so we have ramped-up a very effectively early in 2014.
We’re looking very closely at the SCOOP.
We’re doing some work there on some extended reach wells where we’re looking at much longer horizontal sections to continue to drive those wells to be economically competitive with our best wells in the Eagle Ford as well as the Bakken.
We absolutely see the Oklahoma resource basin as an area of future growth and future capital allocation and competition.
So we see it very much as a growth opportunity for us.
Okay thanks Lee.
Next one is on the Bakken.
You have been completing a lot of Three Forks wells how they have been performing? Yes I know that there has been a little bit of chatter out there on Three Forks’ performance so let me be really clear on this.
We have got a considerable amount of our production today that’s in the Three Forks first bench about 20% of our production today is there.
We have a very aggressive Three Forks development program in 2014 that includes not only first bench but also second bench piloting.
In our particular acreage areas which we believe to be very high quality we’re seeing excellent performance and tight curves from the Three Forks first bench and we look forward to testing what the second bench can deliver as well.
I think what you are hearing is that there is a natural variability across the plays which whether you are talking about the middle Bakken or the Three Forks first bench depending upon where your acreage is located there is going to be a natural variability in the quality and based on the type curves that we have seen thus far particularly in the Three Forks first bench we have no concerns there.
Thanks.
Thanks John.
Thanks for taking the question so obviously some kind of discouraging results initially in Ethiopia and Kenya.
As you look to your next prospect can you give us a sense of the capital at risk in both countries? Yes well of course we have a relatively robust exploration program in 2014 it’s running right now.
Our capital budget is right around 500 million for our global exploration program.
In Ethiopia and Kenya you are right I would say we have had mixed results there.
What we’re currently doing in both basins though as you know in these rift plays you have basins within sub-basins.
There has been good success of course in Ethiopia and Kenya in the rift plays and we’re now moving over in general to the opposite side of the rift to test fully those very large acreage positions.
But we are looking to moderate our capital exposure in those areas until we can confirm working hydrocarbon systems and prospectivity.
We’re doing that in really a non-operated position with our partners there with two very reliable operators Tello and Africa Oil.
So we remain hopeful.
These are extremely large acreage positions that we’re looking at here.
They’re still in our view competing favorably for capital within our exploration program.
But I would just caution that it’s still very early days in these plays.
Okay.
You also remarked in the press release that even so far this year you have not had any liftings from Libyan oil terminals close but we have heard from some of other operators that in fact there has been improvement over the last perhaps three to four weeks.
Are your operations kind of distinct from that or are you seeing any improvement perhaps more recently? Yes well I think there of course is news each and every day coming out of Libya and I know you guys read it just like we do.
It remains a very fluid situation there very unpredictable.
Hence the reason we carry Libya volumes really below the line due to that unpredictability.
There is positive data.
There is a lot of difference though between the east and the west and where your terminals happen to be located.
And of course we still today are not doing liftings.
We don’t have a clear view of when those liftings may or may not restart.
On the positive side we do know that the quality of the resource is such as that when we can restart we will be able to ramp-up production relatively quickly and efficiently and get back on track in Libya.
That’s the real shame here is that this really is a world-class resource and if we can just get access again to our export solution.
It’d had some real benefits for the partners that we have there in the Waha concession.
Okay great.
I appreciate it guys.
Thanks Pavel.
Thanks Pavel.
Hi good morning gentlemen.
Just sticking with international for a moment you saw a drop in international reserves if read correctly can you lay out sort of what international projects sanctions are that are coming up that are pushed that back into the block? Yes.
I guess just on the reserves piece we did have adds in the international space.
If you look at the table that was provided in the press release we did have proved reserved in our international E&amp;P space and they were relatively significant.
In addition we did have some reserves as well in our oil sands mining.
In terms of investment opportunities I’ve mentioned one of those already which is the boiler project that’s going on in Norway along with boiler there is some development drilling that’s occurring also in Norway as well as in the UK which are contributing to those proved reserve adds.
Looking forward in time we also development drilling this year in Equatorial Guinea where we’re drilling one development well.
And so we continue to see investment opportunities as well as very strong reservoir performance.
In Norway’s case and point we continue to move the needle there and overall base reservoir performance that remains the case.
We’re still seeing very strong performance even with water breakthrough at the all time field the overall reservoir performance there is quite strong.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then just specific to Kurdistan you’re looking for first all potential out of Atrush next year.
Now given the current political situation would you see having a change before you be comfortable actually exporting oil out of your assets there? Well again this is a discussion that’s ongoing between the south and the north and clearly we’re going comply with the guidance that we received not only from the Kurdistan Regional Authority but also the sovereign government of Iraq.
Our field development plan that was put in for Atrush reflected essentially what we would consider to be an early production system of first phase of development that essentially would be three wells producing around 30 000 gross barrels a day.
The plan that was submitted reflected an export solution of trucking as opposed to a pipeline solution.
We’re of course keenly interested in an export solution via pipe from Kurdistan but we’re going to let that process play out between the regional authority as well as the sovereign government there that’s something we are certainly encouraging it adds a tremendous amount of value to our blocks in Kurdistan of which we have three blocks today where we’re doing no more work and have a transition to soften block over to total.
So we have three blocks one operated two non-operated with discoveries on all three.
So we’re still very positive on our position in Kurdistan if the export solution does come to fruition on the pipe side that’s just going to add incremental value and potentially allow us to proceed at a faster pace from a phasing standpoint as we won’t be limited to a trucking solution.
Okay.
That’s helpful thanks Lee.
Thank you.
You bet.
Thanks John.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Just my question is on U.S.
ops are there any updates to the spacing parts and progress in the Bakken or which was taken about in terms of down spacing potential across your position or what do you like to see from offset operators some with tighter spacing there? Okay.
Yes I mean on the Bakken I think we did a pretty comprehended job of describing where we were headed in the Bakken on spacing.
One of the things we talked about at the Analyst Day of course are high-density pilots where we’re combining the middle Bakken as well as the Three Forks off of single-pad drilling.
Those pilots are still moving forward but we are aggressively pursuing down spacing particularly in our high quality acreage it’s something where we’re keenly interested and that’s what is contributing to the increase in resource potential that we described at the Analyst Day.
But really I would say we haven’t we don’t really have new data to share today relative to the Analyst Day that’s only a couple of months and that really hasn’t given us enough run time yet to come out and state definitively the impact ultimately of the down spacing.
Okay.
And on the SCOOP you guys talked about that on the Analyst Day as well regard to extend the laterals is there any update there as far as how those are progressing? Yes but we’re just now starting our extended lateral program there.
Again we feel very encouraged about what we’re seeing as we continue to optimize completions in the SCOOP area.
We see very strong incremental well economics.
So again it’s really a question now Jeffery of getting a bit of cumulative production from those wells and being able to really understand the impact not only on ITs but ultimately the EUR.
Thanks guys.
Okay.
Thanks Jeffery.
Thanks good morning guys.
Good morning.
Yes just first question on the Oklahoma resource base and can you just give us a breakout of the roughly the 20 25 wells you’re going to be drilling this year how much are going in each in the southern way of the SCOOP and the Granite Wash? Yes.
I don’t think we’ve given specific breakdown on the well count.
I would say that really what we’re trying to do though in the Oklahoma Woodford is ensure that we work the capital efficiency and optimization question in the SCOOP.
In the Granite Wash as well as the Southern Mississippi line it’s more a question of really understanding the resource base there.
So those two programs are really kind of somewhat complementary to one another.
But right now we’re looking at something like probably a couple of wells in the Granite Wash to against our proving up that resource four wells in the Southern Mississippi line trend to again help us really understand that resource base and ultimately position us for the development.
So SCOOP really focused on capital efficiency completion optimization the extended lateral.
And then in parallel really testing the development potential that exist in the Granite Wash in the Southern Mississippi line.
Okay.
And then as a follow-up and for the southern miss where you have drilled two wells could you tell us what you thought at the results what the oil cuts were and how that compares in terms of returns to what you have in the SCOOP? Yes.
I would just say right now I mean we’re way to early probably to talk about those results with high confidence I would say maybe stay tuned and watch the space.
As soon as we’re comfortable that we’ve got enough production behind us we’re going to -- we’ll bring out those results and talk about them in a more full-some sense.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thanks Amir.
Good morning.
Good morning.
My first question is with regard to the Austin Chalk and the Eagle Ford I was wondering first of all what percentage of your current acreage is potentially perspective for these Austin Chalk and Eagle Ford combination completions? And as the second part of that how many successful tests do you require before you can begin to talk more specifically about locations in EUR uplift? Now good question Jeff and again we spend of quite bit of time at the Analyst Day on the Austin Chalk when you talk about prospectively across our acreage position.
Really what we’re doing with our pilots Jeff is really delineating that prospectively today I mean we have our models but we really need to confirm that by stepping around our play with the bid and that’s exactly what we’re doing with our pilot testing.
The early results from the Austin Chalk wells though are very compelling as we shared at the Analyst Day the type curves of the Austin Chalk wells looked very very similar to what we have observed in our Eagle Ford wells of similar lateral length.
So we remain very encouraged.
Again as we get more run time on the pilots we will bring that story forward but we are in the process of really understanding the full extent of the Austin Chalk around our core acreage position.
Okay.
Great that’s helpful.
And my other question was with regard to the Southern Mississippi trend I was wondering if you also have exposure to the Hunton lime if that is something you’re taking a look at I’m thinking like Logan Kingfisher County that area? Thank you.
I’m sorry I lost the first part of the question Jeff.
What I was asking was I was wondering if you had any exposure to the Hunton limestone I’m thinking Kingfisher Logan County that kind of area if that’s something you have exposure to and if you might plan any testing on it? Yes.
I would probably have to get back to you I don’t have a specific answer on that one Jeff.
I know the horizons we are looking at but I’m not familiar if we’ve really assessed the position on the lime there.
Okay.
We can take that up later offline.
Yes.
Thanks very much.
That will be great.
Thank you.
Thanks Christine and we appreciate all the interest in Marathon all the questions.
If you have additional questions please don’t hesitate to call Chris or myself.
We hope you have a wonderful day.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Welcome to the Marathon Oil Corporation 2014 Q1 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Tiffany and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later there will be a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Chris Phillips.
You may begin.
Good Morning and welcome to Marathon Oil Corporation's first quarter 2014 earnings call.
I'm Chris Phillips CEO and President; and J.
R.
Sult EVP and CFO.
As has become our custom we released prepared remarks last night in conjunction with the earnings release.
You can find those remarks and the associated slides at marathonoil.com.
As a reminder today’s call is being recorded and our comments and answers to questions will contain forward-looking information subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.
I refer you back to the aforementioned slides where you can find our full Safe Harbor statement.
With that I will turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Chris.
Good morning to everyone joining us on the call and the web cast.
Prior to opening up to your questions I want to make a few brief remarks on our first quarter performance.
We delivered strong financial results in the quarter underpinned by continued production growth across our U.S.
resource plays coupled with strong realizations and lower exploration costs.
Our adjusted net income per diluted share increased to $0.88 up 73% from year ago quarter.
First quarter of 2014 production available for sale from continuing operations excluding Libya averaged 440 000 net barrel oil equivalents per day and was impacted by an estimated 6 000 net barrels of oil equivalent per day associated with extreme winter weather and by an estimated 14 000 net barrel oil equivalent per day related to lower reliability on non-operated assets.
Importantly we have already advanced the three key priorities of our 2014 agenda; ramping up U.S.
resource play drilling activity marketing our North Sea businesses and delivering shareholder value through opportunistic share repurchases.
We remain confident in our plans to grow production from our three U.S.
resource plays by 30% in 2014 over 2013 as we aggressively pursue co-development opportunities for the Austin Chalk/Upper Eagle Ford the Three Forks and the Bakken and vertically stacked horizons in Oklahoma.
We are committed to rigorous portfolio management to simply and concentrate our portfolio towards higher growth and higher margin opportunities.
The closing of the sales of our working interest in Blocks 31 and 32 in Angola during the quarter and the ongoing marketing of our U.K.
and Norway North Sea businesses are evidence of this result.
We completed the $1 billion share repurchase tied to the Angola Block 31 sale; representing 29 million shares and in March announced an additional $500 million share repurchase which is now substantially complete.
Upon completion of this additional share repurchase there will be $1.5 billion remaining on our share repurchase authorization.
We recognize the importance of delivering on our commitments quarter-on-quarter year-on-year.
The first quarter delivered $1.35 billion in cash flow from continuing operations 97% average availability in our operated assets and 26% production increase in the U.S.
resource plays year-over-year or 7% quarter-over-quarter.
But our high-quality assets deep inventory capital discipline and demonstrated ability to execute we look for continued profitable volumes growth to support the strong investment case for Marathon Oil.
We will now be pleased to take your questions.
Thanks Lee.
Before we open the call to questions we would like to request that you ask no more than two questions with associated clarifications and you can re-prompt as time permits.
With that Tiffany we will open the lines to questions.
(Operator Instructions).
And our first question is from Edward Westlake of Credit Suisse.
You may go ahead.
Yes good morning and congratulations on the free cash flow that you generated in the quarter.
I guess some of that probably was from the North Sea.
Maybe talk a little bit about how you see the free cash trajectory of the company excluding the North Sea assuming that you are able to sell that? Thank you.
Thank you Ed and good morning.
Ed as we've previously communicated on a pro-forma basis the North Sea businesses contribute about 20% of projected 2014 cash flow.
Obviously we're watching the cash flows very carefully.
As we look forward though post the post the potential transaction.
It's also important to recognize that both the Eagle Ford as well as the Bakken will be going cash flow positive at current activity levels in 2015.
So we remain confident in our go forward outlook and our ability to fund our investment program.
I guess obviously waiting bids on the North Sea in the second quarter but you've been pretty aggressive so far.
Would you consider continuing to be as aggressive going forward? May be even sort of buyback ahead of the North Sea closing given where the current share price is?  Well I’ll just maybe for a moment talking about the North Sea I just want to confirm that’s a competitive process it’s moving forward per plan and we’re still on the timeline that we’ve communicated.
Our main objective there of course are a full exit from the North Sea and of course delivering shareholder value there.
When we talk about the buybacks I would refer back it to our view of capital allocation.
Share repurchases factor into that they compete for capital.
We’ve seen some opportunistic share repurchases.
I am not sure that I would call them aggressive I would call them opportunistic.
We’ve looked at the returns that those could generate for our shareholders and have felt very comfortable with what we’ve able to deliver in the share repurchase program.
Going forward and assuming a successful transaction repurchases will be part of the capital allocation consideration.
Our next question is from Doug Leggate of Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
You may go ahead.
Thank you good morning everybody.
Hi good morning Lee.
I wonder if I could try to say a quick one on the running room on the co-development opportunities in the Eagle Ford specifically obviously the Austin Chalk are there any other spiked opportunities you see in that area? You've obviously given some pretty impressive well results but we still don't have really any feel for what the scale of the acreage what the scale of the running room could be ultimately for that development.
And I guess the pace of development would come into that debate as well if you could address those issues in the Eagle Ford and I've got a follow-up please.
Yes absolutely Doug it’s a great question.
I I’ve shared with several on the line.
When we look at the co-development and we like to call it of course we refer to it as the Austin Chalk but I want to be clear that it’s the Austin Chalk in conjunction with the Upper Eagle Ford being co-developed with the Lower Eagle Ford.
That work is progressing.
Last I would say in 2013 our task at hand was really determining the viability of those zones of the Austin Chalk and Upper Eagle Ford.
And for the areas where we have wells we have fully demonstrated that viability.
2014 is really geared towards now attempting to extend that viability across our acreage position and the reason we haven't been out there with an update from a resource potential or well inventory standpoint is because we are still in that process of appraising the full potential of the Austin Chalk Upper Eagle Ford and as we complete that appraisal and then determine what that inventory is we'll then flow that inventory into the prioritization of our full development plan of the Eagle Ford and that will ultimately dictate the pace.
I appreciate the answer Lee thanks.
I guess as a follow up to Ed's question the running room in the Bakken and the Cana and the Eagle Ford drove those obviously anchor your production going forward.
But how are you thinking about redeploying the potential proceeds of the Norwegian and U.K.
sales assuming they complete? Would that be additional buybacks or would you consider adding another leg to the proverbial goose so to speak?  Yes I would say obviously nothing is off the table but I would go back to our capital allocation discipline Doug.
As you say we've got a deep inventory of growth opportunities across our three high quality U.S.
resource play.
Certainly one of the first calls on those proceeds would be looking to drive further accretive investments and across those three plays.
In addition to that we will look at selective resource capture opportunities as long as those opportunities can compete with the current inventory that we have in hand which is quite high quality.
And then as you state share repurchases may also factor in to that equation as well.
So we are not ruling out any options but from a long-term shareholder investment standpoint we feel very good about driving investment further investment into our three high quality U.S.
resource plays.
Our next question is from Paul Sankey of Wolfe Research.
Can I just keep going on that Lee I think that there is a perception that the asset base isn't strong enough to generate long-term growth and that you kind of have to buy something.
As I say I know I'm hammering on the point but I do perceive it to be the big overhang on your stock.
Can you just keep coming back to this idea I guess that you're not going to make a dilutive acquisition and that you believe you got the asset base to grow the company in a way that you think is attractive to shareholders?  Yes absolute Paul.
I want to be absolutely clear and in fact for those that participated in Howard Weil we spend a good deal of time and effort trying to go through the complete resource base that we currently view in the three resource plays which we feel is very compelling.
We are looking at 2.4 billion oil equivalent barrels and in aggregate 10 plus year drilling inventory there.
And as we look at further co-development down spacing stacked opportunities across those three plays we see a path toward further enhancement in that two key resource base.
So our confidence is very high.
We in no way feel compelled or driven towards an M&amp;A strategy that would be dilutive.
Opportunistically any type of resource acquisition small or large has to compete against that existing inventory that we have today.
And then if you could just update us on the Gulf of Mexico what's Gulf of Mexico what you're to and what's happening there and the outlook? Thanks a lot.
Yes absolutely Paul.
Well I think everyone is aware that we are bringing in the new build drill ship into the Gulf of Mexico this year.
We expect to spud that in the third quarter that would be our initial inboard paleogene prospect which is the Key Largo prospect.
We have got currently a 60% working interest in our operator of that well.
So we are quite excited this is the rig that we are sharing 50-50 with another operator.
In addition to that we have the second appraisal well on the outside operated Shenandoah prospect which is of course also paleogene in nature.
And then finally we are looking or have farmed into the Perseus prospect as well in Desoto Canyon and a well there is anticipated in the second half of 2014 and that is a [indiscernible] opportunity.
Thank you.
Thanks Paul.
Thank you.
Our next question is from Evan Calio of Morgan Stanley.
You may go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
So just keeping with the organic inventory theme.
I know you answered questions on Austin Chalk/Upper Eagle Ford but also appears location upside from the SCOOP with your results.
So I know maybe it’s a while early I don't know if you could put any numbers around that potential or -- and just more details on these extended laterals commodity mix lateral lengths IRRs and how that's stacking up competitively within your portfolio?  Yes absolutely.
We are quite encouraged by the early results from our drilling program in the SCOOP.
We communicated some 30 day IP rates from two SCOOP XL wells which were again quite encouraging good liquids yields very good IP.
But the real question continues to be is what's going to again be the long term EUR performance.
And really before we start broadly communicating resource and inventory impacts at a minimum we want to be able to get enough production time to confirm the underlying economics of those wells.
You might recall from Howard Weil we had shared some indicative economics of SCOOP XL condensate wells and they were quite compelling when looked at our broad inventory.
And based on the confirmatory results we've seen thus far and our XL program we see at least those types of returns and of course those were done at a relatively modest flat pricing environment as well.
So we are quite encouraged as we've stated we've got 100 000 net acres in the SCOOP but we are methodically walking through our program there.
We have got about 20 SCOOP wells planned for 2014 and the inventory this year and so we hope to have a bit more results later in the year.
Are you testing different length laterals? I mean the results that you reported were those a one-mile lateral similar to the Continental…  Yes it varies in the SCOOP; we vary between one mile to two miles a lot of that will be dictated by geology or by the lease configurations that we are confronted with.
Sometimes we're not able to do this full XL length and we'll scale accordingly.
So you may have some XL minuses and some XL pluses in there.
Right and then in the commodity mix you mentioned condensate but is there any more detail through the different windows there just curious where you are drilling?  Yes well we expect there to be some variability that's -- we wanted to provide those -- some indication of liquids yield and that's why we show that 66% to 70% liquid yields on the two wells that we communicated and that's the type of economics that would look very attracted to it and compete for capital allocation.
And maybe just lastly from me.
So do you think it's through this 20 well program that you'll -- once that's complete you'll have a better view to express a location number resource number similar to what you did in December to see what the upside might be from what you disclosed there?  Certainly we will have more data and I think we will have more data and really two areas; one is on the resource and performance side what type curves are we really observing in the wells.
Really to confirm these economics you truly you need about 180 days of clean production to really get the underlying type curve define.
But the other pieces is also that you have to bear in mind is it will also be gaining information on where we can drive capital efficiency on the D&amp;C side as well.
So it's really those two elements coming together that will ultimately dictate the resource sides and the number of inventories that we see but we'll have a lot more data at the end of the year.
Great Lee.
Thanks for the answers.
Thank you Evan.
(Operator Instructions).
Our next question is from Guy Baber of Simmons &amp; Company.
You may go ahead.
Good morning everybody.
My first question was on the capital spending during 1Q came in lower than we had modeled lower than the rate implied by the full year guidance.
You guys ramped up to the 28 rig program fairly early in the year and we have been expecting pretty consistent levels of activity this year.
So just curious as to how the 1Q CapEx came in relative to your internal plans.
Are you guys tracking below budget and may be seeing some better than expected cost savings and efficiencies or did you have some weather influence 1Q and is the spending just going to be a little bit -- will just build as we progress through the year?  Yes great question Guy.
Let me take that one head on.
We are down on run rate in the first quarter and let me give you the rationale for that.
One is we had fewer wells to sales fewer completion in the Eagle Ford and that was largely driven by the learning curve of three new rigs the increased density in our pad drilling moving from notionally three to four and also extending the lateral length on our well mix.
So less completions of course less cost.
The bigger element though was the timing and phasing of some of our major project span and so I'll emphasize that’s a timing factor.
We’re not predicting that we will not spend our full capital budget for 2014.
Specifically we had some expense well work that ran into 2014 displaced some of the capital work that needed to occur on the Boyla project that will now be a bit later in the year and that really was the project element was the main driver.
But our expectations of course is that that is simply a timing element.
Okay very helpful Lee.
And then my follow-up was I was just hoping you could provide some more information if available with respect to what you are seeing on the Bakken down spacing initiatives how the four pilot locations are progressing in your core areas? Any color that you might have there.
And then also could you talk a bit more about the even higher density spacing that you have planned for later in the year? What's the timing on that? When would you expect to be in a position and to maybe communicate some of the comprehensive results from that program and what it might mean to your view of the resource potential there?  Yes good question.
As we mentioned before we are at the early days of the 320 acre spacing test and we refer to these as high density pilots because essentially we are combining eight wells there four in the Middle Bakken four in the Three Forks one 1 280 DSU.
That work is progressing.
We continue to see encouraging results.
We don't have any new data to share.
We had shared a bit of where that -- where those cumulative oil curves were progressing in the Howard Weil and we don't really have a material update on that.
We are though progressing into the higher density pilot where we're looking up to 12 wells for 1 280 spacing units; and those will not really be spudded until the second half of 2014 and will be in both the Myrmidon as well as the Hector areas.
Okay great.
Thank you.
Thank you very much Guy.
Our next question is from Roger Read of Wells Fargo.
You may go ahead.
Thanks good morning.
Just wanted to come back to the questions on the Eagle Ford regarding the -- as you mentioned the increased number of rigs the density and all that and then you maybe commented on the transcript about needing to rebuild your uncompleted well inventory.
Could you just help us understand may be how that either already has or will affect kind of well completions production growth as we looked over the next couple of quarters?   Yes absolutely.
Good question Roger.
We did mention that there were a few factors impacting our wells to sales in the first quarter in the Eagle Ford.
And again just to review those those were essentially the movement to higher density pad drilling a bit longer laterals which again -- that's a great value proposition for us.
We're doing that because it's creating more present value on those wells.
And then finally as you say that the learning curve of bringing incremental wells into the fleet.
What I will say is that if you look at the total wells to sales in the first quarter which was 49 for the full quarter to give you some confidence going forward that we have now crossed that bridge and rebuilding inventory for the month of April we've already brought 26 wells to sell in the Eagle Ford in the month of April.
So we are back fully on track for moving into the second quarter.
And as we look out Q3 Q4 the run-rate of say in April or Q2 overall should be more indicative than Q1 or are we kind of in a -- little bit of a sign curve ups and downs here?  No I think at this stage we're looking at -- the second quarter should be much more of an indicative rate for us in terms of wells completions.
We'll again have some runtime with the new rigs.
The well mix may continue to create some lumpiness as we now have longer laterals.
And certainly our density in pad drilling is going to continue to move even from before to higher numbers which does create some lumpiness and particularly as you get around the transition quarter-to-quarter depending upon when some of those well pads fall could impact the number of wells to sales because you're now talking four five and six wells that could trip from one quarter to the next.
And then my last question.
The OSM another kind of bumpy quarter here.
It's not unusual for that category for anyone.
You've been pairing assets that haven’t necessarily met your long-term criteria.
Can you walk us through the thoughts on OSM? Given its challenges given the discounts in general for Canadian crude how that sort of fits in with everything.
Is it something that you want to fix or it might be better off in someone else's hands?  Well certainly first and foremost we want to fix the OSM's performance.
It is a high-quality mining asset.
It has suffered from very challenged reliability which has created an inconsistency in the returns that it does deliver.
It is a very large resource base for us.
We have about 600 million barrels in reserves associated with our interests in AOSP.
In terms of how does it fit in our portfolio I would say we have no sacred assets.
I’m not going to speculate on future strategic divestitures but we will test all of our assets in terms of their long-term fit and we’ll take it from there.
Our next question is from John Herrlin of Societe Generale.
You may go ahead.
(Indiscernible) that you're pleased with the Eagle Ford performance being above type curve.
How much above type curve are the wells doing? Are you changing your designs at all? Are you putting in more profits or increasing frac density?  Well our completion designs continue to evolve and improve and as we – again as we talked about at Howard Weil quite extensively the movement and completion designs have essentially offset any impact that we might have foreseen in the down spacing moving down to 40 acres.
So the completion of the design continues to be an iterative process where we continue to improve the value proposition.
We look at all elements of completion design; proppant loaded fluid loading stage spacing a number of frac stages the type stages that we're using and pumping.
And here is where we really benefit from the competitive aspects of the service company; really bringing the best and available technology to the completion side.
So the designs do continue to move do continue to improve.
With Key Largo are you going to go into the well with 60% working interest or are you going to farm it down more?  Well we'll take just like any of these deep water Paleogene prospects we’ll look to see if it makes sense to manage risk further.
Our view is we want to maintain a materiality and operatorship but certainly we would not rule out the potential to bring in the correct partner if we saw that as an opportune chance to mitigate risk.
Our next question is from Amir Arif from Stifel.
You may go ahead.
First question on the Eagle Ford.
The six Austin Chalk wells that you do have can you just give us a sense of how this 30-day and the type curve so far compares to the lower Eagle Ford wells in the same region.
Yes absolutely Amir.
We've shown this before in previously released data but when we compare to a lower Eagle Ford 40-acre type curve we’re seeing very analogous performance.
In some cases even the Austin Chalk performance is moving ahead of the 40-day Eagle Ford.
So there's variability there but we're very encouraged that the Austin Chalk Upper Eagle Ford completions are quite competitive with the Lower Eagle Ford and more importantly in the co-development scenario we see those two zones behaving independently and we see no impact or interference -- negative interference from the Austin Chalk Upper Eagle Ford completions.
And then so there's no pressure drop that you're seeing on those wells relative to the other existing wells?  Correct.
We haven't seen any issue with the co-development scenario cannibalizing the Lower Eagle Ford production.
Okay.
Then the second question is just on the Oklahoma Basin.
The 100 000 acres you have over there is that just the SCOOP and if that's the case can you also outline how many acres you do have in the stack and how many acres in the Granite Wash or the Mississippi play?  The 100 000 acres simply refers to our SCOOP position our net acreage in the SCOOP position.
We haven't given out specific acreage but overall we have about 210 000 total acres in the Oklahoma Resource Basins.
But bear in mind that things like the Southern Mississippi Trend and the Cana Woodford are stacked with one another.
So there are components of that 210 000 net acres that are in core stacked potential as well as things like the Granite Wash.
And have you tested the stack still?  We currently -- as we mentioned in our press release we continue to test other horizons in the Oklahoma resource basin.
Specifically we have two operated wells that are producing in the southern Mississippi trend and we have in fact brought online the first of two Granite Wash horizontals.
And again Granite Wash is a bit of a redevelopment of a field that was vertically developed.
And we do have additional wells in the Southern Mississippi trend schedule to spud in the second quarter of 2014.
Thank you.
And our next question is from Pavel Molchanov of Raymond James.
You may go ahead.
First on Kurdistan.
As you are getting ready to begin production on Atrush in 2015 is there a clear framework for the off take on that? And on a related point do have a sense of where crude pricing is going to be relative to benchmarks?  Maybe take the off take question first.
Kurdistan the Atrush development which is a PACA-operated development we’re looking to have three wells that will be producing about 30 000 gross barrels per day with first oil in 2015.
The original field development plans were predicated really on truckable volumes because that was the export solution of high confidence.
As the discussion continues between Erbil and Basra we know that there are Kurdistani barrels in Turkey today.
They have not been brought to the open market as of yet.
But if there is a resolution there then clearly the path we would like to pursue would be linking into more of a pipeline export solution.
It gives us much more flexibility ensures flow assurance and certainly would allow us to ramp up additional phases more readily in that scenario.
Realization wise I think our view would be hopefully driving those towards benchmark pricing with some discount based on the location.
It would be a brand index type pricing.
Okay.
And then just on your exploration program given the calendar you've laid out in the press release it looks like Q2 will be or maybe second half of Q2 first half of Q3 is going to be the most kind of high-impact period of 2014 in the program.
Is that a fair characterization? Is it just kind of concentrated this way?  Well absolutely.
We would certainly be getting some well results in 2Q that will be very important.
We will be in the testing and TD phase of the Jisik-1 well which is an important operated well.
It's a follow-up to our discovery the Mirawa-1 discovery on the Harir Block.
We will also see results from the Sala-1 well in Kenya and the Shimela-1 well in Ethiopia.
Most of the other activity will be a bit more back-end loaded in the year.
But I certainly don't want to minimize the importance though of that inventory relative to forward performance.
So that includes the operated Key Largo as well as two potential operated wells in Equatorial Guinea from an exploration standpoint.
So yes 2Q is important to us but certainly the back-end of the year and the wells we'll be spudding then are equally as important.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And our next question is from Jeffrey Campbell of Tuohy Brothers.
You may go ahead.
The first question I wanted to ask was on the Bakken re-completions that you announced in the press release.
I was just curious to know something about the costs and also what were your production expectations prior to the re-completion?  Yes absolutely.
We have progressed our Bakken re-completions program.
We've delivered five wells there thus far in the first quarter.
That program will continue through the year.
We do have initial 24-hour and 30-day IP rates in hand and those are certainly exceeding our original funding expectations.
These are though full re-completions.
These are not re-fracs.
So you are essentially re-completing and re-fracturing the well bringing it up to current technology levels.
These are wells that were originally completed with open-hole single-stage gravel packs or frac packs for the most part.
So we're bringing those up to current technology norms.
The ranges that we're seeing for these re-completions are between $4 million to $4.5 million.
As we get a bit more cumulative production and can confirm the economics we'll come forward with that and share it a bit more broadly.
We're just a bit still in the early days.
I would also mention that the initial recompletions have been in what we consider to be the highest quality area of the Myrmidon.
We're now extending that into the Hector area as well and when you look at that 100 well inventory that we quoted at Howard Weil these are important tests to see just how much of that inventory will be within the economic window.
Okay And just to make sure that I have a little idea what we’re talking about --you’re talking about maybe going in and taking an open-hole well and maybe doing a cement liner and plug-and-perf that kind of stuff that we see evolving in the new wells in the Bakken.
Is that where we’re getting at?  Yes.
But basically we’re taking lease wells and re-completing them using the best available fracturing technology that we’re applying on our new drill wells which for us maybe sliding sleeve type completions whatever we feel is the best completion for that area at the Bakken.
And sticking with the Bakken I just wondered if you have any update on your lower Three Forks bench tests and if not when might you have something more to share?  We’re still very much in the early days of the Three Forks lower benches.
We've had great success of course in the first bench.
I believe we reported numbers that we have a little over -- 20% of our production is in fact coming from the Three Forks first bench.
We have plans to initially focus in the Myrmidon area and we've got about six wells currently planned for late 2014 early 2015.
Permitting is currently in progress.
The data we will get more in the near term is from some of our working interest participation and some OBO pilot projects.
And those we talked about quite extensively at Howard Weil.
And we’ll take that data and of course use it as we look at developing our own inventory on the operated side.
Thank you.
Our last question comes from Ed Westlake of Credit Suisse.
You may go ahead.
Just a follow-up.
In the past I guess you've given us some sort of instantaneous rates.
I know they are not very helpful for us in Eagle Ford but just to give us a sense of actually seeing it in the numbers.
I appreciate all the color you've given on wells to sale but maybe some color on current production in the Eagle Ford?  What I would tell you Ed is that we remain on plan in the Eagle Ford to deliver our targets for the year.
We're at or above 100 KBED in the Eagle Ford.
Again because of the number of wells to sells in the first quarter that dampened a bit the production for the first quarter but we still had good growth quarter-on-quarter 7% even with that number of wells to sales.
And as I mentioned with the pace that we're on for the remainder of the year we feel very confident in our Eagle Ford growth rates for 2014.
And then this is in my opinion noise but it's important for some folks the 213 [ph] for the U.S.
production came in below the guidance that you gave I guess in February.
I appreciate that's only a month and a half of data.
What do you think went wrong to drive the guidance below the bottom-end of the range in U.S.?  Yes I think we're pretty explicit on that one Ed and I appreciate you raising it which is we did have pretty significant weather impact in North America not only on our current base production but we had pretty dramatic impact on our ability to do our D&amp;C activities in the Bakken.
And when you look at that in aggregate it would absolutely have delivered us at the midpoint of the range.
So it was a bit of external impacts that were out with the asset team's control that impacted not only production but activity levels as well.
So a little bit more contingency in the winter months I guess going forward in hurricane season?  Yes it's a little bit tough because even though we’re very accustomed to severe weather in the Bakken this has been an anomalous winter even by Bakken standards.
And our inability really to run the frac crews and even sometimes get to location put a very large challenge on us in the Bakken.
And then finally just on the Austin Chalk/Upper Eagle Ford co-developments obviously you've put type curves into the Howard Weil presentations which reflect your geological view of where those wells will go.
From the outside you can get data off the Texas RRC but that doesn't give day’s downtime.
It just shows you what the actual production is from the wells.
And we’re observing that the cumes on some of those wells are less than the cumes that you’re seeing on sort of Eagle Ford stuff that's close by.
So maybe just a little bit of color on I mean is it just – as you are testing that perhaps these wells aren't up as much as they would normally in a full development mode.
We certainly have not seen anything in the wells that we have brought online that caused us concern relative to the type curve.
We have quite a few of these wells now that have pretty extended days on production some of them are approaching 250 days and plus.
So we're very confident.
We outsourced some of the – the older Austin Chalk/Upper Eagle Ford wells that have cumed quite well.
So our confidence still remains quite high Ed in the areas where we've tested the Austin Chalk/Upper Eagle Ford.
The fear people have is the decline rate because some of the earlier Austin Chalk tests in different parts of the Austin Chalk and I get that the shale is more like a shale in your area but had higher decline so that's why people look at it.
No understand and also I think people are also tainted a bit by their view of the more traditional Austin Chalk as well.
As we’ve stated there are some fundamental technical aspects of the Austin Chalk/Upper Eagle Ford in our acreage position that make it pretty unique.
One it’s in direct contact with the Eagle Ford reservoir; two it's got its own organic content.
So it's somewhat self-sourcing.
And so coupling that with the well performance that we’ve seen we’re quite comfortable again in the areas where we have cumulative production.
And we have one final follow up question from Jeffrey Campbell of Tuohy Brothers.
You may go ahead.
Going back to the Austin Chalk.
I just wanted to ask you what was the reason for the rate restriction on the Children Westin well?  On that point Jeff we are using our similar choke optimization process that we use across the field that we think balances present value versus ultimate EUR.
So we’re very comfortable with our choke optimization process that we have in place and we want to ensure that we don't damage the reservoir for its long-term performance.
And again we feel very comfortable we've got enough experience with the Lower Eagle Ford and the appropriate way to manage choke that we’re extending that process into these Austin Chalk/Upper Eagle Ford wells.
I was familiar with your program.
I just wanted to make sure that it was a voluntary choking and not maybe – (indiscernible).
No absolutely.
The 16/64 is our typical approach on choke optimization and there's nothing more to read into that.
Okay.
I wanted to ask you one other final question with regard to the Austin Chalk and what I'm really thinking of here is Slide 10 from your Howard Weil presentation where you showed a selection of acreage and then you had some colored dots that showed the difference to Austin Chalk vintages and where they were drilling.
Can you characterize just on a percentage basis what you see as the potential -- the percentage of acreage that's potentially perspective for the Austin Chalk and I don't know if you think you've had enough wells yet but has some percentage of that perspective acreage been delineated by the drilling you've done to-date?  Yeah I would say we're still in the very early days.
That map that you refer to was illustrating us walking around our acreage position from an appraisal standpoint.
The positive is as we talk about the next set of wells bear in mind that we've got two Austin Chalk wells that are waiting on completion right now and we have three more pilot groups that have a total of six Austin Chalk wells in them that are currently drilling.
And what I will share with you is that that those tests will take us to the North and to the East which will help us further delineate that acreage position.
So I think we’ll have a lot of excellent data to share a bit later in the year as we complete that pilot work.
But we're staying with that plan as we described at Howard Weil.
Thank you.
And that was our last question.
I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Chris Phillips for closing remarks.
Thank you Tiffany.
We appreciate the questions and interest in Marathon.
If you have additional questions please don't hesitate to call myself.
We hope you have a wonderful day.
Operator thank you.
This concludes today's conference call and you may now disconnect.
Thank you very much.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's call.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Marathon Oil Corporation 2014 Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Ellen and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Chris Phillips Director of Investor Relations.
Mr.
Phillips you may begin.
Good Morning and welcome to Marathon Oil Corporation's second quarter 2014 earnings call.
I'm Chris Phillips Director of Investor Relations.
Also on the call this morning are Lee Tillman CEO and President; and J.
R.
Sult EVP and CFO.
As has become our custom we released prepared remarks last night in conjunction with the earnings release.
You can find those remarks and the associated slides at marathonoil.com.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded and our comments and answers to questions will contain forward-looking information subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.
I refer you back to the aforementioned slides where you can find our full Safe Harbor statement.
With that I will turn the call over to Lee.
Thank you Chris.
Let me add my welcome to Marathon Oil second quarter 2014 earnings conference call.
Before opening the lines for Q&amp;A I'd like to take a few minutes just to share a few personal thoughts.
Last week was a bit of a special week for me this past Friday August 1 marked my first full year as President and CEO at Marathon Oil.
It's been a remarkable year of growth and positive change for our company.
I am very proud of what we've accomplished in this first year.
We outlined a comprehensive strategic framework what we call our seven strategic imperatives as well as three tactical priorities for 2014 back at our Analyst Day in December.
And we made great strides in advancing against these commitments toward our stated goal of the becoming premier independent E&amp;P company.
We have accelerated activity across all three of our high quality U.S.
resource plays underpinned by a growing unconventional resource base.
We have executed strategic divestitures in Angola and Norway to both simplify and concentrate our portfolio.
And finally we've delivered direct value to our shareholders through material share repurchases and a comparative dividend.
I believe our company is fundamentally stronger today than it was 12 months ago.
And I give full credit to the leadership team and our dedicated employees for embracing the changes to our portfolio and to our organization.
But I also want to acknowledge that there is much left to accomplish if we are to be recognized as a premier independent E&amp;P company.
Many of you know that that I have a passion in fact my wife might say obsession for cars and racing.
So let me put it to you in racing terms.
We have our car well set up.
We run our qualifying laps.
We even guard ourselves to spot on the grid but the rate is just starting.
And it's time for Marathon Oil to shift the next gear.
Our seven strategic imperatives drive our business strategy and they have gained great momentum across our organization as we continue to make this shift to become a competitive independent E&amp;P.
We must continue this shift to align our strategic commitment to rigorous portfolio management capital discipline and shareholder value.
We are fundamentally striving for an organization that remains true to its core values to protect its license to operate but then also has a bias toward action a commitment to stewardship.
That is guided by sound risk management prolific opportunity generation efficiency and scalability in our processes rigorous external benchmarking and a rapid sharing of best practices.
A challenging and innovative culture well performance is not only differentiated but also rewarded.
And last but not least a culture that creates a great place to work for our motivated employees.
I'm personally asking our employees to test each and every decision against our seven strategic imperatives to ensure alignment and to make sure that we drive shareholder value and in all their daily work activities.
We understand that you our investors has options that you have choices.
And is our responsibility to make that compelling investment case for Marathon Oil.
We must deliver consistent predictable financial and operating results quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year with a clear focus on long-term value creation.
We must be good stewards of our shareholders trust and our shareholders capital.
For our investors and the analyst covering our company thank you for your support and continued confidence in Marathon Oil during my initial year.
And rest assured this leadership team listens to your feedback as we strive to profitably grow our company and create long term value.
With that let's turn our attention to the second quarter results and open up the call for your questions.
Thanks Lee.
Before we open the call to questions we would like to request that you ask no more than two questions with associated clarifications and you can re-prompt as time permits.
With that Ellen we'll open the lines for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
(Operator Instructions) The first question is from Ed Westlake with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Good morning and congratulations on the progress particularly in the U.S.
You flagged in a RISA a 25% increase in 180-day cumes for some of the Eagle Ford wells with the new completion.
I'm just wondering what change you're seeing and if you could update us on the EURs particularly for the condensate window but also for the oil window?   Good morning Ed.
Thanks for the question.
We are very pleased with the completion performance that we're seeing in the Eagle Ford.
As you quoted we have a population of wells with 180 day cumes that are really generating on average 25% relative to our model type curve.
The bulk of that improvement is of course being driven by optimization of our completion design a lot of that having to do with dropping our stage spacing down to 250 feet and below.
Our expectation is as we get a bit more data we intend to update to a comprehensive update on the type curves a bit later in the year and at that time we'll provide some updated EURs as well.
Okay.
And then just a separate follow-on just on the SCOOP.
Obviously you're still drilling some good wells and adding acreage.
Given the cash you've got coming in from Norway when do you think you might accelerate your development in the SCOOP and how would that fit into maybe acceleration elsewhere in the portfolio? Right.
Maybe I'll just kind of take the general question around.
As we move toward close in the fourth quarter around our Norway transaction of course a key question of our investors is how we intend to redeploy those proceeds.
We've stated exclusively in the press release that of course the first call on that those proceeds will be around organic reinvestment.
And the confidence that we have in that organic reinvestment is really underpinned by what we've seen in our down spacing and completion optimization in both Eagle Ford and the Bakken the continued expansion and delineation of our acreage footprint in Oklahoma.
So as we move into our business planning process in the second part of the year we fully expect that our further acceleration case and across really all of our resource plays will be a key consideration in that dialog.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you Ed.
The next question is from Ryan Todd with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning gentlemen.
If I could talk a little bit more about the acceleration that you've referenced.
At this point what more do you need to see in the Bakken and the Oklahoma to accelerate activity? Is it still waiting on results of pilot tests or delineation work or what more do you need to see at this point to deploy the cash? One thing it's continued well performance and also of course getting those results from those comprehensive pilots.
I think as you look around the three resource plays in the Eagle Ford as we announced in the press release we've continued to delineate our position in the Austin Chalk/Upper Eagle Ford which of course provide some potential uplift in our total resource space.
When you look at the Bakken greater than 50% of the completions that we are pursuing in the second half of the year are explicitly testing enhanced completion designs.
In addition to that in the Bakken we're looking at moving aggressively from kind of our four wells per DSU up to six wells using basically a six by six per DSU between the Middle Bakken and the Three Forks.
And because of the nature of that pad drilling much of those results would not be available until late 2014 early 2015.
And then of course in Oklahoma we're continuing to not only ensure that we protect our leasehold there in our high quality SCOOP acreage but as we work around we're delineating the Southern Mississippi trend as well as our Granite Wash opportunity.
So there is a lot of activity that is going to ultimately culminate in that decision to further accelerate across our plays.
And that will be part and parcel of the business planning process that we are going through currently.
In the Bakken in particular to potentially -- to use your racing terminology to put your foot on the gas more? Is it going to be dependent at this point on pilot plant and completion testing or is that still -- can you accelerate in the meantime? Yeah.
I think we're going to move aggressively in the Bakken.
When you look at our quality and materiality of our acreage position in the Bakken across our three core areas Hector Myrmidon and Ajax we see a compelling opportunity there hence the uptick in our activity in the second half of the year.
And so I think that provides us a very strong foundation should we move toward a more a higher acceleration case in the Bakken.
Great.
If I could ask one on a different strategic a higher strategic level.
You've done a lot over the past 24 months in terms of narrowing your international portfolio and narrowing your focus as a company.
And if you look at the international exploration program you're still fairly diverse in terms of taking shots around the globe.
Can you talk a little bit it about where the international exploration program fits into the broader portfolio and the newer narrower focus of Marathon as an onshore-focused company? Absolutely.
Well we view that the exploration portfolio has to compete for capital not unlike the rest of the assets in our portfolio.
And in terms of narrowing the focus we feel that we have in fact narrowed the focus really into four key areas which are East Africa Gabon And as we get results in those areas we'll continue to test those assets in the exploration portfolio as to how best to monetize.
Is it best for us to develop or is it best to look for a another way to generate value for the shareholders.
So just like our other portfolio we continue to test our exploration assets as well to see what they're yielding in terms of results and how those maybe accretive to our shareholder.
But we're going to continue to keep the exploration program very focused very much focused on all prone emerging place where we can come in and add value as the operator.
Great thanks a lot.
I'll leave it there.
Thank you Ryan.
The next question is from Paul Sankey with Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Lee Chris.
Hey Paul.
The previous question has been driving towards the potential for acceleration.
I guess that you are outperforming your targets to an extent.
Could you just remind us what your key targets are for the company the ones you want us to focus on in terms of volume growth obviously by play to the extent you're prepared to talk about that? It's just -- I'm looking at your slides and I see some guidance for 2014 but could you talk about not only 2014 but also beyond and what we should think of you as capable of achieving? Thanks.
Well certainly for 2014 Paul we are very committed to our greater than 30% growth across the resource plays.
And that's fully consistent with our full year guidance and maybe I'll pause there for a moment because I know this quarter is - I'll acknowledge is a little bit messy because of the movement of Norway into discontinued operations.
And hence the reason we've recast of course not only third quarter guidance but full year guidance to reflect the continuing operations element of our business.
But that new guidance fully reflects that greater than 30% growth in our unconventional resource plays.
Looking ahead I would say we want to insure that our growth targets which will be developed as part of our business plan are competitive and the current E&amp;P peer group that we compare ourselves against.
I think that later in the year we'll give a little bit longer runway in terms of where we see those compound annual growth rates going in the future.
But I'd like to probably hold that until we get a little bit further along in our business planning process and also have the full opportunity to evaluate the potential for further acceleration in the U.S.
Great.
Thank you.
My second question is have you applied to export condensate from the Eagle Ford lightly processed up in Washington?  Yeah let me maybe step back on that one and take the big picture question first which is I think I've been pretty vocal in my external comments that Marathon is very much committed to a listing of the overall crude export ban.
And we think putting our unconventional barrels into the world open market is the right answer for both producers as well as consumers.
And we want to have our barrels compete in the world open market.
So not surprisingly with that philosophy we are pursuing every avenue available to us to take advantage of the current regulatory environment to ensure we have the optionality to get our barrels particularly condensate out in the market.
I'll also maybe pause on condensate for just a moment given that there's not a industry accepted definition I would say for condensate let me just give you a little bit of color on our Eagle Ford production.
Our Eagle Ford production unlike some of the other operators is actually quite heavy in terms of API.
Materially more than 50% of our production in the Eagle Ford is less than 50 degree API and that mix will vary as we change well mix over the years.
But in general that mix looks pretty solid going forward.
So we have a pretty heavy barrel in the Eagle Ford and hence our CNC crude and condensate realizations are largely priced at LLS minus 6.
Having said that we still want to ensure we have maximum optionality of getting our barrels potentially to other markets with higher realization.
One of the ways that we're achieving that is also making sure that we maximize our volume on pipe out of the Eagle Ford.
And ensuring that we get access to the water at Corpus Christi and that work all continues to move forward.
So I would say on multiple fronts we continue to drive towards positioning ourselves to be ready to take our condensate into the open market.
Great.
I guess it's a long way of saying that you have applied to export? I'll let you make your interpretation Paul.
Thanks Lee.
Yeah that was great question thank you Paul.
The next question is from Doug Leggate with Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning Lee good morning everybody.
Hi Dough.
I have two also if I may.
Lee if I could go to the Bakken please.
I'm a little curious that you are moving obviously to 50% per your commentary for the enhanced completion design.
But you haven't really given as much indication as to what that means in terms of any potential change to your type curve.
So I wonder if you could just help us help characterize what that enhanced completion then is doing for you in terms of IP rates type curve and maybe what the running room is in the play.
And I have a follow-up please.
Yeah.
I think for us in the Bakken Dough there are really two things going on there.
One is the down spacing that we're doing.
And as we've mentioned we've already spurred on of our 12 well spacing pilots per 1 280 DSU.
So I think that is an important element of the work that we're doing.
Implicit to those policies well though we also are testing these enhanced completion designs which as you stated our anticipation is that those are going to have more deliverability that will enhance our overall type curves.
But we need to see the data first.
What I'll share is that when you look at our current either 2P or total resource that we've externally communicated on the Bakken that's largely based on a kind of four well per individual horizon per DSU.
So as we move from six and higher we would expect that to have an upward vector on our overall resource potential.
Similarly as we see more efficiency in our completion design whether that's through stage spacing through proppant loading through slickwater hybrid fracturing or even some of the cemented liner completions that we're trying we think that that will also be additive and be value creation and at the end of the day add to the resource space at the Bakken.
My preference is to provide more comprehensive update on our resource position a bit later in the year but later in the fall and we will likely do that not only for the Bakken but also for the Eagle Ford as well as the Oklahoma resource basins.
So we're still very early I guess is the bottom line answer there Doug but we do anticipate that those are going to be driving us toward potential resource adds in the future.
Great.
I'll wait on the update.
My follow-up is you obviously tried to sell the UK and Norway's gone.
The growth in North America is obviously pretty punchy on an absolute basis when you isolate North America.
But there is a little bit of a nutshell in the fat east over the large position in EG.
So I'm just curious when you look at the things that Apache came out with recently in terms of trying to concentrate the market's attention back in its North American portfolio I just wonder if you could characterize your appetite or perhaps your longer-term views as to whether an international footprint for Marathon is still the right strategy and EG in particular? And I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
Yeah well certainly I'll start by saying at a high level we never view that our portfolio optimization is completed.
And as I've said many times before Doug we're going to be driven by profitability not by geography.
As you mentioned we have still have operations in the U.K.
internationally as well as in Equatorial Guinea.
Those operations will continue to be tested in terms of their fit in our portfolio.
We made an attempt to market the U.K.
position and we're unable to achieve full value for our shareholders that we've elected to continue to operate there.
EG a little bit different position in that production relatively flat very strong cash flows there.
We also as you're aware Doug have a pretty interesting exploration program kicking off in Equatorial Guinea here in the third quarter where we're exploring some very interesting oil potential on our current blocks.
So we continue to see the potential for EG to have opportunities that would compete for capital within our broad portfolio.
If we get to a point where that's no longer the case then we'll have a different discussion around what are the four prospects for Equatorial Guinea?  All right.
Thanks a lot Lee for the answers.
Thank you Doug.
The next question is from John Herrlin with Societe Generale.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Two quick ones for you Lee.
You mentioned in the release and in your current comments and last night's comments about greater completion efficiency.
Notionally with the unconventionals how much further do you think your spending dollars are going as a consequence of improved well designs and other operational practices?  Well I think we continue to be value driven.
Of course we want to deliver the lowest completed well cost that we can.
But we'd also want to make sure that we're mindful of generating the highest PV as well.
For instance if you look at our standard design in a place like this Eagle Ford we typically have 22 stages of fracs we typically use about £5 million of proppants and we are now driving stage spacing to 250 foot.
In fact in many of our completions we are now testing even going below 250 foot.
We're also looking at various fluid loadings as well that will influence our ability to drive efficiency there.
I think the learning curve continuous to exist on the completion side across all the U.S.
resource plays.
I think the technology continuous to move.
I think one of the advantages that Marathon has is that we learn from all three resource plays because all have very different completion techniques and strategies.
In the Eagle Ford we have plug-and-perf.
In the Bakken we're using sliding sleeve and in the Oklahoma resource basins we are using slickwater with plug-and-perf.
So we get to see a lot of different completion designs and it's really taking the best of those and applying them for the region of interest to generate the most returns.
But in terms of the true return on that incremental investment and I'll use the example of maybe stage spacing in the Eagle Ford.
There is a cost to dropping down to more stages more frac stages per well as you drop it stage facing to 250 feet and below.
And we have tested that against the incremental value that it generates and absolutely see the return there for those incremental dollars.
Okay.
Great.
Next one is a follow-up on some of the other questions.
If you look at your asset base and you can either put on your VSRA hat or SCA hat or NHRA hat as a driver when you look at it in terms of the spending commitment you said earlier that everything is rated whether it's exploration or unconventional -- or conventional versus unconventional.
On a going-forward basis how would you lay out your spending conventional versus unconventional? Obviously you have commitments on the development side but in terms of seeking new resources? Yeah.
Well I think as we talked about overall capital just to maybe review where we stand in 2014 about 60% of our capital is largely directed toward the U.S.
resource plays.
And I think as certainly as we look forward into the near term particularly 2015 we still continue to see a strong case for those U.S.
resource plays competing very well for capital allocation.
Now that excludes any potential discovery in the exploration space or for instance even in the previously referenced EG exploration program which could change the dynamics there.
We often talked about wanting to exercise the discipline of keeping our CapEx within our operating cash flow but we don't view that as a limiter we view that as good discipline.
But certainly if we see great opportunities we're willing to step outside of our operating cash flows to pursue those.
Great.
Thank you.
Thank you very much.
Our next question is from Guy Baber with Simmons.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everybody and thanks for taking my question.
I want to go back to the Bakken for a minute with more of a backward-looking question I guess for me.
But despite some weather complications earlier in the year you appear to be easily tracking ahead of the full-year guidance that you would have given at last September's Analyst Day.
So was just hoping you could maybe shed a bit more light as to where specifically you're outperforming relative to the internal plan? And maybe what has surprised you internally? Is it maybe -- is it better well results more efficiencies? Just any more color there would be great.
Yeah.
Absolutely we have made a strong recovery in the Bakken post the weather impacts in the first quarter that ourselves and many other operators experienced.
But we are now tracking very well relative to our plan.
In fact we feel that we'll be able to accommodate the various completion enhancement test that we want to do in the second half of the year within our capital budget.
So I think we are being very efficient in the Bakken.
We are seeing very strong results not only from our drilling program but even our re-frac program that we're executing this year with a dedicated re-frac rig is also delivering very strong results.
And we are about to move from the higher productivity areas of the Myrmidon to test those re-fracs also as we move into the Hector area.
So we've had some very good results.
We've had very positive results from the early four by four spacing pilots that we've implemented in the Middle Bakken and the Three Forks.
And that has in fact given us great confidence to move forward in the second half of the year with kind of the six by six format the 12 wells per DSU going forward.
So the results continue to be very positive in the Bakken.
Okay great.
That's helpful.
And then my follow-up was as we begin to think about the potential and possibilities around you allocating more capital to your unconventional plays both in total and then from one play to the next can you just highlight for us any constraints or limits we might need to consider with respect to you all quickly ramping up investment in each of your primary plays? Are you maybe more constrained in certain areas than in others? Anything from an infrastructure perspective or people perspective or anything else that you might highlight?  Yeah good question Guy.
I think that as we think about acceleration and like I said looking toward the end of this year what actions we might have to take if an acceleration case proves beneficial.
I think we have high confidence in our execution model in all three resource plays.
It shouldn't be surprising that we've already kind of tested our ability to step up in terms of the ability of the service industry whether that be frac crews or rigs to support further step up in activity.
It's a similar process that we went through last year as we tested our ability to make the first step in acceleration.
So it would just be building on that.
We don't see any constraints today either from the service sector or from a rig standpoint and certainly not from an internal support standpoint that would preclude us from taking another step in terms of acceleration.
Thanks very much.
The next question is from Jason Gammel with Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
Just wanted to talk about the pace of bringing wells to sales in the Eagle Ford.
I know first quarter was a bit of a slip because of several issues but can you talk about how many wells that you still have an inventory that need to be brought on to sales and whether we should think about the pace moving forward as essentially same number of wells being drilled being brought into sales?  Yeah.
I think Jason that the second quarter was much more indicative of our ability to deliver wells to sales.
As you mentioned the first quarter was a bit of an anomaly as we brought new rigs into the fleet.
We were also making some changes to our well designs et cetera that was creating a little bit more measured depth on some our wells.
All of those contributed to driving some of our performance in the first quarter.
The intensity also of our pad drilling as you are well aware changed.
In the first quarter we averaged about four wells per pad in the first quarter.
That number has gone up to about 4.4 4.5 now in the second quarter.
But we feel very confident now that we're generating the inventory that will keep our five fracs fleet very well loaded.
Our current inventory and again this is just a ballpark number Jason is probably about five pads or 30 wells that we currently have in inventory.
Okay.
Great.
Then if I could just turn to the SCOOP play.
I'm afraid I'm still learning about this one.
Can you talk a little bit about the potential running room that you have there in terms of an inventory? And then also obviously the extended reach lateral had the pretty impressive flow rate.
Can you talk about the amount of irrigates that is contiguous that would support these extended reach laterals?  Yeah.
Well certainly for us we're very bullish on Oklahoma.
We've continued to grow and consolidate our acreage position there as we noted in the press release with further delineation with some acquisitions and some Greenfield leasing we've moved our acreage position now to over 300 000 net acres.
About 80% of that is in the SCOOP and STACK areas.
So we have a very deep inventory in both SCOOP and STACK as we look forward.
Again I would say our intent is to provide a bit more of an comprehensive update on the resources associated with that acreage position a bit later in the year.
But to your specific question around SCOOP XL we've had very good success for the SCOOP XL.
They're delivering outstanding incremental well economics we would compete very favorably for capital.
Part of our consolidation and growth in Oklahoma is focused on ensuring we can maximize the inventory of XL wells that we can access.
Because of course it has a lot to do with lease configuration as well as the specific geology that you find in an individual lease.
But we absolutely want to maximize our exposure to SCOOP XL well.
It's not that the SCOOP wells are poor performers.
Our SCOOP wells are still delivering 1300 or equivalent barrels per day relative to say the 2 000 that you might see in the SCOOP XL wells.
But we know when we can deliver the XL design that's exactly where we want to hit.
Okay great.
Could you maybe mention any uplift that you got in the IRR of the XL wells versus the standard SCOOP wells?  Yeah I think we've shown some incremental well economics in our last external.
But certainly you're getting significant uplift in terms of return on the XL wells.
Particularly when you consider the 2000 or equivalent barrel per day 30 day IPs.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
But I think IRRs Jason are run north of 50% on those SCOOP XL wells.
Great.
Thanks very much.
And the next question is from Roger Read with Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hi good morning.
Good morning Roger.
Just to come back to the Eagle Ford a little bit and I recognize we'll have more information later this year.
But can you give us an idea as you look at the enhanced completions of the Eagle Ford there the improvement of the 25% against the type curves but what are you seeing in terms of additional costs? Hopefully a lot less than the 25%.
But I just hoping to get maybe an idea of the extra cost per well and then whether or not you're seeing any -- or whether or not any service cost inflation is included in that or if that's a relatively static event at this point.
Okay.
Well certainly our current well costs in the Eagle Ford is running around from a completed well cost standpoint around $7.4 million and that of course incorporates moving to the reduced stage facing that we previously referenced.
Certainly the reduced stage spacing Roger does put upward pressure on the target costs of our wells.
However to your second question around service company costs what we saw at the beginning of 2014 was actually some costs savings in the service sector particularly on the pumping side as well as some of our intangible costs on OCTG.
So we have had some other offsets as we've intensified the density of our fracs stages.
We've also been able to find some offsets as well.
But there is honestly some upward pressure there.
When you just look at the I'll call it the gross cost of stepping up the stage density you're probably talking about 700 000 gross per well.
So you are having to accommodate that level of costs in your target well cost.
But that's 700 000 again is very well justified in terms of the incremental return that you're generating.
Right.
Well that's what I wanted to see.
Thanks for that.
And then on the second and completely unrelated question Kurdistan.
Obviously that area is in the news almost every day it seems like.
I was just wondering in terms of as you're looking at your international exploration program how that's fitting in from a capital allocation standpoint? And whether or not -- maybe you haven't had many people there since a lot of it's not your operation.
But I was just wondering whether or not you have people there what you would need to see to put people on the ground in Kurdistan again.
Well first and foremost our number one priority is keeping our folks safe and secure.
And so we of course just like every one have been monitoring the situation in Kurdistan very very carefully with the developments there and Iraq with Isis.
What I can share with you is that our operations as well as the operations in our OBO operated by others blocks there today have not been impacted by the activities there the Kurdistan Regional Authority has had a very stabilizing influence.
We simply have not seen an impact on our operations but we are monitoring it on a day-to-day basis to ensure that our folks are protected from a safety end and security standpoint.
In terms of backing away from the security question and maybe moving forward to the - to the more geologic side of things and how it competes for capital.
We have had very good success in Kurdistan.
When you look at our operated block Harir we've had the Mirawa-1 discovery.
We're currently testing the Jisik-1 well.
We've got the Mirawa-2 appraisal well schedule for later in the year.
So on the operated block we feel very strongly that we've had very good geologic success there.
We're still again early days.
We're still doing exploration and appraisal.
But it looks quite promising from a geologic standpoint.
Similarly on our non-operated blocks we continue to make good progress there Atrush of course is moving rapidly toward first oil.
Next year that will be kind of 30 000 barrel early production system in 2015.
And then on our Sarsang block which is also non-operated we're currently testing the East Swara Tika-1 well.
So a lot of activity there.
We're thankful that that has not been impacted by the security issues in Iraq.
But we're going to continue to monitor that.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you Roger.
The next question is from David Heikkinen with Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Lee.
You've highlighted that you don't see any constraints to accelerate.
Can you talk about as you think about accelerating what you see on the delta of services and drilling cost basis? And then how you offset that with efficiency? You hit the 700 000 per well increase but makes better returns.
I'm just trying to get into the base cost apples-to-apples of what you're saying?  Yeah.
If I look at the first half of the year I would say that our service cost were kind of flat to down there was still good commercial tension there.
We also again as I mentioned saw it in some our intangible goods as well.
I think though you can sense that there is a bit more of a tightening around availability.
When you look at rigs and pumping crews particularly as the activity continues to be at a very high level and there's some rebalancing around the resource plays as you see the Permian competing for a lot of the horizontal activity as well.
So as I look out to the second half of the year I would anticipate that we will see a little bit of upward pressure on the services side.
And we're going to have continue to work to offset any of that commercial pressure.
Now we'll say with our scale across all three of the resource plays we're dealing from a strong position from a negotiation standpoint because we do have a very large book of business.
The other aspect I would point out that as we move to longer laterals more complex terms associated with more pad drilling we are trying to go more high spec rigs that give us the ability to use 7 500 PSI pumping systems that have the more advanced moving systems so we can move across the pad efficiently.
So all of those things I think will contribute to little bit more upward pressure commercially on services and goods probably in the second half of the year.
And it's our job to continue to work to offset those.
And then in Oklahoma a couple years ago you talked about in a lower price environment it wasn't as competitive.
And you've talked about the improving technology that's made the SCOOP work and extended reach laterals.
Can you talk about the STACK and the extension of the southern Mississippi and of what your seeing there and how that works in this commodity price environment? Yeah our early results in the Southern Mississippi trend or the STACK are very very encouraging as we look at liquid deals and overall performance.
We feel very encouraged given that there is remaining consolidation and Greenfield leasing opportunities there we've been somewhat quiet on sharing specific well results because we still see some competitive advantage to based on our knowledge base of the play now to continue to go out and grow and consolidate that position.
But we feel today that based on very early results that Southern Mississippi trend will be in and compete for capital allocation.
All right thanks guys.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jeoffrey Lambujon with Tudor Pickering &amp; Holt.
Please go ahead.
Pickering &amp; Holt</strong>  Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
On the Bakken enhanced fracs looking at the public data shows that in 2013 you averaged 8000 pounds of proppant per stage on 30 stages.
Can you talk about what you're seeing -- or what you're testing leading-edge and where on your acreage you're testing that?  Yeah absolutely.
Well certainly for us we're looking across all the variables and completion design.
Of course in the Bakken our standard completion has been kind of a notional 29 30 stage completion with a little under £3 million of proppant.
Typically that's been a sliding sleeve and again that's using our kind of 320 acre kind of spacing model.
I think what you're going to see going forward is that we're going to drop at stage spacing facing which of course will have the effect of raising our number of stages per well.
I think you'll see us looking to test the variability and frac volume loading how much volume we're actually plumping.
And then as you stated we'll also look at moving the proppant loading to much higher levels.
In fact we have trials that will take us up to £6 million per completion.
We'll also be looking at different frac designs using both the hybrid fracs which combine slickwater and more conventional proppant as well as straight slickwater as well.
And given that we've been primarily sliding sleeve completions.
We're very interested in also testing the cement liner with plug-and-perf.
So we've got a variety of variables.
That's why we're going to be so active in the second half of the year is that we think we because of the quality because of the materiality of our position we think we can move a bit more aggressively on both down spacing as well as completion design and that's really what you're seeing in the second half of the year.
And that will be an – in really the core areas of our play Jeoffrey Myrmidon Hector and Ajax.
Pickering &amp; Holt</strong> Great.
Thanks for that detail.
Switching to the Eagle Ford.
Just going back to the proppant side there of those enhanced completions can you talk more about your running room that you've got for further testing there and what you're experimenting with leading edge there as well? Thanks Yeah similar I would say to Bakken it starts with continuing to drive down spacing.
We largely speaking now are at 40 acre spacing for the bulk of our core acreage that we're developing.
But with that as I mentioned earlier our standard design now is around 250 foot stage spacing but we're looking at even taking that lower than the 250 foot which will have the net affect again of having more stages in our designs.
We're also similar to Bakken looking at higher volume metric loading in terms of frac volumes as well as higher proppant loadings.
And so both of those will be key variables that we're taking a look at.
And we'll even look at some of our chemical additives that we use with the jobs that we pump the surfactants that we use et cetera to see if we can find efficiency there as well.
So there's still in my view running room there in the Eagle Ford today.
We've essentially offset any potential negative impact from down spacing to 40 acres by continually improving our completion design and delivery and we anticipate that continuing.
Pickering &amp; Holt</strong> Thank you.
The next question is from Scott Hanold with RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Question on the upper Eagle Ford.
You obviously talked about some successful wells there.
Can you give us a sense when you step back and look at your entire Eagle Ford position how much do you think could be perspective for it? When you look at the nine wells you are currently drilling how much the rest of your acreage are you testing right now? Yeah.
And just to be absolutely clear when we talk about upper yield for we tend to talk about the Austin Chalk/Upper Eagle Ford as a unit together.
And when we talked in the release about the 15 500 net acres that we've delineated that really is the combined Austin Chalk/Upper Eagle Ford.
We're continuing that delineation program Scott.
We wanted to get out some of the positive news this quarter because we have de-risk now that's 15 500 net acres which we believe will be developed on normally 40/60 acre spacing going forward.
We want to continue that delineation plan.
You talked about the additional wells that we have activity on.
And those are just going to continue we hope to add to that 15 500 net acres.
Okay.
Then just to clarify when you all give your resource update late in the year will you have a pretty good sense of your entire acreage position and how much of that has upper Eagle Ford/Austin Chalk potential? That's absolutely.
Our plan is to give more - based on where we are at that point in time we will connect the dots between the net acreage that we've been able to de-risk and the resource potential and well inventory that that will deliver.
Okay.
And my follow-up.
In the Bakken on your 12 wells per DSU test can you remind me how are you drilling those? Are they going to be six Bakken and six Three Forks? And will those Three Forks be all in that upper bench? Or are you planning on doing any chevron in some of the lower benches on that? Yeah you're spot on Scott.
These will be the six-by-six with six middle Bakken.
Six primarily in the Three Forks first bench.
We do have some activity – we've of course been involved in the other benches of the Three Forks through our joined interest business in Bakken our OBO business.
But it is our intent to also test in our operative well some of the lower benches a bit later in the year as well.
But our primary objective is getting the 12 wells per DSU utilizing the middle Bakken and the first bench of the Three Forks.
Okay thanks.
Thank you.
The next question is from Pavel Molchanov with Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Thanks for taking my question.
Mostly answered.
One on continue if I may.
You mentioned that Sala-1 discovery given that it's natural gas what can you guys do with that? Yeah well certainly Sala-1 is gas discovery.
Sala-2 which is already spud in the third quarter.
We'll be appraising the size of that development of that resource.
In terms of development of course that area of the world needs gas needs power infrastructure.
So there are paths to monetization there for gas.
For us of course we would prefer to keep the bias toward our liquids waiting.
But we do see opportunity here with the Sala-2 appraisal it will give us a view of the size of the prospect and then we'll start talking about how best to move forward the development.
What I'll stress though is that the discovery there is one discovery on blocks that our multi-million acre blocks.
So this is just one part and the fact that this proved a working hydrocarbon system with reservoir quality I think is notable and important.
Okay.
And then one on Kurdistan following up on the question of maybe 10 minutes ago.
In the context of the fighting has there been any slowdown in activity bringing in personnel and in particular I'm thinking about the development of the Atrush block which I know you guys were hoping to bring online next year.
At this point Pavel I would say we have an experience any material impact on either our drilling operations or on the go-forward development work at Atrush we continued with the development well at Atrush per plan.
So today and again we're only as good as our last day of operation there.
But today we just haven't seen direct impact on our operations.
Okay.
Clear enough.
Appreciate it.
Thank you Pavel.
The next question is from Amir Arif with Stifel Nicolaus.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning guys.
Good morning.
Just a quick question for you.
When you think of the large proceeds coming in from Norway how do you think about maybe using some of that to do a large bolt-on acquisition in one of the existing areas or a new area? And just comparing that against your inventory especially at a higher activity level in terms of your comfort level with inventory in your three key resource plays? Well I would say Amir we again our first call is going to be on organic growth.
We feel very strongly that our inventory is solid.
And as we look at the performance not only in the second quarter but look at the activity in second half of the year we anticipate forward positive pressure on our resource size across the resource plays.
So we have very high confidence in our organic opportunities.
Having said that we would never rule-out another use of capital but we're very comfortable with our organic investment.
We also have the option to look at opportunistic share repurchases as well.
So we feel that we've got ample internal opportunities for the deployment of the Norway capital.
Okay.
But in terms of the return potential or opportunities that you see right now could you just provide some color on acquisition versus organic growth? Again our immediate view today is that we have the organic opportunities that will compete very favorably for the redeployment of the Norwegian capital.
And that really is our case to be.
And in fact that's one of the reasons why we'll be testing very thoroughly as part of our business planning process our ability to further accelerate in the U.S.
resource plays.
Okay.
And then just a follow-up question on the share buybacks.
Is the timing of that dependent on the proceeds coming in or will that -- should we think of you using up pretty much or maintaining the current pace of share buybacks? Well we don't have a current pace of share buybacks.
We have been an opportunistic share repurchaser.
That will continue and the timing of that will be a discussion with the leadership team and our board when that occurs.
We have remaining $1.5 billion of repurchase authorization that's outstanding and so we have that flexibility available to us.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
The next question is from Jeffrey Campbell with Tuohy Brothers.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
This is the Theo Maryanos for Jeffrey Campbell.
Can you guys just touch on the mix for liquids in the Oklahoma resource plays? I think we've talked about that certainly on an incremental well basis as we've quoted our numbers in the SCOOP XL we've tried to be very transparent on the liquid content.
Our most recent IP is right around 64% liquids.
We of course have a bit more exposure there to NGL pricing in Oklahoma.
But as we look again at the incremental well economics in the SCOOP we find it competing very favorably for capital.
And again as we continue to grow and consolidate that position there's no doubt that Oklahoma is a candidate for moving to a much higher scale in the future.
We're only currently running four rigs in Oklahoma which are largely dedicated toward ensuring we hold our very high quality SCOOP acreage.
Great.
Appreciate it.
And can you touch how many location -- or potential recompletion locations might you have if the Hector area recompletions are successful? If we're successful if we move through 2014 successfully we would anticipate having an inventory of about 60 recompletes going forward based on our current analysis.
Great.
Appreciate it.
Thank you very much.
We have no further questions at this time.
I'll turn the call back to Chris Phillips for closing remarks.
Thank you Ellen.
And we appreciate the questions and interest in Marathon.
If you have any additional questions please don't hesitate to call myself.
We hope you have a wonderful day.
Ellen thank you this concludes today's conference call.
And you may now disconnect.
Thank you.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may all disconnect.
Welcome to the Marathon Oil Corporation 2014 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Christine and I will be the operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Chris Phillips.
You may begin.
Good morning and welcome to Marathon Oil Corporation's third quarter 2014 earnings call.
I'm Chris Phillips Director of Investor Relations.
Also on the call this morning are Lee Tillman CEO and President; J.
R.
Sult Executive Vice President and CFO; Mitch Little Vice President International and Offshore Exploration and Production Operations and Lance Robertson Vice President North America Product Operations.
As has become our custom we released prepared remarks last night in conjunction with the earnings release.
You can find those remarks and the associated slides at marathonoil.com.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded and our comments and answers to questions will contain forward-looking information subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.
I refer you back to the aforementioned slides where you can find our full Safe Harbor statement.
With that I will turn the call over to Lee.
Well let me add my good morning.
I want to open with a few comments on our outstanding operational performance focusing on those execution elements that are within the control of our excellent asset teams.
First and foremost our three high quality U.S.
resource plays continue to deliver on our growth objectives with over 40% year-on-year growth and double-digit growth quarter-over-quarter.
The Eagle Ford had a record quarter with 87 gross operated wells to sales including eight Austin Chalk wells.
We brought 19 gross operated wells to sales in the Bakken with eight of those piloting enhanced completion designs with encouraging early results.
We also spud three high-density Bakken pilots with 12 wells per drilling unit and brought 13 additional recompletions to sales.
Per our plan we have added an incremental rig in the Bakken to provide additional capacity for our high-density spacing and completion pilots and we are on track to add two incremental rigs in the Oklahoma Resource Basins before year-end to continue SCOOP development STACK delineation and new horizon testing in the Springer Caney and Granite Wash.
We also grew our Oklahoma Resource Basin position by executing agreements for approximately 12 000 net acres in the SCOOP including acres perspective in the emerging Springer formation.
Internationally we closed our Norway transaction for approximately $2.1 billion in proceeds and had excellent early results from our UK Brae platform drilling program with both wells exceeding free drill expectations.
In exploration we spud our Key Largo inboard Paleogene prospect our first well in a multi-year GoM exploration program and expect to spud our first well in the EG exploration program before year-end.
Additionally we successfully negotiated and executed our exploration and production sharing contract for Gabon Block G13 now named Tchicuate.
An acquisition of 3D seismic is planned to begin in early November over this promising block.
Looking ahead to the fourth quarter we expect growth in North America E&amp;P production available for sale and remain on track to deliver over 30% year-on-year growth from the U.S.
resource plays.
International E&amp;P production available for sale excluding Libya is expected to increase in the fourth quarter reflecting improved reliability and no significant planned maintenance activities.
Fourth quarter oil sands mining production is expected to decrease from third quarter volumes due to planned maintenance at the mine.
Our full year volumes guidance has been narrowed to 350 000 to 360 000 net oil equivalent barrels per day for production available for sale from the combined North America E&amp;P and international E&amp;P segments excluding Libya and discontinued operations.
The recent correction in commodity prices has rightly captured the attention of investors and operators alike.
Marathon Oil through the strength of our balance sheet which has recently benefitted from the receipt of proceeds from the sale of our Norway business is well positioned for a lower product price market.
Although we have yet to finalize our 2015 capital program at the macro level we are incorporating the latest commodity price volatility into our business planning but remain confident in our forward growth plans with strong cash flows and the proceeds from our completed asset sales to support the continued development of our deep and high quality inventory in the Eagle Ford Bakken and Oklahoma Resource Basins.
Our U.S.
opportunity set remains economically robust across a broad range of pricing scenarios and we continually high grade and enhance our single well economics through the work of the asset teams via completion optimization downspacing capital efficiency and the testing of additional horizons.
We expect our resource play programs to progress fundamentally unchanged with no plans to reduce rig count except where productivity permits.
Our continued focus on capital discipline and portfolio management has us well positioned to invest intelligently through the commodity cycle and we will use the optionality across our opportunity inventory to maximize returns while retaining flexibility.
We have a comprehensive process for examining CapEx at the margin and our investment portfolio has the requisite granularity to ensure all opportunities are fully tested for capital allocation.
We have clear line of sight on our multiyear commitment as well as those areas of our business that are more discretionary and scalable in nature.
Our resource plays are not the marginal capital dollars.
So the key question will be more around pay and further acceleration as we balance growth with returns.
We will also focus on protecting and expanding margins through continued expense management and commercial leverage with our service providers.
We readily acknowledge our inability to predict pricing but are in good stead to progress profitable growth and drive shareholder value across range of macro-economic environments.
Let’s now open for your questions.
And as a reminder we do have our two operational Vice Presidents joining us today.
So please take full advantage of their participation.
Back to Chris to kick us off.
Thanks Lee.
Before we open the call to questions we’d like to request that you ask no more than two questions with associated clarifications.
And you can re-prompt as time permits.
With that Christine we’ll open the lines for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session [Operator Instructions].
Our first question comes from Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
I just wanted to I mean obviously you said in your opening remarks that you don’t see a need to change.
But say oil prices continue to trade lower get a sense of what it is that you think would be the first thing that you might defer in terms of the overall CapEx spending? Yes.
Well of course Ed we’re going to be releasing our full view of the capital program in December.
But to address your point specifically I want to emphasize that our portfolio here in the U.S.
is robust again across a broad range of pricing scenarios.
And so we don’t view the U.S.
portfolio as our marginal capital dollar.
But we are well positioned to look at our full portfolio look at those elements that maybe non-reserve adding or more discretionary in nature if we do see more moderation in the pricing environment.
We want to be intelligent as we move through this commodity price correction but we certainly feel very strong about the quality of our inventory.
Right.
And then some good progress up in the Bakken.
Maybe talk a little bit about EUR expectations and IPs? Obviously you’ve got some core acreage there; but you’ve perhaps been a bit behind the peer group in terms of using the latest technologies.
So just an update on where we are.
Yes.
Well I’ll make a few opening comments and then maybe I’d ask Lance to chime in.
But we are moving much more aggressive in the Bakken.
As we stated in our release we’ve added an incremental rig effective in September to help us move forward not only with the downspacing program but also with the enhanced completion designs.
And some of the wells of course we brought the sales were in fact part of our pilot testing and completions some of these enhanced completions which have shown some very promising early results.
But maybe I’ll ask Lance just to comment specifically on some of the enhanced completions that we have been able to test thus far.
Yes.
We’ve had a very busy Q3 and actually the second half of the second quarter this year in terms of testing those.
We recognize the need to continue to move forward with the most effective and best available technologies.
To-date we’ve actually had 17 of the 45 wells that Lee talked about originally at Barclays online to sales in that testing.
That group is been comprised of wells testing most specifically increased profit loading on a number of those wells.
In fact a majority of them have had up to 6 million pounds of profit.
We’ve also tested incremental stages in those wells surfactants in two or three of those wells as well as incremental stages adding for small or more finite stage delivery and then a change in fluid volume both a decrease and in most cases an increase of fluid volume.
And I would say in the overwhelming majority of those wells the early response of the 30 day IP has been at or above a type curve.
So it’s early.
We'd like to see those cumulative production volumes mature a little bit but we're very encouraged by those results and we'll have the balance of those wells probably two-thirds to three quarters online in sales in the fourth quarter with a few of those completions pilots trailing into the first quarter Ed.
And so just very quickly the breakeven oil price you think for that core Bakken or maybe too early to say?  I think we'd recognize that across our portfolio Myrmidon Hector and Ajax very different between the Middle Bakken and the Three Forks and all three of those areas.
So there's a range of pricing in there.
Our focus is how much better we can make each of those areas in this current commodity price environment or any environment to really compete for capital.
As we move through the budgeting process we're going to focus on the wells that deliver the highest returns for next year.
But I think just kind of building on that a little bit Ed certainly in our core areas in the Bakken we have a lot of confidence going forward in their ability to compete per capital allocation even with the commodity price correction.
Those are very strong wells for us.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.
Please go ahead.
I'm sure you can imagine we want to see slightly paddle long on the same theme of sensitivity of CapEx.
I said I am shocked Paul.
Yes alright.
Apologies by the way if this noise issues here -- someone seems to be fracing Park Avenue right now.
But if you could talk about where the sensitivity does lay you mentioned that there's other areas that don’t add reserves directly or I wasn’t quite -- if you could just be more specific about where you would be looking to cut back if you needed to and at what type of point you feel you would have to cut back CapEx as well? If you could talk about that for next year? Thanks.
And again Paul I don’t want to push the downtime but we do plan to comeback in a comprehensive way in December and really detail out our plan.
We're right in the midst of our planning process and like many of our peer group I think our planning process has been bit overtaken by the change in the commodity price environment.
But when we talk about looking at the full portfolio when we test our U.S.
resource plays again they just are simply not are marginal capital dollars.
So we look at those moving forward largely unchanged meaning that we're still committed to the two incremental rigs in Oklahoma plus the rig that we've already added in the Bakken.
Beyond those elements of our portfolio we do have aspects that are more discretionary in nature that are either non-reserve add bearing or particularly longer term investments including even within our exploration portfolio that we'll take a hard look at it in from a CapEx at the margin standpoint.
But we haven’t put any limiter to this point on our budget process but we want to make sure that we invest intelligently recognizing the change in commodity pricing.
Yes I got.
So I understood that about the unconventional U.S.
not being the marginal barrel.
Could you talk a bit about the parameters of cash balances and cash flows that you want to work with and just remind us of how you see credit rating how you see dividend obviously et cetera.
Thank you.
I'll maybe say few words then invite J.R.
to also time in.
But and foremost and I think we've been very clear on this point as you know we do not view our operating cash flows per se as a limiter on our investment program.
If we have good investment opportunities to pursue then we certainly are going to take those on and leverage the strength of our balance sheet to support that.
Now over the long-term is being within cash flows good discipline? Absolutely.
But when it comes to calls on our capital maybe I'll turnover to J.R.
and just let him emphasize how we do that.
Well I think when you about it more broadly as Lee indicated in his earlier remarks not only where the balance sheet exists today even now with incremental $2.1 billion capital from the disposition of Norway that really gives us tremendous optionality as we're doing this almost as plug-n-play exercise with regard to determining what the right capital allocation is throughout the portfolio.
It gives us that ability to use as much of those proceeds as we think is prudent to either both grow and earn the record [ph] return that we think is necessary for our shareholders without in anyway jeopardizing the strength of that balance sheet.
Honestly as you know commodity price environment is where it is.
It does present or could present opportunities in the future as well.
And we want to make sure that we are well positioned to take care of and pursue those potential opportunities.
And our next question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
So I've got a couple also Lee if I may.
I want to go -- same theme as you can imagine.
If I go back to Oklahoma when you gave us the resource update back in September that was one of the biggest drivers of your backlog increase.
Obviously is a bit more gassy and some of the acreage I'm guessing is still being added.
So I'm trying to understand what is the trade-off between a very large position and very small rig count? In other words you could probably do a lot more if the economics are competitive and really what was the trade-off between holding acreage out of necessity as opposed to drilling for the economic return? Then I've got a follow-up please.
Well first of all let me try to address your question I guess around product mix and Oklahoma.
First and foremost we’ve been drilling primarily leasehold and potentially all leasehold this year in Oklahoma.
In fact even this quarter as well the [indiscernible] the SCOOP to in the -- and the STACK are essentially drilling leasehold.
Now within that we quoted one particular IP that I believe had liquid content around 55%.
That’s actually a lane condensate well.
When we look across the wells that we drilled in this quarter the liquid yields on those wells from the low 70s to the low80s.
So these are relatively high liquids content wells and competed very favorably for capital allocation.
And as we move and transition from a mode of holding leases to optimizing our development plans we’ll have a lot more opportunity to move closer into the core areas which we also feel will have higher liquids yield.
And then as we test further some of this exploration horizons including the Springer our view of those very early on is mainly on the back of our participation some of our OBO wells is that those are also going to be very high liquid yield.
So we do not necessarily see Oklahoma driving us per say to be more gassy.
In fact just the opposite.
We see very good liquid yields particularly as we move into the core areas of the play.
And those wells will compete head-to-head with the wells that we have in the Bakken and the Eagle Ford.
Hence we’re very comfortable with the two incremental high spec rigs we'll be bringing in later this year.
But Lee what I'm getting at is that still leaves me with a relatively limited rig counted compared to the size of the opportunity.
So I'm just trying to understand right now you’ve got a multi-decade drilling inventory with a peer with only a few rigs running.
So I’m just trying to understand where that slacks up in terms of competing for capital relative to the rest of the portfolio? Well certainly you're correct Doug.
We’re in the very early days in Oklahoma.
We’re in the early days of understanding downspacing completion design the key core areas and delineating the core areas of the field and certainly in the early days of things like the Springer and the Caney and Granite Wash.
So we are -- but I think adding that additional rig capacity is going to first and foremost allow us to ensure that we protect our lease hold but secondly is going to allow us to get out in front of really understanding the full potential of that area and then we’ll make a progressive and measured and thoughtful ramp up from there.
Bear in mind we have moved from two rigs in 2013 to basically four rigs this year moving to six and so we are moving up quite aggressively in terms of rig count.
And we see that rig capacity being very well justified based on the inventory we see in front of us.
So I think it's just a question as we learn more about the play Doug we’ll generate more confidence to move more aggressively with that ramp up in activity just like we've done in most of the other resource plays.
Thank you.
And my quick follow-up is for J.R.
Just now that you've cleaned up the portfolio with Norway J.R.
can you give us an idea of what the current tax -- that is the deferred tax guidance should be on a go forward basis? And I’ll leave it there.
Thanks.
Doug I think that we wouldn’t necessarily say we’ve cleaned up the portfolio with Norway.
We’ve definitely simplified the portfolio and concentrated it more towards North America.
I don’t think you should in anyway think that we’re done with portfolio management.
It's very integral to capital allocation.
But when I think about deferred taxes going forward we are going to be a very U.S.
centered cash flow company.
We’ve given guidance from an effective tax rate standpoint in the 30% to 35% standpoint and I think you should assume that I do not expect to be U.S.
tax payer for the foreseeable future and adjust your deferred taxes accordingly.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Ryan Todd from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
If I could do one follow-up question on CapEx from a slightly different angle.
I know that the absolute level of the CapEx budget is probably still quite a bit and flux given the current environment but if we think about year-on-year your ability to shift CapEx is in the portfolio towards the U.S.
onshore obviously you've got lower CapEx year-on-year from the Norway sale.
How should we think about how much CapEx you might be able to flex within that portfolio towards the U.S.
onshore in 2015 in a flat CapEx environment? Yes.
Well certainly Ryan our intent is to always prioritize and flex our capital allocation toward the highest returns.
And in this case there is no doubt that the three U.S.
resource plays are in very good stead to compete for that capital allocation.
In fact that was part of the basis for moving more aggressively with the additional rigs that we’re bringing in before the end of the year.
As we think about CapEx broadly as you rightly say Norway accounted for about $500 million-ish our $5.9 billion in CapEx.
And so as we look at kind of re-base lining our CapEx spend going forward you kind of have to reorient back to that $5.4 billion type number.
And so that’s a bit of a starting point from where we are today.
And then we’ll test to see how much more aggressive we want to be in that in terms of really the pace and the acceleration level that we want to step into in the U.S.
resource play.
Beyond that we’ll look very hard at CapEx at the margin outside of the U.S.
resource plays to ensure that we make reasonable decisions based on the commodity price environment which as everyone knows is still moving and really hasn’t found equilibrium yet.
Great thanks.
And then maybe one follow up on the Eagle Ford.
Stronger than expected results at least on from our expectations in terms of production in the quarter and obviously a lot of that was driven by record completions.
But can you talk as well about -- you mentioned 59 wells at over 180 days production on the enhanced completions and 25% improvement relative to type curves.
Can you talk about what you’ve seen to-date in terms of how much you think about earlier capture and how much [indiscernible] flow towards higher EURs? Yes.
Maybe I’ll let Lance.
He is already smiling though because you acknowledged the great performance in the Eagle Ford.
So I'm sure I'm going to pay for that later.
So Lance why don’t you talk a little bit about the enhanced completion design? Sure.
I’d say directionally Eagle Ford is performing where we expected it to this year starting the year knowing we would gain efficiencies through the year.
So some part of what you’ve seen in that production growth is driven by at a constant activity in the field just getting more and more efficient with the existing equipment and people.
Certainly a credit to the team for their drive on that basis.
The second part of the growth is driven perhaps a large part of it by the simulation design.
As we’ve tested stage spacing profit loading perforation clusters and rate we found a better completion design.
And through the third quarter almost 60 wells had reached six months of cumulative production and that uplift is about 25%.
And so as we have a relatively constant pace of activity in the field and we get better well performance across a large group of wells you're really seen that move through and create that broad production lift in the field.
So this current design is working very well.
As you would imagine we’re out testing additional enhancements to that design for future improvement.
I think we’re very satisfied by that this year and what we’ve learned from that will take us to the next steps in terms of enhancement and future growth.
And is it too early to speculate as to whether you’ve shifted the entire curve up or whether you’ve just pulled forward production? That’s a great question and right now what we see is early well performance is very strong.
We’d like to see those wells mature.
We’re focused on creating more value per drilling spacing unit by bring those volumes forward in time and doing it in a very capital efficient manner.
I think as those wells mature and we have that history that we’ll reevaluate the EURs and talk about potential for resource growth later this year or early next.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jeoffrey Lambujon from Tudor Pickering &amp; Holt.
Please go ahead.
Pickering &amp; Holt</strong> Just one follow up on capital allocation you talked about the U.S.
onshore and international CapEx.
Just focusing specifically on exploration what’s your view on capital spend there over the next few years? Well certainly as we included in the investor package our near term focus is really wrapped around the Gulf of Mexico.
We’re really bringing that into full view right now.
We’ve got multiple wells that we’re executing in the Gulf our operated Key Largo well.
In addition we have an appraisal well and another exploration well that’s non-operated.
So a lot of focus on the Gulf of Mexico in the near term.
But I think what you’ll find is that the program is much more focused in the next couple of years.
So we would expect to see some moderation in the overall exploration spend regardless of the pricing environment.
This is not really linked directly to pricing.
This is just a function of us continuing to drive focus towards oil prone emerging plays that we think can be accretive and can compete for capital allocation across our full portfolio.
So you'll see that we have a focus as we move through towards the end of the year on our EG program which we think is also quite promising and also plays right to that fair way on oil prone emerging plays.
And maybe I could ask our Vice President on the International side just to comment just briefly on the EG program which we hope to kick-off at the end of the year.
Yeah thanks Lee and thanks for the question.
Just quickly following up on the Lee’s comments.
We will start a two well exploration program most likely towards the very end of the year this year.
It’s in an area offsetting a couple of proven fields just across the international border.
We're very encouraged with the revised interpretations from integrating reprocess size mix.
We see chance of success for these in excess of 50% based on integrating all of the data available to us and on a gross resources basis with the multiple follow-on prospects we see potential ranging from 200 million to 500 million barrels.
So certainly a material opportunity that we'll be testing late this year.
Okay thanks Mitch.
So bottom-line is certainly in the near-term next couple of years we see much more focused a better moderation in our exploration spend that are really driving at these high impact oil prone prospects.
Pickering &amp; Holt</strong>  And then lastly on the Oil Sands Mining can you talk about progress towards improved reliability there and then plans for that long-term as well?  Yes absolutely.
I'll maybe make a few comments and then I'll offer Lance an opportunity to chime in as well.
I think we had a strong performance in the third quarter but the reality is one quarter a trend does not make.
We still have some hard work left to do on the reliability front.
Lance and his team are working with our other joint venture partners as well as the operator on the reliability front and maybe Lance I'll just let you comment on how that work is progressing.
I think the operator and the joint venture partners of which we're more clearly focused on reliability.
We are making progress there.
The variability in quarterly performance is higher than we would like it to be.
I think the peers would agree.
So we're focused and I would say broadly the third quarter showed some support on reliability focus but there is a dedicated program that is focused and targeted at the key mine reliability impact that we have experienced over the past few years.
And so it’s too early to tell but certainly the rigor and the focus is there.
That consistent results remain to be delivered.
And I think again to -- also to the operators' credit I think they did move the needle this quarter.
I think they have also brought in some more focused mining leadership into the operation and we think those are all positive signs.
But again we need to see that consistent performance quarter-on-quarter from the OSM operation.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Guy Baber from Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Surprise surprise but I wanted to start off with capital spending and this year’s budget but it would appear that you all have been able to accomplish more within the confines of that original budget than may have been initially planned.
Granted Norway is dropping out but you're adding three rigs albeit late in the year.
You're testing various completion enhancements in the Bakken.
You've enhanced completion designs in the Eagle Ford.
You're more active in Oklahoma.
So it appears like you're doing more with the same amount of capital as the budgets then changed.
Is that a fair observation that we've made.
And can you discuss maybe where you've driven efficiencies and spending and what some of those implications might be for 2015 as we think about your budgeting process? Well certainly we are on track on our capital budget this year.
There have been pluses and minuses across the budget.
Some of those have been timing impacts as we've had rigs arrive later than expected.
A good example of that is the EG program which we thought would be kicked-off before now but the operator that has the rig has had some success in his currently testing.
So there are some timing impacts there.
But I agree with -- we have been able to do more in this year’s program from an activity perspective particularly in the U.S.
resource play.
The additional rigs really haven’t put a lot of pressure on us because they've come somewhat late in the year but the higher intensity completion design certainly in the Eagle Ford where we have such a high number of wells to sales absolutely that has put some upward pressure into the budget.
But that’s all been well justified based on economics.
As we look at the incremental returns of those higher intensity completion designs those are generating a 100% incremental rates of returns.
So we have been able to drive a bit more success a bit more activity this year within the confines of the $5.9 billion budget.
Okay great.
Then I had a follow-up for Lance.
But obviously across the portfolio drilling longer laterals in the Bakken testing enhance completion design.
So it does -- it appears there is some experimentation going on that I would imagine might make it difficult in driving continued improvement to the cycle times in your spud to TD time.
So could you discuss maybe a little bit for us your view on the evolution of cycle times from where we stand today in the Eagle Ford and in the Bakken and how you balance that with improved well performance and just how we should be thinking about that? Absolutely Guy.
We continue to focus above all else on value in the resource plays and which requires us to continue to focus on completion enhancement every month every quarter to find that opportunity to create that enhanced value.
Within the chain the teams are focused on that and that systematic development.
So let's start first with an Eagle Ford.
They've been systematically developing and they've been at a constant rate through this year in terms of activity.
You see that activity quarter after quarter.
They continue to get more efficient and bring more wells to sales even as they continue to experiment.
So I look at that as a great success that we’re controlling and managing that capital that Lee referenced.
And so while we are spending more per well to generate that value it's certainly worth it and the team is continuing to actually bring that per well cost down even if they enhance it broadly through efficiencies.
And I would say incumbent in that in the first-half of the year we actually achieved a substantial amount of savings and efficiencies in a well and commercial leverage across our service lines.
And then from mid-year forward it has been effectively flat.
So that’s really helped offset much of the capital spend you referenced earlier as we achieve those savings early in the year.
And then looking at Bakken they are experimenting more.
It's a very mature team.
They continue to get faster this year.
They were more than a day faster on the spud to TD cycle even what they changes you referenced.
That mature team is very systematic with planning those completing optimization pilots putting those in a queue and managing those effectively.
And as you’ve seen our production grow 12% from Q2 to Q3 well I would say that broadly their execution remains very robust even in the face of that experimentation and we expect that to continue as we move forward.
I guess I would just say in the resource play that component of experimentation is just part of the business model.
We have to do that to continue to drive optimization capital efficiency into the resource play.
So our asset teams view that just part of the expectations.
That’s very helpful.
And then more -- I guess a final quick one for me.
Do you all have a target Eagle Ford production exit rate for the year that you might be willing to share?  No currently Guy.
We’ll spend some time at the end of the year chatting a little bit about exit rates and forward-looking rates and all three of the resource plays.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from John Herrlin from Societe Generale.
Please go ahead.
Yes.
Hi this is either for Lee or J.R.
Given a large review as focus any change in view with respect to product hedging commodity price hedging? That sounds like a great question for J.
R.
Now we've talked about it on a pass couple of calls.
We try and look at the commodity price risk through the lens of our ability to meet what we believe is kind of the core of a capital program necessary to achieve and kind of those growth and return metrics that we set out for ourselves internally and that’s the way we look at it.
Now no doubt today we are and still remain substantially un-hedged when you look out to 2015.
It is something we will continue to consider.
We’ll look at the risks not only the downside but also to the risk with the lost opportunity to the upside.
But the focus is more in terms of that core capital program and our ability and our assessment of the probability of being able to fund that with both operating cash flows cash on hand and the ability still to maintain a really strong balance sheet.
Thanks.
Next one for me is you mentioned you’ll be opportunistic in terms of portfolio management on the sell side.
What about buying acreage or assets in the downturn?  Well I think as J.R.
kind of mentioned having that strength of balance sheet does give us the -- I’ll say the horsepower to be opportunistic in the market whether the prices are up or down.
It does allows us some flexibility to entertain opportunity.
I think a great example of the type of opportunities that we’re able to pursue is to add this quarter in the SCOOP area which is a very accretive add I guess 12 000 net acres to kind of 300 000 acre position.
So in our view those adds will always be open to -- if they make sense and they reflect the quality that can come in and compete in our inventory.
I think we’ll always look to be opportunistic and consider those opportunities that present themselves particularly here in the U.S.
unconventionals because of the strength of our execution model and I think the credibility that we’ve generated I believe we have confidence in pursuing those opportunities.
But again it will have to be something that can come in and compete with the quality of inventory that we have today.
It really all starts in the ends with quality and having that running room looking forward to add significant growth opportunity in the future.
John as we talked before I think Lee’s point is a good one.
Whether we’re in a $100 price environment or an $80 price environment or lower the same litmus test applies.
Now no doubt this sort of environment can create opportunities for those who could take advantage of those opportunities.
But that natural tension in the capital allocation process still exists.
It’s still got to compete with those very high quality resource plays that we have today.
Our next question comes from David Heikkinen from Heikkinen Energy.
Please go ahead.
Look-forward to the 2015 outlook in December.
Can you walk us through your fourth quarter expectations for wells drilled and online in the Eagle Ford Bakken and Oklahoma? Yes.
I think again we were on track on plan to deliver the guidance that we’ve provided.
Of course as part of last year’s budget we still remain within those brackets.
So there's really no change in the activity outlook in terms of wells we expect to drill and wells we expect to bring to sale.
So we’re not singling anything different David than what we’ve communicated in the past.
Okay.
So no hard details as usual.
Just trying It's worth a try David.
And then the 12 000 acres that you added… Maybe David just to not dive that completely though I think you’ve seen our delivery in the three resource plays over the last three quarters.
You’ve seen the efficiency that Lance has referenced.
So I think based on the activity level we have in our three resource plays it’s relatively straight forward I think to project that into the fourth quarter outlook.
You’re on track.
And then the 12 000 acres can you give any specificity or details on where you added the acres in the SCOOP? Yes I don’t want to talk about the specifics on the acreage add but just I think suffice to say that our view is that it’s comprised a good core acreage that will compete going forward.
The other element that we find very appealing in the acreage is that it also looks like it has prospectivity in the Springer formation which we already have acres that are prospected in the Springer but this would be in addition to that.
And so we saw the Springer as a distinctive upside in this particular acreage position.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Roger Read from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Just wanted to I guess follow up a little bit maybe the details aren’t available yet.
But your Bakken re-completions particularly you had mentioned the Hector and Ajax 16 wells.
Can you give us a little more idea of what exactly you’re doing there what you’re hoping to accomplish? Maybe if there's any way you can give us any expectations for volumes and changes relative to where the wells were before or what they did originally? Yes.
Maybe few opening comments and I’ll turn over to Lance.
We’ve got quite a large inventory of wells that were completed with our earlier technology in the Bakken essentially single stage open hole frac designs.
And we saw that inventory and we felt that there was a real potential there to go in and do recompletions to more modern multistage technology and generate not only uplift on IPs but also EURs.
We started not surprisingly in kind of the best area of the field which was the Myrmidon area.
We’ve now moved into Hector and Ajax.
The majority of what you’ve seen this quarter is really Hector wells and that’s where the majority of acreage lies.
But maybe I’ll let Lance just comment a little bit on what we’re doing in the wells and how the team is driving not only capital efficiency but economics in those wells.
Thanks Lee.
Roger what you would find in terms of operational basis as we go into recomplete wells we’re going back into a drilling unit most of the time that has one or maybe two wells in it on a 1 280 acre unit.
And we’re going in to move to higher density full field development.
Sometimes those wells are not using -- those original wells weren’t using the best available technology that we understand today.
And they’re three four maybe five years on production.
So we’re re-stimulating those wells to that modern best available technology as we drill and complete the rest of the wells on that pad for efficiency all at the same time and to see those results.
We’re having good success with that.
We had it in Myrmidon.
We're having equal success in Hector.
We do not have any more inventory outside of Hector effectively today for those recompletions.
But they compete for capital very nicely.
And otherwise those wells and pads would have to be shut in for some period as we do the offset stimulations.
So rather than having expense workover this is an opportunity for us to re-stimulate those wells on a capital basis and bring the EURs up.
So far the wells have performed very well and we’re going to continue that program through the end of this year and pinning our capital evaluation into next year and we have about 70 more wells that are viable candidates.
Yes.
And just to add to that we do have a dedicated recompletion rig running in the field and that rig will essentially be liquidating that inventory over the next couple of years on a go forward basis.
I would say too that we’re now far enough into it that even as we move to Hector and the reservoir quality may not be quite equal to Myrmidon our efficiency of doing the recompletions we’ve gotten a faster as well as lower cost over the year which is really helping balance the returns on those.
Okay great.
Thanks.
And then sort of another way of asking the capital allocation question and maybe ways to lower spending commitments for next year.
Key Largo I know the -- I guess that well's really maybe more of an impact on ’14 CapEx but at 60% working interest any efforts to cut that back sell down a little bit? Or any of the other exploration wells for next year?  Certainly Roger we look at the risk profile on all of these wells and make a determination on do we want to try to bring in additional partners to mitigate the go forward risk particularly on some of these high-dollar wells in the Gulf of Mexico.
So we're going to continue to be interested in looking at that risk profile on all of these deep Paleogenetype wells to ensure that we balance materiality versus risk in the well.
So you will continue to see us pursuing farm downs when it makes sense to reduce our exposure on these wells.
Because these are very dollar wells as you know.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov from Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
You guys operate in obviously a diverse of areas.
Can I get some comments from you on what’s been happening with service costs in your various geographies in the last let’s say 90 days? In other words if there is a response on the cost side to the moves in the commodity market?  Maybe I'll try again and then certainly I think Lance has already indicated that at the beginning of the year we were quite successful in negotiating some very favorable commercial terms for our key service providers.
And when you look at our business particularly here in the U.S.
it’s dominated really by the supply chain it’s dominated our pumping service our rig contracts et cetera.
That’s really what’s driving our business here in the U.S.
I think we were starting to see certainly some tightening in the availability of high spec rigs as we move through the second half of the year but had not really seen a "price response" per se in the rig market.
So I think now going forward in this somewhat different commodity price environment our expectation is that there will be opportunity for both operators at scale and we very much have scale in our favor that we'll be able to expand margin by getting in and driving much more favorable commercial terms just given the significant magnitude of our book of business.
Okay that’s helpful.
Small housekeeping item in relation to Atrush.
Given the delay that of course you've because of the fighting in the region I understand that construction there was postponed for a period of time.
You're still guiding to start up in 2015.
In any sense kind of during the year when that might be?  I will maybe just make a couple of comments and then turnover to Mitch.
We were certainly impacted by the security situation in Iraq.
We were impacted to varying degrees across all of the blocks that we have interest including our own operated block where we temporarily suspended operations on logistic one well but there were also other operations on our non-operated blocks that were also impacted.
But maybe I will just let Mitch comment specifically on Atrush but I do think it’s important to note that Atrush from a net volume standpoint is still a very small component of our go forward portfolio.
Yeah thanks Lee and Pavel good question.
Clearly with the security developments in the region several activities by various operators were put on hold or suspended.
In the case of Atrush and the development of the Phase 1 a majority of that work is currently being done outside of the country.
So that was able to progress.
We had been expecting first production around mid-year.
The team is working on developing recovery options and we're still in the midst of that process.
So we can expect some impact from the security situation there but don’t have a definitive timeframe nailed down until we work through the recovery plan.
Okay but you are still firm on the 2015.
That’s correct.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Scott Hanold from RBC Capital Markets.
Please go ahead.
Maybe this is a question for J.R.
Obviously you all have gotten the proceeds of from the Norway sale and did indicate some intent to spend on some of the U.S.
unconventional plays but J.R.
could you talk about the -- looking at sort of the balance sheet in a lower commodity price environment you've got that senior note I think coming due at the end of ’15.
Is there a certain amount of comfort level you're going to create by I guess warehousing some of those proceeds before that coming due?  Well Scott as we have said a number of times now I sleep very well at night with the strength of our balance sheet and the flexibility that that gives us especially in this slower commodity price environment.
I wouldn’t necessarily view that I am warehousing those proceeds for debt repayment.
In fact if anything I'd like to be able to put as much of those proceeds that we think make sense in this environment from a return perspective to work in our organic portfolio.
And so I would have every expectation that I’ll be refinancing that debt later in the year when it comes due in October of 2015.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from Jeffrey Campbell from Tuohy Brothers Investment.
Please go ahead.
I apologize just a preamble if I'm being repetitive because I knocked off Q&amp;A for a little bit and got back on.
You announced some [ph] Chalk results were identified as being within the previously announced delineated area.
What’s the status of magnifying that area beyond the approximately 155000 acres presently de-risked as you move into 2015?  Well I think thus far we have delineated about 18 000 net acres in the Austin Chalk and I would say we are on plan to not only continue the development co-development of the Austin Chalk but also to continue to delineate to the east and the west and maybe Lance you could just add a little bit about the forward Austin Chalk program.
Absolutely.
Jeff we have four wells in the fourth quarter that will test new areas outside of the currently delineated area and combination will be east and west of that area and they'll test about 8 000 more acres that we view as prospective for the Austin Chalk.
In addition to that in the Eagle Ford area we also have two pilots that we've previously described to STACK n frac that will test a combination of Austin Chalk upper Eagle Ford and lower Eagle Ford up to four wells vertically STACK.
Those pilots are also drilling today.
Results will be roughly Q1 available by the time they're all drilled and completed.
And we also have some standalone upper Eagle Ford tests that are also drilling today but we haven’t developed before and with those results likely first quarter as well.
So we have a substantial amount of activity testing other vertical horizons as well as combinations of horizon and then those four wells that should test about 8 000 acres in the Austin Chalk.
And again I didn’t say that Austin Chalk was also.
I think most of these are on pace all be drilled and start completions into Q4 and then first sales in early Q1.
Okay that was great color.
If I could just clarify one thing that you just said that the STACK and frac pilots would you qualify those as being within presently de-risked acreage are they a part of de-risking the additional 8 000 acres that you saw to that?  Those will be some about actually.
We’ll have some outside the area and the majority inside that area.
Okay and if I could ask one follow-up a little bit higher level it seems like condensate export momentum has slowed as that government struggles with methodology to accurately categorize condensate.
What's your current view on how the condensate export market is progressing and what do you anticipate in 2015?  Well I don’t know that I would necessarily characterize it is as slowing down.
I think that definitely there has been -- if you're referring of course to the BIS process within the commerce department I think that has slowed a bit as we move through the elections et cetera.
So I still view this as a very important issue for the industry.
I think for Marathon specifically the one advantage that we have is that our Eagle Ford production is relatively heavy compared to other operators with the bulk of our barrels being heavier than 50 degree API.
And so we tend to see this as an issue going forward as those higher API condensate levels move up.
But today it's not a hot pipe issue for us right now.
Certainly we want to get high behind not only the lifting of the condensate export van but also move toward lifting really of the crude export van fully and completely.
We think that is really the long-term correct answer for the industry.
But certainly if we see a progressive listing of condensate restriction we want to make absolutely sure that we're positioned to take full advantage of that and the Eagle Ford team has definitely taken those steps.
That’s helpful and just to be clear -- and to your point really what I was thinking of is the EIA has sort of been empowered to try to arrive at some sort of an industry agreeable definition on condensate based on API.
So that sort of moves into wheelhouse I think….
Well certainly it would be helpful as to the extent that there is a clear and definitive definition of condensate.
I think that will be helpful for the industry.
Thank you.
Our last question comes from Mike Kelly from Global Hunter Securities.
Please go ahead.
I know its early days in the delineation of the Springer but I was hoping to get your initial thoughts on how much of your 300 000 acres in Oklahoma could be perspective for the formation and also really get your sense on how the Springer could fare on a rate of return basis versus the SCOOP and the STACK? Thanks.
I’ll maybe just let Lance jump in on the Springer.
Absolutely so Mike today we participate in about 11operated by other wells at our Springer and we see very high liquids rigs in those.
It tends to be a lower gravity.
And so I think what we’re working on now is to see is it really an oil intuit reservoir or is it a retrograde condensate reservoir.
We’re very encouraged by the high liquids content to-date.
It's little bit shallower than the existing Woodford.
And so this is an opportunity continue to work on capital efficiencies there.
But that liquids content been very high and high value products suggest that it should be able to compete favorably for capital on a go forward basis.
We will have our own wells starting in the Springer on operated basis late in the first quarter next year as we evaluate that.
And by virtue of having a very core valuable SCOOP position we also have a large part of that position as perspective for the Springer.
I don’t think we’re quite ready to declare how many of those acres are perspective but we’re encouraged by where we are and what we see because we’ve been working on the Springer for some time now really almost a year and looking at.
And so I think it’s going to be a great opportunity for us to test in the future.
And feel very comfortable it’s going to have a chance to complete for capital.
Thank you.
I will now turn the call back over to Chris Phillips for closing comments.
Before turning back to Chris maybe just a closing thought here.
I very much believe that as a company Marathon is very well positioned to invest intelligently through the commodity cycle and certainly we’re going to be using the optionality that we have across our opportunity inventory to not only maximize returns and growth but also retain flexibility as the market tries to find some equilibrium.
And certainly we look forward to sharing more details on that later in December.
So with that I’ll turn back to Chris to close out the call.
Thank you Christine.
And to everyone we appreciate questions and interest in Marathon.
Thank you.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today’s conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Marathon Oil Corporation 2014 quarter four earnings and 2015 capital budget conference call.
My name is Vivian and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Zach Dailey.
Mr.
Dailey you may begin.
Investor Relations</strong> Thanks good morning and welcome to Marathon Oil Corporation's fourth quarter and full-year 2014 earnings and 2015 capital budget conference call.
I'm Zach Dailey Director of Investor Relations.
Also joining me on the call this morning are: Lee Tillman President and CEO; J.R.
Sult Executive Vice President and CFO; Mitch Little Vice President International and Offshore E&amp;P Operations; and Lance Robertson Vice President North America Production Operations.
As has been our custom we released prepared remarks last night in connection with the earnings release.
You'll find those remarks and the associated slides on our website at MarathonOil.com.
We'll begin this morning with additional prepared remarks discussing our 2015 capital investment and exploration budget.
We issued a separate press release detailing our 2015 capital program last evening and we posted a second slide presentation to our website earlier today that accompanies this morning's prepared remarks.
This morning's slide deck can be found under the Quarterly Earnings or Events tabs on the Investor Center page of our website and is titled 2015 Capital Budget slide deck.
After our remarks the remainder of the call will be available for Q&amp;A.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
Slide two contains a discussion of forward-looking statements and other information included in this presentation.
Our remarks and answers to questions will contain forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.
In accordance with the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 Marathon Oil Corporation has included in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31 2013 and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission cautionary language identifying important factors that are not necessarily all such factors that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements.
With that I'll turn the presentation over to Lee Tillman Marathon Oil President and CEO who will begin on slide three.
All right thank you Zach and good morning to all.
I will say Zach is pinch-hitting for Chris Phillips today.
He is a bit under the weather.
We hope Chris is back with us soon.
As Zach mentioned yesterday afternoon we released our fourth quarter and full-year 2014 earnings as well as announcing our 2015 capital budget.
What we really want to accomplish this morning is to spend the bulk of our time on the 2015 capital budget and then turn to your questions.
But before I do that I'd like to share just a few thought on our full-year 2014 results.
I think I would summarize by saying we delivered against our 2014 performance commitments investing in our three high-return U.S.
resource plays which yielded a 35% increase in production.
We successfully closed on really two significant strategic dispositions of over $4 billion in proceeds.
And we were also able to return value to our shareholders through an increased dividend and $1 billion in share repurchases.
We also had a proved reserve replacement ratio of 183% ex-dispositions and that was at a very competitive $20 per barrel oil equivalent in finding and development cost.
And we also recorded 97% operational availability across our company-operated assets.
And of course these are our most economic barrels.
I think we would say that by any measure it was an outstanding year but the second half of the year brought us a bit of a new reality a bit of a gut check.
Commodity prices corrected significantly downward and I think we were harshly reminded yet again of our inability to predict pricing.
Our business plans for 2015 as with others were being essentially adjusted in real time as the market continued to search for some semblance of stability.
And in December we felt it was critical to at least advise our shareholders as to our view of 2015 capital budget guidance at that particular point in time with the caveat that we were prepared to respond to further downward movement in pricing.
Our foreshadowing unfortunately was quite accurate and prices fell more as we moved into the new year.
This morning what we're sharing is our updated plan and budget based on today's view of the pricing environment.
But it has the same caveat that flexibility is going to be essential in a volatile commodity market.
We will admit that we're no more clairvoyant on pricing than we were in December.
So with that little bit of a preamble let me go and turn to 2015.
Our $3.5 billion budget really emphasizes investment selectivity and returns balance sheet flexibility and positions us for price recovery.
It is a further 20% reduction since our December update.
We've significantly reduced exploration spending by half and we are moderating activity levels in the U.S.
in alignment with good cash flow management.
We'll end up directing about 70% or $2.4 billion of our budget toward our three core U.S.
resource plays and these continue to be among our highest return investment opportunities.
Our objective is simple.
It's to deliver high returns in the current pricing environment while we protect our financial flexibility through prudent management of cash flows.
Today we're also releasing updated single-well economics for the resource plays.
And these new single-well economics reflect our 2015 inventory high-grading along with the service cost reductions that we've already captured and have in hand.
Suffice to say we are not opportunity limited.
Furthermore we're continuing to pursue all means to expand our margins.
We're going to do this through capital efficiency expense management and operational reliability those things that we can control.
Marathon Oil clearly benefits from a deep multiyear inventory that is robust across a broad range of pricing scenarios.
Given this portfolio we're fortunate to have the optionality to adjust our short-cycle investments in line with commodity prices.
As we continue to focus on our three high-quality U.S.
resource plays in 2015 our budget and activity plans will support high-return investments that will in turn generate a total company production growth rate ex-Libya of 5% to 7% year over year; and specifically for our resource plays a growth rate of about 20% year over year admittedly benefiting from the 2014 carry-in effect.
Bottom line is that we're going to be driven by returns and cash flow management with growth as an outcome while we retain the ability to flex on pricing.
With that I'll turn over to Lance Robertson our Vice President of North America Production Operations and he'll take us through our activity plans for the resource plays.
Lance? Thanks Lee.
I'll begin on slide four.
In the context of the current environment we are prudently reducing development activity and commensurate capital expenditures across all three of the resource plays.
Having the flexibility within our existing commercial agreements allows us to make these adjustments readily and at little to no cost.
As reflected by the table in the top right of the slide activity will be reduced from 33 active rigs at the end of 2014 to 18 by the end of the first quarter with a further reduction to 14 rigs by the end of the second quarter.
We anticipate continuing at the 14 rig pace across the balance of 2015 but retain significant flexibility to scale up or down as market conditions warrant.
In addition to rig reductions we are optimizing completions activity to match our inventory of wells with the focus on maintaining the execution efficiency of full frac fleets.
In addition to driving operational efficiencies we have focused extensively on service cost reductions in this environment securing to date a minimum of $225 million in savings across the 2015 activity.
Importantly substantially all of these initial savings were effective in January benefiting our returns early in the cycle.
We continue to see opportunity for additional savings throughout the year further protecting our cash margins.
Our North America opportunities for investment remain compelling at current commodity pricing.
Referencing the plot in the bottom right our 2015 investments will focus on inventory that can deliver strong returns in each of Eagle Ford Bakken and the Oklahoma resource basins.
In addition we have multiple years of inventory that can deliver similar returns at today's pricing.
With our core position in three key basins and our relentless focus on continuing to drive efficiencies and cost savings we can continue to provide Marathon Oil with opportunities to deliver value to our shareholders.
The 2015 development spend and activity in the resource basins will result in a production increase of approximately 20% year on year with fourth quarter 2015 exit rates up from the same quarter of 2014.
Turning to slide five we will focus initially on the Eagle Ford where we have allocated approximately 40% of total 2015 capital on our high-return inventory.
Our quality core acreage provides opportunity to drive tremendous value at this scale.
We continue to realize this value through highly effective execution.
With these efficiencies and recently secured service cost reductions our costs have fallen by $1.3 million a well to an average of $6.3 million a well in 2015 maintaining our position as one of the most cost efficient operators in the basin.
Over the past year completions optimization has resulted in a 25% increase in 180-day cumulative production across wells to sales.
This incremental early-life production materially improves well margins.
And as this group matures we anticipate adding further value with an increase in ultimate volumes recovered.
Taking into account cost savings and improvements in well performance we anticipate drilling approximately 215 to 225 wells this year in South Texas with returns ranging from 40% to 60% at $60 flat WTI pricing.
This group includes Eagle Ford condensate wells high-GOR Eagle Ford oil wells with the remaining 25% of wells to develop and further delineate the Austin Chalk.
In all cases the Austin Chalk is co-developed with the Lower Eagle Ford leveraging the existing gathering network and the facilities.
Focusing on the table in the upper left we are illustrating for the first time single-well metrics for the Austin Chalk.
From the data you can see that the initial production and estimated ultimate recovery compare favorably to the Eagle Ford condensate and high-GOR oil wells.
In the currently delineated core area the Austin Chalk wells deliver the highest returns driven by higher early-life cumulative production relative to other horizons in the Eagle Ford portfolio.
Continuing with our co-development efforts the first four Upper Eagle Ford wells were placed on sales in the fourth quarter.
They're co-developed above high-GOR Lower Eagle Ford oil wells in this pilot consistent with the Austin Chalk co-development efforts.
Same-zone spacing is 40-acre equivalent with spacing between the horizons at 20-acre equivalent.
These wells are early on flow but initial rates and pressures are encouraging from both horizons.
We will continue this testing throughout the year much in the way the Austin Chalk has been and will continue to be identified evaluated and developed.
In addition we also spud the first Stack and Frac co-development pilot in the fourth quarter including Austin Chalk Upper Eagle Ford and two wells in the Lower Eagle Ford.
We will provide an update on these efforts later in the year.
Focusing on the Bakken on slide six the initial completion trials are mostly finished with 42 of the wells completed and flowing to sales.
Of these wells the first 18 in Myrmidon and Hector have yielded a more than 30% increase in cumulative production over the first 60 days.
This material change in early production is clearly very encouraging and we anticipate further updates as the production histories mature.
In aggregate the incremental spend on more intensive completions is yielding a return on investment at or above 100% in all areas and zones.
As a result of strong early production response and our focus on driving value we have adopted the updated completion practices with more intensive stimulations into the base program.
These changes are effective across Myrmidon and Hector and Middle Bakken and Three Forks intervals.
Reflecting the success we will continue to test and optimize completions moving forward.
Directing your attention to the single-well returns table in the upper left of the slide we illustrated updated gross completed well costs of $6.2 million to $6.6 million a well reflecting a reduction of almost $1 million a well thus far.
These costs include incremental spend for more intensive stimulations for each area.
But the full performance benefits of enhanced completions on EUR is not yet reflected.
In addition to the completion pilots we have concluded drilling on the first two spacing pilots with six wells per horizon in Hector and Myrmidon.
These pilots will move to completions over the coming weeks with a third spacing pilot currently drilling.
We anticipate a combination of improved stimulation designs coupled with increasing spacing density to drive toward the highest value incrementally improving the recovery efficiency across a drilling unit.
With improved well costs and higher initial production our investments in the Williston Basin will deliver competitive returns at 20% to 30% in the current commodity environment.
As we continue to focus on highest returns and value the majority of our activity in 2015 will occur in the Myrmidon area.
On slide seven Oklahoma resource activity will focus on protecting core leasehold in the SCOOP and STACK areas.
With more than 70% of our Oklahoma acreage held by production our 2015 activity will allow us to manage lease expiries with moderated spend of approximately $225 million and two rigs after the first quarter.
Our focus for the year will include high-value SCOOP and STACK wells including our first operated spacing pilot in the SCOOP-Woodford where we are targeting six wells in a 640-acre unit effectively testing same-zone spacing of approximately 105 acres.
This spacing pilot was spud in the fourth quarter.
We anticipate moving to completions by the middle of 2015.
In addition we will spud our first operated Springer well in the SCOOP area later in the year to complement the 17 outside operated Springer wells in which we currently participate.
We continue to grow our leaseholds in Oklahoma adding 10 000 net acres focused on the SCOOP and Springer areas in the fourth quarter.
Drawing your attention to the table on the upper left SCOOP well estimated ultimate recoveries continue to be among the highest available with a high liquids content.
Having secured an initial cost reduction of more than $0.5 million we are confident we can deliver wells with 30% to 40% internal rates of return in the current commodity market.
With the lower activity in Oklahoma we will turn our focus to developing the spacing pilots driving efficiency securing additional cost reductions and delivering higher ultimate value.
With the longest wells from spud to total depth in our resource portfolio today we see ample opportunity for cycle time improvements in 2015.
And with price recovery we'll be ready to move to scale at the lowest cost.
Slide eight brings together all three U.S.
resource plays and demonstrates the strength of our resource and inventory.
Our 2015 capital development program is one that's appropriately scaled to today's commodity price environment.
As Lee mentioned at the beginning we expect these basins to achieve an approximate 20% increase in production 2015 over 2014 taking into account our spending plans and moderated activity levels.
Next I'll hand it off to my counterpart Mitch Little Vice President of International and Offshore E&amp;P Operations.
Mitch will describe 2015 activity for his business.
Thank you Lance.
Switching now to our international and offshore activities which begin on slide nine our 2015 development activities are focused on high-return previously sanctioned long-cycle commitments and selective other projects that offer superior risk-adjusted returns including targeted activities in Equatorial Guinea the Kurdistan region of Iraq the U.S.
Gulf of Mexico and the UK North Sea.
Within EG we're progressing the Alba B3 Compression project which has important infrastructure allowing us to access the field's proven reserve base by significantly lowering field abandonment pressure.
The project is approximately 60% complete remains within budget and on track for a 2016 startup.
Combined with the addition of the C-21 infill producer the project is expected to maintain field production plateau for an additional two years while extending field life by as much as eight years.
Our investment activities in EG also include a second near-field wildcat well testing an oil prone amplitude supported prospect at Rodo which is located within sub-area B of the Alba block.
While the recently drilled Sodalita West well did not encounter commercial hydrocarbon quantities we were encouraged by the presence of high-quality oil in multiple stacked sands.
Our upcoming Rodo well is targeting a younger reservoir section and we have several additional prospects across our more than 120 000 net acres under contract in EG.
Our UK investment program is concentrated on the addition of three infill producers that add high-return incremental barrels to our existing operations.
The first well an infill producer at South Brae will be online within the first quarter and follows on the success of two previous wells that were brought online in late 2014 and continue to outperform pre-drill expectations.
Activities also include drilling and completion of two subsea infill producers within our operated West Brae field.
The first of these wells is expected to be online by the end of February with the second coming online around midyear.
Moving on to our planned 2015 Kurdistan investment program which includes the development activities highlighted here as well as exploration activities which will be discussed on the subsequent slide; within the outside operated Atrush Block construction and installation of the Phase 1 production facilities continues with first production currently forecast for late 2015.
Appraisal and testing activities also continue in the eastern portions of the field.
And results from those activities will be integrated with existing data to inform a future decision regarding the applicability of additional development phases.
The outside operated Sarsang Block is currently producing around 4 000 gross barrels of oil a day from a single well facility within the Swara Tika field.
A phased field development plan is under review within the Kurdistan Ministry of Natural Resources and we anticipate approval and associated development activities in 2015.
Finally in the Gulf of Mexico we are participating in the two-well subsea development project at the outside operated Gunflint with first production expected in 2016.
Moving now to slide 10 we have materially reduced our global exploration spending in 2015 with activities focused towards ongoing appraisal activities and/or prior commitments.
The majority of this spending is tightly focused within two geographic areas.
Within the Gulf of Mexico we continue evaluation and testing of our prospect inventory within the inboard Paleogene play.
Several discoveries have been announced within the play over the past few years including the outside operated Shenandoah field where Marathon Oil holds a 10% working interest.
An appraisal well is expected to spud at Shenandoah in the second quarter.
Additionally the Maersk Valiant drillship will be back for our second operated well slot sometime during the second quarter of 2015.
Moving over to Kurdistan we are currently drilling the Mirawa 2 appraisal well within the company operated Harir Block.
The well is a follow-up to the 2013 Mirawa discovery well and will further define the resource base in advance of a commerciality decision which is due later this year.
In addition within the outside operated Sarsang Block the East Swara Tika exploration well is currently being sidetracked to an updip location.
Well results are expected to be announced later in 2015.
With that I'd like to turn the call back to Lee for his concluding comments.
All right thank you Mitch and thank you to Lance as well.
As our budget and activity plans demonstrate Marathon Oil is focused on delivering long-term shareholder value regardless of the commodity price cycle.
We have a keen eye on returns and financial flexibility.
We're committed to exercising capital discipline that will protect our optionality and position us to be a stronger E&amp;P and not only 2015 and 2016 but beyond.
Our three U.S.
resource plays have exceptional sub-surface quality and strong single-well economics that will deliver solid returns across a broad range of price scenarios.
Even after high-grading our opportunities for this low price environment our deep portfolio affords us a multiyear drilling inventory with pace and spending levels ultimately moderated based on pricing and cash flows.
We are exercising every means available to expand our margins including significant contributions that you've heard about from enhanced completions and service cost reductions.
But we're also mindful of driving the fundamentals of expense management including organizational capacity which must match the current environment and activity levels and finally operational reliability.
Our commitment to our previously stated seven strategic imperatives is durable regardless of the commodity cycle.
Though we're rightly focused on prudent near-term actions we've laid the groundwork for the future and we'll continue building on our resource base.
In 2015 our asset teams will be aggressively testing co-development Stack and Frac downspacing enhanced completion designs and new horizons all strategic opportunities to expand our unconventional resource for the future.
We are well prepared for the current low-price environment and our 2015 investment program is based on achieving the highest returns at today's commodity prices while prudently managing cash flows.
We will also continue to protect optionality to flex our spend up or down and we'll ensure that our outstanding asset teams are prepared to take full advantage of a sustained recovery.
That really concludes our prepared remarks.
So operator we'll now open up the call for questions.
Thank you.
And our first question comes from Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen and congratulations on the operational performance last year and thanks for a lot of color in the presentations.
I guess a question on the 2015 and then 2016 shale growth.
You mentioned that you have inventory and you can see it in the numbers if you look at well completions and then wells to sales which obviously four less.
As you roll forward into 2016 if you just kept the same level of activity what sort of production growth do you think you'd get from each of your plays? It feels like it should flatten and then perhaps even decline if we carried on at this level of well completions.
Let me address that one Ed.
First maybe it's useful for us just to reflect on how we developed this year's plan.
And it was really looking at the near-term pricing environment the returns that we could generate high-grading the inventory and then testing that against our cash flow management objectives.
And really when we did that growth became an outcome if you will from that process.
And we tested that of course against numerous pricing scenarios.
If we look at 2015 as we stated in the prepared material Ed we're looking at overall growth on average of 5% to 7% for the portfolio.
But we also believe the resource plays will deliver approximately 20% in growth.
If we think about that in terms of exit rates the exit rates 4Q 2014 to 4Q 2015 and the resource plays will actually be up and the overall portfolio will essentially be flat on exit rate with the resource plays essentially offsetting our more mature properties.
Looking forward into 2016 as you might imagine Ed we've run numerous scenarios looking at not only 2015 but also 2016 under many many price decks over the last few months.
But when we think about 2106 and we think about a moderate level of recovery in 2016 we think that we could hold our budget essentially at current levels 2015 type levels around the $3.5 billion and keep our overall average for the portfolio essentially flat with likely exit rates increasing a bit year on year as we see a little bit more activity because we're seeing some improvement in cash flows.
That's very helpful and probably more guidance than we'll get from other companies at this stage so thank you.
And then on the cost side $225 million across your budget I mean that's sort of 5% 6%.
People are thinking service cost deflation is going to 20% or more.
I'm just worried if you – I'm sorry I'd like to ask whether you think 20% is realistic.
Or is it just a function of where you are in the year? Sure Ed good question.
I think I would encourage everyone to think of that initial cost savings of $225 million as the minimum.
Those are effectively savings we've already accomplished.
They're in the rearview mirror from our perspective and we're working on the next level.
We've built those into our budget plans so they're included in there.
We're already working on several areas of next cost savings.
So we fully anticipate that savings to grow throughout the year.
We're confident in what we've already achieved and we're confident we'll achieve further savings throughout the year Ed.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks good morning everybody.
Lee thanks for all the guidance and the detailed review on the capital budget.
But I guess my question is one of your competitors this morning is also a very large operator in the Eagle Ford.
They've just come out and basically said you know what we're just not going to give this stuff away in this oil price environment especially when we haven't had the costs come down yet.
And if I read your interpretation correctly what you're basically saying is we're going to try and get the best returns in the current oil price environment.
Why complete the wells at all when you haven't had the cost reductions to the scale that most people are expecting? And I think by your own words you anticipate that the oil price will ultimately recover.
So why not store it in the ground as opposed to just keep on going at this stage? And I've got a follow-up question.
Okay yes I'll address that one Doug.
First of all we feel very confident that as Lance has already stated that we have already captured significant cost savings.
So we're not sitting here waiting to capture cost savings.
We've already got cost savings in the bank essentially back through the January timeframe.
So we feel very comfortable that we are already on that path of capturing cost reduction.
We also continue of course to improve the overall productivity of the wells.
And when you look at the returns that we're able to generate we feel very confident that the shareholder is benefiting from those investments.
I will say though that we are optimizing our completion program though.
We're not simply just driving forward with our backlog of inventory.
As Lance mentioned we're going to be very judicious about pacing our completion activity in 2015 to ensure that we one capture full cost reduction savings at scale but two also capture the executions efficiency of running full frac crews.
So my answer would be is we feel very confident in the returns that we're generating.
That's a little bit of a bet on the future I guess in terms of what you see the contango in the future.
But we're very comfortable with our investment program.
Okay I appreciate what's obviously not an easy answer.
But I guess in a similar vein you are quite different from your peers in terms of your dividend – in terms of the scale of the dividend in this oil price environment.
And I guess given – I guess there's some debate over whether or not you get paid or recognized in your share price for the dividend that you pay.
I just wonder if you could help us prioritize your relative expectations for how you allocate cash and maybe perhaps the level of cash flow that you anticipate in your current budget including dividend spend.
And I'll leave it at that thanks.
Okay well let me maybe address the dividend question.
And perhaps I'll ask J.R.
to comment a little bit on cash flows and out spend because I know that's a topic of interest.
We are committed to our dividend.
When we talk about how we allocate capital we look at the buckets to which we allocate capital.
Our financial obligations which in our view include the dividend are at the top of that list.
And we've always said that we'll scale any movement in the dividend according to the health of the business.
But I want to be very clear that we remain committed to our dividends.
It's the way that we return value to our shareholders.
It needs to be looked at in the full context of the dividend plus the organic growth that we're generating in our business.
With that maybe I'll just ask J.R.
to comment a bit on cash flows and our view of out spend moving forward.
Yes thanks Lee.
Doug good to hear from you this morning.
I think Lee has indicated earlier today I mean we really did design the capital budget to reflect the spend that we believe is appropriate even in the current environment.
And it was really approached quite carefully to balance between this ongoing capital investment and what we believe are attractive returns in our U.S.
unconventional resources and high returns quite candidly with our ability and our commitment to continue to maintain appropriate financial flexibility during this timeframe.
I think also let's keep in mind.
I am sitting on nearly $5 billion of liquidity today and I think that puts us in a good position as we start into 2015.
But honestly that said we're going to continue to monitor our level of cash flows based on not only the current price environment but expectations in the later part of 2015 and 2016 and look at our cash flow profile accordingly to make sure that we're maintaining that flexibility.
And if conditions change we've got a great deal of flexibility to either decrease if they get worse or equally important to increase if we see a strengthening environment our level of capital spend to really match that increase in cash flows as well.
So and then finally I'd say Doug I think Lee highlighted pretty well that we're going to continue to address those matters.
They're really within our control of the business operating costs G&amp;A and those sorts of matters.
So at this point in point there's no doubt that we are investing a significant portion of our Norway proceeds this year.
But we think we're investing them in an organic program that's delivering solid returns for our shareholders.
All right guys thanks very much indeed.
Thanks Doug.
Thanks Doug.
And our next question comes from Ryan Todd from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks and good morning gentlemen.
Maybe if I could follow up a little bit on that last point you're maintaining an attractive level of momentum operationally and you'll still have on the balance sheet lots of dry powder again in 2015.
If you think about that cash management going forward what would you need to see to put money and rigs back to work? Is it a certain level on the oil price? Is it the cash flow relative to the spending outlook? Is it securing a level of cost reduction? What puts money and rigs back to work? I think Ryan the answer to that is probably a bit multi-dimensional.
First it starts with seeing I think a sustained recovery in pricing one with certainly less volatility but also yields us enhanced cash flows that we can redeploy into the business.
Again we've stated we're not opportunity constrained.
That's obvious from our single-well economics and our inventory.
So as that incremental cash flow becomes available we would certainly be looking to invest more.
And in our current plans again we're not just looking at 2015.
We are looking at 2016 and beyond.
And in 2016 we are assuming a moderate recovery in pricing that we think will support some uplift in activity going forward and we're well prepared to do that.
We have the execution capacity to gear up or down in the resource plays quite readily.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks and then maybe one other on the opportunity set going forward.
In recent years you've been a big – you've been a large seller of assets with the exception of maybe building a bit of position in the SCOOP and STACK area.
When you think about that going forward are you still – do you see yourselves more likely still trying to rationalize the portfolio a little bit or would you look to be more opportunistic in deploying your balance sheet going forward? Let me first maybe Ryan address the portfolio management question.
Portfolio management for us is an evergreen process.
It's just part of what a healthy E&amp;P company does.
We're going to continually test our asset set to ensure that it competes for capital allocation within our portfolio.
So you're going to see portfolio management feature in our business model going forward in time.
Now let's be honest it's a tough market right now to go out and dispose of an asset and capture true value for the shareholder but we're going to continue to test the market when we think that it make sense for the shareholder.
Back on your other question though more maybe along the lines of the M&amp;A the acquisitive side I would maybe characterize it.
Though it's not a focus for us today when you think about the bid/ask spread it's still out there.
There's probably still a bit of a gap.
But anything that we would evaluate has to compete against our already very strong organic inventory.
It would have to come in and compete for capital allocation which in our view is a relatively high bar from a quality and scale standpoint.
So that would be I think the limiting factor to it.
It's really finding that quality of asset.
Inc.</span></strong> Great thanks.
Thank you Ryan.
And our next question comes from John Herrlin from Société Générale.
Please go ahead.
Hi three unrelated ones.
With the cost savings is it just discount from book or changes in procurement as well as efficiencies in well designs things like that? John it's actually a number of things all of which you included and more.
So there is efficiency savings in there we've realized over the last quarter that we're reflecting in those updated single-well metrics tables.
We certainly have gone out and renegotiated our contracts in some cases taken on new contracts or negotiated new pricing within existing structures reflecting the market and taken every means necessary in that.
I think we look at that and I'd say we look at the context of those single-well metrics on slide 13 and we feel confident.
We're confident enough on those savings that we've already reflected new cost per well in those tables.
And we think that's the beginning of the minimum for this year and we anticipate additional savings.
And it isn't clear what the ultimate savings will be throughout the year.
We think it's more than we've already achieved.
But we wanted to achieve those early in the cycle so we can continue to invest with confidence and we are.
But I also think those well costs we're reflecting are very competitive in each of those basins.
No I agree.
I just thought you might get more cost savings going forward.
Next question for me is on the Stack and Frac.
From the time you spud your initial well to the time you complete the formations about how long is that in duration? John it depends on how big the pad size is.
So it can vary from as little as 90 days.
It could be 120 days.
And in this case the Stack and Frac is going to have four zones vertically two in the Lower Eagle Ford one in the Upper Eagle Ford and then the Austin Chalk.
Generally those pilots may even be larger than that.
It may be seven or eight wells as we expand that horizontally but it's that same vertical stacking.
So it's diverse in time depending on how many are on the pad quite frankly.
Okay that's fine.
Last one for me is on Oklahoma any acreage retention issues at all? No I think we're quite confident.
We have 70% of our total acreage HBP today John.
And then reflecting those lease expiries over the next several years not just this year we can maintain those leases with about two rigs moving forward.
Ideally we'd like to see in a commodity price recovery more activity so we can test other things.
But we're confident we can retain all of the value of that lease position within the business plan we've presented.
Great thank you.
Investor Relations</span></strong> Thanks John.
Thanks John.
And our next question comes from Guy Baber from Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Good morning gentlemen.
Thanks for taking my question.
Good morning Guy.
I had a follow-up on the comment that the unconventional production is expected to rise exit rate 2015 versus exit rate 2014 which is different than what we've heard from others in the industry who are cutting capital to a similar degree.
So I was just hoping to better understand A little bit more specifically how you think you're driving that.
And if there's anything that you would point out maybe differentiated production expectations from one basin to another or just if you had any other comments on that front.
And then I had a follow-up as well.
Sure Guy.
Maybe I'll just talk generically a bit about the resource plays.
I think the reason that again we're able to be very capital efficient in 2015 is again several-fold.
One we've had the ability to high-grade our inventory even within our extremely strong core areas.
So you got a high-grading effect where you're bringing the best opportunities forward not only with a basin but across all three basins.
Secondly we're able to do that at lower cost for the reasons that Lance has already enumerated.
We've captured those early cost savings very early in the cycle and certainly we're chasing even more throughout the year.
And then as the asset teams continue to drive things like enhanced completion performance as well as some of the co-development work the downspacing work all of those are tending to improve the overall productivity of the wells also.
So it's lifting all boats if I can put it that way.
So when you consider all those factors I think it positions us very very strongly to continue to drive that kind of exit rate to exit rate growth.
Now again we are still benefiting from some pretty strong carry-in effects from 2014 as well.
But as we look across the year and optimize our completion program we're going to be able to again keep that production relatively steady throughout the year with again a little bit of uptick in the exit rates for 2015.
Thanks that's helpful.
And then my follow-up was on exploration.
You made obviously very significant cuts to the capital allocated there.
I was hoping to get some strategic commentary on that front.
Does that reflect a permanent shift in the exploration strategy going forward or is it more of a specific adjustment you're making this year to better balance cash flow? I'm just trying to better understand whether for exploration we creep back towards $500 million a year to $600 million a year.
I just wanted to get the latest thoughts on how that has evolved as you've tested out some of the new acreage you've been building up over the last few years.
Great question.
Exploration remains attractive to us for obvious reasons because of the strong multiples that it can generate again when we're successful at exploration.
To be very frank we are not satisfied with our historical performance in exploration.
And under Mitch's leadership we feel a need to improve in that area.
And while we're searching for the enhanced approach that will drive those improved results we are reducing spend materially.
A lot of that reduction though Guy quite frankly was in place on an activity basis before the commodity price correction though.
So it was largely driven by I would say scheduling and commitments that we had in the 2015 time period.
I would end just by saying that exploration must compete for capital allocation like every other aspect of our business.
And so this year yes the spend will be materially reduced.
And as we look forward in time opportunities in exploration will have to go head to head with the other investment opportunities we have in our portfolio.
Thanks for the comments.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Jeoffrey Lambujon from Tudor Pickering Holt.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning thanks for taking my questions.
I guess I'm trying to think about future potential cost savings.
On the $225 million factored in so far is there a breakout you have in terms of North America versus international? If it's primarily U.S.
resource plays it implied closer to 8% to 9% in cost savings.
Is that the right way to think about it or is it more of a balanced split? It's a great question Jeff.
I would say that $225 million is specific to North America and really specific to the three resource plays underneath it.
And so it's built into the development costs we've already captured today primarily in Oklahoma Bakken and Eagle Ford.
So I think the way you're describing it is accurate if it's on that and that's our minimum floor.
We expect that to grow materially over the balance of the year.
Jeoffrey this is Mitch Little.
I'll just add a little bit to that from the international and offshore side.
We are seeing some modest reductions across a number of suppliers.
We've got specific plans in place at each asset.
But keep in mind that a lot of the projects we're executing in that space are long-cycle prior commitments executed long-cycle contracts which aren't going to be subject to the same volatility as we are seeing in the North American onshore business.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great and then last question for me.
In regards to ongoing optimization on completions how do you view that pilot testing going forward for increased proppant loading additional completion changes just given lower commodity prices and the incremental capital required up front there? I think you'll see us continue Jeff with completions optimizations on an ongoing basis effectively indefinitely.
We're always going to look for that better well productivity at the lowest cost possible particularly as we look at Bakken and Oklahoma where we have lower activity for the year.
We see this as a great opportunity to drive well productivity as well as test spacing so that as prices do recover in the future we're very well positioned to grow to full field development scale quickly and at the highest value for the company.
I think we're confident we'll continue to see improvements on that.
And working in all three of those basins and any new basins in the future on optimization is just going to be a natural cycle of our business.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks Jeoffrey.
And our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov from Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Thanks for taking the question.
You've always talked about share buyback as a flex variable.
And I suppose now that you've cut CapEx by 40% if oil prices were to recover what's going to be the decision variables between allocating increased CapEx versus perhaps resuming buyback? Yes Pavel this is J.R.
I think that's a fair question.
We talked a lot about how share buybacks have got to compete against organic capital reinvestments and I think we demonstrated that in 2014.
You recall back when we sold Angola the thought process was what was that next best highest use of capital.
And at that point in time it's a little bit of history we had just significantly ramped up activity across North America.
And at that point in time we were not ready to make that next incremental investment in North America given our desire to see us operating at that higher scale.
So really the next highest and best use from an allocation standpoint was share repurchases.
Now fast-forward.
Not only do we find ourselves in this volatile commodity price environment but we find ourselves with a level of capital spend that really isn't funding a large portion of our organic investment opportunities that are still high earning.
So it is a much different conversation regarding what is the risk-adjusted return of that organic reinvestment versus the share repurchases.
But I got to tell you Pavel I mean until we see a bit more clarity around the depth and duration of the commodity price correction that we're in right now I feel like the balance sheet is probably the best place for any incremental capital at this point in time until we see a strengthening of cash flows.
But again at the appropriate time share repurchases is going to be a consideration for capital allocation.
It's just going to have to continue to compete on a risk-adjusted basis.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay and then just a small housekeeping item about the production guidance.
Are you giving credit to any volumes this year from your first development in Kurdistan? As I mentioned in my comments we are currently forecasting first production from the Atrush non-operated Phase 1 block late this year.
We also have very small production from the Sarsang Block which is about 4 000 gross barrels of oil a day.
A very small number.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay understood.
Thanks very much guys.
Thanks Pavel.
Thanks Pavel.
And our next question comes from Jason Gammel from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Yes thanks very much.
I just wanted to come back to J.R.'s comment about the balance sheet.
Do you have any as you think about capital allocations upper limits on let's say a leverage ratio that you'd be willing to go to if we have continued low prices net debt-to-cap ratio something along those lines? Yes Jason I think that's a fair question and one that I've always tried to maintain the most flexibility and not necessarily commit myself to a ceiling.
But that said first and foremost I want to make sure it's clear that we are committed to maintaining that strong balance sheet and we'll continue to keep that commitment throughout this commodity price cycle.
I think I said earlier or at least today we got nearly – or at year end we've got nearly $5 billion of liquidity and $2.4 billion of that in cash.
And the way I look at our investment-grade rating and I think it's a solid investment-grade rating is it does reflect one that we would expect to maintain throughout this commodity price cycle.
And so I think the rating agencies have always historically rated our sector based on a through the commodity price cycle approach and not just on the environment that they're in.
And finally I'd say as I think as we've done that Jason we've taken that into consideration in designing the 2015 capital program that does reflect that balance between the need to continue the ongoing investment at high returns while at the same time maintaining that balance sheet.
That said and I think I mentioned it earlier we're going to continue to watch the current environment and ensure that our capital profile and our operating cash flow profile are appropriately taken into consideration depending on that environment.
Got it thanks.
That's helpful actually.
One more if I could please and I apologize if this is a bit in the weeds.
But this is the first time I've really seen the data on the Austin Chalk type curves.
I'm trying to understand how it's giving a better IRR than an Eagle Ford condensate well given that the IP is lower the EUR is lower and the completed well cost is higher but it's about the same level of liquids production.
Sure Jason great question.
So I would encourage everybody to think that the IP of a Lower Eagle Ford well and an Austin Chalk well are similar with the Lower Eagle Ford being a little bit better.
But what really happens is really by the third month those two have equalized and then the Austin Chalk well declines at a little bit slower rate.
So when you look toward say 180-day cumulative production the Austin Chalk is just higher than the Lower Eagle Ford well.
And it's that early-life production particularly the first and second year that drives the value by bringing forward the cash flows from those extra barrels.
Okay that's perfect.
That's really helpful.
And as a result you see those attractive return metrics for the Eagle Ford.
Yes Jason I think you also highlighted something that I think is important.
This is the first time as Lance said in his prepared remarks that we've actually shown standalone single-well economics for the Austin Chalk.
So I appreciate you pointing that out on the call.
Would you be able to share what the first year decline is on the Austin Chalk relative to the Eagle Ford condensate? Jason I don't know that I actually scrutinized them in that detail.
I think the Eagle Ford range is depending on type curve from 70% to 78%.
And it's just a few percent lower but those incremental barrels make a difference in the Austin Chalk.
I do think I'd like to reiterate we've said several times before we could only afford to co-develop Austin Chalk if it would compete favorably in economics.
And so we're quite pleased to be able to show these and demonstrate that co-developing those horizons is the right choice today because they have very favorable returns together.
Got it.
Thanks for the comments guys.
Thanks Jason.
And your next question comes from Jeffrey Campbell from Tuohy Brothers.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> I'd like to go back to the cost reductions and just ask a little bit different question.
One concern that I think people are talking about is that when oil prices recover D&amp;C costs are going to rise again as well.
So I'm wondering how sticky can margin enhancement based on cost reduction remain? Jeff it's a good question.
I think first and foremost in the current market our focus is with margins compressed by lower commodity prices it's incumbent upon us to be aggressive in pushing those service costs and tangible goods costs down so that we protect our margins in our short-cycle investments as early as possible.
I think – I hope we've demonstrated that we're doing that and it will be up to us to do it.
I think even as commodity prices rise you will see pressure on those.
We will obviously work to defend those to the extent we can and push on that.
It's not all just cost savings though.
We continue to focus on cycle time reductions and efficiencies.
And so the efficiencies we can achieve in the market those will be very sticky and stay with us on a perpetuity basis.
Obviously just like commodity pricing we will have to some extent less control over service costs.
Jeffrey maybe I will just add too that we have to look at those elements of our cost structure too that will be durable irrespective of where the pricing environment.
And I mentioned a few of the things that we can pursue and we're looking at every means available to us.
An obvious one for us is with our response to the commodity prices and the commensurate I would say reduction in activity.
We're taking of course a hard look at our organizational capacity.
And of course on that front we're in the midst of implementing a reduction in organizational capacity that's going to take some 350 to 400 positions out of our cost structure going forward.
So I want to make it very clear that we're doing the things necessary to put in place cost reduction initiatives that will be durable throughout the cycle.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it that's very helpful.
Thank you.
Some of your peers say that the Springer shale produces the best returns in the Oklahoma resource plays.
You have a lot of non-op data but you appear to be moving into operated Springer drilling at a deliberate pace.
I'm just wondering what your forward view is on the Springer and that can be both 2015 and beyond.
Jeff we also see the Springer as potentially very valuable maybe among the most valuable investments we could make in Oklahoma.
We have planned to be more active quite frankly in 2015 in the Springer to test it earlier.
As we've gone through the cycle and looked to prune our activity is we've reduced our forecast activity in Oklahoma.
And as a result and our need to make sure we're maintaining our very valuable SCOOP and STACK leases in the area we found it necessary to start our own operated Springer activity later in the year than possible.
That does not reflect a lack of confidence on our part.
It really reflects some constraints on the amount of activity we'll have in Oklahoma during the year.
By way of having a diverse and large portfolio particularly in the SCOOP area which is overlain by the Springer we've had the benefit of participating and I think nearly three-quarters of all Springer wells drilled to date.
So we do have a lot of data and we're advancing our understanding of the reservoir performance early.
But of course we're excited to get our own operated activity later this year.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay great.
Thanks.
If I could ask just one last quick one where are the current and future Upper Eagle Ford locations relative to Lower Eagle Ford and the Austin Chalk? And really what I'm thinking of is this slide five that talks about the Stack and Frac.
Right now we're early in the Upper Eagle Ford and the Stack and Frac.
We're really bringing on our first pilot group for the Upper Eagle Ford.
And so I'd start with that group.
We have some places where we've delineated Austin Chalk.
And in some of those areas we recognize that the reservoir quality in the Upper Eagle Ford may actually be superior to the Austin Chalk.
And so we may develop the Upper Eagle Ford and the Lower Eagle Ford together and so we're testing that now.
And it will be some time before we understand the delineated area.
And then on the Stack and Frac we have some areas within our acreage where we see a very prospective Austin Chalk Upper Eagle Ford and Lower Eagle Ford and that's about us testing all three of those together.
And in some cases we'll actually have two wells in the Lower Eagle Ford like this first pilot.
Again with that first one drilling and not on completions I think we have an idea of where that performance is.
But it's early days and we need to see that performance before we can talk about how delineated it can be.
Inc.</span></strong> That was so very helpful.
Thanks I appreciate it.
Thanks Jeff.
And I'm not showing any further questions at this time.
I'll now turn the call back over to Mr.
Zach Dailey.
Investor Relations</strong> Thanks.
I'd like to thank everyone again for their participation this morning.
Please contact me if you have any additional follow-up questions.
In conclusion Marathon Oil is well prepared for the current low price environment with the 2015 capital program focused on our highest return investment opportunities and prudent management of cash flows.
Combined with maintaining financial flexibility we're positioning the company to be a stronger E&amp;P in the future.
THIS concludes today's call.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Marathon Oil Corporation 2015 Q1 Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Vivian and I'll be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Mr.
Chris Phillips.
You may begin sir.
Good morning and welcome to Marathon Oil Corporation's First Quarter 2015 Earnings Call.
I'm Chris Phillips Director of Investor Relations.
Also on the call this morning are Lee Tillman CEO and President J.R.
Sult Executive Vice President and CFO Mitch Little Vice President International and Offshore Exploration and Production Operations Lance Robertson Vice President North America Production Operations and Zach Dailey Director of Investor Relations.
As has become our custom we released prepared remarks last night in conjunction with the earnings release.
You can find those remarks and the associated slides at marathonoil.com.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded and our comments and answers to questions will contain forward-looking information subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.
I'll refer you back to the aforementioned slides where you can find our full Safe Harbor statement.
With that I will turn the call over to Lee.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Chris and glad to have you back on the call.
Let me add my good morning to everyone.
I'd like to open with just a few comments regarding the elements of our business that we control: costs; efficiencies; and execution and discuss how our actions will enhance returns and have us well-positioned for the current environment as well as when commodity prices show a sustained improvement.
Rigorous cost control across all areas of our business is at the forefront of what we do each and every day and the first quarter was no exception.
We reduced our North America E&amp;P production costs per oil equivalent barrel to $7.94 down 17% from fourth quarter 2014 and 28% below the year-ago quarter.
Operating cost reduction is hard work and our teams have taken on that challenge.
There is no one magic bullet but rather there's a diverse range of drivers within these savings.
A few examples include more coordinated deployment of contract labor focus on compressor utilization aggregating water production into gathering systems and optimizing our chemical programs.
These types of savings are durable in nature and resilient to the commodity cycle.
In parallel we continue to work with our vendor base and supply-chain experts to take full advantage of our scale to drive commercial savings.
On the service cost side we increased our year-to-date captured U.S.
unconventional D&amp;C service costs by an additional $25 million bringing that total to $250 million.
That represents a 17% reduction from our revised activity levels and we fully expect to secure more savings as the year progresses.
And finally on G&amp;A we have taken the necessary steps to scale our organizational capacity to match our activity level.
And our first quarter workforce reductions are expected to generate annualized net savings of approximately $100 million.
During the first quarter we have also made significant progress enhancing our returns through efficiency gains.
Our high-specification rigs in the Eagle Ford are a prime example and delivered pacesetter spud-to-TD results of under seven days drilling 2 800 feet per day significantly above the quarterly average of about 1 600 feet per day.
In the Eagle Ford our EUR uplift was 26% for condensate wells and 79% for high-GOR oil wells relative to fall of last year while completed well costs have fallen about 15%.
Finally we are reallocating more than $25 million of capital to the Oklahoma Resource Basin to further advance our understanding of the resource potential which already stands at over one billion oil equivalent barrels on a 2P basis.
We are complementing our two-rig operated program with incremental high-value non-operated activity which is a very efficient way to maximize the benefits of our capital dollars.
From an execution standpoint our teams had a great first quarter.
We grew production from our three U.S.
resource plays 11% over the prior quarter and 49% year-over-year.
Our total E&amp;P net production excluding Libya also posted strong results growing 4% and 20% respectively.
All this was accomplished within our planned first quarter capital budget.
We recorded 98% average operational availability for company-operated assets during the first quarter our most economic barrels.
Yesterday we announced a further optimization of our 2015 capital investment and exploration budget to $3.3 billion.
This reduction is driven by a relentless focus on capital discipline and maintaining financial flexibility in this period of ongoing price uncertainty.
We're adjusting activity levels to manage cash flows while still delivering on our strategic objectives and our three U.S.
resource plays and with no change to full year E&amp;P production guidance.
In addition we are continuing our commitment to ongoing portfolio management regardless of commodity cycle and are targeting non-core asset sales to generate at least $500 million in proceeds.
Portfolio management is simply part of what we do as an independent E&amp;P company.
At quarter end cash and cash equivalents were approximately $1.1 billion which combined with our revolving credit facility resulted in a total liquidity of $3.6 billion.
And in May we amended the revolving credit facility to increase the available capacity from $2.5 billion to $3 billion and extended the maturity date to 2020.
Our 2015 capital program was always designed to be front-end loaded and the first quarter of 2015 has been a quarter of transition.
We are efficiently ramping down to lower activity levels in our U.S.
resource plays and will achieve our target of 10 rigs by the end of second quarter.
Our current plan is to hold that activity level relatively flat for the remainder of the year averaging a mid-teens rig count for the full year.
But just to reiterate our guidance of 5% to 7% year-over-year production growth for the total company excluding Libya and 20% growth for the U.S.
unconventional plays has not changed.
With the enablers of lower costs improved efficiencies and strong execution our strategic objectives in the three U.S.
resource plays remain in full force even at an overall reduced budget level.
We will continue our successful Eagle Ford co-development expanding beyond the Austin Chalk to the Upper Eagle Ford in our stack-and-frac pilot.
Our first quad stack and frac pilot which includes one Austin Chalk one Upper Eagle Ford and two Lower Eagle Ford wells is online and early performance is encouraging.
We also placed five Upper Eagle Ford wells online in the quarter.
In Oklahoma we are executing our two-rig operated program and brought five gross operated wells to sales this quarter all in the SCOOP.
We're also continuing to leverage the benefit of our high value outside operated program and plan to participate in approximately 50 of those wells this year in the SCOOP Woodford SCOOP Springer and STACK areas thanks to our reallocation of budget to one of our most prospective areas.
The capital we've reallocated to Oklahoma is primarily focused on increasing our non-operated gross well exposure.
This increase in capital demonstrates our belief that Oklahoma represents an exciting growth opportunity for Marathon Oil that competes very favorably with our existing portfolio.
We continue to advance our technical work here to be positioned to step up our activity as prices improve.
And finally in the Bakken we concluded our enhanced completion pilots and have incorporated the improved design into all wells drilled this quarter.
Additionally initial results from the first of our four down-spacing pilots are encouraging.
The second pilot is currently online but with fewer than 30 days and the third just completed drilling.
Our ultimate objective is to fully integrate the down-spacing pilot results with the now concluded completion design trials into our future development plans.
Before we open the call up to questions I'd like to reiterate that our strong operational execution cost reductions continued efficiency gains and capital discipline are enhancing our returns today have us well-positioned for the current price environment and well-prepared for a sustained commodity price recovery.
With that I'll hand it back to Chris to begin the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Lee.
Before we open the call to questions we'd like to request that you ask no more than two questions with associated clarifications.
And you can reprompt as time permits.
With that Vivian we'll open the lines for questions.
Thank you.
Our first question comes from Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Good morning and congratulations on the strong operational momentum.
And quick question on the Eagle Ford charts.
I mean I guess you did discuss it on the Q1 call but just a clarification.
How much of the EUR improvement that you're talking about is kind of high grading and how much of it is due to completions performance? Ed it's a very good question and I think you should look at it and both of the things you're referencing are important in that.
First and foremost the ongoing completions optimization we're doing is clearly driving EUR enhancement.
As we work on stage density profit loading fluid loading and active diversion we continue to see improvements on that side.
There is an impact as we focused in this year particularly 2015 on a more focused area to deliver the highest returns in a lower commodity environment.
So we are seeing some uplift from that.
But I would encourage you to say it's principally driven by the completions efficacy we're pushing all across those basins.
That's what driving the real EUR enhancement.
And I think that's reflected if you even look at the early IPs again driving that.
Okay.
And a totally unrelated question and we won't talk about the politics of what's going on in Alberta.
But the oil sands a very solid performance in the first quarter.
Is that a sign of the sustainability that you were looking for or is that just a lucky quarter? Ed not just us but our partners and Shell as operator have worked very hard over the last several years particularly the last year to two years really working on the reliability system.
I don't think we've seen enough runtime yet to say that's sustainable.
But the signs are encouraging from our perspective.
We really like the focus on operating expense and we have more steps planned to work on that this year.
Certainly the production is a sign that in fact this is the fourth strong quarter in a row of production deliverability out of that business.
So I think we're on that road to improvement that we haven't been able to point to before.
Again I'd like to see more runtime but I'm certainly encouraged by this past quarter and actually the past four quarters.
That trend is headed in the right direction and it needs to in this environment.
Yeah.
Thanks very much.
And our next question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everybody.
Lee I wonder if I could – I don't know who actually who wants to take this one.
But if I look at the results you posted in the Upper Eagle Ford quite a wide range of 30-day IP rates there.
I'm just wondering if those wells were all of similar design or if there's some obvious kind of variance between those that caused that? And maybe just give us an update as to whether you think the type curve is moving higher or if this is really more of a high grading in 2015? Then I've got a follow-up please.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Well maybe I'll offer a few comments and then let Lance weigh in.
We're still in the early days of the Upper Eagle Ford co-development.
I would say that we're still in the process of really delineating where the Upper Eagle Ford is going to be prospective across our acreage.
And I think as part of that delineation we will see some natural variability in well results as we test different things in that particular play.
I think overall though we're very encouraged from what we're seeing in the Upper Eagle Ford and in combination of course with the Lower Eagle Ford.
And we're seeing similar strong results in the stack-and-frac of which the Upper Eagle Ford is a component part.
Maybe I'll let Lance just comment on the completion design aspect of that.
Yeah Doug.
I think Lee actually highlighted it very well.
We're testing Upper Eagle Ford in a more fulsome way spread out over a fairly large area.
So we're going to see some disparate results of that as we make sure we fully delineate it.
I'd say those results are very much in line with Lower Eagle Ford and Austin Chalk in the same respective areas.
And I would say what's most encouraging to us the Upper Eagle Ford is working well in the areas where the Austin Chalk has worked a little bit less effectively.
And so we see those two as increasingly interchangeable so we can co-develop in a broader area.
And very encouraged thus far on the Upper Eagle Ford both in that Northern end as well as in the stack and frac.
I think to be more clear we brought on five Upper Eagle Ford wells that we announced that are distinctive.
And in that stack and frac pilot that came online also includes a sixth or one more incremental Upper Eagle Ford well that's performing similarly.
All right.
I appreciate that.
Lee you obviously had – my follow-up is in the costs.
You clearly had a very strong cost performance and I think that's really characterized your tenure since you've been CEO.
But I guess my question is assuming we do get a recovery in the oil price let's assume into the $70s or something like that how sustainable are these cost reductions? Is it dynamic with an oil price recovery or do you expect to be able to hang on to a lot of these gains? And I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks Doug.
We are very focused on cost and I give a lot of credit to our asset teams.
And as I mentioned in my opening remarks operating cost is just hard work.
It's many things coming together to contribute to driving that unit cost lower.
It's both the numerator as well as the denominator.
It's working your absolute cost as well as making sure you're keeping your barrels online and the teams did an outstanding job at that this quarter.
Many of those things I think in the operating cost side though are structural in nature.
When you think about things around preventive maintenance and our ability to efficiently deploy contractors when you think about efficiently using our installed compression horsepower when you think about our optimizing of our chemical programs in the oil field all of these things in our mind are independent of the commodity price environment.
And we will carry those forward in time.
In parallel with that though we're not turning a blind eye to our scale and our ability to leverage that scale in commercial dialog as well.
And some of those will be more sticky than others in some cases.
But we do expect that we'll retain even an element of those commercial gains as we move forward in time.
But those will have a much closer correlation with the pricing environment that we find ourselves.
On the capital side when you think about the cost reductions we've achieved there I mean when you look at the $1.3 million of well in the Eagle Ford the $1 million of well that we've achieved in the Bakken the $600 000 we've achieved per well in Oklahoma those capital efficiencies have in large part been driven by the response of the service industry to participate in this downturn that we're experiencing.
But even within that there is a commercial element and efficiency element as well.
Our most efficient frac crews can deliver a high number of stages on a monthly basis.
That's a win-win for both the operator as well as the service provider.
And our ability to keep those most efficient crews running even with the downturn in activity I believe will be key to our ability to continue momentum as we see prices improvements in the future.
Appreciate the answers Lee.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Doug.
And our next question comes from Ryan Todd from Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah thanks.
Good morning gentlemen.
Great results.
And if I could ask – maybe the first question is can you talk a little bit about the rationale behind the decision to drop the incremental rigs and what that means for the trajectory of 2015 production? Previously you had talked about the U.S.
onshore showing kind of an exit-to-exit incline.
Is that still the case? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Okay.
Yeah thanks Ryan.
Let me maybe start with the rationale around the further optimization and reduction in capital budget.
I would really describe that decision and really driven by two things.
First is just a continued focus on capital discipline and financial flexibility in a period where we still have uncertainty around the price environment albeit we've seen some strengthening here as of late.
A lot of the macro factors that have driven the downturn are still in place so we need to recognize that.
Secondly with the enablers of both cost efficiency and cost reduction we're still able to achieve our strategic objectives in each of the three U.S.
resource plays and hold our guidance under that revised budget and drive those efficiencies and savings really down to the balance sheet.
And if we start to see a sustainable price recovery we can then reconsider if we want to take some of that cash flow and redeploy it into the business.
In terms of volumes targeting and trajectory you mentioned that we had communicated previously an exit-to-exit in the unconventional target or unconventional production 4Q to 4Q 2014 to 2015 slightly up on an exit-to-exit basis.
And we still feel that that is consistent with the budget that we're putting forward today.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then maybe one follow-up on that.
If we look at the normalized second half outlook you've given – obviously we have an updated CapEx budget and like everybody else you came into the year a bit hot.
Can you talk maybe about what the normalized CapEx run rate looks like in the second half of the year? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Let me maybe describe it more from an activity perspective and I think the capital will then kind of follow Ryan.
As we talked about you used the word we came in hot.
I think we recognized that we were going to come into the first quarter at high activity levels.
We were coming out of 2014 with nominally 30-plus rigs running in the unconventionals.
We started that deceleration in activity in the first quarter and in fact our capital budget – we delivered essentially against our capital budget in the first quarter.
But we did have a momentum effect as we came in from last year.
That ramp-down is continuing.
By the time we get to the end of second quarter we'll be at our 10-rig count that we will hold flat for the remainder of the year and that will set the activity levels in our unconventional plays.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And any idea of what the CapEx number is associated with that 10-rig program? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well again if you kind of think about our $1.1 billion rate in the first quarter you think about that in the context of our overall $3.3 billion budget you put in the fact that we're relatively talking about a flat activity level from the second quarter forward I think that you can back into the math in terms of what the actual rate will look like.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks.
I'll leave it there.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Ryan.
And our next question comes from Matt Portillo from TPH.
Please go ahead.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Good morning all.
Hey Matt.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Matt.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Just a question around capital allocation thoughts.
As you guys continue to see positive improvements in the SCOOP and STACK can you talk about your capital allocation decisions as you think about heading into 2016 and how that may shift between the Bakken Eagle Ford and Oklahoma asset base? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Absolutely.
As we've talked in the past we look at capital allocation down really to a type-curve level.
And it is a competition for capital allocation amongst the three resource plays.
Specifically when we look at the SCOOP and the STACK and we think about incremental cash flows becoming available to reinvest in the business we're going to drive those to the highest return opportunities.
Today when you look at our single-well economics that's really the Eagle Ford and Oklahoma.
And the highest quality of the Bakken the Myrmidon and as we integrate both the completion trial results and the down-spacing results we'll see how those fare in the capital allocation decision.
But there's no doubt that as incremental capital becomes available that will be directed to the U.S.
unconventionals and Eagle Ford and Oklahoma will be the strongest competitors for that capital.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Great.
And then just a follow-up to that question you mentioned potentially north of $500 million in non-core asset sales.
Just curious as you see a firming of the commodity price here and potential execution on those transactions should we expect to see that redeployed potentially into the ground in the back half of this year heading into 2016 in regards to activity or can you provide a bit of an update on how you're thinking about the capital allocation from those transactions? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Well first maybe just a few thoughts on the potential transactions themselves.
In our view portfolio management is part of what we do.
It's an evergreen process.
These are non-core assets that we're talking about and what that means to us is that these are assets that are not going to compete for capital allocation and likely have higher value in someone else's portfolio.
This process would be going on irrespective of the commodity cycle that we find ourselves in because we think again these assets will have appeal to the right portfolio.
Assuming success in those divestment activities then we'll look at that at that point in time and see how constructive the price environment is and make a decision as whether or not we bring that to the balance sheet or redeploy it into our organic investment portfolio which is very competitive.
Pickering Holt &amp; Co.
Securities Inc.</span></strong> Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Matt.
And our next question comes from Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs.
Please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Brian.
I wanted to follow-up a little bit on some of the capital allocation questions.
In SCOOP STACK and Springer you've reallocated capital there.
But can you talk to your preference on balancing non-operated spending versus accelerating your own spending and specifically what the milestones you would be looking for between price costs and well results for you to make a more material acceleration in your operated activity levels? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Yeah absolutely.
Well first of all the two-rig operated program beyond delivering very profitable and competitive wells is also allowing us to protect our pretty significant leasehold position in Oklahoma over 300 000 acres.
So that is an important element of our operated program and why we wanted to continue that commitment going into this year.
There's no doubt that there's been an activity uptick in Oklahoma in our non-operated portfolio as those folks that are multi-basin operators direct more capital into Oklahoma.
We want to participate in the high-quality wells that that affords us because it simply expands the number of data points in our knowledge base around the resource potential that exists in Oklahoma.
Having said that though and kind of consistent with my previous comments to the extent that we see a sustained strengthening in prices that we see incremental cash flow come available.
Oklahoma our operated program will compete very favorably for those incremental dollars.
Got it.
Thank you.
And then I have a somewhat nuanced follow-up to I think Ryan Todd's earlier question with regards to how you are thinking about year-end.
What I'm trying to figure out is or what we're trying to figure out is whether on a going-forward basis you are saying you can do exactly the same as previously as we look into next year but with fewer rigs.
And so I guess my question is with your 1Q having beaten expectations you now have a little bit of a buffer to lower activity and get back to the same point in terms of year-end production that you were at before.
Is that just the case or is what you're saying you're going to be on a growth trajectory from the year-end point that was no different with a lower rig count than it was previously with a higher rig count? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah I think we want to make sure that we're well-prepared to reengage and ramp up in the unconventionals.
Our base plan this year is to be at our 10-rig count by second quarter.
We think that is the right answer from a capital discipline standpoint.
But we have the execution capacity to step into more activity as the macro environment supports that decision and we'll be well-positioned to do that.
And one of the advantages of course of holding on to our best rigs our best crew is that it does position you very favorably to step back in to that high activity or higher activity period.
So as we look ahead to 2016 we view that as an opportunity to start that ramp-up again assuming that we see that constructive price environment in front of us.
And within our of course 2015 budget we do have some items some investments that will be either reduced or falling out of the 2016 program that will provide us a little bit of accommodation space even on a flat budget outlook going into 2016.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Brian.
And our next question comes from John Herrlin from Société Générale.
Please go ahead.
Yeah.
Hi.
Just two quick ones from me.
Could you talk more about the Rodo well in EG and what your plans are there? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah absolutely John.
We'll let Mitch take that one.
Sure John.
Thanks for the question.
We talked about in our 4Q call the two-well exploration program in EG.
And we previously announced the non-commercial hydrocarbon results of the Sodalita well.
We did fare a bit better on the Rodo well.
But we now want to integrate the results of both of those wells into our regional database look at the options to further exploit the other prospects in the area and understand what the commerciality options might be looking forward.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And I think just building on that the EG program to us is a great example though of really infrastructure-led exploration where we have the investment there.
These would be possibly smaller accumulations that we think that we have a unique ability to bring online and make commercial.
But as Mitch stated we still have some work to do to integrate the results from both wells before we're ready to move forward.
You had a second question John.
Yeah.
I did.
I was wondering whether you think your current distribution is too high relative to the cash flow your dividend whether you need to address that going forward or given your current capital plan and asset sales that it's not an issue.
Yeah.
John this is J.R.
How are you this morning? Good.
And you? I'm good.
Thanks.
No John still we've been pretty clear that when we think about capital allocation that the dividend today remains in that pool of the first call on our capital.
At the end of the day the decision around the dividend is really the board's and not management.
At this point in time it remains that first call on capital.
There's no doubt in a sub-$60 or $60 commodity price environment that it pulls on our cash flows much harder than it did when it was just a year ago.
But at this point in time we're still committed to that dividend John.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And our goal is of course to grow back into it.
Great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks John.
And our next question comes from David Heikkinen from Heikkinen Energy.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Just curious on the production and reserves associated with the non-core assets.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Just we haven't detailed out specifically any granularity on those assets but they're non-core.
And for us that means that they will likely be not significant from a volumes or resource standpoint.
Are they in you guidance or not? I guess if it's not significant doesn't really matter.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well yeah.
Today of course we don't put any potential divestments into our forward guidance.
That's helpful.
And then thinking about cadence in each of your onshore resource plays and your second quarter guidance can you break out some idea of expectations of how you maintain the Eagle Ford at a higher activity level and then I guess Oklahoma next and then what happens in the Bakken as you've slowed more rapidly there? Just trying to get an idea of production in each of those as you go through the year.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Well just in terms of cadence or pace it's really again driven by rig activity and frac crew activity.
A case in point David we're already at a single rig of activity in the Bakken.
But within that single rig capacity we are very confident that we will still be able to deliver on our downspacing pilots which was a key strategic objective for this year in the Bakken.
In Oklahoma our two-rig operated program was largely dictated by our desire to ensure we protected all of our high-quality leasehold while continuing to develop the SCOOP area as well.
And then of course leverage to the extent that we can the non-operated side of the business to leverage our capital very efficiently.
And then in the Eagle Ford it's really taking full advantage of some of the efficiencies that we are seeing on the drilling front and hopefully being able to extrapolate those moving forward into the second half of the year.
I guess just to make simple math if we take your gross operated wells in each area subtract first quarter and divide by three is that a rough approximation of completed well cadence? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I think it is a rough approximation because as we get down to that we are a little bit in still that transitional period David as we come out of the first quarter where we're still kind of decelerating and ramping down.
But as we kind of hit the back end of the second quarter that really is setting the pace as we look forward into the second half of the year.
Okay.
That's clear.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Does that help? Yeah yeah.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks David.
And our next question comes from Guy Baber from Simmons &amp; Company.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everybody.
Hey Guy.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Lee I apologize for belaboring this point but on the topic of pivoting back toward increasing activity levels you've mentioned consistently that you want to see a sustainable price recovery before you begin to add rigs.
Can you just talk a little bit more about what that really means and what you want to see? Prices are at $65 a barrel on the forward curve later this year.
Do you need to see a higher price or is it more of a duration question or is it just a matter of you all becoming more comfortable with the macro internally? And then relatedly you mentioned a number of times you want to be well-prepared to re-engage.
Are there any bottlenecks that you're aware of that could hinder an efficient ramp back up? And really just wondering what risks you're most focused on mitigating in a ramp-up scenario and how you believe the company is well-positioned to ramp up whenever you feel that the time is right? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah well let me maybe take the question on the price outlook and what we're really looking for there from a trigger point standpoint.
And then maybe I'll defer the bottleneck question around our unconventionals over to Lance.
But on the question of what is the trigger what are the signs that we're looking for to then give us confidence to begin a ramp-up in our unconventionals.
For us you're right the forward curve is looking around $65.
I think if we saw sustainment at $65-plus certainly going into the back half of the year in 2016 to us it's more about seeing that being a sustainable recovery and having the confidence to come back in and begin a ramp-up.
But if we saw those levels we felt that the macros were supportive and constructive of a sustainable $65-plus kind of a range we feel very confident going into 2016 with a ramp-up in our unconventionals.
Let me hand over to Lance though to address more of the question about execution bottlenecks as we start thinking about a ramp-up in the unconventionals.
Guy as we reduce activity we have a clear focus on retaining the most efficient service providers crews and equipment which naturally creates an efficiency drive on our existing activity that remains.
But it also positions us well as we grow.
We have existing relationships with those providers.
Many of those are going to be the most equipped to bring equipment and people back into the sector on the growth side.
So I think we're going to be comfortable there.
And I think our drive to be really efficient is naturally a place where service providers would want to work for us before others.
And so I think we'll have some opportunity there.
Having said that I mean we do have some concern that the labor force is leaving the energy space during this time and it's going to make ramping up more challenging than ramping down.
And I think that's something that not just to us but others will have to face in the market.
Thanks for the comments.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Guy.
And our next question comes from Scott Hanold from RBC.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Scott.
Hey if I may just pile on again to the same theme and just maybe take a different tact.
As you look into ramping up if you do get a sustained price increase would you all be willing to utilize your credit facility to do that or do you have a tendency not to want to I guess add that to ramp up? And if I can throw in my second question right away maybe this is a good one for J.R.
Is there any change in view on hedging because it looks like you've obviously now have some collars there with some floors.
Can you just give us a sense of how that works into the equation? Yes Scott.
You and I probably talked before.
I don't think it's necessarily a change in view.
We've always looked at commodity risk management much more broadly than just derivative usage.
But I think we've been pretty clear and transparent that if we saw opportunities in the market to protect our cash flows while still giving us a piece of that upside in the commodity price that we'd be willing to do that.
And I think we've demonstrated it on a scale at least for 2015 as well as beginning to look at the 2016 market all predominantly through the use of collars again to ensure that we're participating in that upside.
I mean in terms of the balance sheet again arguably I'm definitely leaning on the balance sheet this year although I'm reinvesting the proceeds that we receive from Norway and those high-return North American unconventionals.
And we've been clear that we are willing to lean but we're not willing to stress that balance sheet.
And so it definitely is a balancing act.
But don't forget when those commodity prices do improve or as they do improve the rest of my portfolio that 70% weighted for oil is going to also increase my operating cash flows that then will further support our ability to reinvest in increased activity.
I appreciate the color.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Scott.
Thanks Scott.
And our next question comes from Monroe Helm from Barrow Hanley Please go ahead.
Hanley Mewhinney &amp; Strauss LLC</span></strong> Gosh.
Almost got my name as bad as David Heikkinen.
It's a good thing I'm not Monroe Heikkinen.
It would really be bad.
My question is just kind of a follow on to what the discussion's been here about increasing activity and a better commodity price environment.
So if we look at the strip for 2016 it's $65.
So let's just assume that the BTS $65 for next year.
I know you haven't done your budget for next year but you got to have some sense of what your production profile will look like in a $65 world.
So I'm wondering if you can give us a very early outlook on what CapEx and what production might look like in 2016 under a $65 environment? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Luckily it is a bit early from a budget cycle perspective.
But of course we're continuing to think about what 2016 may look like under various pricing scenarios.
But I think under the scenario that you described which is a confident $65 firm market going into 2016 in that sense we could take a flat budget into 2016 and still have a ramp-up in the unconventionals due to the fact that we have other investments falling away in 2015.
And that would of course be our plan.
And then we'd watch for other signals in terms of how far we would want to go beyond that flat budget toward our ramp up in activity.
But we can absolutely ramp up in the unconventionals on a flat three-three budget in 2016 in the environment that you just described.
Hanley Mewhinney &amp; Strauss LLC</span></strong> What do you think – given that and this ramp-up in the unconventionals could your production in the – can you give us a sense for what your U.S.
production growth might be? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah well again it's awfully early to talk about volume-metric growth in 2016 particularly with the dynamics that we're experiencing in the market right now.
But as we think about that flat budget and that ramp-up that it might afford in that $65 price environment we could see 2016 average production looking not dissimilar to our 4Q 2015 exit rates.
Hanley Mewhinney &amp; Strauss LLC</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thanks Monroe.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Monroe And our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov from Raymond James.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for taking the question guys.
We haven't gotten a lot on international.
So I thought I'd try a few on that front.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Excellent.
Inc.</span></strong> In the UK you guys obviously had interest in the past in selling the asset.
But then couple months ago we got a positive change in the tax treatment in the UK sector.
So does that change your stance on whether this is something that you want to keep for the long run? Yeah Pavel.
Thanks for the question.
As you said we did entertain a marketing effort last year.
We did not receive offers that we thought represented full value for the assets.
And so we've taken the position that we're going to continue to operate those assets in the most efficient manner we can.
And certainly we're focused this year in this down environment on both commercial leverage extending some of our scale with strategic suppliers from North America across there and some structural changes.
No doubt you've seen some of the equal time rotation work we're doing which is decreasing our overall cost structure focused on chemicals logistics all of those things.
And of course the tax reforms that have been introduced in the U.K.
are helpful to us but we're at a point in the asset life where they're not as material to us as they might be to earlier life assets.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
That's useful.
And then on Kurdistan I know that there have been delays for obvious reasons with the Atrush development.
Are you incorporating any production from that field in 2015 guidance? Sure Pavel.
We had in our original plan had very minimal production from that asset.
And as you've noted we have been informed from the operator of some potential delays to first oil which was previously targeted for the very end of 2015.
We're working through that with them and understanding the forward plan on that and look to have further updates in the near future.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
But you're still committed to keeping that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well I would just say Pavel just going back to our discussion around portfolio management that that's part of what we do.
That includes our activities in Kurdistan as well.
We'll test all assets for their fit in our portfolio.
As you can imagine with the dynamics now in the KRG even if we were to take a position of wanting to monetize those assets it might be relatively tough.
But those are assets that when we look at the above ground risk we'll need to consider their long-term fit in our portfolio.
Inc.</span></strong> Right.
Appreciate the color guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
And our next question comes from Jason Gammel from Jefferies.
Please go ahead.
Thanks very much.
I wanted to ask a little bit about the stack-and-frac.
Can you talk a little bit about the actual configuration of that and if you were to move into a program what it would mean for something like inter-lateral spacing within the lower Bakken? And then maybe talk a little bit about the cost-efficiency that comes from the process.
Sure Jason.
The stack-and-frac we've defined it.
I think I can't remember the exact time we actually rolled that out.
But if you look at the diagram we put out in our previous press releases we're showing that as a four-interval co-development; four vertical intervals which is Austin Chalk Upper Eagle Ford and then two wells in the Lower Eagle Ford.
We would actually broaden that to say that we'll have stack-and-frac pilots where there'll just be three which is Austin Chalk Upper Eagle Ford as well as Lower Eagle Ford.
So it's that vertical co-development.
We like the rates from all three of those horizons when they've been stacked.
We announced that first pilot in that and we have some additional pilots flowing.
We'll be able to talk about those as they mature.
But in terms of the efficiency you're referencing there and this opportunity we really like the efficiency because we're co-developing all of those horizons from the same pads.
So we're spudding from rig to rig and it gives us an opportunity to address those efficiencies.
So if you look at those pilots what you'd see is that in most of those cases it's 40-acre spacing in the same zone.
In the Lower Eagle Ford where we have two Lower Eagle Ford wells it's 40-acre vertical but it's really 20-acre between them.
So it's like a chevron or a W pattern if you will in that lower Eagle Ford when you put two in there.
But generally same zone 40-acre with the exception of that in the lower Eagle Ford we actually separated into here it gets confusing the Upper Lower Eagle Ford and the Lower Lower Eagle Ford.
Creative names I know.
So it's generally 40 acre with the exception when you put two in there in the Lower Eagle Ford it gets to what's effectively 20-acre spacing but they're offset in that pattern.
Okay.
Thanks.
That's really useful.
If I could just ask one more question.
There's been a lot of discussion about capital allocation over the course of the call in a low price environment.
You've really had to take into stock what is important to you.
I'm just wondering how deepwater exploration now fits into your future plans just given that even if you're successful the amount of capital that would be required for development and the rate of return on that may not even be competitive with what were you're doing onshore.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Well I think there you're hitting upon really the contrast between the short cycle and the long-cycle investments.
And to be fair to the deepwater you need to look at it in terms of full-cycle returns as well not incremental returns.
So I guess it really comes down to your view of that longer-term price outlook over time.
If you take a view to where that longer-term outlook is constructive then deepwater has a role to play in continuing to meet part of the future demand.
And in our view the high-quality deepwater assets still have the ability to compete in that longer-term environment.
I think the question for us becomes one of scale and cash flows and our ability to support the large investment dollars that are required in deepwater development.
And so we're going to be very selective and very focused.
This year's exploration program is half of the spend that we were last year.
So we're going to bring a very sharp focus to that program that reflects the fact that these longer-cycle investments can have a role to play in your portfolio.
Okay.
Appreciate the thoughts.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Jeffrey Campbell from Tuohy Brothers.
Please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Good morning Jeff.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> This is a great call.
A lot of color.
I wanted to ask you if you could provide a little bit more color on the Oklahoma resource non-op activity.
And what I'm really wondering is is this just mirroring operated activity without the burden of adding a rig or does it present an additional opportunity to perhaps compress the learning curve on areas about which you have a less defined division? Yeah Jeff.
It clearly accelerates the opportunities you're describing.
We're learning an enormous amount from all of the offset-operated activity.
That activity is predominantly focused in the highest values areas within the SCOOP and in the STACK where we have acreage.
We clearly want to participate and capture that acreage and convert it to HBP.
But we also want to take and leverage all of the early production the petrophysics and the learnings we can have from that.
One of the things we really appreciate about the Oklahoma resource basins is we're getting several multiples of data from the OBO activity that we get from an operated activity for very few capital dollars.
So we're learning tremendously at very low risk really accelerates our description of the resource of the well productivity and allows us to design our own pilots and grow and get ready to grow to scale activity much more rapidly.
I think our increase in capital spend in that area reflects that as Oklahoma continues to be resilient in the returns it can deliver the activity in Oklahoma has also been resilient.
And we're just responding to make sure we don't miss any valuable opportunities.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And I'll also just add that even though we're excited about the incremental information that can be gained from leveraging into non-operated we have a very good understanding of Oklahoma.
I mean we have already greater than a billion barrels of oil equivalent and 2P resource ascribed to Oklahoma.
So this is really just continuing to move that and progress that further and doing that in essentially a low price environment.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you.
And just as a follow-up let's take the same thing but think of it comparatively with the Eagle Ford.
Following on your earlier remarks about well performance was the decision to pull capital out of the Eagle Ford while increasing capital in Oklahoma an example of capital competition or was it more that Oklahoma offered a unique opportunity to increase activity without having to commit to another rig? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
I think it was one that Oklahoma does compete for capital very favorably.
If you go back to our single well economics and you look at those even head-to-head with the Eagle Ford those wells are on par.
So strictly from an economic standpoint absolutely competitive.
But we saw a unique opportunity in Oklahoma I think as Lance very well described to really leverage our money there to continue to expand our knowledge and insight around the Oklahoma resource basin.
So we felt that was a unique opportunity.
It's largely being driven by Oklahoma continuing to attract more capital from other operators' portfolios and we want to participate in that.
Inc.</span></strong> Good.
Thank you.
That was very clear.
And our next question comes from Roger Read from Wells Fargo.
Please go ahead.
Hey.
Good morning.
Hey Roger.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning.
Quite a lot of this been hit.
I guess I'd like to see if we could get any more clarity on what qualifies as non-core and is there any risk if a sale occurs this year that it would impact the production guidance? Or are we thinking about more the undeveloped as you mentioned competing with capital going forward? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Again for a lot of reasons we can't go into details on exactly what we would place in the non-core assets.
But suffice to say because of the definition of non-core we view these as being not significant from a reserves and volume standpoint.
So we would not view them as being highly impactful to our forward guidance.
And to the extent we're successful on those transactions we'll communicate those clearly and transparently into the market.
But for now I think suffice to say we have identified a select list of non-core properties that we feel like will struggle to compete for capital could potentially have higher value in someone else's portfolio.
And we want to pursue those and accelerate those cash flows either to the balance sheet or for redeployment.
No it's fair.
And I guess the last question I have is as you think about reducing rig count reducing CapEx maintaining production and you're seeing different ways of testing wells and completion designs is there anything you're doing differently in terms of choking back to production or anything like that to sort of smooth out? I mean some companies are going for more the drill but uncompleted build a backlog.
Clearly you're not in that camp.
But I didn't know as we think about the exit rate for 2015 and all the discussion about CapEx and future drilling activity in 2016 if there was an incentive to sort of let's call it smooth out things a little bit as you set yourself up for the next up cycle.
Roger we managed each of the individual wells to deliver the highest value in that investment.
So we generally let the technical and operations teams manage those wells effectively.
So rather than try this for example flow them on a smaller choke size and smooth that out.
We're looking for highest value on that investment return today.
The wells we're investing in this quarter are generating good returns at current pricing.
So we have confidence we can do that and decisions we've really let the technical teams make.
We've scaled our activity in North America in logical increments that make sense.
So for example in the Eagle Ford we want to keep whole frac fleets active rather than partial frac fleets to drive efficiency.
We've scaled the drilling activity to match that.
Part of the reduction we've taken in activity there is actually not just related to capital spend but just recognizing as the efficiencies continue to improve we were going to have to let go of one or more rigs anyway to make sure we didn't overdrill our plan for the year.
And so we'll keep doing that.
I think as you noted also we have not been building a backlog of drilled but uncompleted wells for use later in the year.
We're really managing that as an operations basket of wells to complete to manage our stimulation operation smoothly and efficiently.
Okay.
That's helpful.
Thank you.
Thanks Roger.
And our last question is a follow-up from Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead sir.
I've got 10 follow-ups but I'll limit it to one.
I'm surprised we haven't been talking more about the SCOOP and STACKS so maybe people aren't quite as (59:00) as I thought.
But let me ask you about when do you think you'll be able to give us an update just in terms of timing in terms of the well costs in a development mode? And then appreciate that the Meramec is quite thick up in the STACK and obviously you've got the Woodford spring occurred about an opportunity in the south.
So the spacing could be really quite tight.
So when do you think you'll be able to give us some updates on these spacing tests? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah when we typically talk about production results with you Ed we tend to talk about wanting to get 180 days of production to really understand well performance understand where we are on a specific type curve.
We are still on the learning curve in Oklahoma when it comes though to D&amp;C costs.
And we think we're starting in a much more favorable position because of all the good work that has been done already in the Eagle Ford and the Bakken to drive well costs down.
We captured $600 000 in well costs already since we released our new well costs this year and our single-well economics.
But we think there's a lot more room to maneuver there from both an efficiency as well as a commercial standpoint.
And that's just going to take some time as we grow to scale.
Bear in mind Ed we had plans that had actually ramped up the six rigs in the Eagle Ford at year-end – I'm sorry – in Oklahoma at the end of the year here.
And so the execution capacity is there.
And I think as we move that to scale that is going to allow us to really accelerate on that learning curve particularly when it comes to D&amp;C costs.
Right.
I was just trying to see if I could see if there was a NASCAR track in Oklahoma but so there'll be an Analyst Day at some point in the future.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We'll work on that one Ed.
Okay.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Ed.
And I'm not showing any further questions.
At this time I will now turn the call back over to Mr.
Chris Phillips for closing remarks.
Thank you Vivian.
Thank you for the questions and interest in Marathon Oil this morning.
I'd like to thank everyone again for their participation.
Please contact Zach Dailey or myself if you have any follow-up questions.
Operator thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
You may now disconnect.
And thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Our first question comes from Ed Westlake.
You may begin.
Yes.
Good morning.
And just wanted to touch base on completions in the Eagle Ford obviously the whole industry has been experimenting further with completion technology and seeing some incremental results.
Just wanted to get a sense of how you see completions where you are in terms of testing and what improvements that you've seen particularly in the Eagle Ford? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Ed I would say for the second quarter and actually the previous couple of quarters the focus in the Eagle Ford has been to maintain the very high initial production and the high EURs we have.
We have some of the highest of each of those in South Texas.
Even as we have taken for example in the second quarter and taken more than a third of the total wells are outside of the lower Eagle Ford in either of the Austin Chalk or the Upper Eagle Ford.
We've really accelerated that co-development in multiple horizons – three and in some cases four horizons developed across our acreage position particularly in Karnes County to see how much vertical density in that total package we could create as well as the 40-acre and in some cases 30-acre spacing we have horizontally in that.
So what we're really most excited about is that even as we've materially increased the complexity of the co-development through the stack-and-frac pilots what we've seen is that the production per well in the other horizons specifically the Upper Eagle Ford and the Austin Chalk have competed very favorably with the traditional Lower Eagle Ford.
So we're still getting great results that are competitive in returns among the best in our portfolio from all three of those horizons which helps our long-term inventory and really helps our capital efficiency as we can move to develop more wells per pad across the Eagle Ford.
So yeah that's clear and very helpful.
So there's an optimization and a science phase and then perhaps as you go forward and you settle down you go for more – once you've proved it you go for more completion efficiency improvement.
Is that a logical thought process? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> We're always looking for more efficiency Ed into that and we continue to get among the most stages per frac fleet in South Texas out of each of these fleets by very carefully planning our logistics both on the water and the proppant side and managing those.
I think in the release you saw we indicated we're going to drill about 20 more wells this year within the same capital in Eagle Ford.
We're really just going to use the balance of those wells to manage full frac fleets of activity to drive highest efficiency on the completion side which is where we have the most cost exposure.
So we want to make sure that side is very well supplied with inventory just so they stay at maximum efficiency.
Okay.
Very clear.
Thanks very much.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Evan.
In your prepared comments you talked about $2.8 billion to $3 billion annual CapEx run rate 2015 exit.
I know you mentioned that it's early but clearly the market is focused on 2016.
Philosophically how do you think about relative outspend into 2016 and kind of balancing the attractive returning assets in the current environment your financial flexibility and the dividend? Any comments there on an outspend range or how you're thinking about it approaching 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah maybe Evan let me maybe talk a little bit about our CapEx views as we exit 2015 and look ahead to 2016 and then perhaps I'll let J.R.
maybe talk a little bit on the cash flow outspend question.
But you know as we kind of think about the current prices and look ahead to 2016 we would envision certainly a material lower budget than where we are below that $3.3 billion and certainly as you mention our run rates coming out of this year are certainly south of $3 billion.
We're honestly though Evan right at the beginning of our budget process for 2016 and clearly any actions that we take our capital allocation is going to be governed in large part by what we see in the commodity price environment.
But in general our strategic approach is going to be to prioritize our available capital to those highest return investments that we have in the North America resource plays.
And the balance will go to any previously committed kind of non-discretionary longer cycle requirements.
I would also expect in 2016 that our exploration CapEx is further reduced.
It was cut in half this year.
And as you think about even for a flat to reduced budget into 2016 the North America component of that will still grow in that context because we have some long cycle investments running their course in 2015.
We have further reductions as I mentioned in exploration spend and we also have some non-recurring U.S.
infrastructure investments this year in 2015 that are going to provide some accommodation space if you will for additional North America investments.
Again our goal is going to be to target as much investment as we can to the U.S.
resource plays based on the prevailing commodity environment and available cash flows.
We still have the inventory to deliver strong and long-term growth and we're going to protect that optionality as we move into 2016.
With that maybe I'll just offer it over to J.R.
just to talk a little bit about cash flows.
Yeah Evan this is J.R.
and I think Lee really kind of I think summarized it really well.
I mean it is early in the process but philosophically from my standpoint he referred to the balance sheet strength's going to remain a priority.
Again philosophically I want to see 2016 be as close to free cash flow neutral including asset sales as we possibly can.
Many variables to that equation; capital clearly capital activity capital efficiency capital spend operating cost efficiency and of course our success on the ongoing asset sales programs are all variables in dialing up and down that respective capital profile.
But I think your takeaway should be that we continue to have a great deal of flexibility to manage that and to really achieve all of what we want to achieve in terms of protecting that balance sheet in terms of – if the commodity price environment is supportive of it to continue to put those North American unconventionals back on a growth track going forward.
The one point you did bring up that I'll go ahead and answer you brought up the question with regard to the dividend.
And as you might imagine in this environment it's a question we frequently get.
Evan it's still a very important element to when you think about the total shareholder return for our shareholders even more so in this environment.
And it does it continues to be that first call on capital in our capital allocation process.
The board is very thoughtful and very considered when they address this issue each and every quarter.
They are making sure that it's still meeting our long-term capital allocation objectives and they'll continue to fulfil that roll each and every quarter.
But honestly sitting here today I feel very good.
Good solid balance sheet $5.5 billion of liquidity $2.5 billion of that in cash and cash equivalents and I think we've got a tremendous amount of flexibility to still continue to deliver that important element to our shareholders.
Great.
That's it.
That's helpful.
Let me ask a second question or a segue in kind of an area which I presume would continue to get an increased allocation of capital in Oklahoma.
You've added small working interest across a larger number of wells into the second half of the year versus prior spending plans in what appears to be very attractive neighborhood.
Could you discuss how far away you think you are from putting Oklahoma particularly STACK into full development mode? And could you talk about I guess that shift in going to non-op and whether that's planning to leverage a fuller dataset in helping you to and/or lease or subsequently develop that resource? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Evan let me maybe start on that one as well.
I think we – we're still in the very early days in the development in Oklahoma in both the STACK and the SCOOP but as we've said in the past we certainly believe with well over 1 billion barrels of 2P resource that this is a tremendously important growth engine for the company going forward.
Because again of capital constraints in the current environment we're running a two rig operated program there.
That's designed to ensure that we protect our very valuable leasehold in both the SCOOP and the STACK.
And as you mentioned what we're doing is we're participating at a lower interest in the non-operated part of our portfolio to really leverage our funds to continue to grow our data set in Oklahoma in a very cost effective manner.
In fact in total we've redeployed about $60 million into the Oklahoma non-operated business.
And of course we gain the information and the data from that investment in addition to the barrels which allows us to continue to move toward that vision of what a full field development will look like ultimately in the SCOOP and the STACK.
But I'd just emphasize that we are early days but we're making good progress.
Already you've seen some movement in our completed well cost downward in Oklahoma reflecting some good efficiency as well as commercial work by the teams.
And I think as we move to scale we move out of leasehold mode we get into pad drilling those efficiencies are simply going to increase over time and we could see even more reduction in the those costs.
Any update on what you added in the quarter lease-wise? This will be the last question Evan.
Yeah sorry.
Any update on leasing activity in the quarter in Oklahoma in particular? I'll leave it at that.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No real update there that's material.
Great.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks.
Good morning Lee.
Good morning J.R.
and good morning Chris.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning.
I guess I'm trying to think of how to word this question so it doesn't count as two.
On the dividend Lee I understand you've been very clear in the past about your commitment to why you think the dividend is important but when you talk about cash breakeven does that include covering the dividend? And I guess what I'm really kind of trying to get at is when you look at who your peer group is nowadays folks who generally don't have that dividend commitment or obligation they are able to redeploy – let's assume now it's $600 million or $570 million in your case towards accelerating something like the STACK or the SCOOP.
Why is it better value for shareholders to see that dividend payout in this environment as opposed to moving it towards those high-graded assets? And if you could clarify the breakeven comment please? And I do have a follow-up.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Absolutely Doug.
No worries.
Just on the cash breakeven that J.R.
was addressing in his earlier comments we view that as inclusive of the dividend.
When we think about cash flow neutrality we're certainly wanting to cover all of our obligations from a capital allocation standpoint and the dividend is an important one of those.
Obviously with our dividend yield where it sits today that's a bit different looking than it was in a different commodity price environment but we still feel that this is an important way to deliver value to our shareholder.
And we tend to look at the dividend in the context of our overall capital allocation and in conjunction with the growth that we can generate organically within our very strong North America resource play.
So we view those two things as needing to be viewed collectively.
From an investment standpoint I think in this lower price environment although you're correct in that it perhaps puts a bit more pressure than some of our peers I do believe that is a key element of the return that we offer in this type of environment.
And as J.R.
very well put it we're sitting with $5.5 billion in liquidity.
We do not feel that we need to make any alteration in the way the dividend competes for capital allocation today.
I appreciate the clarification.
Just to be clear on the yield comment do you feel that the yield – you're not indicating any intent to cut the dividend are you with that yield comment? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> No.
My follow-up is really a similar kind of question this time on exploration because clearly you're building up your onshore resource backlog which by definition is lower risk.
I'm wondering if you could touch on the bigger than expected exploration charge in the current quarter and how you see exploration as a strategy fitting into a lower for longer oil price environment and I'll leave it there? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah let me maybe take the high-level question first Doug which is more around exploration strategy how does that fit into our portfolio.
As we've shared previously Doug we've been assessing our conventional exploration strategy and in really in the context of its ability to compete for capital allocation within the current portfolio which does include as you well stated the North America inventory.
And it must compete really on a risk adjusted return basis and we really started this assessment some time ago.
It really wasn't prompted by the current macro environment.
It was really prompted by the depth and quality of the inventory that we saw in the North America resource play.
So we were a bit ahead of the curve.
We've already taken the step to reduce exploration essentially by half in 2015.
And we certainly see a path that will allow us to moderate that further into 2016.
I also mentioned in my opening comments that we most recently withdrew from some new country entries that we just simply felt in the current environment did not compete for capital allocation.
So when you consider the current commodity price environment when you consider the depth of our resource inventory in North America and the limited capital to invest it's just simply getting tougher and tougher for conventional exploration to compete for capital on a risk-adjusted basis.
Back to your specific question on kind of the uptick in exploration expense we did have a write-down in Birchwood which is our in-situ property in Canada which contributed to that Doug.
Very clear.
Thanks a lot guys.
Appreciate the answers.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Doug.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thanks gentlemen.
If I could and maybe with my first question follow up a little bit on CapEx.
You show in your presentation effectively a flatlining of production in the second half of 2015.
Is it reasonable – I know you can't give 2016 outlook but is it reasonable to think of that level of that $700 million to $750 million CapEx level as kind of a reasonable idea of maintenance CapEx and its ability to hold the production flat for longer? And you also mentioned the roll off of long cycle spend expiration reduction potential and non-recurring infrastructure spend.
Could you maybe put some numbers around those that we could get maybe a bit of a better pro forma estimate for what the run rate on CapEx looks like into 2016? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Well yeah let me maybe start with addressing what I think is more a question around maintenance capital and I think first and foremost Ryan of course the $700 million $750 million run rate includes the full portfolio.
When we talk about maintenance capital we tend to focus in on the resource plays themselves in aggregate.
And our best estimate of CapEx required to hold those resource plays flat is around $2 billion to $2.1 billion.
Of course as capital efficiencies and productivity improvements kick in there'll be actually downward pressure on that maintenance capital.
And so when you think about looking ahead and how long could maintenance levels be sustained my answer to that really would be that we have multiple years of high quality high return resource play inventory that could ostensibly drive a maintenance level program even in a $50 barrel WTI environment.
Again you'll recall as I mentioned in my opening comments that when we took a look in our most recent disclosure on our five-year drilling inventory over 70% of our wells were profitable at $50 barrel for WTI.
So you're right we have had this rapid deceleration from first quarter to second quarter in our overall capital program that $500 million that I quoted.
We've now kind of settled into I'd say a maintenance capital mode in the resource plays.
But bear in mind riding on top of that are some of our other investments that will be a little bit more lumpy and bumpy including – we may even see a little bit of an up in third quarter because of some non-recurring infrastructure investments and a few other non-recurring items in our International portfolio.
But as you look through that lumpiness in the second half of the year that $700 million $750 million exit rate feels about right with some plus or minus there.
Your other question was around how much of some of these longer cycle investments may run their course in 2015? And the items there that we talk about when we mention those items are things like the work that we're doing currently on the EG compression project which is now heavily in fabrication mode.
The work that we did in the EG drilling program the work that we did also in the UK drilling program.
Those are the types of items that we talk about.
And so when we look kind on a net-net basis as those kind of come off in 2016 there will be some puts and takes but you're probably in the couple hundred million kind of dollar range in terms of the accommodation space that that might create within the budget.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks.
That's very helpful.
And maybe if I could ask a follow-up and if we switch over to maybe the resource in the Bakken you've got some results out there of 180-day update in high intensity completions some pilot test results.
Can you talk a little bit about maybe your thoughts on the results of the tests on the pilot test for spacing and the implications for spacing going forward and whether the high intensity completion whether 180 days is long enough to maybe start to impact the type curve or whether you're still waiting to see an eventual EUR impact? Sure Ryan.
I think in general I'd say we're really really pleased with the progress broadly from the Bakken completion pilots.
You step back and look at what we have accomplished over the last several quarters that material improvement in initial production.
Now with the cumulative production of a group of wells reaching 180 days you start to see that improvement hold up over time.
We've consistently taken those new designs and applications and spread it across our entire portfolio.
I would add that even as we've demonstrated these results that are kind of rearview mirror looking we're continuing to progress even more intensive stimulations.
I think we noted in the notes that this group you're looking at has 40% more profit and about 10% more completion stages.
We continue to see opportunity even beyond that for more intensity to drive those results further.
I think based on the results you're seeing and referencing there's certainly some pressure on us to look at overall EURs and talk about those perhaps later this year provide some more color and context on that.
And obviously with more EUR combined with the Bakken well cost trending down to plus or minus $6 million a material reduction there I think you can see the value implication of the portfolio in Bakken from that.
So again we're very pleased with it and by all means we expect that momentum to continue.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And maybe if I could just add too.
On our last update on completed well kind of performance our single well economics we had reflected some of the early IP results that we were seeing from the Bakken completion trials but we as of yet have not introduced the full EUR benefits that potentially we could garner from those wells.
So that's still yet to come.
Inc.</span></strong> Great.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Brian.
Wanted to follow up on a couple of the items surrounding free cash flow and then capital allocation priorities.
You mentioned earlier the potential for free cash neutrality after asset sales wanted to just check whether that was before dividend or after dividend? And then if that dividends is priority number one just how you're thinking about the secondary priorities of growing production versus letting it decline allowing leverage to increase or – and I think I know the answer to this last one – issuing equity? Yeah hey Brian this is J.R.
I mean those are all the variables that we're trying to balance to achieve the optimal outcome of what we're trying to reach.
In response to the question my comments with regard to trying to target as close to free cash flow neutrality as possible is with dividends.
I mean at the end of the day I think that's vitally important that we manage the business to where we're not overextending the balance sheet.
That balance sheet strength's going to remain important.
But as you and I have talked about before I think Brian during this low commodity price environment I'm definitely leaning on it and I want to lean on the balance sheet during this period.
I just want to make sure I don't stress it too much.
So when I look forward into just an early forward view of 2016 it will be in terms of – the leaning on that balance sheet will be I'd say impacted by the timing of ultimately our asset sales programs.
There will be periods in which we're leaning on it more than not but that at the end of the day I want to try and ensure that when we get through the year in 2016 that we still have a good solid balance sheet when we get to the end of the year.
Great.
Thanks.
And so it would seem like then from an asset sale perspective the ideal opportunity would be something that doesn't take a ton away from your cash flow generation but where there's some value.
Kurdistan comes to mind as potentially one of those opportunities and perhaps you could give us an update on how you're thinking about what to do there? And then if there are other opportunities out there you see in the portfolio that maybe there's room for a targeted asset sale that wouldn't take away from the cash flow profile? No.
I'll take a crack at the asset sale comment and if you wanted to hear a little bit more about just specifically what's going on in Kurdistan Mitch can answer that.
But we've not been real explicit Brian with regard to where in the portfolio.
We've highlighted that they would be non-core they would be assets that just candidly are not competing for capital in the portfolio.
I think the one transaction we announced this quarter was a non-core natural gas candidly a high cost asset as well that was sold for we think very compelling economics for $100 million.
Just kind of step one in our target of achieving greater than $500 million of asset sales.
So I think you should think that we're looking across not only the operating portfolio for non-core assets but also the exploration portfolio as well.
Thanks.
And if there is a Kurdistan how Kurdistan fits in I'll take that as part of the follow-up? Yeah.
Brian this is Mitch Little.
I think just in terms of thinking about where Kurdistan fits we've got three blocks there as I'm sure you know at different levels of maturity.
The operated block at Harir we've completed testing of our appraisal well the well results were largely in line with pre-drill expectations.
And so at this point we've demobilized the rig.
We've substantially completed all of our work commitments there and we're integrating that data into the rest of the technical database and commercial assessment headed towards a commerciality decision on that block later this year.
You're probably also familiar the Atrush Block Phase 1 development is progressing towards a 30 000 barrel a day gross facility should come online in 2016.
And then our interest in the Sarsang Block is progressing towards approval of the field development plan which will be a phased development ramp-up over time.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah Brian I'm sorry I should have stepped in or answered that before Mitch.
But the reality is I think we have generated an asset through the work that Mitch and the team have done that has had very solid subsurface success.
I think the question we have to continue to ask ourselves is as we think about future investments in Kurdistan whether or not they compete for capital with the rest of the portfolio.
And if the answer to that is no we want to ensure that we can actually capture the value that's been generated by the team in order to redeploy that capital someplace else.
So as I said I'm trying not to be explicit with regard to what particular asset so I don't put myself in a competitive disadvantage in a process but you should expect that we're looking across the entire portfolio for candidates.
Every call.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You're a good sport David.
I am.
I need to figure out a way to respell my name or something so they pronounce it correctly.
As I think about the profitable at $50 oil are you using a well level economic or is that asset level inclusive of all costs or how do you define that inventory and metrics for profitable at $50 oil? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
We tend to look at single well economics from an external standpoint which allows us to benchmark I think more effectively with what others put out into the public domain David.
I think internally though we also want to look and see from a fully burdened level what is the return not only down to the well level but at a program or even a rig line in a particularly area in a particularly play.
We want to make sure that we fully understand the fully burdened economics of those wells.
So there is an aspect of it which is we want to be able to make sure that we can compare externally but certainly internally we want to make absolutely sure we understand the total return from those investments.
Yeah.
Just to be clear what Lee's point is is that when you look at our completed well costs that truly is just completed well costs.
But when you look at the returns that we share those have been burdened by facilities at least individual well facilities necessary for flow not to the extent of broad central facilities but individual well facilities.
Yeah.
So it has all the surface everything needed? Correct.
Artificial lift et cetera.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Basically the lifecycle cost of the well ex any main centralized facilities David.
Is there any particular area where the other 30% falls? I mean is it Williston STACK Eagle Ford in that order? That's probably I would do but...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
The last disclosure that we offered up when we kind of showed the relative economics of various plays from a single well economics standpoint it was clear that Eagle Ford and Oklahoma were at the most competitive portion of that plot.
The higher quality in the Bakken was also in that same zip code and that really is what drove our capital allocation as we came into to 2015.
I think what you've heard is that the Eagle Ford as well as Oklahoma have continued to also improve from a single well economic standpoint from a cost and productivity standpoint but also the Bakken has continued to improve its competitiveness as well.
And we'll hopefully be able to share a little bit more color on that a bit later in the year as we're able to roll in some of the specific updates on EURs and single well economics.
But I think that that order in terms of capital allocation is exactly what you see in our current portfolio which is the Eagle Ford wells particularly condensate and high-GOR oil to certain extent are still very strong from a return standpoint.
Both the SCOOP and the STACK still compete very favorably as well.
And then in the higher quality areas of Bakken such as the Myrmidon they're also competing for capital allocation.
And then asset sales around $500 million next year as well is a reasonable assumption? David I just think what you ought to assume is what we've talked about is greater than $500 million haven't been really explicit on timing.
I thought give it 12 months from when we announced it again but we wouldn't have put a target out there if we didn't have some degree of confidence.
But you should expect that program to continue and not necessarily stop if we cross the $500 million level.
Yeah.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks David.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks David.
Yeah.
Hi.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey John.
Some quick ones.
When you look at your portfolio Lee I want to get back to the short cycle long cycle type activity.
What do you think's kind of an ideal balance and if you have more of an emphasis on short cycle is it time to revisit hedging? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Let me I'll may be let J.R.
jump in on the hedging question.
But let me first talk about long cycle versus short cycle.
Right now the bulk of our investment dollars are flowing into North America short cycles and the driver there is they have the highest risk-adjusted returns in the portfolio that we have today.
So for us it's probably a little bit less about short cycle long cycle than it is about where can we generate the highest risk-adjusted return.
And to the extent that we continue to see long cycle or longer cycle opportunities and great examples are the things that we've done in Equatorial Guinea and the UK this year in terms of the program drilling that we've done there that are very strong from a capital allocation standpoint and have added very profitable barrels to the portfolio.
So in no way are we necessarily turning our back on longer cycle type investments but the balance is going to be dictated by the opportunity set we have in the portfolio and being driven by generating those highest risk-adjusted returns.
From a hedging standpoint certainly we view that as just an element of overall commodity risk management and maybe I'll let J.R.
comment on that.
Hi John.
You and I have talked before.
It's definitely a tool that we need to be using we are using.
We've been far more active than I think Marathon has been in the past.
Would I like to have more hedges on today yes but we have probably at least for the balance of 2015 and I know the market is more concerned about 2016 we've probably got about 35 000 barrels a day hedged for the balance of 2015 and we really just were able to begin to establish a position in 2016 before the market kind of fell on us.
But it is definitely going to be a tool we're going to continue to use.
Great.
Thanks J.R.
One other one for me.
In the Eagle Ford you had incredible drilling efficiency.
Are you changing crews are you getting different rigs how can you have this level of improvement in your well design or execution? John I think what you're seeing is just a recognition by a team who refuses to accept that they've done their best work already.
They continue to see in the future they can be innovative and thoughtful.
In this case part of the change is that as we've moderated activity we've certainly kept the best rigs and the best crews because it helps both our operational efficiency as well as our environmental safety performance.
We've retained rigs with the highest specifications so the right types of capabilities that we moved to in that rig fleet that can really drive it.
And those unique attributes of those rigs allow us to use other types of downhole tools.
The combination of those technologies together has really delivered this performance.
And I would say while 1 800 feet per day was materially better than the year ago quarter our best rigs are at 2 600 feet 2 700 feet per day already which shows you the gap right.
If we can get the whole fleet to there there's still room to improve that overall.
We see that as sustainable.
And in fact as we've moved to the stack-and-frac pilots and the co-development of multiple horizons we actually think that enables that type of efficiency further because when we're going to drill more wells on each pad as we go to development.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think John too it's probably important to note that when we look at the true pace at our drilling performance in the Eagle Ford where we had one of our best rigs deliver 3 100 feet per day.
It just gives you a feel for just how much more room we have to drive toward if we're averaging 1 800 feet for the quarter.
So it does show that there is continuing efficiency gains that can be made.
Now will we get that immediately across the whole fleet? No but it does set that marker out there of what can be achieved with the best crews the best equipment being brought to bear.
Great.
Thanks Lee.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you John.
Thanks John.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Scott.
Hi Scott.
Hey.
If I could step back and again kind of focus on big picture where Marathon's going at this point in time be somewhat agnostic to current low commodity prices with the resource potential that you all are building in some of the North American resource plays is there a transformation occurring where Marathon is going to become more focused on these lower risk potentially higher returning short cycle opportunities? And again being somewhat agnostic to low prices right now? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Absolutely Scott I mean that transformation is underway – has been underway.
I think as we have made this very decided pivot to North America resource plays for clear economic reasons you're seeing that in where our investment dollars are flowing.
And you're right we have this incredible 3 billion barrels of 2P resource inventory in the three core U.S.
resource plays that affords us a tremendous amount of future opportunity.
And our challenge is ensuring that we get the appropriate investment levels driven to those three core plays and bring those up to scale development.
I mean we're really at scale in the Eagle Ford.
Certainly we've been in Bakken at scale for some time as well but Oklahoma is still an area where we would like to see more capital invested and not just the non-operated but also the operated program.
And certainly as we think about that incremental amount of capital coming available to invest we absolutely see that flowing to places like the Eagle Ford and Oklahoma.
Okay good.
Thanks.
And as a follow-up and I know both of you all have been in this industry for quite some time and J.R.
you're obviously experienced from some of your past firms with the low price environment we are in right now can you discuss from an industry consolidation perspective your view on what could occur and how Marathon fits into that? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah well it's always tough to speculate I think on the M&amp;A space.
I think right now with the dynamics that we're seeing in the marketplace it's very challenging I think to see a lot of deal activity.
And in fact that's really what's played out.
There's been a few one-off opportunities that were probably taken the decisions may have been taken in a slightly different environment than we find ourselves today.
But with equities very depressed I think with everyone kind of reacting to another dramatic downtick in pricing it's hard to imagine there's going to be a lot of that type of activity at least in the near-term.
Now as you look further ahead and we see a more persistent kind of lower for longer price environment then I think the concept that there will be additional consolidation additional opportunities come available to those that are prepared to take advantage of those then absolutely I would agree with that.
That's great.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Hi Guy.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Guy.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You fared a little bit better than David did on the last name.
That's right.
I have been called Gee numerous times so Guy is better I'll take it.
I was hoping to clarify a few comments you just made earlier in the Q&amp;A Lee but you mentioned that in this price environment capital spending would be down from the current year.
You also said that even with a flat to lower budget in 2016 that the North American production component would grow.
So could you just elaborate on that comment a bit? Want to make sure that we have that right.
And really just trying to understand that assertion and square that with our understanding that the unconventional production would exit this year below the full-year average and then on maintenance CapEx levels you could hold that 4Q exit rate flat through 2016.
So just want to make sure we understand that trajectory and some of the moving parts that we might be missing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
No.
Absolutely.
I tried to address again honestly we're not – we're very early in the planning cycle for 2016 but just thinking about it conceptually we know that our capital budget will be less than where we stand in 2015.
In fact the run rate that you mentioned as we exit 2015 that $2.9-ish billion (51:00) kind of run rate certainly less than the $3 billion that really does entail an ability to direct more capital deployment to the North America resource plays.
So for a bit smaller pie we're able to today dedicate a much larger slice to the North America resource plays even in that scenario.
And so the ability to have that optionality to move from more of a maintenance capital mode in the resource plays to more of a growth mode we still have that optionality within a reduced budget in 2016.
Okay.
Great.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Did that get it clarified Guy? Yeah.
That helps a ton.
Thanks.
That was the only one that I had.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> All right.
Thank you Guy.
Yeah.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Phillip.
On the Eagle Ford you noted the 40% sequential decline in activity as the reason for lower production.
Looking at the expected wells to sales in the second half it looks like the quarterly average is going to be a little bit lower than what you had in 2Q.
So is the current activity run rate below maintenance CapEx for this asset or can volumes still be held flat on better well productivity in the second half or a shallower decline given that you probably had a lot of flush production coming into the year? Yeah Phillip I think you're seeing that actually very well.
Compared to the previous several quarters where we've had in excess of 90 wells to sales in the second quarter we had 52 wells per sales which is driving that production in Eagle Ford downward.
Really the wave of those higher productivity wells that are very early in their life coming down has kind of overwhelmed the number of new wells to sales.
I think from a perspective of activity across North America including Eagle Ford has come down about 45% for us what you really see is we're managing that downward to a point of stability.
We will have roughly the same number of wells plus or minus in the third quarter and fourth quarter in Eagle Ford specifically.
In any given quarter our working interest moves around a little bit within that so the number of gross wells and net wells can move a bit.
So I think in general we are guiding toward relatively flat production quarter-over-quarter and we're managing that large activity downward in the quarter.
I would say too some context on that is even as we said the wells to sales were lower in Eagle Ford I think it's important to note we went from five frac fleets to two frac fleets by April.
So we were down to that lowest level of wells to sales driven activity by very early in the second quarter which kind of added to that deceleration impact.
Okay.
Great.
And then can you discuss any results from the one Osage well brought on during the quarter? I think Marathon might be the first to drill a well in this zone.
Based on what you know to date how would you also compare this emerging play to both the Meramec and the Woodford? Sure Phillip last year we started an exploration program in STACK focused on Meramec and the Osage.
That Osage well was the last well of the initial group our initial foray into the STACK in an operated basis I think you may recall in the second half of last year we actually increased activity in Oklahoma up to six rigs and that well was drilled effectively starting right after Christmas and is sort of the last well in that program.
We've evaluated the results from all of those.
We continue to see the Meramec is the most valuable zone in that area in general.
I don't think we foresee more Osage activity anytime in the near term.
Great.
Thanks.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks for taking the question guys.
You're talking about selling some assets in an extremely depressed environment where there are plenty of distressed sellers that are in far worse shape than you are.
Isn't it kind of leaving money on the table if you're monetizing just about anything right now? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Well first of all I don't view our non-core assets as being distressed sales.
And the reason I say that Pavel is that when you think about the type of assets that we will put in the market we believe that there's still a very strong competitive environment for those assets and I'll use the East Texas North Louisiana Wilburton transaction as an example.
We had a very strong response to the data room.
We had well over 20 proposals for the property.
When you look at the deal metrics they were very compelling on cash flow multiple basis over 9X.
And so we feel like for the right type of asset there is still a ready market out there and I would not want to leave the impression that we're selling anything at reduced value or low value to our shareholders.
I mean we don't view these as distressed assets we simply view them as part of our ongoing portfolio management.
And if we can't capture fair value then we'll continue to operate.
In the case of the East Texas North Louisiana Wilburton deal it was a gassy asset it was no longer competing for capital allocation relatively high unit cash cost.
We had a strong competitive environment for it and the deal metrics were very competitive in this pricing environment or others.
So I think we feel very good about our ability to continue to transact at fair values.
Inc.</span></strong> Understood.
Just to clarify it's not your assets I was calling distressed it's plenty of others (57:08) in the market that are in that state.
Now my follow-up is you talk about flexing the balance sheet into 2016 debt-to-cap is currently at 29%.
How high would you be comfortable letting that metric go up? Yeah.
What I would tell you is I've always tried to be careful to draw hard and fast rules.
But when I think of looking through 2016 when I take into consideration what I said before about the variables around capital operating cost structure asset sales programs I still want to ultimately manage the balance sheet through 2016 to let's call it as close to 2.5 times net debt-to-EBITDA as I can in this low commodity price environment.
Now that's going to be lumpy.
It's going to be dependent upon the timing of various asset sales and so that will become a bit higher than that.
But that's ultimately one of the variables I'm trying to manage to.
And as commodity prices then begin to stabilize whether that's early 2017 or you decide when then ultimately you'll see that leverage get back to its more traditional levels of two times and below.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Useful.
Appreciate it guys.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Pavel.
Inc.</span></strong> Wow I didn't think you could mispronounce Campbell but that's okay.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Jeff.
Inc.</span></strong> My first question regards the Oklahoma resource plays the increased non-op participation.
I was just wondering are the choices driven by any specific operator performance or is it driven more by geography? Jeffrey I think overall we're focused on value.
We have a substantial core acreage position in both the SCOOP and in the STACK.
When we see activity in that core high-value acreage where we've seen great historical results and from recent data we expect those results to be great in other areas.
We're choosing to participate in those wells to capture the data and leverage both the collection of that data and integration of it to drive toward full field development.
And to some extent if you didn't participate in those valuable acres it's an opportunity lost.
We certainly want to capture all those opportunities.
So it's not really driven by an operator it's driven by our perceived value of the acreage and the opportunity.
I'd say within the context of that we see more – I'd say more execution friendly operators than others.
And as you'd imagine based on that we make economic decisions based on how we feel they can execute.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And my other question was on slide 17 regarding the Bakken spacing pilots to this point.
The ranges appear less prolific on some of the non-spacing data that's provided yet a large production uplift was identified out to 180 days.
So I'm wondering if you can help me to understand how to interpret the data that's being presented? And as well if you could indicate how you feel the pilots are performing relative to your expectations at this point? Sure.
So with three spacing pilots online I feel like we've made a lot of progress at moving that forward on an operated basis.
I'll kind of start and work south to north if you will.
Spacing pilots are in three different areas starting in the south it's Middle Bakken so it's on a six well per Middle Bakken pattern overall.
There is a wide range of results here.
I think in the case of that pilot in the Ajax area when you look at the aggregate or all of the wells on there you'll see some above type curve you'll see some a little below but when you put them together they look like they're performing very in line with our early expectations for that despite being at closer spacing than stand-alone wells.
So that gives us a lot of encouragement.
We expected some differentiation.
In some cases what we'll find is when we go in and there's more than one parent well or older well in the area you will see some depletion impact and the new well that's near that older well will be impacted modestly by that.
But in aggregate we tend to look at the entire unit how many wells how many total dollars invested what's the total production coming out of that.
And so that Ajax pilot for example is performing very much in line with those expectations.
Moving further north to Hector and that pilot again we see a diversity of results but in aggregate they're performing very similarly to our expectations for the early production.
Some of the wells in those groups are more mature than others.
So several of those are at 90 days or 120 days and they're continuing to perform well.
So we're very pleased with that result overall.
In these pilots some of the wells vintage-wise had more aggressive stimulations than others based on when they were drilled and completed.
And then lastly in Myrmidon we see a wide range there too.
I think in the case of that one pilot we intentionally looked at that pilot and said there are four older parent wells between those two sections or units that were developed together.
And so the wells near those – the new wells near the parent wells are showing a lesser production than the wells that are further outlying.
And that's not unexpected.
In our case we want to test that as we have parent wellbores we need to work around.
But I think in general we're still very pleased with the overall production and continue to see that as a validation of our spacing assumptions moving forward.
Inc.</span></strong> That's fantastic color.
If I could just add a little follow-up because the question was long enough to begin with.
Just to clarify do these spacing pilots have any cost advantages over a more typical production pad or is this just purely about trying to capture the maximum resource? Jeffrey any time we have the opportunity to pad develop groups of wells we have a great opportunity on the drilling efficiency side to capture those cost savings.
Similarly on the completion side we can leave a frac fleet on one pad and complete multiple wells on both of those fronts we gain tremendous efficiency.
And then lastly on the surface facility the ability to share those surface facilities also creates a scale efficiency.
So we constantly seek and desire the opportunity for pad development because it really does positively influence our capital.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you for the questions and interest in Marathon Oil.
I'd like to thank everyone again for their participation this morning.
Please contact Zach Dailey or myself if you have any follow-up questions.
Operator thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
And you may now disconnect.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! welcome to the Marathon Oil Corporation 2015 Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
My name is Sylvia and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Chris Philips.
Mr.
Philips you may begin.
Thank you Sylvia.
Good morning and welcome to Marathon Oil Corporation's third quarter 2015 earnings call.
I'm Chris Philips Director of Investor Relations.
Also on the call this morning are Lee Tillman CEO and President; J.R.
Sult Executive Vice President and CFO; Mitch Little Vice President International and Offshore Exploration and Production Operations; Lance Robertson Vice President North America Production Operations; and Zach Dailey Director of Investor Relations.
As has become our custom we released prepared remarks last night in conjunction with the earnings release.
You can find those remarks and the associated slides at marathonoil.com.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded and our comments and answers to questions will contain forward-looking information subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.
Please refer to the aforementioned slides for additional information on forward-looking statements.
Reconciliations of any non-GAAP financial measures we discuss can be found in the quarterly information package on our website.
With that I will turn the call over to Lee.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> All right.
Well good morning.
Thank you Chris.
Our priorities this year has been exercising capital discipline reducing cost capturing efficiencies progressing our non-core asset sales and protecting the balance sheet and our most recent actions have been fully consistent with those objections.
Last Thursday we announced the decision by the board of the directors to adjust our quarterly dividend from $0.21 per share to $0.05 per share.
We felt that this action was prudent in the best interest of all shareholders and appropriately addresses the uncertainty of a lower for longer commodity price environment.
It will increase annual free cash flow by more than $425 million and aligns with our priority of maintaining a strong balance sheet through the cycle.
The additional capital flexibility is essential to support growth from our deep inventory of investment opportunities in the U.S.
resource plays when commodity prices improved.
Further it is another step in the transformation of Marathon Oil from an integrated legacy to becoming a leading independent E&amp;P company focused on capturing value in the U.S.
unconventional resource plays.
Turning to the third quarter we delivered operational results that reflected consistent execution efficiency gains and lower cost.
The third quarter capital investment and exploration program came in below expectations down 7% sequentially to $623 million.
We've been able to reduce our 2015 program by $200 million to $3.1 billion primarily through a combination of U.S.
resource play efficiency gains and phasing of international projects.
Total company net production from continuing operations excluding Libya averaged 434 000 oil equivalent barrels per day a 6% increase over the year ago quarter and a 7% increase over the prior quarter.
Record production from oil sands mining and higher production from Equatorial Guinea contributed to the increase from the prior quarter.
We're on pace to achieve the high end of our total company 2015 production growth guidance at 7% year-over-year and U.S.
resource play growth at 20% even with the $200 million reduction to our 2015 program.
In the U.S.
resource play net production average 212 000 oil equivalent barrels per day up 10% over the year-ago quarter and down 4% over the prior quarter.
Our quarterly variance was driven primarily by lower sequential production from the Eagle Ford due to timing of wells to sales late in the third quarter and step out in delineation drilling tests.
Our asset teams target the right balance of high confidence development activity and continued resource delineation that positions us for growth as we look through the current cycle.
In the case of Eagle Ford for this quarter the team was focused on development drilling in core Karnes County while also testing the limits of delineated acreage.
We had another quarter of solid reductions and completed well costs faster feet per day drilled and more frac stages completed per month.
We also previously announced additions to Eagle Ford 2P resource of 165 million oil equivalent barrels driven by the upper Eagle Ford and Austin Chalk.
Though our operated Oklahoma resource basins program is still dominated by leasehold activity we brought our first SCOOP Woodford down spacing pilot on line late in the third quarter.
Early results are in line with our type curve and supported of 107 acre spacing.
Importantly the learning curve improvement as we drilled and completed the well illustrate the potential for the Oklahoma to become significantly more efficient when we move to development mode.
During the quarter we announced a 35% increase in SCOOP &amp; STACK 2P resource adding 400 million oil equivalent barrels.
The Bakken team had an outstanding quarter despite reduced completion activity delivering 61 000 net oil equivalent barrels per day in line with second quarter volumes.
Results were driven by continued outperformance from the Doll pad wells in West Myrmidon enhanced uptime as well as consistent performance from our three down-spacing pilots.
The team continued to aggressively attack cost lowering direct expense in the quarter from a variety of factors reduce water handling cost and contract services getting more of our product on pipelines and greater efficiency gains from workover rigs.
International productions and sales volumes were higher in the quarter primarily as a result of the performance of the new Alba C-21 well the EG wireline intervention program and high operational availability.
The EG compression project achieved mechanical completion during the third quarter and is preparing for transportation from the Netherlands to site.
Installation and startup is set for mid-2016.
Oil sands mining reported outstanding operational results in the third quarter recording the highest level of production in the history of the asset as well as the lowest operating cost ever per synthetic barrel.
These results were driven by increased reliability and uptime as well as an intense focus on reducing cost.
We've made great strides so far this year focusing on those elements of the business that we control by reducing activity levels and capturing capital efficiencies.
We've also reduced total company E&amp;P production expenses and G&amp;A cost excluding special items by about $136 million or 28% for third quarter 2015 compared to the same quarter in 2014.
Similarly on a year-to-date basis the savings amount to over $290 million over 20%.
Drilling efficiency remained a focus across our U.S.
unconventional plays with our best Eagle Ford rig drilling a well that averaged 3 000 feet per day in the third quarter similar to the exceptional pacesetter performance in the previous quarter.
This performance was achieved while maintaining our geo-steering accuracy to land in the target window 98% of the time.
Our other two areas the Bakken and Oklahoma Resource Basins also continue to show sustained improvement in their drilling efficiency.
Portfolio management remains front and center and we continue to make progress advancing our plan of divesting at least $500 million of non-core assets.
What we've identified for sale are non-core E&amp;P and midstream assets operated and non-operated that simply do not compete for capital today given the depth and breadth of our inventory in the U.S.
resource plays and will likely have higher value in someone else's portfolio.
During the quarter we announced our strategic intent to scale back our conventional exploration business as the success of our U.S.
resource play has continued to raise the bar for capital allocation.
Commensurate with this decision we signed an agreement to divest our exploration acreage in East Africa.
Last week we provided initial guidance on our 2016 capital investment and exploration program as we continue to progress through the planning process with the overarching goal of living within our means next year inclusive of dividend and non-core asset sales.
Based on our current outlook and preliminary plan discussions we would anticipate a total company 2016 program of up to $2.2 billion which would give us the flexibility to deliver 2016 annual average production in the U.S.
resource plays flat to 2015 exit rate.
This represents a significant reduction from our $3.1 billion program in 2015.
But at least three quarters of our 2016 program is expected to be directed toward the U.S.
resource play which offer our highest risk-adjusted returns.
We expect our 2016 budget to be approved by the board of directors later this year.
There's no doubt that the macro environment continues to challenge the industry but one thing remains clear Marathon Oil is not opportunity limited.
We have profitable inventory even in a lower-for-longer commodity price scenario as lower cost capital efficiency and enhanced productivity continue to reduce breakeven prices and improve our economics.
Our priority remains balance sheet strength and capital flexibility in 2016.
And we have a workforce that is responding to the challenge and positioning our company for success today and through the cycle.
I want to pause and personally thank and recognize our dedicated employees and contractors who continue to execute and deliver results while protecting our license to operate each and every day despite the distractions and uncertainties of the current environment.
With that I'll hand it back to Chris to begin the Q&amp;A.
Thanks Lee.
Before we open the call to questions we'd like to request that you ask no more than two questions with associated clarifications and you can re-prompt as time permits.
With that Sylvia we'll open the lines for questions.
Thank you.
We will now begin the question-and-answer session.
And our first question comes from Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Good morning gentlemen.
This is actually Ilya.
Evan got stuck on the refining call so I'm going to fill in for him.
Thanks for taking the questions.
You put out up to $2.2 billion CapEx guidance for 2016 out there last week.
What is the primary governor on your activity next year? Are you trying to keep resource play production flat are you trying to limit spending to a certain level or I mean is the primary goal to reach certain specific – target-specific goals in individual basins? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Thanks for the question.
Well of course for us as we've stated the objective for us in 2016 particularly in the current pricing environment will be balance sheet protection.
And of course balancing our cash flows and living within our means.
That is our primary objective.
We're still very much in the planning cycle.
The numbers we presented are preliminary.
The work is ongoing.
But we felt it important as we communicated the change or the adjustment in the dividend to also pair that up with at least an early view of 2016 outlook.
And kind of a follow-up I mean what does your Oklahoma program look like in 2016? Maybe – I mean both in terms of rig count and in more qualitative terms? I mean how you are thinking – how you're thinking about operated activity versus non-operated activity to what extent is it going to be driven by HBP? I mean will we expect to see more Woodford wells because you're trying to hold the entire depth? So can you kind of give some color on that? Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes.
Thus far of course because we're still very early in the planning process we haven't provided quite that level of granularity down to the basin level but that will be coming as we finalize the plan.
However what I will share that is as incremental cash flow comes available and we think about our program in 2016 due to the returns and the growth potential in Oklahoma we expect it to compete very favorably in the capital allocation process.
So I would just say more to come on that point as we finalize our plan.
And our next question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Thank you.
Good morning everybody.
Lee I wonder if I could ask a little bit about how you're preparing the portfolio for – let's be optimistic for a second – some kind of rebound in the commodity over time.
You've obviously right-sized the dividend and you've got clearly significant depth in the Oklahoma Basin in particular.
So I'm just kind of thinking as you look at incremental capital allocation going forward where would you see the priorities? And if I may tack on an add-on there how do you see reallocating capital from your non-core assets? Can you maybe quantify how much capital might be associated with the non-core stuff as well? I've got a follow-up please.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay Very good.
Well thanks and good morning Doug.
Of course our decision around the adjustment and the dividend one of the aspects of that was in fact the capital flexibility that it provides as we think about driving more allocation into the resource plays as we see more constructive pricings.
But as we think about where that first incremental capital may be directed Doug the way I think about it is it's going to be driven by economics which today says that that capital would be targeted toward incremental activity in both the Eagle Ford as well as ultimately Oklahoma expanding our operated program in Oklahoma.
In terms of the non-core asset question maybe let me step back and just address that in general first and foremost.
We have high confidence in our $500 million target that we have put out on the non-core assets.
We have of course shared that we had in fact closed the earlier announced deal in East Texas North Louisiana.
We have many of those opportunities in process today and continue to feel that there is a market out there for the right type of assets.
So our confidence in that remains very high.
There will no doubt be implications as we are successful in those transactions from a capital avoidance standpoint but it's probably a bit premature to get into those numbers until we actually are able to execute deals.
I appreciate that Lee.
My follow-up is really in your – I guess your earlier press release you talked about the $2.2 billion holding the exit rate in the unconventional flat.
I guess I know it's a little early for 2016 yet but one of your peers – one of your partners rather has talked about the fairly hefty maintenance you're going to have at Equatorial Guinea.
So I wonder if you could give us some – just order of magnitude as to how you see the portfolio production outlook with that level of spending going into next year and I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I think – let me – I believe what you're referring to Doug as we look out into 2016 there will naturally be associated scheduled and planned downtime as we do the installation of the compression project.
That of course is fully accounted for in the preliminary numbers that we have shared thus far.
So that work is integrated into that.
So as we think about that 4Q exit that we talked about which was really talking about the resource plays 4Q exit to full-year 2016 average that's really outside of the total company.
But when you think about it from a total company perspective given that we have provided direct guidance on the resource plays I like to think about it in really a few kind of large buckets.
One is of course Equatorial Guinea which will largely be flat ex the downtime that I just addressed.
Two oil sands mining which will have largely again a flat profile ex planned maintenance and turnaround we do have some other North America onshore assets that will have relatively shallow declines.
And then of course in our conventional GOM and mature UK businesses which albeit relatively small volumes we'd expect those to have typical mature declines.
So as you put that overlay on it I just wanted to try to give a feel for what volumes might feel like in their totality in 2016.
Our next question comes from the Ed Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Hey.
Congrats on a lot of tough decisions so far this year for the downturn.
I've got I guess two questions looking at perhaps further out.
The first one is on the Eagle Ford.
Folks are worried that – about your Tier 1 Eagle Ford inventory relative to Tier 2.
So maybe just a reminder of how much Tier 1 years of drilling you think you have and then what sort of degradation you think there is in the portfolio as you get out towards the fringe.
Yeah.
Ed good morning.
This is Lance.
I think as we look at it perhaps where I'd start with is earlier in this quarter we actually disclosed an unconventional resource portfolio in North America of 5 500 wells.
And of that portfolio I think we described the first five years of it 77% of that returns better than breakeven at $50 flat oil.
And of that inventory Eagle Ford is by far the largest component.
And I think we have confidence we have many years of what you describe as Tier 1 or high-quality development left in that asset Ed.
And then switching to the SCOOP and probably on the same kind of topic.
Really it's only the XLs on the current economics that really look like they can compete with some of the best shale that's in other basins.
So where do you think you can get the D&amp;C cost down to perhaps for the shorter laterals? I mean how many XLs do you think you can drill as a percent of the total? And then where do we think we are in the completion cycle in terms of optimization to boost the EURs? I'm just trying to get sense of how much momentum there can be in that play in terms of recycle ratios and returns.
Ed I think I'd start maybe at the last end of that question first.
I think we have a lot of confidence that we're so early in the development cycle in both of the Oklahoma resource basins both SCOOP and STACK that we're nowhere near the highest efficiency best completions yet.
So we expect well productivity to continue to increase over time particularly as we get to scale and we have more opportunity to experiment in a structured way.
Similarly maybe perhaps best illustrated by the Smith pilot that was in our earnings deck we also expect that more mature development cycle as it unfolds for us to really be able to materially impact the capital costs.
I think that example where we're down 33% from the front-end to the back-end of that pad is emblematic of what we expect on a full-cycle basis.
So I have complete confidence that we're going to continue to deliver both better costs and better productivity in Oklahoma and that's going to help both the XL wells and the SL wells compete favorably for capital across the cycle.
And the next question comes from Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Brian.
For investors who have looked to Marathon historically in part for that dividend now as you've made the tough decision to cut that dividend is there an offsetting metric that you and the board are looking to improve or bolster as a result of that cut? Could be production growth maybe corporate returns or does the dividend cut just help you to maintain your balance sheet objectives which would potentially argue for a dividend increase if oil prices were to rise? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I think Brian I believe our board is looking at it quite holistically.
They're looking at it in an aggregate for all shareholders what is the model based on our portfolio that will deliver the best total shareholder return.
When you think about the logic I believe that the board went through with the leadership team it was really looking at the dividend in the context of appropriately addressing this lower for longer environment and the uncertainty that's associated with it.
It was really making certain that we could protect our balance sheet through the cycle.
And then finally and I think most importantly it provides us that capital flexibility going forward as we see more constructive pricings to drive more investment at a higher return into the U.S.
resource plays.
And of course it gave us an increase in our free cash flows by greater than $425 million.
So I believe the board looked at it holistically it looked at it in the context of the preliminary plan data that we had to share with them at the time and it was really that collective logic that went into it.
Great.
Thanks.
And then follow up is with regards to one of the earlier questions on Eagle Ford and on the tiering; that would be (24:24) oil as a percent of the total in the mix has come down a bit here.
Can you talk to whether that is timing based on the timing of completions and how the oiliness looks of the remaining inventory and the remaining locations there and how that translates to the 2016 program? Hey Brian.
I mean our Eagle Ford asset has a substantial oil component a substantial condensate component and some wet condensate a little bit of that as well.
And so in this environment the lower for longer we're – in a disciplined way we're choosing the highest return opportunities at current pricing.
The condensate's generally been providing those returns and so we're seeing a small change in mix to a little bit less oil overall.
We still have large inventory in the oil and in the condensate left to develop in the future.
And depending on commodity prices we're going to consistently choose those highest return opportunities.
As large as the base is overall we don't expect the mix to change very much over the – on the long-haul basis.
Great.
Thank you.
Our next question comes from David Heikkinen Heikkinen Energy Advisors.
Good morning guys and thanks for taking my question.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning David.
From your second quarter update to your third quarter update in the Eagle Ford your net wells to sales increased.
Can you talk about how that the increase for this year and kind of what the expectation is now for fourth quarter versus net wells drilled didn't change? Sure.
I think one of the things we've seen David over the balance of this year is we just continue to get more and more efficient overall both in the completion cycle and in the drilling cycle.
I think we've illustrated that in the deck.
And we continue to avoid building an inventory of drilled but uncompleted wells.
So what you're seeing is us manage as we get more efficient with those rigs and we do it at lower cost we have more opportunity to invest.
We're just managing that inventory in an efficient operational basis overall.
No intent to build inventory or to deplete it.
We want to keep it relatively constant.
And so we're managing that actively David.
Okay.
And then in your – just one quick question on EG.
How much downtime will you have for the compression project? How long will that take? Yeah.
Hey David.
This is Mitch Little.
We have the installation campaign for the new compression platform that Lee spoke to earlier and we would look at on the order of a couple of weeks to facilitate the initial installation of the jacket and topsides.
We also have scheduled planned maintenance that is part of delivering our high reliability in those assets.
And so there will some partial downtime associated with that that will also occur in the first quarter.
But going into the second half of the year of course we'll have the benefits from that compression project that will bring rates back up to above even current rates.
And just one quick one on the Meramec wells the EG one was just a fit in.
The well results kind of thinking about rates and well design.
Can you talk about – I would have thought that area would have been a little gassier.
It looks a little oilier.
Just Lance can you kind of go through thoughts on what happened in that part of Kingfisher? Sure David.
I think as we're working through this early part of the Meramec it's important to realize that we're focusing primarily on leasehold drilling.
So we're covering a diverse area of several counties to convert these term leases to held-by-production.
We expect to see some diversity in those early well results.
We're still working on the best designs in the completion and how we manage those wells in the early days.
So I think while our results aren't perhaps as much as we desire we expected this diversity it's early days.
We're excited about seeing the continued momentum in the basin.
The IPs continue to get better.
The productivity is improving overall.
And importantly the cost improvements over the last year have been very material.
And on top of that you're seeing us continue to be opportunistic in adding acres in this area at attractive pricing as we continue to see this as a great place to invest in the future.
Thanks guys.
Our next question comes from John Herrlin from Société Générale.
Yeah.
Hi.
Thanks.
Most things have been asked but I was just curious with Shenandoah.
Is that an asset strategically that would be better off with one of your partners in terms of taking that cash flow or future CapEx and then dedicating it more towards the resource plays? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
No great question.
On Shenandoah of course we're still very much early in the appraisal phase.
We've seen some excellent results from the last appraisal well and I think we shared those as well as the operator has shared those.
We haven't reached an investment decision of course around Shenandoah in the base case.
Ultimately it will need to compete for capital allocation head to head with the rest of our opportunities.
But until we see the final development plan and can make I would say a thoughtful decision around that I think that's an open question.
Okay.
Thanks Lee.
Our next question comes from Roger Read from Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Roger.
I apologize if some of this has been asked.
I did get on the call a little bit late.
In the unconventionals when you announced the dividend reduction the initial CapEx for 2016 the expectation the U.S.
unconventionals could be flattish I think is the right way to think about it in 2016 with the 2015 exit rate.
Is there a – and we've heard these questions asked other places.
Is there a rationale to keep that flat because of the challenges of recovering once oil prices come up and you start drilling more in terms of fighting decline curves? Or should we think of it as no in a $45 to $50 oil environment that really is a reasonable way to invest in terms of just the returns of those wells today? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
I think the way we have thought about that very preliminary guidance that we provided Roger is really rooted in our overarching objective of balance sheet protection.
And in the current environment a sub $50 environment we are not solving for growth at that point.
We are really looking at living within our means inclusive of both the dividend as well as our non-core asset program.
The preliminary guidance we provided we believe provides us a pathway to that cash flow neutrality.
But as we see more constructive pricing or a more constructive outlook certainly we'll take a thoughtful approach to how we allocate that and the number one column (32:08) in that allocation will be our U.S.
resource plays.
But I'd just emphasize that we're still very early still in the planning cycle.
Okay.
And kind of as a follow-up to that is there anything that you've changed.
You mentioned earlier the shift towards maybe a little more of the NGL condensate side because that's where the economics are.
Is there anything you've changed in the sort of initial production of your wells the first 30 days 90 days something like that in terms of choking them back to – why in other words sell all your production up front when the prices aren't particularly impressive? And whether or not you've considered anything on the hedging side? Roger I'd say operationally we continue to bring the wells back in each basin based on the flow back parameters that drive the best well productivity.
We're not managing those lower I think in the way you're describing just to manage the production profile.
We're doing it to drive best well productivity In some small cases basin-to-basin where there – you may have a once in a while a limitation on gas capture for example in North Dakota or we may build a facility that slightly undersized to minimize our spend and we'll peak shave.
But those tend to be short term and those are the exception not the rule.
So overall we're continuing to manage the chokes and the flowback to drive best well productivity.
Thanks.
And hedging any thoughts on that? Yeah.
Roger this is J.R.
I mean I think you should consider the fact that hedging will be an element of a broader commodity risk management strategy going forward.
And as opportunities present themselves in the market we'll continue to look at ways to protect more of the downside commodity price risk in the portfolio.
And the next question comes from the Pavel Molchanov from Raymond James.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey guys.
Well at the risk of sounding like a CNBC debate moderator I got to push you a little bit on the dividend.
Three months ago you used very very strong language in explaining why the dividend is the first call on cash flow.
And I guess I'm just curious what in the last 90 days – what was the specific trigger for shifting from it is the first call on cash flow to cutting it 76%? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah.
Pavel I mean first of all I would still say even with our current dividend level that is – remains our first call on cash flow.
But in terms of the why now question which I believe is what you're asking around the adjustment to the dividend.
The way I would describe that is first of all it's really been a further and continued volatility and weakness in the commodity pricing environment.
I would say secondly it's been a growing confidence in the quality but most importantly the depth of our U.S.
resource play base which we just added in the past quarter 600 million oil equivalent barrels of 2P resource there.
And then I would say the third factor that really was the trigger point is that we were able to share a preliminary view of our plan at the board level.
So there was – we had the ability to put that dividend adjustment in the context of our forward outlook and plan.
So those were really the three I would say triggers Pavel in terms of the why now question.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then kind of shifting to 2016 I know you said you haven't finalized the specific geographic components of the CapEx.
But do you envision there being any kind of carve-outs from the CapEx curtailments? And I'm thinking Oklahoma perhaps any areas that will get special treatment or protection from the overall 30% cut? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Well again we're going to follow our rigorous capital allocation process Pavel.
So that it's going to be driven by economics.
But there are cases and Lance alluded to one earlier where there are lost opportunity aspects to some of the plays specifically in Oklahoma where we still have significant term lease that we need to hold.
We are going to be looking to protect that as a top priority.
So I wouldn't necessarily call that special treatment.
I would just call that being smart about our business.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
I appreciate that.
Thanks guys.
We have no further questions at this time.
Thank you for your questions and interest in Marathon Oil.
I'd like to thank everyone again for their participation this morning.
Please contact Zach Dailey or myself if you have any follow-up questions.
Operator thank you.
This concludes today's conference call.
And you may now disconnect.
Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
This concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.
Welcome to the Marathon Oil Corporation 2015 fourth quarter earnings conference call.
My name is Katie and I will be your operator for today's call.
At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode.
Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session.
Please note that this conference is being recorded.
I will now turn the call over to Chris Phillips.
Mr.
Philips you may begin.
Thank you Katie.
Good morning and welcome to Marathon Oil Corporation's fourth quarter and full 2015 earnings and full 2016 capital program conference call.
I'm Chris Phillips Director of Investor Relations.
Also joining me on the call this morning are: Lee Tillman President and CEO; J.R.
Sult Executive Vice President and CFO; and Mitch Little Vice President Conventional; Lance Robertson Vice President Resource Plays; and Zach Dailey Director of Investor Relations.
As has become our custom we released prepared remarks last night in connection with the earnings release.
You can find those remarks and the associated slides on our website at MarathonOil.com.
We will begin this morning with additional prepared remarks discussing our 2016 capital program.
We issued a separate press release detailing our 2016 capital program last evening.
We posted a second slide presentation earlier today that accompanies this morning's prepared remarks that can also be found on our website.
After our remarks the remainder of the call be available for Q&amp;A.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
Slide two contains a discussion of forward-looking statements and other information included in this presentation.
Our review will contain forward-looking statements subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements.
We have identified in our latest Annual Report on Form 10-K and other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission a number of important factors that could cause future outcomes to differ materially from those set forth in those forward-looking statements.
Please refer to the quarterly investor packet on our website for reconciliations of the non-GAAP financial measures discussed in this presentation to their most recently comparable GAAP financial measures.
With that I will turn the presentation over to Lee who will begin on slide three.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> Thanks Chris.
I'd like to extend my welcome to those listening.
Last night we announced a reduced capital program for 2016 that reflects the current challenging environment and our clear objective of balance sheet protection.
Our $1.4 billion program in 2016 is over 50% lower than last year's program and 75% lower than 2014.
As the chart illustrates we have responded as oil prices have fallen dramatically and are doing the same in 2016 with our capital program calibrated to a view of WTI in the upper $30s and assume success in our non-core asset sale program.
Our business planning and budgeting are not static but rather decisions are being made in real time in large part facilitated by the optionality afforded by our short-cycle investments.
We have designed our 2016 program to maximize capital allocation to the short-cycle investments in our U.S.
resource plays complete long-cycle projects that contribute production and minimize allocation to conventional exploration.
Guided by these principles as the foundation of our plan production volumes were by design an outcome not an objective and we are forecasting a total company production decline of 6% to 8% year over year adjusted for divestitures.
This program provides us the optionality to further adjust our short-cycle investments if needed based on commodity prices and the outcome of our non-core asset sales.
Last year we achieved over $300 million of non-core asset sales toward our original goal of at least $500 million.
When we set that original target we were transparent that the non-core assets under consideration far exceeded $500 million.
Based on the transactions announced to date as well as progress on the remaining assets we've increased our target to a range of $750 million to $1 billion.
This year's capital allocation is designed to position the company for a sustained period of low commodity prices while maintaining the capability to be flexible in a dynamic environment.
Slide four illustrates the allocation of our 2016 program in a bit more detail.
As I mentioned the majority of our 2016 program about 70% will be directed to the Eagle Ford SCOOP/STACK and Bakken.
For each of our three core resource plays we have set specific objectives for our 2016 investment namely: maintaining the efficiencies our Eagle Ford team has worked so hard to capture; protecting our leasehold in the STACK while continuing to improve our understanding of the Oklahoma Resource Basins; and focusing on our base business in the Bakken with operated D&amp;C greatly reduced; all of this of course while continuing to focus on sustainable cost reduction that will be maintained through the commodity cycle.
Across the remainder of the portfolio we will be completing several long-cycle projects in 2016 most notably our operated Compression project in EG [Equatorial Guinea].
This project will extend plateau production from the Alba field by an additional two years and allow us to develop in excess of 130 million net oil equivalent barrels of proven reserves.
In addition to the EG Compression project we expect first oil this year from investments in two outside operated projects Gunflint in the Gulf of Mexico and Atrush in the Kurdistan region of Iraq.
We're forecasting about $40 million of sustaining CapEx toward our non-operated working interest in the Oil Sands this year.
We along with the operator and other JV partner are intensely focused on building upon the structural cost improvements and better uptime reliability achieved in 2015.
Finally we've significantly reduced our conventional exploration CapEx this year to $30 million down about 90% from last year following the strategic decision we made last fall to scale back in this space.
This year's spend is largely limited to existing commitments in the Gulf of Mexico and Gabon with no new exploration wells planned in 2016.
As we enter another year with reduced capital investment we again look to our short-cycle U.S.
resource plays to continue providing the operational flexibility to adapt to changing market conditions.
With that I'll turn it over to Lance to review the resource plays in a bit more detail.
Thanks Lee.
I'll continue with a broad overview of the 2016 program for U.S.
resource plays on slide five.
Consistent with our focus on prioritizing the balance sheet this year our allocation to the resource plays is anticipated at $1 billion down about 50% from 2015.
As Lee said the short-cycle nature of these assets allows us to be flexible in a volatile commodity market.
If needed we have the option to reduce spending down further with substantially all of our acreage held by production in the Bakken the Eagle Ford and in the SCOOP-Woodford.
We also have relatively few leases with continuing drilling obligations and no long-term rig commitments in these plays.
The pie charts on the slide depict our operated drilling and completions our non-operated drilling and completions and other spend across each basin.
Through the budget planning process our intent was to maximize the allocation to drilling and completions opportunities.
The non-operated drilling and completions component of the budget is our current best estimate of the spend based on recent engagement with partners.
In the current commodity environment we are closely scrutinizing each project proposal for costs and returns.
When prudent we will non-consent discretionary projects that do not deliver adequate returns.
Given the continuing decline in industry rig counts across our three basins the expected bias in the non-operated estimates is lower.
For reference the other spend category broadly consists of diverse non-discretionary items for direct support of development activity such as centralized facilities expansions data gathering and other items not directly included in drilling and completions costs but essential parts of an operation.
Turning to the Eagle Ford we are down to seven rigs and we will be scaling down further to five rigs near the end of the first quarter.
Additionally we will be reducing to a single frac crew for much of the year that will match drilling activity.
Consistent with our past practices we plan to maintain sufficient inventory to keep the completion crew operationally efficient.
This activity level retains our execution capability and core competencies allowing us to continue co-developing the highest-value Austin Chalk upper and lower Eagle Ford horizons across our core acreage position.
A continued focus on enhancing well productivity through stimulation design and technology application has recently yielded encouraging early results in our high-GOR [Gas/Oil Ratio] oil areas.
As this activity matures we anticipate sharing more details throughout the year.
In the Oklahoma Resource Basins our capital spend will focus on retaining term leases in the core of the STACK-Meramec as we continue to delineate the rich condensate window and optimize stimulation designs.
While maintaining leases will be our primary objective across Oklahoma this year based on the success of our first operated Springer oil well in the fourth quarter in the SCOOP we will also continue to progress limited Springer activity to delineate the downdip areal extent of this play.
In the Bakken we will focus on the base business where we will complete our ongoing water gathering system later this year to further reduce our largest single expense water handling.
Based on the current commodity price environment we recently released our last operated rig in the Bakken and plan to have intermittent development activity later in the year primarily to address continuing drilling obligations.
With this reduced level of activity and at recent strip pricing we anticipate Bakken achieves cash flow neutrality in 2016.
The $75 million earmarked for outside-operated activity in Bakken is our current best estimate of AFEs we expect to receive from partners this year and each will be scrutinized closely given the current low commodity environment.
Despite reduced resource play activity we continue to balance our current actions with the need to be responsive when more constructive pricing occurs.
With that I'll turn the call over to Mitch to review capital activities outside the resource plays.
Thank you Lance.
Referring to slide six I'll provide a brief overview of 2016 activities across our remaining portfolio where we continue to moderate capital spend while delivering profitable long-cycle projects during the year.
Starting with our OSM [Oil Sands Mining] segment we've achieved a step-change reduction in sustaining capital levels and our 2016 CapEx at about $40 million is well below historical averages.
Along with the operator and other JV partner our focus remains on maintaining the improved reliability while lowering operating and sustaining capital costs to reposition the business for profitable operation within the current environment.
Despite challenging pricing in the third and fourth quarters last year OSM was cash flow positive thanks to operating costs that averaged less than $30 per barrel of synthetic crude oil for the two consecutive quarters.
With the more consistent operations our three highest net production quarters in the history of the operation occurred last year leading to 2015 annual production volumes net of royalty at an all-time high while unplanned downtime was at an all-time low.
Outside of OSM we expect to complete three long-cycle projects in 2016 bringing incremental cash flow starting in the second half of the year.
Beginning with our operated business in EG we completed a successful and incident-free installation campaign of the combined 10 000-ton jacket and topsides for the Alba B-3 Compression project in mid-January.
The project remains on budget and on schedule.
Following hookup and commissioning activities we expect a midyear startup of the new facility.
The installation will add 72 000 horsepower of compression and associated process equipment and utilities which allow us to significantly extend Alba field life to beyond 2030 with minimal future capital requirements.
In the Gulf of Mexico we expect startup of the outside-operated Gunflint two-well subsea development also by midyear.
Finally in the Kurdistan Region of Iraq developments are progressing within the Atrush and Sarsang outside-operated blocks.
In the Atrush block installation of the Phase 1 30 000 barrel per day facility is progressing with first oil expected later this year.
Four existing wells will feed the facility and future development decisions will be evaluated following the assessment of well and reservoir performance.
In late 2015 a second well and well site production facility were brought online in the Sarsang block.
2016 activity is focused on bringing additional wells online to utilize existing facility capacity while further expansion will be evaluated in light of the current macro environment.
Across the portfolio we continue to focus on cost management and delivering high operational availability in an effort to defend margins within the challenging commodity price environment.
With that brief summary I'll pass it back to Lee.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</strong> All right thank you Mitch.
Capital discipline and balance sheet protection have driven the decisions supporting our reduced 2016 capital program and slide seven provides our production guidance.
As I mentioned earlier we're forecasting total company production in 2016 to decline 6% to 8% from 2015 adjusted for our divestitures in the Gulf of Mexico and East Texas/North Louisiana.
For the first quarter of 2016 our total E&amp;P guidance includes two extraordinary downtime events.
First we expect downtime in EG of approximately 20 000 net BOE per day associated with the installation of the jacket and topsides for the Alba Compression project as well as planned maintenance.
Installation was completed in January and the Alba field and onshore plants returned to full production earlier this month.
Second in late December the Brae Alpha installation experienced a process pipe failure and first quarter total E&amp;P production guidance includes the impact of approximately 7 000 net BOE per day of UK production that remains shut in while repairs are underway.
Resumption of full production is expected in the second quarter.
Wrapping up on slide eight we anticipate 2016 will require a similar level of flexibility to adapt to the uncertain macro environment as did last year.
In 2015 we lowered production and G&amp;A expenses over $435 million.
We reduced our workforce by over 20% which will generate about $160 million of annualized net savings.
And we decreased our quarterly dividend increasing annual free cash flow by more than $425 million.
We became even more efficient operators in each of our basins decreasing completed well costs everywhere through a combination of commercial savings and execution efficiencies.
2016 will require that same level of focus and discipline and our $1.4 billion capital program is designed with balance sheet protection as our top priority.
The plan continues to direct the lion's share of capital to our short-cycle resources plays which provide the most flexibility.
The remainder of the portfolio includes completing long-cycle projects that contribute production volumes to the company as well as keeping committed capital obligations to a minimal level.
We will continue lowering our cost structure enhancing operational productivity and progressing toward our newly revised non-core asset sales target of $750 million to $1 billion.
Finally our $4.2 billion in liquidity at year end which includes $1.2 billion in cash and an undrawn $3 billion revolving credit facility positions us well for the reality of sustained low commodity prices.
That concludes our remarks and I will now hand back to Chris.
Thanks Lee.
Before we open the call for questions we'd like to request that you ask no more than two questions with associated clarifications and you can re-prompt as time permits.
With that Katie we'll open the lines for questions.
Thank you.
And our first question comes from Doug Leggate from Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
Doug please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning Lee.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Good morning Doug.
Lee I'm afraid the topic du jour is obviously balance sheet strength credit metrics and obviously the credit agencies' somewhat onerous price assumptions one could argue.
What additional steps are you prepared to take to basically get market comfort that your balance sheet can be managed through this downturn and are you prepared to allow your credit rating to slide to sub-investment-grade? And I've got a follow-up.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Okay let me take the first part and then maybe let J.R.
jump in a little bit on just our view from a credit metric standpoint and the ratings agencies.
But our plan Doug as we stated in our opening remarks was really designed with a view of a high $30 WTI and assumed success in our non-core asset sales targets.
But we still have implicit quite a bit of flexibility within our capital program to really adjust further as we see changes in price changes in the macro as well as we see the outcome from our non-core asset sales.
I think we demonstrated last year certainly our willingness to use every lever available to us to ensure that we do in fact protect the balance sheet.
I ticked through a few of those in my opening remarks.
But the adjustment to the dividend I think even the reduction in our capital budget last year of about $500 million the strong steps that we took early in the cycle on both production expenses and G&amp;A cost including basically a 700-person reduction in our workforce all of these are I think are demonstrative of the actions that we are prepared to take to ensure that we are putting balance sheet protection first and foremost.
Maybe with respect to the credit agencies and the credit metrics perhaps I'll just let J.R.
chime in on those.
Doug as you had indicated clearly we have had actions already taken by two of the three rating agencies to date.
At those two that have taken action we remain investment-grade.
Clearly there is one still remaining outstanding.
You're right in that they have taken an arguably significantly different view with regard to the commodity price outlook and seem to be fundamentally approaching the industry different than historically.
And candidly the outcome is uncertain.
But what I would tell you as Lee had indicated we're going to continue to make the decisions that are in the best interest of all stakeholders to support the balance sheet and the outcome – with regard to the agencies will be the outcome.
But we're going to continue to make sure that we've got sufficient liquidity and appropriate balance sheet so that we can continue to be successful in terms of developing the resources that we have at this company.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Doug you said you had a second question Yes.
Just maybe if you don't mind I'll just do a clarification on the first one as my second question if that's okay.
I'll be more direct about it.
Obviously we've seen some of your peers issue equity.
Is that a risk for Marathon in your view? Is it something you think would be the right move given where your stock is trading or can you rule it out for investors at this point? And I'll leave it there.
Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Doug I think as we have said there's no doubt in the current environment that the balance sheet is our top priority.
We have to maintain as much financial and operational flexibility as we can to adjust to these very dynamic market conditions.
We're constantly reassessing in real time our capital budget our non-core asset sales our overall balance sheet strength as well as our liquidity.
And I think although our business plan assumes the successful execution of our non-core assets program to really contribute to our goal of free cash flow neutrality we have to continue to keep all options on the table and available to us that give us that financial flexibility going forward.
So again you should expect us to continue to consider and access all of the levers available to us going forward.
I appreciate you answering that Lee.
Thanks very much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you Doug.
And our next question comes from Edward Westlake from Credit Suisse.
Edward please go ahead.
Yeah good morning Lee good morning J.R.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Morning Ed.
Just on – and Mitch and Lance.
Just on the divestiture program maybe just give us some idea as to why you think you could be confident to hit that $750 million to $1 billion total program.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah absolutely Ed.
Good morning.
From the first maybe I'll just acknowledge that the market no doubt has softened since we've embarked on our non-core asset program.
There's no question that the sales market is much more challenging than it was even last year.
But I'll go back and say as a reminder when we initially set our non-core asset target last year we stated that we had identified a pretty broad pool of non-core assets that were well in excess of that original $500 million.
And what I'll say is based on our progress to date the transactions that we've been able to complete and the quality as well as the diversity of the identified non-core assets that we still have in the hopper we're comfortable increasing that target to that $750 million to $1 billion.
The way I would describe the assets Ed is that they're primarily U.S.
upstream and midstream.
They're both operated and non-operated.
But the list is very diverse and we're very satisfied taking some singles and doubles.
Some will be bigger but there's quite a few that will be smaller.
And thus far the market has shown an ability to digest some of those smaller transactions quite readily.
Timing for us we would expect to progress toward our revised target really through the balance of 2016.
And then a follow-up would be around 2017 getting a little depressing about recession risks.
They are clearly rising.
We'll see if one actually occurs but you'll end up with say $1.2 billion or maybe whatever the number is at the end of the year depending on the asset sales program and the reduction in capital.
But again if you were looking into 2017 it would still feel if there was a recession that you'd need to do some shoring up of the balance sheet for that year.
So what would be next in terms of the order if we had two years of low prices? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Of course we're trying to of course manage through 2016 now.
But as we have looked ahead to 2017 there's no question Ed that the majority of our capital will still be directed to the short-cycle investments.
And as such that still gives us a great deal of flexibility within our capital program and our capital spend.
That activity though is going to largely depend upon where commodity prices are.
And just to maybe level-set a little bit at the current contango in the strip that would equate to us to about $500 million of incremental free cash flow in 2017.
And then at that point as incremental cash flow might be realized it would be a capital allocation decision based on the highest and best use as to whether that goes to balance sheet strengthening and/or into organic investment.
I don't see those two as necessarily being mutually exclusive.
The other thing that I would add too is that although we do have some long-cycle projects that Mitch addressed rolling off in 2016 we do have a little bit of an offset in that we do have a remaining deepwater GoM commitment – recommitment that will come back to us in 2017.
But largely those two somewhat balance off of one another.
Thank you.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Ed.
And our next question comes from Evan Calio from Morgan Stanley.
Evan please go ahead.
Hey good morning guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Evan.
Just to follow-up on credit and balance sheet the du jour topic and I understand you're protecting the balance sheet in the moves today.
But how committed are you to an investment-grade rating? And based upon those private conversations do you expect to be able to maintain it from – I know you talked about Moody's but from the other two agencies? And then I have a follow-up.
Evan we have maintained it at the other two rating agencies.
They just recently published earlier this month.
And so those have come out with investment-grade ratings.
We're a notch lower than where they were but we have maintained it there.
As for the outstanding rating evaluation honestly Evan I don't know what they're going to define as what it means to be an investment-grade anymore.
I remember what it used to be throughout most of my career.
And based on my historical understanding I would say we still meet the metrics that they used to lay out there but honestly those are changing.
And so I just – I don't want to predict what they will ultimately do.
But at the end of the day I'm still investment-grade.
I'm still going to be part of the IG indices from a bond rating standpoint.
There really isn't any significant impact on us if that one rating agency were to not rate us investment-grade.
Clearly there's going to be a cost issue and in periods that are highly volatile an access issue but all of that is completely manageable.
And then how do you weigh that? How do you weigh the impact of an even deeper CapEx cut or a dilutive equity raise against a loss of that status? It just seems to be a primary debate amongst many of your peers.
Again I don't think that ultimately you can necessarily solve for just one equation here.
I've got to make decisions in the best interest of all of the stakeholders and we're going to continue to do that.
But as I said before the way we've got the capital structure set up the depth of our liquidity that exists that I'm very comfortable that whether we ultimately have an investment-grade rating from the remaining agency or not is not going to impact our ability to remain strong in this commodity price cycle.
Great.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thanks Evan.
And our next question comes from Brian Singer from Goldman Sachs.
Brian please go ahead.
Thank you good morning.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey Brian.
Good morning Brian.
So just to stay on the usual suspect topic here I think what we're probably trying to get at here is how do you define success from a balance sheet perspective? What are you trying – where are you trying to take the company here? What is the key metric you're trying to use that is driving your decisions? It sounds like it's not necessarily but hopefully investment-grade.
Is it leverage is it liquidity for a couple years at $30 oil? Can you just talk to how you would define success from a balance sheet perspective? Brian honestly the way we're thinking about it is really just to focus on managing the balance sheet throughout the full cycle.
So historically I've always tried to focus on liquidity when you're at the bottom of the cycle.
And again historically that was the way it was measured is whether or not you had enough liquidity to get you through the bottom of the cycle.
As Lee indicated in his remarks our goal here in 2016 is free cash flow neutrality so to be able to manage the outspend with the success and the non-core assets sale program and not add debt to the balance sheet.
As I indicated we're going to maintain ample liquidity to support the business.
And in addition I want to make sure in not only liquidity but the cash component of that liquidity to maintain the option associated with just delevering the balance sheet in late 2017 when we have a relatively modest amount of debt that becomes due about $700 million.
So clearly I think we've said multiple times the non-core asset sale program and the flexibility of the capital program are really going to be the key levers in that.
But one thing I do want to go to on this issue of leverage metrics and really highlight what Lee said before just the embedded oil price leverage and the impact to cash flows and candidly leverage metrics is significant.
And Lee just said just assuming the forward contango that exists today so whatever that is from an accrual (33:03) standpoint it's probably about $7.
Sometime around there is about $500 million of free cash flow and a significant step change in what your leverage would be on a net debt to EBITDA standpoint.
So to me we're focused on managing through the cycle.
And again as I indicated to Evan really just trying to make decisions that are in the best interest of the business.
That's great.
My follow-up is perhaps a surprise operational resource question.
You've acquired some additional acreage in SCOOP and STACK here over the last year and I wondered if you could tell us a little bit more A) what that does to make your position more contiguous and then how you would think about and at what price you would allocate more capital and where you would go first within your key onshore shale plays? Sure Brian.
This is Lance.
I think you should think about those acres as that we're constantly looking particularly in Oklahoma which is an early cycle in the play relative to the others to both as you described core up that position and just secure additional resources.
We were very successful over the last year primarily organically through small local auction processes in the BIA [U.S.
Bureau of Indian Affairs] and the CLO [Oklahoma Commissioners of the Land Office] and other organizations as well as just doing small leasing opportunities with peers and accumulated 14 000 acres in Oklahoma.
The overwhelming majority of that is in the STACK play focused in the core primarily Blaine County.
What we found over the balance of that year is that the core of the Meramec has shifted in a western direction which is where most of that acreage was acquired.
And we managed to secure all that for about $3 000 an acre which is very competitive.
Referencing where we would go in terms of activity and allocate that capital I think we're always going to take that broadly within our overall capital allocation process.
We certainly want to be able to continue to delineate Oklahoma because we have more to learn there perhaps than other basins.
I think we're going to have to wait to see how the commodity market really evolves before we can make those capital allocations beyond 2016.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from Harry Mateer from Barclays.
Harry please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Hey good morning guys.
So I guess back to the topic du jour on the balance sheet but a bit of a different approach.
To the extent you raise additional capital from non-core asset sales or other means how do you think about deploying that? Is it more about maximizing liquidity right now? Or when you look at where your bonds are trading you've got some bonds particularly out the curve trading at a pretty chunky discount to par.
So do you think there are some opportunities to maybe reduce debt that way and take advantage of that discount currently in the market? Harry this is J.R.
I would approach that the same way Lance was talking about whether we'd allocate capital to Oklahoma to buy acreage.
It really is – each one of these investment opportunities are measured against themselves whether it's drill bit capital whether it's acquiring additional acres in Oklahoma or whether it's even considering buying back some debt at a discount.
So we're going to measure all those capital allocation decisions and determine which ones make the best sense for the enterprise.
Clearly you've got to do that.
You've got to do that thoughtfully.
That's a great example in response to some of the earlier questions where that might be in the best interest of the company.
Rating agencies may view that transaction differently in terms of the way an investment-grade company should manage their business with the fundamental premise is that your debt holders be paid off at par.
But again we are going to make those decisions that are in the best interest of all stakeholders and it would be something that we would consider.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay thanks.
And then my follow-up is the 2017 maturity.
It's later in 2017 so you've got some time.
But as you think about managing the business through the cycle is your goal to be in a position where we you can pay that down or is it something more where you would like to be in the position to be able to refinance that? As I indicated you probably missed it Harry earlier.
I really want to be in the position to have the flexibility and the optionality just to pay that down pay it off in other words.
Clearly I've got the liquidity to where I could bridge it on my facility.
But I really want to be in a position if the market is what it is today if the forward curve merely slides into 2017 to be able to pay that off.
Inc.</span></strong> Got it thanks very much.
Thanks Harry.
And our next question comes from David Heikkinen from Heikkinen Energy.
David please go ahead.
Good morning guys.
Hey David she got your name right.
I know it's nice.
It's historic.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hey David.
Enough of a stay-it now (38:01).
So just thinking about the Eagle Ford program you've basically been running flat in net wells for the last couple quarters.
Can you just talk about the pacing of net wells in 2016 as you drop to five rigs and kind of the – particularly given the shape of the commodity curve? Do you go slower earlier and then pick up or how do you think through just that space and then really for the other basins as well? Sure David.
This is Lance.
I think perhaps we've articulated in the capital deck and the remarks this morning that we're prepared that we're already moving into the activity reductions in Eagle Ford.
We actually released our first rig recently this month.
Down at the end of this quarter we'll be down to five rigs and then we're going to stay at that flat activity level moving forward.
I think there's a desire as we looked at the balance sheet prioritization overall.
We want to take those decisions early in the year and we have.
And so you'll see us go down to that level and then maintain that activity level moving forward.
From quarter to quarter you'll see those net wells to sales moderate up or down a little bit as we have diverse working interest across it but it will be relatively level from that point forward.
Similarly we're going to continue to run effectively the two rigs we had all in 2015 through Oklahoma to manage lease obligations and continue to delineate and learn in the Springer the things we need to.
And then to reiterate I think what I mentioned earlier is that we've actually released our Bakken activity challenged by returns currently at that price.
And so we're going to have limited activity for the rest of the year in the Bakken.
So first quarter will have more wells and then just divide the rest of the wells through the remainder of the year pretty evenly in the Eagle Ford and just keep things flat? There's no staging or duck games going on is I guess what I'm getting at.
No I think that's a great clarification David in that we've said all along that we're not really building a drilled but uncompleted inventory.
We're going to continue to manage our inventory of wells to efficiently manage our completion operations without really materially building or depleting that inventory.
That's helpful.
And then I know you don't want to get into details of volumes on the assets that you're selling but the numbers are getting big with $1 billion.
Can you just goal-post us on U.S.
upstream and midstream a split of how much would be midstream how much could be upstream and an idea of rough volumes? Anything could be helpful.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yeah David this is Lee.
As I stated and so you noted that this is primarily U.S.
assets that are both upstream and downstream.
But if you look at the characteristics of what we've already moved out of the portfolio you can get a sense for just the diversity and even some of the scale of some of those actions that might occur going forward.
For instance the East Texas/North Louisiana deal was on the order of 4 000 oil equivalent barrels per day.
The GoM assets were on the order of about 10 000-ish barrels a day.
So those are the ballparks now.
Those are some of the small to mid-sized assets we might talk about now.
There could be some larger more material assets that do ultimately come into play.
And of course the midstream assets the advantage there is that there really is no volumetric impact per se but you have to of course be absolutely concerned about making sure that you have the right operational transition there to ensure security of your barrels.
So I don't know but hopefully that helped a little bit.
And scale that's helpful.
Thanks guys.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
And our next question comes from Roger Read from Wells Fargo.
Roger please go ahead.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Hi Roger.
I guess maybe to follow up a little bit with Dave's question there on the potential sales that we should think about for volumes is it just that wide open based on price or do you at least have sort of a maybe high-to-low range of full-year potential impact of what's potentially being marketed out there you have a data room open that sort of thing? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Without getting too much into the specifics Roger we certainly have a good idea of the pool of assets that we're prepared to put into the market.
The uncertainty is just which of those assets may in fact be transactable.
And each of those has a finite I would say probability of occurrence and it really comes down to connecting the assets to the correct buyers.
And because of the diversity of these assets they do appeal to a very I would say broad and diverse range of buyers potentially as well.
So that's one of the reasons why we bracketed the range the way that we did is a little bit of the reflection of some of that uncertainty.
And it's uncertainty not only just in which transactions will move forward but also just the ultimate valuations that we're able to secure in those transactions as well.
Sure.
I guess it just sounds like from a buyer's perspective they're more interested in buying assets that generate cash flow.
So just trying to get a feel for...
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Absolutely.
...where the volumes might go along now.
Hey Roger this J.R.
I think that the question is fair.
I think what Lee is trying to convey is we've got a lot of optionality here.
And we're still talking about a range even the revised range that candidly is not reflective yet of the full potential of what we're looking at.
And so we've got the ability to plug-and-play assets here.
And because there's a midstream element to this it's hard for us to be able to say exactly whether this asset ultimately goes or that asset goes.
So we still are very confident and comfortable of that $750 million to $1 billion but candidly it's going to be very asset-specific in terms of which ones we use to achieve that objective.
Okay that's helpful.
Thanks and then probably more of a question for Lance.
But decline rates in the Eagle Ford with such a ramp down of drilling and well completions relative to the pace we were on and I understand – I recognize you would have studied it quite a bit as you lay out the 6% to 8% decline for the year.
But can you give us an idea of some of the confidence you have as some of the wells get older and fewer new wells coming in to lay out the overall view here on the production side for 2016? Sure Roger.
And as you describe we've looked at a number of scenarios across the resource plays for activity in that and they all have their own implicit declines depending on the new wells coming to sales.
I think individually in each of the basins we have a lot of confidence and understanding of the decline profiles of the areas.
And so it just becomes a matter of what's the capital we're going to allocate to it and then the production is the outcome from it in this case.
I think it's pretty clear that we've taken the activity down both in 2015 and 2016.
There have to be decline in there.
I think importantly in the Eagle Ford for example from Q3 to Q4 we held flat with effectively flat wells to sales which indicates all the horizons we've been developing there are producing well and meeting our expectations.
And then I think you should think of the resource plays from annual 2015 to annual 2016 are going to have an overall decline in the low teens.
Okay that's helpful.
Thank you.
And our next question comes from John Herrlin from Société Générale.
John please go ahead.
Yeah hi.
Thank you.
Regarding the Springer well were you surprised at that degree of liquids cut? John so I think the Springer is pretty early in the SCOOP area and what we find there are two different distinct areas where it's been tested today a northern core and a southern core.
The Newby well we drilled and brought online last quarter was in that southern core area where there's probably the most data.
We expected that to be oil biased in that area.
I think we had a lot of confidence going in.
The results so far have borne that out.
The performance from that well has been very strong to begin with and it actually is similar to the underlying Woodford elevated reservoir pressure.
The cumulative 30-day/60-day production tend to be relatively flat.
That same production behavior has been borne out in the Springer thus far.
So it's actually very consistent with our expectations.
It's why we're excited about it.
What we also see is the opportunity to delineate this play downdip from the core oil area that we've explored and others have looked at to date and to a rich condensate window perhaps.
So you'll see us continue to test that in a limited way the Springer across 2016.
Great next one from me.
J.R.
you mentioned liquidity and not being like the past.
If you look at your overall liquidity relative to your market value in the past when commodity prices were down you would have a much lower percentage of overall liquidity relative to market cap but it seems like a lot of companies are getting penalized today or a straight question perhaps on strategy or leverage or whatever.
Do you ever recall a time when there was this much relative liquidity to market cap equity cap? That's a great point John.
Honestly there has been a shift and it happened maybe even toward the latter part of last year to where I think there was a point in which liquidity was being rewarded in terms of equity valuations but then it quickly shifted to almost a singular focus on leverage without regard to liquidity.
And so I don't recall that and you've got a long history as well John in terms of that being the market behavior historically.
Candidly I'm very thankful for the early moves that we did with regard to shoring up that liquidity the early moves we did with regard to extending debt maturities and feel like we're well situated for both 2016 and 2017 on the liquidity front.
But it is interesting that the anomalies that we're seeing or the nuances as compared to previous market corrections.
Thank you.
Thanks John.
And our next question comes from Pavel Molchanov from Raymond James.
Pavel please go ahead.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks guys just one from me.
You mentioned that the current year CapEx is predicated on high $30s average.
If per chance we were to see a recovery let's say into the $50s towards the middle of the year would you be inclined to upsize your activity level in the second half? And in particular would you return to drilling in the Bakken? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think as we saw that kind of recovery and we're convinced of the stability of it I think it goes back to a point that J.R.
made earlier.
It's going to be a capital allocation decision around do we feel that there is still balance sheet repair that needs to be done at that stage.
And that would not be mutually exclusive to putting capital back to work into the short cycle investments in the resource plays.
When we think about capital allocation organically certainly our ability to maintain the scale efficiencies in the Eagle Ford and the strong economics there would make it a viable candidate for that incremental capital.
But strategically because of its role in our future growth driving more capital as well into Oklahoma would be one of our preferred pathways also.
From an execution capacity and a competency standpoint we feel that we're more than prepared to take that step in the event that that incremental cash flow comes available for investment.
But Pavel I think you raised a great point and that is because you've picked $50 as your hypothetical example the Bakken at $50 is dramatically different than the Bakken today.
And the leverage to crude oil changes dramatically.
So even beginning at that level all of a sudden the capital allocation decisions for us with whatever limited additional capital we chose to go to a drill bit versus the balance sheet becomes much tougher at that point in time and a high class problem to deal with.
But you're exactly right to highlight that leverage to commodity prices in the Bakken.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> And I would also add as well that some of the success that Lance and his team have had in West Myrmidon near the Nesson Anticline has been pretty dramatic.
And I think as we saw a recovery in pricing I believe those opportunities would certainly come back into play.
Inc.</span></strong> I appreciate it.
Thanks Pavel.
And our next question comes from Paul Sankey from Wolfe Research.
Paul please go ahead.
Hi everyone.
Good morning.
Hi Paul.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Hi Paul.
Good morning.
I understand that these are tough times and you're very much circling the wagons.
But could you just outline the bull case the equity bull case for Marathon in competitive terms and maybe suggest to me how I should pitch the stock? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Sure.
Absolutely Paul.
I think when you consider more constructive pricing our leveraging up to crude oil which has of course been a bit painful on the way down that's going to feel a bit different as we start seeing that more constructive pricing.
And then I think it's the strength of our organic inventory across the three core basins which now account for 3.6 billion BOE of 2P resource.
That's really the investment case not only the scale the economies of scale that we have and developed a mode in the Eagle Ford but certainly the potential for growth both midterm and long term in Oklahoma as well as a very solid oil position in Bakken and I think a proven execution model where we have been able to not only drive capital efficiencies but also operating efficiencies and all of that being supported I think by still some very good conventional assets as well including Equatorial Guinea which we just chatted about the project there the Compression project.
That's good.
But I guess primarily you're saying that you' are dependent on pricing.
But you'd highlight a better organic inventory was the second point? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Yes I would say that I would say it's a strong high-quality inventory very resilient very oil-weighted.
It's also one that we think is in three of the highest-quality plays here in the U.S.
and all of those also at scale.
Lee just changing – thank you.
I appreciate the answer.
Is there any potential for mergers or acquisitions as an alternate way to change the investment case? Thanks.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Certainly that question is always out there.
I think in the current environment you haven't seen even a lot of small even asset level activity I think largely speaking because of the volatility and the dislocation between the bid/ask spread has just really not facilitated that.
Certainly where the market sits today consolidation and the synergies that can be generated from that are very material relative to market caps as they stand today.
So that case even beyond say let's say an improvement of overall portfolio and possibly even balance sheet upside I think there is probably a case out there for some pair-ups that might be based on the synergy benefits alone.
Thanks Lee.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
And our last question comes from Arun Jayaram from JPMorgan.
Arun please go ahead.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could help us think about the shape of the U.S.
production profile.
You guys talked about a 6% to 8% decline on an adjusted basis.
I think you're spending about $1 billion on the U.S.
unconventionals.
So I was just wondering if you could maybe help us think about how the Q4-to-Q4 exit rate in the U.S.
could look like at that level-setting.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You accurately depicted it.
I think when you think about the profile coming into the year we've got an average-to-average that's got a midpoint of that 6% to 8% of about a 7% decline.
When you think of total company exit-to-exit you should probably think of it being towards the upper end of that decline range if that helps calibrate.
So there is in fact a profile to the year as you do experience decline through the year as you head toward that exit rate.
And then just – I guess I was about – just to clarify is it more focused on maybe the U.S.
versus international producing assets? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think as Lance alluded to our resource play annual average declines year-on-year 2015 to 2016 are in the low teens.
Yes.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> You would expect the exit-to-exit for the U.S.
resource plays to probably be in the mid-teens.
Mid-teens okay that's helpful and just final question here regarding the asset sales process.
Under our model we peg about $500 million to $600 million of outspend in 2016 at the strip.
You obviously have the asset sales underway.
Let's just say that you partially cover that outspend with asset sales.
What would be other additional leverage you think of pulling? Would it be to reduce CapEx or would you consider equity in that circumstance? Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> I think for that level of outspend which to me is getting in a much more manageable zip code I think we'd look again at those core levers that we can control.
And they would be the capital program continued I would say capital efficiency as well as operating efficiency.
Those would be the levers I think we would go to for that level of outspend and not to mention the fact again that we do have again ample liquidity to support that.
Okay that's helpful.
Thank you so much.
Chief Executive Officer &amp; Director</span></strong> Thank you.
Thanks Arun.
Thank you.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
At this time I will turn the call back to Mr.
Phillips for closing remarks.
I'd like to thank everyone again for their participation this morning.
Please contact Zach Dailey or myself if you have any follow-up questions.
Katie thank you.
This concludes today's conference call and you may now disconnect.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen this concludes today's conference.
Thank you for participating.
You may now disconnect.