[Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Howard Chen with.
Congratulations on the announcement of the MUFG conversion.
I think one of the overhangs I've certainly heard is you've got a lot of capital but the quality of the capital was a bit challenged.
So this certainly alleviates that.
I think assuming you receive approval Ruth how does that change your capital management priorities in the context of both Basel I and Basel III? That' s a very good and fair question but a bit premature.
We're delighted to be announcing this this morning.
As you said it does meaningfully improve our Tier 1 common.
Delighted to be up at 14.5% pro forma but we still need to go through final regulatory approval and shareholder vote.
I think overall it puts us in a very strong position with added flexibility and we'll be back to you more on that in the future.
Okay thanks.
And then switching over to the results you noted the monoline-related losses again this quarter.
Could you just update us on where exposures stand at the end of the quarter? And what we should be looking at in terms of thinking about future losses and/or gains? Certainly.
So as we said before this is a legacy exposure that will take time to work out.
It's unfortunately not as straightforward as it may appear because there are a number of factors in play and correlations are breaking down.
So in addition to normal credit considerations there's regulatory and litigation overlay.
We're continuing to evaluate the market in all positions.
So you're going to see more disclosure in our Q.
As you would expect we have adjusted some of our hedges and that will be detailed in the Q.
Okay thanks.
And finally you noted the RWAs were down during the quarter.
Is that more environmental driven or is that a function of getting ready for Basel III? It's really our approach and focus on RWA mitigation and optimization.
We've put more resources people and analytics behind our RWA management.
And as a result it enabled us to identify opportunities to really optimize RWA.
It's a combination of business mix change analytics and changes in collateral.
And we're focusing on Basel I now but intend to use that same discipline focusing forward on 2.5 and III.
Okay thanks.
And just follow up to that Ruth I guess as you look to that RWA optimization I mean how do you think about the P&amp;L ROA type of impact from mitigating those RWAs? So what we talked about here the reduction from $330 billion down to $300 billion did not have a P&amp;L impact.
Great thanks so much.
Thank you.
Ruth if we could just do quickly the pro forma tangible book and fully diluted share count post the conversion I mean the $25.63 range and 1.85 billion.
Is that about right? So the tangible book is around $25.78 book value $29.36.
And fully diluted I just add the shares nothing special there in the math? Right right.
And then so what's interesting is your leverage is running 17.2x on common.
This immediately takes it under 15.
Just curious if you think about that as the right range you knew this was coming versus is there an ability or any thought process on letting the balance sheet drift up a little now that you have a lot more common underneath it? So this quarter our balance sheet obviously did drift up moved up from fourth quarter.
It was lower at the end of the fourth quarter on basically client activity and we took it up as we saw client activity.
I think the real point here is that we're very pleased with the ongoing success we have in equities and fixed income and that's really driven the demand for incremental balance sheet which we've used.
Clearly this provides a very strong Tier 1 common base.
But what was driving the balance sheet move fourth quarter over first quarter was client activity and executing on our strategy.
Okay so let's talk about that.
I think you do deserve the credit for the progress there.
Could we inside of [indiscernible] talk about -- I know commodities is operating towards peak levels right now.
I think that continues.
But do you mind making a comment specifically on rates and FX where a lot of the build has been? And what kind of contributors that was to the good results this quarter? Certainly.
So rates had very strong performance.
It was up year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter in a choppy market.
I think what you're really seeing is the results from the build that we've done the strong leadership we have there the additional talent added to our team globally.
It really makes a difference.
I think our point that we've talked about in the past is the need to build out the team to have greater presence with clients which in turn would drive greater opportunity for client facilitation and that was very much borne out this quarter.
What you'll see in the 10-Q when you look at our trading histogram is that it has moved over to the right.
And again another way of underscoring that with the addition of the team greater presence of clients greater client facilitation opportunities that we're productive.
I would just add Glenn this is the first time that I have felt comfortable with the leadership across all of our fixed-income businesses.
Moving Kenny deRegt who ran fixed income 10-plus years ago left the firm came back to run risk and is now back running the business his unique talent and mature very capable trading executive.
And under Kenny the 4 or 5 players that he now has really a world-class team.
So leadership starts at the top.
You've got to have that ability at the top.
And the investment we made in hiring people combined with the leadership at the top I think is what started to move the needle.
Excellent.
All right thanks both of you.
I think it would be really helpful if maybe you could take us through a little bit more detail on how you achieved the reduction in the RWA even as the assets went up because this mitigation thing is so important I think for us to understand.
It's really -- as I described we built up the team that focusing on RWA optimization.
And so the combination of business mix as well as analytics as well as looking at changes in collateral has just yielded benefits which one can candidly say "It would have been nice to have had sooner " but we're pleased to have put the resources behind it to identify it.
And these are Basel I improvements.
I don't want to leave you with the notion that it necessarily rolls forward to Basel III.
Some of them we give up again in Basel II.
And that's why I made the point that we're using the same approach to make sure that we're capturing all opportunities now in Basel I but we're going to move this to 2.5 and III.
So when I look to our Basel III guidance it stays very much the same.
I wouldn't want to leave you with the suggestion you can build off of that.
Got it.
But it sounds like you are trying to identify opportunities to further this even on a Basel I basis and achieve more on a Basel III basis than maybe what you would have thought a few months ago you could do.
Or is that not fair? Well no that's very fair.
The Basel III numbers that we talked about previously kind of inflation passive mitigation net up 140 $140 billion.
We still think it's an appropriate way to look at it.
We don't have any change to our earlier guidance of $480 billion of risk-weighted assets under Basel III.
However very much to your point we intend to take the same focus apply it to 2.5 and III.
And in addition there are opportunities on active mitigation.
But at this point there are 2 steps which is let's take this forward to 2.5 and III see what else it yields and then see what we want to do beyond that.
Okay then that's very helpful.
Thank you.
I was also hoping that maybe you could give us a little bit more color on the other sales and trading loss which you refer to as being related to some of the economic hedges I guess one on the corporation's balance sheet.
I'm not sure that I understand it.
And obviously the losses are significant enough that it would be helpful to understand if those could -- if those are going to be mitigated ahead or how we should model that.
Sure.
So as we've discussed previously this line item is volatile.
And it unfortunately is difficult to model because it includes a number of different items in it.
So for example we have amortizing hedges from debt we bought back in 2008 and 2009 in there current long-term debt hedging program our U.S.
bank liquidity portfolio leveraged loans and relationship lending.
And so while we have negative in this line item there are often also positive offsets.
And that's what we had last quarter we had some positive offsets.
Unfortunately this quarter the items all went the wrong way.
And that's the negative.
That's the drag.
Okay thanks for that.
And then the final question that I have is on equity because obviously you've had a very very successful result in the quarter.
And I guess the question that we have to ask ourselves is how much of this is really sort of permanent no permanent is never the right word but sustainable improvement from some of the footprint improvements that you've had and the like? And to what extent might you just have had a very favorable outcome from volatility-related equity derivatives trading? Can you help us with that at all just so we don't overestimate what you might be able to achieve in the quarters ahead? Yes absolutely.
We are very pleased with the performance.
And I think you've hit the 2 issues.
First and foremost we have a terrific team around the globe.
This is really -- the strength is broad based.
It's across products.
It's across geographies and it is about very strong team.
Cash equities was very strong; derivatives as well; prime brokerage as I noted.
So I think it starts with the team and the stronger presence in front of clients that they're executing extremely well.
We certainly also benefited as you noted from a constructive market.
So for example in derivatives we certainly benefited from the market but it was the team with the backdrop of constructive market they executed well against it.
Okay thanks for that and thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
All my questions are on the MUFG conversion.
I just wanted to clarify some maybe some simple things.
So you eliminate $784 million in dividends.
That's a $0.53 pickup once you do that.
Is that correct? So that's kind of in the bag? I'm going to count on you doing the math right the $784 million of dividends.
Preferred dividends to clarify.
Right.
So I'm just trying to understand how I would adjust my normalized estimates.
So if my normalized number is $4 or $5 or $6 let's use $4 for the moment.
So the increase in shares outstanding would be diluted by 1/4 which would take the $4 number down to $3.
Then you'd add back that $0.53 and then normalized earnings power would be $3.53 not the $4.
So it seems like normalized earnings would go down.
And I want you to correct my logic.
On the other hand you have a mid-teen to ROE target.
If you maintained that ROE target on a higher capital base that would imply a higher normalized number.
So if you could help me see my way through that.
So you've got a number of components to it.
I'm going to address some of them and then we'll just follow up on some of the math after the call.
Because this conversion we've been focused on getting the conversion done and you're going into some of the numbers that I don't have in front of me.
So you're right on the $784 million of preferred dividends.
As I indicated we're paying a premium with the incremental 75 million shares so the total common shares up 385 million.
As we look at it with respect to -- and so we'll come back to you on the earnings.
What you're asking about ROE and really driving ROE on the strong capital base we remain very comfortable with our mid-teens target over the cycle and come at it a number of different ways.
Starts with our revenue mix and the right revenue mix globally.
We think we're very well positioned for a changing regulatory environment and we're executing across the businesses and geographies.
And you see that I think quite clearly in the results here this quarter.
So revenue upside in Institutional Securities driving equities further based on the strengths that we've just talked about.
And on fixed income as we've talked about in the past we're very focused on the initial closing the gap of 2% market share points and the benefit that that actually drives to the bottom line.
Investment Banking is at a cyclical low given the strength of our Investment Banking franchise.
We view that as a real positive.
And obviously there's a flow-through to other businesses from the new issue business that comes out of the Investment Banking franchise.
There's the upside from GWM as we drive our PBT margin to the 20% target we've talked about in the past.
The expense management program that we've talked about is incremental operating leverage.
And then finally at some point back to one of the prior questions capital management's an added lift.
So that's how we look to the ROE and we'll come back to you on some of the builds.
And then maybe -- you get $7.8 billion of additional common equity if that's correct.
So your tangible common would go up 19% but your shares outstanding would go up by 25%.
Am I doing the math correct and if I am why is so much more in the shares than the increase in the common? We also have the incremental premium that we're paying which is a deduct.
So that as I noted will be a charge of about $2 billion based on yesterday's closing price.
And when you gave the pro forma tangible book value of $25.78 does that include that $2 billion charge? Yes that's fully loaded.
All right thank you.
Just a couple more on MUFG.
I guess one can you help us think about -- and you talked about the larger sort of strategic benefit of the relationship and maybe just put into context some of the benefits that you've gotten out of that partnership so far? I'm just thinking of can we look at this in a some sort of cumulative context? And have there been any meaningful profits? Firstly on a pure financial basis the investment that MUFG made during the financial crisis was obviously critical to repositioning us.
The contribution to the various equity raises has also been critical and we put in place a number of different business initiatives around the world.
One of them was the formation of these double joint ventures in Japan.
And while we have clearly had a stumble in the trading book on the fixed-income side of the business that they've been running the long-term opportunity the strategic opportunity in Japan giving us access to the retail market which is a very large portion of the market there for distribution of our institutional product and putting Morgan Stanley in a position to take Japanese corporates outside of Japan for their M&amp;A and capital raising needs is a very compelling sort of strategic objective.
Secondly we have worked with MUFG and Bank of Tokyo subsidiary to bring them into a number of client relationships where we're leveraging the combined balance sheet of both institutions.
And I think the number -- I forget the exact number but we're up over the 50 to 60 instances where we've done that.
They did their first sub-investment grade deal with us.
So there are number of opportunities for them to do that.
Thirdly as we look at various smaller emerging markets around the world where they have a presence and capability we might want to build the infrastructure.
We're looking at ways where we can leverage their infrastructure.
And then finally in the United States they have operations here in both retail and commercial banking.
So it's a very broad-based partnership.
And again obviously it's stumbled but the evidence of the strength of the partnership this truly moving investment here that they've made and repositions us in lots of ways.
Okay that's helpful.
And then just thinking about the premium you're paying to convert to preferred early kind of paying the next couple of years of the preferred dividend.
And is it just the certainty of having the common equity contribution today as opposed to not sure whether the stock price is at the conversion point 2 years from now and there might still be a cost then? Have you had to negotiate something? Yes I'm going to let Ruth she can take you through the mechanics.
The bottom line here is what we have spent the last couple of years doing is clearing up a number of uncertainties that impact our future and this was frankly #1 on my list for this year.
And we had a window of opportunity here to get this off the list and obviously we had to pay premium.
We think it's a fair and balanced -- Ruth will take you through them.
So to that point the security is not callable by its terms which is customary for this type of security.
And so we and they value the security with all relevant factors share price discount rate volatility led to what we think is a fair outcome.
And it really goes to James' point which is this creates certainty which we believe really drives additional benefits for clients and all of our stakeholders.
And I just like to say not to overstate this.
But getting this done in this timeframe with all the Japanese partners are dealing with in Tokyo now is a measure of the strength of the partnership that they were willing to focus on this that the CEO and board level and our board level to get this done.
I appreciate that.
Last question in terms of your positioning sort of post-Dodd-Frank Basel III sort of final clarity and how you might be thinking about any response to that from a resizing perspective.
I think a lot of dealers have to kind of go through this process.
My question for you is because you've been sort of in a rebuilding process is it fair to assume that you kind of had some aspect of this outcome in mind and that your restaffing has been focused in businesses that likely have sort of brighter futures than others and then ultimately there may be less of a headcount challenge for you than maybe some of your competitors? I think you framed it well.
The focus is very much for us a client-centric flow business and that plays into much of the direction of much of the regulation.
I think when you talk about some of the areas like derivatives clearly there's a lot still to be done with respect to derivatives legislation.
And we do want to -- we are focused on the need to ensure that U.S.
institutions broadly aren't disadvantaged relative to global for other firms or European firms.
But when you think about Morgan Stanley I think there are ways that we are relatively advantaged versus peers.
And we've talked about that in the past the ability for us to move derivatives into the bank the fact that the focus really is on client service and research support for our client then it's giving us an opportunity here with our technology and connectivity leveraging off we're doing in for example foreign exchange and PB to set ourselves up well for this new world.
So we do feel that in many ways the market is going the direction that we're going.
We still are somewhat smaller in fixed income on headcount and so that very much to your point is beneficial given where the market's going.
Okay thanks for the color.
Ruth last quarter you gave some details on the Wealth Management business.
Just in terms of some of the factors that can push the margin up over time more environmental and then there was also a portion that's more what Morgan Stanley can do in terms of consolidating platforms realizing some of the additional synergies.
So just wanted to focus on that portion.
From a timing standpoint are we still looking at -- I think you guys are saying like the beginning of 2012 but I just wanted to make sure like any update on the synergy the consolidation on what you guys can control versus the environment? So the 3 pillars as I call it that drive margin expansion first as you just referenced completion of the integration and the synergies that come from having integrated the various platforms.
We are moving the Morgan Stanley FAs onto this platform by the end of the third quarter where they'll be training up the Smith Barney FAs.
They move on in the first half of 2012.
So that's a very important part of this integration timeline.
The second part and very important is building up the private banking business because that as we've talked about in the past is where we build our noncompensable revenues.
And that we are systematically building.
We had 160 bankers at the end of the year.
We have 178 at the end of the first quarter which is ahead of our what was our major target of 180 and we're looking to add about 30 a year.
So this is a slow steady build to make sure we're providing the right client experience the right risk management the right -- full infrastructure around it.
But that's an important part and that will take time to build to the point where it really moves the needle.
And then to your point the third part which we don't control but I did reference in the opening comments is the backdrop the 100 basis points movement in equity the point on our PBT margin.
And fed funds we're focused on because they're down from 19 basis points in the fourth quarter to 10 basis points here as we're going into the second quarter second quarter to date.
And every 50 basis points in fed funds is about 1 point on PBT margin.
We look forward to that turning around.
And then just to follow up on the ROE.
You gave a few points I think on one of the last questions just in terms of getting the ROE up over time.
So I think you mentioned like 5 areas so overall activity levels which we'll see anyone can predict.
You guys have the target in the Global Wealth Management business in terms of the improvement in the margin so we can gauge that and size that opportunity.
So I guess in terms of the 2 others or maybe 3 others like the size of a trading opportunity in terms of punching at your weight or getting it to a level that's a better run rate.
And then just on the cost side I guess on those 2 areas when you look at the ROE and the impact of those businesses or those new initiatives have is there any way to size that up? And not like next quarter or the quarter after but over the next year or 2 in terms of how much that can contribute? Well I'll give you a couple of data points to use to size it up and then look forward to reading how you write it up.
But within the fixed income side we're targeting an initial 2% wallet share growth and that's steady consistent.
I think what you're seeing in the results this quarter give us confidence that you're seeing that borne out through the P&amp;L but that's a 2% upside.
2% market share upside is an important first metric that we are looking at in managing too.
And then with respect to the cost program I mentioned the office of reengineering under our COO that was announced early this year.
He is targeting and identified a $1 billion of run rate expenses to come out of the business.
That is a 3-year reengineering effort.
He has identified a number of different areas but it does take time when you're doing substantive reengineering in that regard.
Okay thanks a lot.
Inc.</strong> Just to follow up on the JV.
I understand that this was an unusual quarter but you were losing money in the JV over the prior 9 months and understandably it's got some strategic value.
But how do we think about it -- how do you guys evaluate that longer term? Is there really value to be had there particularly when you're giving up risk management? Is it sort of worth the effort? Well firstly there are 2 businesses there.
So the JV has 2 businesses and one of them certainly has been making money.
But secondly it's in its early stages.
It was only formed in May.
We have a lot of things that are going on in discussions about restructuring that particular business which MUFG is going through and Ruth talked about.
And we believe there are other potential synergies across both of those businesses for reducing the cost base in the infrastructure.
So yes from a cost perspective we think it can be more efficient.
From a risk management perspective they're putting in place a number of changes at the leadership and the process level.
And from a cost strategic perspective to have access to the Japan retail market and have access to taking Japanese corporates globally is a major strategic move for us that we're frankly continue to be as excited as we were when we started.
This is a stumble.
We're disappointed with it.
They're disappointed with it.
They're putting in place the appropriate changes but it's not something that's going to knock us off sort of 10-year vision for our business in Japan.
Inc.</strong> So you see a pretty reasonable path to profitability there is basically what you're saying.
Yes in time.
But as you know obviously the Japanese markets have been under pressure and it's going to take some time to align the cost bases of the these businesses where we have combined in that market.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
And Ruth on the risk-weighted assets you still targeting $480 billion under Basel III.
That's inclusive of the mitigation right of about $100 billion I think is the numbers.
And then how do we think about -- you had mitigation on Basel I.
Was I guess I'll ask it again was there any kind of mitigation related to Basel III yet? Or is that still to come and you still expect that to come? So on Basel III we're still guiding agents still for now look at $480 billion net of passive mitigation.
So as I said we're not giving ourselves credit at this point for the Basel I RWA mitigation rolling through the Basel 2.5 and III but we do intend to use that same focus as we look at 2.5 and III.
So if you just hold to where we were previously we'll continue to give you updates.
That includes only passive mitigation.
There are obviously other things that are quite logical like tariffs and potentially benefits from central clearing.
But I think the other point is that in our prior guidance on Basel III we were talking about 8% to 10% Tier 1 common by the end of 2012 with consensus earnings and the various other things we've talked about.
The 10% number was contingent on the conversion of the MUFG convertible preferred which we obviously now address today.
So that's the only real update on that topic.
Inc.</strong> But none of the passive mitigation has come through yet? No on behalf of III no.
Inc.</strong> Okay thanks.
And last itty-bitty question.
Did you mention the dollar amount of the hedging loss for MBIA exposure or no? The overall P&amp;L impact was $318 million this quarter.
Inc.</strong> Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you very much.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! [Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Howard Chen with Crédit Suisse.
James you noted you didn't believe you were garnering much attention for the MUFG conversion.
I guess in that context given your capital levels appear well above Basel targets how are you prioritizing capital management here? I know you've mentioned in your past your desire to buy-in the first stake at Smith Barney but given where the stock is trading below tangible book and you're checking these priorities off the list does it make sense at all to you to shift focus here on maybe repurchasing shares? Well firstly Howard I think about this 2 chapters.
The first chapter is to build ourselves into a fortress position where we have the capital at the levels that we should have capital.
That's been our focus not just with the MUFG conversion in this quarter.
Obviously it's a mandatory conversion with the CIC last August and with the various accretive quarters that we've had in between.
So game #1 was put ourselves in a position of strength so that we do have options.
Clearly with the stock trading where it is we're not stupid.
We evaluate those options on a continuous basis.
We have with Smith Barney the ability to purchase the next 14% in May of 2012.
So approximately 12 months from now is the first opportunity but it is an open-ended option.
We don't have to move at that date if obviously we felt that there was a better use of capital at that point in time.
That's something that we constantly evaluate Ruth and I and the management here talk about all the time.
We do intend to run the Smith Barney business.
But we built flexibility into the negotiation when we purchased this back in early '09 for exactly this kind of purpose.
So Ruth may want to add on that broader capital planning but we are focused on both long-term strategic intent and short-term optimization of our capital structure.
Okay.
And shifting gears.
We can see the progress in the Institutional Securities business.
But with that VAR trended higher while most of your peers went in the opposite direction.
Is that simply a function of the rebuild of the sales and trading efforts or do you think there's other factors that impacted VAR? And should we expect that to continue? No I think you framed it well in your question.
We have been on the view that we can increase market share by about 2% initially and continue to build from there.
And really what we're doing is building share back to levels where it was historically back to where it was when Kenny was running the business previously more in line with business our other businesses.
And so we're gaining traction with clients.
I think we're seeing that.
Third-party surveys are underscoring that.
And with respect to VAR we're basically running at levels we have historically.
And I think notably we ended the first quarter at VAR pretty close to these levels saw strength continuing with clients throughout the quarter.
It did come down at the end of the quarter.
In fact end-of-quarter VAR was 129 because we really saw clients starting to back away from the markets with the ongoing uncertainty in particular in Europe.
But this is very much I think a continuation of building up the franchise.
Okay.
And then just on Europe Ruth could you just update us on gross and net exposures related to peripheral Europe? And how you're thinking in managing risks specific to that region? Absolutely.
So EMEA obviously is an important market for us and we've been focused on managing our exposures in the periphery for quite some time.
The net funded exposure to the peripherals Greece Ireland Portugal Italy and Spain is about $2 billion.
This includes exposure to sovereigns corporates and financial institutions.
It does exclude the benefit of any peripheral sovereign collateral and hedges purchased from peripheral banks against peripheral risk.
And our gross exposure's about $5 billion.
Both net and gross exposures exclude unfunded loans and any overnight deposits and we'll have more details on all of this in the Q.
First of all good for you for turning around the MBA hedge.
But let's exclude last quarter's loss and this quarter's gain and let's exclude DVA.
If you look at SIC [ph] I think it was down a little bit more quarter-on-quarter and year-on-year versus the peer group obviously better than Goldman but a little less than the peer group.
I heard the opening comments about connectivity in some of the surveys.
Just the thought process as we're going on 2 years in in terms of revenue ramp relative to peers.
And I say it relative to peers because obviously it's a tough market.
So just the thought process on what to expect there as you continue to build out and are you done building out now? So a couple of things.
First overall fixed income and commodities performance was very much affected as I noted by the activity in the commodities market.
We have a strong team in commodities.
It's historically been a very strong business for us but was down meaningfully relative to last quarter and relative to prior periods.
And as we've talked about in the past our commodities business is really a mix of 2 businesses structured solutions for clients and flows.
And usually that diversification helps us but both were weak in the second quarter.
And so we had the results was trading was lower.
And the clients' side the lack of trending volatility prevented consumers and producers to commit to hedging.
So revenues while positive were down quite significantly quarter-over-quarter.
And the lower levels in commodity really masked we think the relative progress across the balance of the fixed income franchise.
So we're continuing to do what we've talked about in the past.
We're focused on consistent progress.
We said it would take some time to continue to build up our share in fixed income but are pleased with the progress we're making.
And the hiring we did is I think a core part of it.
We have the team in place and they're continuing to focus on driving share.
I just want to add Glenn I just want to add something to that and I've said this before.
Leadership really matters in these businesses.
And I think Kenny is doing a terrific job.
We're fortunate to have somebody that experienced coming back into that role.
And the team around him we really have a team on the field now that can get this job done.
But it takes some time.
The SRM program we've built up the connectivity that we're seeing through the surveys the integration with TIPIC [ph] and the team in equities is very important and it's a series of small steps.
Well I definitely appreciate that.
It sounds like rates and FX were actually up quarter-on-quarter given the beat down on commodities.
So that is the progress because I don't think the markets were.
Actually the rates business is up first half over first half.
It was down off of what was a very strong first quarter.
But we're overall very pleased with the performance across our desks.
Okay I appreciate that.
And then in Wealth Management obviously tough markets and low rates.
You can only do so much.
But can you update us specifically on the systems conversion side and where we're at in both what needs to get done? What's gotten done? And then what that can produce in cost saves? We've talked for a very long time about the platform being completed built by the third quarter of 2011 and moving all of the Morgan Stanley financial advisors onto the platform by the end of the third quarter of '11.
And here we are in the third quarter and we're very much on track for that so pleased with that.
The next step is training the Smith Barney financial advisers moving them on to the platform.
That will begin at the end of this quarter and goes through mid-next year and so very much on track with the integration.
We're continuing to spend.
It was I think $98 million integration spend this quarter.
But to your question one of the key elements to increasing profitability across Morgan Stanley Smith Barney is completion of the integration and this is a very important milestone.
I just want to -- Glenn on this the way I think about it is every month that we go through this integration is a month that we're not spending in the future.
In other words we're one step closer.
And at the same time Greg Fleming Jim Rosenthal and the team working on the integration with Baricocoin [ph] are looking at beyond the Smith Barney piece which occurs as Ruth said early middle part of next year.
What else we really need to do to get ourselves faster to the finish line? So we've taken aggressive relook at the back end of some of the integration steps.
Just wanted to follow up on the Wealth Management.
So the margin was down linked quarter but it would have gone up from 10% to 11% if not for the FDIC charge is that correct? The FDIC charge was incremental.
We had number of ins and outs with the business.
But as I indicated the FDIC charge we believe is fully going away this quarter.
All right.
So all things considered the margin in the third quarter should be 11%? No we also had the sale out the incremental gain I noted in the other line which was sale out of the AFS portfolio.
So as I indicated we had a number of ups and downs.
And we're adding on top of that real focus on expense management to continue to drive it forward but I'm not going to put a number out there now.
Okay.
And then the net inflows to Wealth Management it wasn't a whole lot relative to the $1.7 trillion of assets at least compared to say some of the pure-play brokers the online players like Ameritrade Schwab even E*TRADE had higher inflows.
Now you've turned it around but when do you think we'll see more substantive inflows? Well you hit the right point which is when we look year-over-year we're very pleased with going from some meaningful outflow second quarter of last year to inflows this year.
And we are continuing to see that kind of progress that's affecting our overall flows in the business.
The other point I made is that we're quite focused on managed money given what that does for our clients and for the business.
And that's a helpful added boost to overall performance in Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.
And then lastly as it relates to expense control for Wealth Management or for the firm as a whole I might have missed this but what are your overall targets to improve any measure of expenses or efficiency? We think of really the expense management as a 3-legged stool.
There's the tactical expense management which we continue to do and as James just noted was were very focused across our businesses.
But in particular Greg is really pushing hard within Morgan Stanley Smith Barney to help drive margin.
There is the office of reengineering that we've spoken about previously which is really stepping back from some of the more tactical cost-cutting initiatives and looking at what broader changes we can make in the way we're addressing spend.
For example more meaningful looks at what we're doing in technology where can things be outsourced more efficiently what can we do on legal entity structure a whole host of initiatives that we've identified built-up bottoms-up to the office of reengineering and established $1 billion run rate savings over 3 years coming from that leg of the stool.
And then we're very focused on headcount.
So as I indicated previously in the year making sure that we're quite focused on reducing in particular underperformers.
As I noted our headcount was down amongst FAs in Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.
We're having that same kind of discipline across the business.
And obviously that's not just compensation expense but every employee has a multiplier effect with them.
They're in the building they use data there are a whole host of things that go along with it.
So that kind of control over headcount it's really those 3 that drive will drive noncomp and comp control.
All right.
Can I just go back to your question on flows? Because we're kind of an inflection point here in the industry.
You're right in the observation against the online players.
The full-service firms typically have much larger outflows in the second quarter because of tax season.
But a more sort of strategic issue is what is the quality of the assets? And I've noticed at least one of our competitors has stopped reporting net new money.
What really matters is the net new annuitized money and the revenue that you generate on annuitized assets versus transaction assets.
So that will be an increasing part of the conversation going forward.
Maybe on the trading side and I guess particularly on equities but even on the fixed income side when we look at rates FX and credit.
Year-over-year last -- or second quarter is pretty challenging as well.
But when you look at since you made those investments it's always hard we all compare revenues across the businesses and across the peers.
But in terms of market share can you dig down and provide any detail on product levels in terms of where you've gone or where you come from? And then where you see additional opportunities? Well starting with equities.
I think there's a lot of -- it's the best reported quarter since 2008.
And that really was with broad strength and with the backdrop of anemic industry volumes.
So the data we've looked at underscores that we're gaining share really across the globe.
And I think it's really a testament to the great job the team is doing.
But we saw improvement in our prime brokerage franchise.
We continued to see strength again across products in a challenging market but it really goes to the strength of the franchise.
Our Delta One business although revenues were lower in line with the decline on industry volumes what we're seeing is share is up.
And similarly in our Derivatives business we're seeing strong client flows.
So it is I think is evidenced by the numbers.
They speak for themselves.
In terms of share we're doing well across the board.
And in fixed income again what we're seeing is greater activity greater flow.
The data that we've looked at goes more to some of the qualitative factors.
We're having greater traction with clients.
They're turning to us more.
And again I think what you'll see when everyone reports is it will be our best way to have a proxy for what overall is the share.
We've targeted 2% market share growth.
And the way we measure our progress is we look at the top 9 players globally and just take our revenues relative to the entire pool.
And we look forward to the rest of our peers reporting so we can try and quantify that answer.
Okay.
And then just as a follow-up earlier this year you discussed the reengineering or the cost initiatives over the next 3 years and targeting around $1 billion.
And when I think about the industry we're seeing quite a few banks brokers kind of go down the same path.
Some are taking a faster approach like may be in the next 6 months in the next 12 months.
And so I guess when you look at the macro headwinds the regulatory pressures one is do you feel that's enough? And two is are there any businesses within Morgan Stanley that you feel like given the regulatory changes and the pressures can be done better or can compete better on its own with other pure plays? So strategically we think the portfolio of businesses we have is a potent combination.
And we have exited a number of businesses and as you've seen over the last couple of years.
And we're very focused on the kind of the symbiotic nature between what we're doing on the institutional origination and distribution side on the one hand and retail distribution on the other.
And within Institutional Securities the ability to deliver across products for our clients.
So I would say on that we're very pleased with the portfolio of businesses we have.
And within our Investment Management business we see opportunity for growth given the performance of across a lot of the funds and the power of this brand around the globe.
So as it really goes to the second part of your question or maybe it was the first part of your question what else can we be doing with respect to our cost structure? We have 3 legs of the stool.
We're very focused on each one of those legs the tactical expense the strategic through the office of reengineering and headcount and making sure we're doing what we can to drive returns across the business.
I would say as an example in sales and trading when we announced our hiring program over a year and a half ago we were very careful to point out that we were looking to hire to narrow the gap to our peers but not to close the gap to our peers.
In fact back then we talked about having headcount that was maybe 20% to 25% lower than our peers with the view that they would come down to us rather than us going fully up to them.
And so what we're very pleased about is we have a strong cohesive team that's making progress on our market share goals.
And I think that's part of the reason you're not hearing comments like that from us because we never we didn't close that gap fully.
I was wondering first of all if you would have an estimate of your pro forma Basel III basis core Tier 1 ratio at the end of the second quarter? So Tier 1 common would be around 6.5% to 7% under Basel III at the end of the second quarter the range really being depending on the treatment of the MSSB NCI of $4.3 billion.
And of course that's looking at our balance sheet as of the second quarter.
There's no benefit for any mitigation that -- past mitigation or anything that would roll off over time.
Got it.
And are you still estimating about the same sort of RWA inflation and mitigation that you had talked about potentially in the past? No real change there? No real change.
We're comfortable with the prior guidance of about $480 billion risk-weighted assets by year-end 2012.
Okay that's helpful.
Back to GWM.
I'm just trying to envision what we should really be looking for in terms of how the expense dollars might evolve.
As you complete the systems integration first of the legacy Morgan Stanley folks and then the legacy Smith Barney people for the next 12 months how will we see that really manifested in the P&amp;L? So the integration spend has been running at about 80 to 100 a quarter.
And we will continue -- we've finished the technology platform this quarter and moved the Morgan Stanley FAs over as I said.
But we are continuing to spend as we go through the training of the Smith Barney FAs and running in parallel to ensure data quality data integrity through kind of mid-next year.
And so you really start seeing the benefit of the integration spend rolling off more towards the back half of next year.
Got it.
And is all of that captured in the I think you said $98 million type of numbers that you've been telling us each quarter? Is it integration or it's more than that? Yes that's the integration spend.
Okay.
So that's what we should expect to see go away but not any other costs of supporting legacy systems that somehow aren't captured in that? So to be clear as I said it starts rolling off because we continue to do -- we get the Smith Barney FAs moved on on the second half of -- or at the end of the first half of next year.
And then we have incremental work with the Morgan Stanley Private Wealth Management system but it's rolling down through next year.
Got it.
And then final...
There is another aspect to it which we have not quantified but clearly is going to be a focus.
Once you integrate the systems you're putting 800 branches all on the same system.
That means all the branch office infrastructure is now coordinated.
So where we have capacity utilization issues say you have 2 offices in one regional city a couple of miles from each other we can't move those people yet.
We can't consolidate the infrastructure.
We can't get rid of dead real estate because they're in different systems.
They'd be moving to an office they might be on the wrong system and all their clients' records cost bases on accounts and some would be gone.
So once the integration is done we have a lot more flexibility as to how you manage across those 800 branches.
Right.
Yes I kind of thought there had to be more somehow.
And does that include the fact that even at the branch level you might have what that then will be sort of redundant systems and operations folks? I mean again we haven't quantified that.
But that will be the work that gets done once you're all on one platform.
Got it.
Final question that I have relates to the monolines and how those positive revenues this quarter negative last quarter related to the -- the actual underlying positions that those things were put in place to hedge I mean I've had some discussions with clients this morning about should you back that out or add it back in the first quarter? And I guess to me what's really relevant is to what extent did that revenue actually or positively to offset losses in what was clearly a very difficult distressed mortgage-type environment.
Can you give us a little color for how to think about the 470 in that context? Sure.
So we adjusted -- we obviously adjusted the hedges.
If we had not adjusted the hedges we would have had losses again this quarter.
And so the risk management around this was an important part of the story and the outcome.
I think more broadly within our Securitization business if you're asking about mortgages that is consistently a very strong business for us.
We traded and risk managed well in what was a difficult market.
We were off from a very strong first quarter that was driven by client demand but still had good performance in that business and are really pleased with the work the team did in what was a challenging market.
Got it.
And maybe just a little more color then on what kind of adjustments you made to the monoline hedge to get a better outcome? So as we've said in the past we constantly evaluate the position and adjust the hedges.
And we'll continue look at the position and assess where we think it's best to be and where we kind of where we think the position of the markets will be.
One of your competitors earlier this week had mentioned that Europe and Asia were particularly weak.
And if we look at your results obviously we saw that in Europe but did not see that in Asia.
Asia was actually very very strong for you guys.
Can you give us some color and context around what drove that significant performance this quarter? Well overall we have a very strong business in Asia across Sales and Trading Banking.
I think one of the points though to focus on quarter-over-quarter is we did have the loss in MUMMS at our MUMSS joint venture last quarter.
So when you normalize through that we're basically in line.
But I guess again it goes -- the strength that we saw is because of cost of the businesses Sales and Trading and Investment Banking.
Europe was strong in our equity underwriting area as I noted large rights issues and IPOs.
But fundamentally it was a tougher market in Europe with the backdrop of the European sovereign crisis.
Okay that's helpful.
And then I guess going back to equities.
Obviously a very strong quarter for you guys and you guys were the only ones that were up quarter-over-quarter versus your peers.
And I know you mentioned volatility I know you mentioned prime brokerage but can you give us any additional color as to what really helped to drive that? I think the strength of it as I've already noted was that we had breadth across products and around the globe.
And so that's an important part of the franchise.
I'd say on our Prime Brokerage business the revenues were up meaningfully versus the prior quarter.
But as I noted balances were up only modestly.
And what we're really focused on within Prime Brokerage is the adjacencies across the equity franchise.
So we think that's again this notion of connecting the dots across the business and the benefit of really leveraging what we have across Morgan Stanley and you see that in these numbers because even in a market with lower industry volumes and cash equities our business is continuing to do well.
I guess I wanted to come back -- a couple of issues have been brought up.
First on capital.
I guess when you reiterated I guess what you said in the past but if you are going to be at a roughly 10% Tier 1 common ratio under Basel III wondering what -- how you think about what level you wanted -- would actually want to run at relative to the SIFI buffer assuming let's say you're 9%? Would you look to run at a buffer 100 basis points or so to that? And do you think it's important to be there immediately? Or other firms have suggested they might lag into it.
And I ask that in the context of whatever decision you may want to make around the next Smith Barney purchase opportunity.
So it's obviously a topic that's in flux.
But the way we think about it is we expect our to SIFI buffer will be around 2% based on the guidance we've heard.
We are hoping we get some final clarity resolution by year end.
And our view is that although there are theoretical kind of phase-in through 2019 from everything we've seen so far we think the market will expect us to be at those types of levels much sooner than the kind of 2019 Basel grid.
And so we're looking to run closer to that number sooner.
And our expectation is that with much higher capital levels not only has the required percentage changed but obviously both the quality of capital and the calculation of risk-weighted assets is different so it's meaningfully higher which means that our buffer on that number appropriately could run at a lower level at about 50 or 100 basis points.
I think we're still trying to assess what level's appropriate.
But I think the added factor as we think about it and very much to James' point is we continue to operate in a very uncertain environment.
The macro backdrop is uncertain.
And we think that having this type of very strong capital position does give us some flexibility which is important.
Strong capital and strong liquidity really provide a kind of fortress foundation and it give us the flexibility as we get greater clarity on what is the SIFI buffer what is the phase-in to then assess what's the best next step and the most optimized views of that capital to drive returns.
Okay.
And then as it relates to all of that and in Smith Barney.
Is it if you by the -- if you do buy the next 14% next year does the impact to Tier 1 capital ratio under Basel III actually -- is it fair to say that's probably a bigger increase than what the cost of that piece would be? In other words there is a revaluation of what's remaining that would drive RWA up as well? No I think what we're most focused on is -- what's an appropriate price is in the best interest of our shareholders and that's really the factor that would drive what's the adjustment to book value.
It's not really an RWA kind of an RWA concept as much.
Okay all right.
And then I wanted to just ask separately on coming back to VAR.
The increase I guess the rates and the credits were up about 25% sequentially.
And I just wanted to square that with the there's the commentary around client close being lower sequentially.
Were there more concentrated positions you built around your risk book during the quarter? So our VAR was overall in line with where we've been running it for the as I noted for kind of since fourth quarter '09.
And similarly in the credit rates line you'll see the same kind of trend.
I think what's notable is at the end of the first quarter we were running with VAR above $134 million.
And the average this quarter was up some from that but came down at the end of the quarter.
And so our ending number was $129 million.
Why? Because it was really towards the end of the quarter really in June we started seeing more concern amongst investors with the ongoing issues in particular in Europe.
So we had good activity.
And I think our view very much across the franchise is that what clients expect of us is content with a point of view and that we put balance sheet and risk around that to facilitate trading where it makes sense.
And I think in particular in times like this they're looking for a point of view and that's what our team is very much focused on.
So the volumes that you saw coming off of the first quarter persisted for a good part of the second quarter and then came down towards the end of the second quarter.
Okay.
And then just last question.
On commodities specifically that VAR came down.
I guess 2 questions.
One was commodities actually positive in the quarter? And secondly was that a business that you pulled back on in terms of capital deployment or that was just not getting knocked around a lot? Revenues were positive.
And this was something where again it was business leaders' view based on activity they were seeing with clients which was quite muted given the -- what was going on in the broad markets.
Everyone basically stepped away from that market.
So on the flow side as I noted given the dramatic swings that were going on in particular in oil energy were strong.
It really drove a lot of the activity to the sidelines.
And similarly there wasn't much on the hedging side given what was going on in the market.
So this was very client-driven less activity really stepping back from the market after what transpired throughout the quarter.
Thank you so much for joining us for our call and we look forward to speaking to you again in October.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! [Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Guy Moszkowski with Bank of America.
Research Division</strong> I had a question for you about debt repurchases that I think you did during the quarter maybe you can give us a sense for amounts timing how you think about that repurchase activity as part of your kind of long-term capital management plans.
Then I have a couple of follow-ups.
So as I noted the amount we did buy debt throughout the quarter.
In particular as spreads widened we bought debt towards the end of the quarter.
We thought it was a profitable smart move to make.
Just for your reference the debt buyback is reflected in the other revenues line just so you know where to find it.
And I think our view is again it's about prudently managing the liquidity portfolio.
So we were early focused on those maturities that in particular are caught in that 12-month period of time but as spreads widened it's just a wise prudent move to make not just continuing to act appropriately as a market maker but the right answer for our shareholders.
And so I think we'll continue to monitor it and do what's in the best interest depending on where the market is.
Research Division</strong> Is it ever possible to include in that debt repurchase significant amounts of the structured products that give rise to the DVA? Or have you thought about anything else you could try to do to do some -- put on some hedges or something now to try to lock in some of these very significant gains? Well 2 parts to your question.
One we do buyback structured notes.
That's reflected in the overall debt repurchase number that I gave you.
And with respect to hedging we don't hedge DVA the noncash item and we don't hedge to manage an accounting result.
Our view is it's not worth the expense and we really run the business based on economics.
But we do as a regular matter buy some of it back throughout the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fair.
Maybe you can -- I don't know if you've got the numbers that you'll use in the Q for the monoline CBA in terms of the gross counterparty exposure the CBA adjustments and the counterparty hedges there.
If you have those at this point they would be useful.
So the monoline number is $284 million.
I think I gave that.
And that obviously CBA is included in monolines but there's more in that number as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Maybe I'll just follow up with you off-line just to sort of see if we can update the 10-Q disclosures without having to wait for those to come out.
And then I guess the final question I have is on GWM.
You talked about the fact that you had $90 million of the restructuring costs still in there and yet it certainly looks like you're capturing some significant reductions in costs especially on the non-personnel side relative to what we've seen.
Are we starting to see some benefit from moving on to the new systems and being able to stop supporting some of the legacy stuff? Or is that something else going on? We are pleased with the progress on the integration having completed the platform moved to Morgan Stanley FAs onto the platform and the success we have with it and benefits has been another way.
We're able to move the Smith Barney FAs on to that platform earlier next year than we have previously anticipated which is helpful.
Part of the margin benefit this quarter as I noted came from the lower FDIC fee than we had previously expected coming from the Citi side.
But very much to your question Greg Fleming is very focused on expense -- disciplined expense management.
And that is a core part of what he's continuing to focus on with the team.
It's reflected in a number of different ways but one example that I gave was the reduction in FAs.
And what he's focused on is reducing the lower-productivity FAs and that brings with it some incremental cost savings as well.
So yes the core part is expense discipline.
Research Division</strong> And let me ask a capital management question finally that kind of ties in with MSSB as well.
Obviously you have approval from the Fed to purchase Citi's remaining stake in the JV.
And your current capital ratios are all certainly very strong in all the relevant measures but your stock is so cheap.
I just wonder what's your strategic attachment to moving forward with the MSSB timetable for repurchase relative to using some of your excess capital and liquidity just buying the shares here.
Guy it's James.
The strategic intent is pretty clear.
We want to intend to own this business.
But timing of executing on that is flexible.
And we built in that flexibility when we negotiated the initial deal with Citigroup.
Whereas you may recall it's in 3 stages beginning in May of 2012.
And it is an open-ended call option where we have the right at that point to exercise the first next May first 14% but not the obligation to do it at that point in time.
We're obviously aware of where the stock is trading right now.
It certainly feels a little better than it did 2 weeks ago but it's not where we think it should be.
And it's something that we'll take into consideration.
But May is a long way off and we've got to be careful not to mix long-term strategy with short-term tactical optimization.
Research Division</strong> So it sounds like you'll make game time calls as necessary.
Absolutely.
Research Division</strong> All of what you say on funding risk exposures liquidity makes a lot of sense.
But whether it's a result of market rumors or not I guess the reality of the situation is the CBS spreads widened during the quarter.
So other than DVA and the opportunity to buy back debt I mean how exactly does that widening impact to -- what all you have to do on a day-to-day basis and in the client-facing business? When CDS in particular widened it's clearly frustrating when we look at what we were seeing in the number of liquidity the exposures.
What it did result in is a lot of what I think it's fair to characterize as very productive conversations with clients.
We're able to talk about the changes we made that James really opened with the business mix the approach to liquidity funding capital.
How we fund the firm fundamentally different than it was years ago.
And that was I think quite productive.
I made comments with respect to how we think about funding the business.
Our view is that we've seen a bit of moderation here in spreads.
And hopefully with the incremental information that will be helpful as well.
But we're certainly thinking about all options and have a lot of flexibility.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And just a follow-up to that can you specifically discuss what if any movements you had in the prime brokerage balances during the quarter and maybe how much additional collateral you may have had to post in some of the over-the-counter transactions again if you see any meaningful changes in there.
Well the simple answer is we didn't see any meaningful changes.
In the third quarter as I noted PB was one of the better performing businesses in equities that we did see an increase in the number of clients.
And as we moved into the fourth quarter we had some balances move out.
We had some move in.
Where they were moved they were more likely partial than more than that and the business remains very strong.
It really did benefit from the changes over the last several years the focus on relationship management the focus on really working with clients across the platform this topic of benefiting from adjacencies and institutional equities.
So we really didn't see a meaningful change.
A lot more conversations but not substance change.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just returning to the monoline exposure James.
You've done a good job of leading the charge to clean up legacy issues of the firm and noted your desire to kind of achieve acceptable returns over time.
So I'm just curious what's the feasibility and appetite to effectively remove this overhang once and for all free up the risk capital lessen the volatility in the earnings stream is that doable? I think you've got to play this out over time.
I think we've managed -- Kenny and the team have managed the exposure much more aggressively over the last 12 months.
And I think the results show that.
We had a positive return in the first half of the year.
We had a deficit in the last quarter.
But we've got to manage this over time.
There's a lot of complexity around the exposure and it's not something that we are chomping at the bit to have results tomorrow.
Research Division</strong> So you've spoken loud and clear on liquidity rising PB actually not affected the number of clients actually went up.
Just curious finishing off on the hoopla on the quarter were there many novations away in the quarter? It sounds like you defended the fort great just figured I'd ask.
No.
Simple answer.
Research Division</strong> On the liquidity front and we have some upcoming debt maturities but obviously you have lots of liquidity to handle that.
What's the right -- how do you strike the balance? What's the right long-term average maturity or duration of the debt outstanding? It's come down over the last couple of years to about 5 years and I didn't know how you strike the balance.
Maybe that's in response to the balance sheet coming down.
Well the reason I gave the roll forward is I think one of the critical elements in sizing a liquidity reserve is whether the likely outflows in a stressed environment -- one of the clear outflows that we can measure is what are upcoming maturities over the next 12 months.
And the fact that maturities are coming down indicates that with the current liquidity reserve if you roll forward to the first quarter and your outflows from that point on are $10 billion lower you have flexibility within your liquidity pool.
So we ended the quarter at $180 billion.
We're sitting there today at $180 billion.
That gives us a very nice liquidity pool going into the fourth quarter in particular as our near-term outflows are declining because we're really knocking off the maturities as we go through the balance of -- because we have reserve for all of 2012 at this point.
So that's probably one of the most important ways to think about how do you size liquidity reserve.
I think as it relates to WAM long-term debt WAM it's generally in the same area.
And we're trying to manage what we think is a prudent level.
And as I've said also when we look at what we're doing in the secured book I think we were early and quite aggressive and thoughtful in pushing out WAM in the secured book and have continued to have that extension of WAM serving as well with the durability you've seen in liquidity.
Research Division</strong> In FFIEC if you add in all your comments on both DVA from both quarters and the MBIA gain and loss it looks like FFIEC was only down about 4% quarter on quarter just want to see if I did the math right.
And then just curious on what got better since Barclays because something clearly got better.
So we did see greater stirrings coming into the latter half of September.
I think the strong areas I've highlighted rates in particular performed very well.
And I would say commodities was strong in particular as we went through the balance of September and up nicely granted off of a weak second quarter but a strong performance.
The tough area continues to be credit.
Although I think there was some moderation there as well.
Research Division</strong> Great.
Last very simple one.
You mentioned the cost saves projections going up net of the cost to implement.
How big are we looking on the cost to implement? We haven't broken that out separately.
But the way to think about is in 2011 we're not indicating any savings.
And the reason is we're really investing or spending what we need to do in order to make some of the moves in particular in technology and location sourcing that will then yield benefit 3 years out.
Research Division</strong> Question related to FFIEC.
I guess there are a couple of hung deals during the quarter in the syndicated loan market or leveraged loans Kinetic Concepts and Blackboard.
Just in aggregate how much were the write-downs on the leveraged loans that were on your books? Well the write-downs were about 400.
Research Division</strong> So all things equal that should go away if the market stays stable? If the markets stay stable it should.
I mean obviously we're mark-to-market.
I think when we look at the loans and in particular the ability to move loans through -- that the thing that we point to is that the loans have been very well structured with covenants and pricing flex that give us the ability to move some of this.
Research Division</strong> And do you have any other sizable negative mark-to-market adjustments in FFIEC.
And if so which businesses? No.
As I indicated the tough market across the board was in credit.
But no there's nothing else to raise.
Research Division</strong> And as far as the outlook in the leveraged loan market there's been a little bit more noise about some issues in some high-profile companies.
Have you pulled back there? Or can you consider those one-off events? Industry-wide you saw volumes were down meaningfully in the third quarter.
And I think really what we're seeing at this point is financial sponsor activity is also down quite a bit.
As we look at the M&amp;A pipeline it's strong it's very healthy but not seeing real preponderance or the growth in sponsor activity.
And so at this point what we're focused on is leveraged loans in the pipeline and ongoing syndication.
And as I indicated with pricing flex we have the ability in our view to execute on this.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly just your outlook for the fourth quarter.
With the way the markets have been should we expect something similar to this quarter? The wild card as I indicated continues to be the macro environment.
So the pipeline in banking overall is healthy.
I just commented on M&amp;A.
The equity pipeline continues to build.
And our view is that with some moderation in the VIX we should start to see more of those deals working their way out of the pipeline and into execution.
And the benefit is not just within banking but clearly goes to the secondary trading also goes through the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney.
So that's going to be an important driver and hard to forecast.
What we're seeing though healthy volumes on the banking side.
And I think a lot of the real challenge in credit but hopefully it starts to moderate given how tough it really was the levels at which we're currently operating.
So if you can give me the outlook for the macro I could answer your question more directly.
Research Division</strong> If I can squeeze one more in.
The compensation ratio seems a bit higher than some of your peers probably a lot higher than you'd like.
Is that because you gave some guarantees to new traders or what's happening there? Definitely not because of guarantees.
Year-to-date -- just let me break it down.
First of all obviously the firm compensation ratio is affected by the compensation ratio in MSSB which is as you know formulaic running at 60% plus.
And so that's one important differentiation from other firms.
Within ISG excluding DVA it was at 51% this quarter.
That brings us to about 46% year-to-date.
And what we're continuing to be focused on is ensuring that we can appropriately compensate those that are delivering returns for the franchise while balancing with what we need to do to deliver returns for shareholders.
So it's a balancing act but I did want to at least catch you up on the year-to-date 46% give you a sense that the third quarter had a bit of a catch up in it.
Research Division</strong> Quick question on equities.
You guys highlighted high levels of client activity.
But if we x out that DVA revenues were down a bit quarter-over-quarter just trying to get a sense for what the right flow level is there? Was there some noise in the last quarter that maybe we should be looking through as far as maybe some benefit from positioning? Or can you help me kind of get my head around that one? Certainly.
So the performance was off of a record second quarter.
There are I think probably 2 items to highlight.
One is that a lot of the activity this quarter went through the electronic trading platform or MSET electronic trading platform which is a terrific asset but it tends to be lower margin revenue than broadly in our cash equities business.
So that's one driver to where is that revenue coming from.
The second as I noted is that the second quarter tends to be seasonally strong in Europe on an annual basis.
And so we were -- we knew that coming off of the second quarter we had that strength in the second quarter that wasn't going to flow through to the third quarter.
That was well offset in certain regards with the strength in derivatives and cash equities and PB.
But it did create -- it explains some of the difference.
Research Division</strong> Yes tough comp okay.
And then just quickly on peripheral European exposure the table is great.
Thanks for that.
Is it possible maybe for you to give us an idea of the impact of collateral on the net counterparty exposure column that you've got in there? So the net counterparty exposure line as I indicated captures a number of different things like repo transactions.
So it's really running a matchbook and so we haven't broken that out.
Research Division</strong> A lot has been covered here.
I guess on VAR I wanted to ask you the interest rate VAR came down I guess that was an average basis.
I guess one question do you have the end of quarter VAR? Was it any different? And b just want to kind of square that with the market share gains that -- it sounds like you continue to make in the third quarter or just the activity levels were a lot higher so there was less capital commitment required that brought the VAR down? So overall the -- if you follow with IR I think we have all the breakdown of the various categories which I don't have in front of me.
I think the main point VAR did come down because we saw starting mid-June client activity really coming down.
And I think this line item which I found helpful hopefully is for you to break out credit portfolio VAR just focus on where we're making risk decisions today really punctuates the point about the extent to which risk is lower this quarter than it has been actually in quite some time.
Research Division</strong> Okay yes -- no I was asking about the interest rate VAR.
In that table in the back that came down.
That kind of stood out given the increased commitment you've been making in that business.
Right.
And that I think that really goes to it's very much of a flow business and so you don't see as much VAR utilized there.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
The debt that you repurchased during the quarter what was the -- can you say what the gain was on that? It was less than $100 million in the P&amp;L.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And are you blocked out like companies are with stock repurchases around earnings or I think can you buy debt any time? On debt repurchases there's a window when you're blocked out so we bought not all the way through the quarter because there was a bit of a block out again.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So there probably wouldn't have been an opportunity to buy yet this quarter? No I think it's 2 weeks on either side.
Research Division</strong> Got it okay.
Just I guess I know there is not a lot to really answer on Volcker but as you look at -- to whatever extent you look at the draft yet did anything -- or what stood out as surprising relative to what you expected to see from discussions that you've had with the regulators in the preceding months? What stood out to me was that a simple proposition of ensuring that depositor institutions don't take on aggressive proprietary trading was converted into 290 pages with an additional 394 comments questions asking for commentary some of which have multiple parts to them.
I'm not criticizing the regulators this is very a complex thing they're trying to find and fortunately they've opened up a healthy I think it's 5 to 6 months for the industry to weigh in with directive and providing a list of all of the questions that they felt needed addressed.
Everybody maybe not everybody I think most sensible people are trying to get to a sensible outcome which is to protect deposits from the kind of natural crisis we had but not lose any of the robust liquidity strength of the global capital markets.
So we've got 6 months to work on it and work on it we will.
Research Division</strong> Is it your sense James that there's a lot kind of thrown in here to because they've asked a lot of questions that they want to put more rather than less in there and have a full template to work off of? I think it's a reflection of this is a very complex set of changes that potentially going through and they want to be very careful to make sure they get real input from all the market participants to make sure we don't somehow mess this up.
Thanks so much for joining us in our third quarter call.
And we look forward to speaking to you in 13 weeks.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! [Operator Instructions] And the first question will come from Guy Moszkowski with Bank of America Merrill Lynch.
[Technical Difficulty] Research Division</strong> James your comments on capital management seemed more definitive on proceeding with the first phase of the buy-in where previously it seemed you were a bit more open to kind of buying back the stock.
Am I reading that correctly? And if so what's driving that change in thinking? Well I think listen the first tranche is only 14%.
It is a core plank in our overall corporate strategy which we've made very clear.
We're very happy with the business.
I know the margins aren't where we'd all hope they'd be at this point.
But the stability of the revenues the stability of the asset flows and the stability of the managed money gives us great confidence in the business.
And frankly we're getting close to the end of the integration period.
So in a tradeoff between sort of financial management being a short-term decision around buybacks versus a long-term strategic management bides [ph] us on the long-term strategic management which is the first tranche of the purchase.
Now all of that said it's subject to price and it's subject to an appropriate price at fair market value.
So if we felt that we couldn't come to appropriate terms we wouldn't move ahead with it.
We have no problem with that.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And what about both? Would it be a disappointing outcome if you had to choose between either doing the first phase or repurchasing the stock this year? Listen from my perspective you'd take these things sequentially.
I think that you have plenty of opportunities to move forward with buying back stock raising dividends or buying the remainder of Smith Barney.
And what we have tried to do as a firm over the last couple of years is be very steady and methodical and take one step at a time.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then in equities you both highlighted the share gains within the business over the recent year quarters.
But could you just elaborate on what businesses and/or regions have been the primary contributors and how sustainable you believe those share gains to be? So we've had actually strength globally and across the products as I noted and are pleased with the strength of the global team.
I think that as we've gone through the year you've heard it on both the banking side and the sales and trading side given the ongoing overhang of issues in the Eurozone that's been a more challenging market but real breadth across -- around the globe.
Research Division</strong> And then Ruth quick one on the numbers on that $600 million crystallized CVA gain this quarter.
Can you help quantify what losses to date were on those exposures prior to this quarter's gain? I don't have that.
But that is as you characterized it's a reversal of prior losses that have bled through the P&amp;L.
Research Division</strong> Okay finally.
And then I know it's early in the year but could you just give a flavor for how businesses is progressing? One of your peers mentioned yesterday business was about the same as the beginning of last year and wanted to get your thoughts on that.
Well with the caveat that it is -- 2 weeks is not a quarter I would say that we ended the year feeling better about the state of the markets.
There's a lot of cash on the sideline from clients.
Our banking pipeline is very healthy.
The equity new issue pipeline in particular has been on hold for quite some time given the volatility in the market last year.
The M&amp;A pipeline is healthy.
So with that very large caveat that 2 weeks is not a quarter it's feeling a bit better.
But I come back to that point there's still uncertainty in the Eurozone there's still issues in the macro environment.
We're feeling better but it's still early.
And I would just add to that on the broader economic front that our view has been that the U.S.
is a little better off than has generally been perceived and that Europe is more likely than not to resolve itself although over a period of a couple of years not a couple of weeks which was our sort of collective attention span in the fall.
So against that macro outlook it is -- we are as Ruth said.
Research Division</strong> If you could elaborate a little bit more on MUFG.
You commented on the funding.
What's your intention in highlighting that so much at the top of today's call? Is it that they are there -- someone with deep pockets if you needed some extra help? Or am I just missing the point? No listen.
How many times in the history of financial services have you seen a cross-border equity investment from one bank to another of this kind and the merger of different parts of their businesses which we do with our securities business in Japan? And so number one there is a strategic story here.
Number two the conversion obviously improved our capital and reduced a mandatory dividend that we were paying.
And I just felt -- and maybe I'm the only one who felt this but I felt that the world at large did not appreciate both the strategic and financial value of this transaction.
And they are the second largest depository institution in the world.
I think they have 70% more deposits than any U.S.
institution.
I may be incorrect on that but I think I'm roughly correct.
And I think because they're in Japan they're just not just as well understood if frankly they're in our backyard.
They're great partners and they have worked hard with us over the last several months to find ways to do business together.
And I think that's a strategic imperative for us to keep growing with them as partners in finding ways to do business around the world.
And I just felt it was important to get that message out there.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And then one separate question.
When you think about rightsizing the firm the company has hired many employees in the past few years.
And now you need to reduce employees it's always very difficult in markets like this but can you talk about the tradeoff between rightsizing for the current cycle and investing for the long-term? So we were focused on -- have been focused on the pacing of the recovery.
It continues to be slow.
We therefore felt it was appropriate to reduce headcount.
But that reduction is very consistent with what we've been describing strategically and it's quite targeted.
So we've been judicious in investment areas particularly within sales and trading.
So for example in rates which has obviously been a focal area and as I noted up again this quarter up year-over-year.
We've continued to make key hires in research and trading to protect and support those growth areas.
We've also been making taking steps deemphasizing and reducing balance sheet and risk in areas that are inefficient under Basel III.
So for example within our sub-investment grade securitization through 2011 we were reducing risk which not only freed up capital and liquidity but enabled us to make some headcount reductions.
But we have a strong team there that's been proactive and repositioning the business.
And now they are focused on those portions within securitization the higher-quality credit quality tranches that actually are quite consistent with the new Basel III regime.
So what we've tried to do is really strike that right balance between reducing headcount where we were could while making sure we're well positioned for the recovery which as James said hopefully comes sooner rather than later.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to ask you if you could elaborate a little bit on some of the headwinds that you had in 2011 from sort of multiple years of deferred comp.
And if you can just give us a little bit more granularity on how that rolls off after 2011 in 2012 and beyond.
So in Institutional Securities we did take comp down meaningfully per person this year.
And as we said in the fourth quarter of last year call we increased the deferral rate to 60% for 2011 versus 40% previously and made a number of other changes.
This resulted in a higher comp expense in 2011 notwithstanding the decrease in comp per person because 2011 was a transition year with an unusual aggregation of deferrals coming into 2011.
But as James said when we look at that deferral schedule going out from here and going most important into 2012 prior year deferrals normalize and in fact decline in 2012 and we do have more flexibility.
So it's really about 2011 being that transition year.
Research Division</strong> Right.
Is there any more sort of quantification that you can provide us as we try to accurately reflect this in our model? No we're not doing that.
Research Division</strong> Okay fair enough.
Wanted to ask about the Global Wealth Management and the divergence in the fourth quarter of the revenue versus the expense trend.
I think you did cover it a little bit.
But it was a pretty meaningful divergence not for the full year but certainly for the fourth quarter.
And yet I would hope that by now we would be starting to be able to see some of the benefit of the efficiency movements that you've made and being able to take advantage of the single platform.
Fair point.
I mean fundamentally we had consistent revenues which underscored the stability of the business.
But as James said the margin wasn't quite where we want it.
And there were a couple of factors affecting that.
As we said on the third quarter call revenues are meaningfully affected by the S&amp;P close at the end of the year.
You know that better than anyone.
And the 9/30 S&amp;P close was pretty depressed.
That is used as the basis for setting Asset Management fees for the quarter.
I think the good news as we're sitting here today is the S&amp;P close at the end of the fourth quarter as of 12/31 was 11% higher than it was at the end of the third quarter.
But that was a headwind for the fourth quarter.
The other thing was there was a lighter equity issuance calendar.
And again that's market-related and hopefully we see some more activity coming out of that new equity pipeline which does remain strong.
The other factors though that were fourth quarter-specific affecting in particular the comp expense.
One we've been taking out -- reducing headcount of the lower performers.
And so we had some severance costs in there.
The other is that productivity of financial advisors has been increasing.
And at higher productivity levels they're entitled to a higher comp.
And this year that was a fourth quarter true-up.
Last year it was a fourth quarter true-down.
And then the other factor I noted is market appreciation from the deferred compensation program that's those that are invested in funds generally flows through the revenue line and the comp expense line so it becomes 0 margin revenue.
And it was really a number of different factors.
But you're right and the focus of the team is very much focusing on expense across the board so that we can continue to drive the margin higher.
Research Division</strong> I have one final question which is just on the Investment Banking and trading opportunities that you might be seeing emerging from the problems that some of your European competitors are seeing and their need to shrink balance sheets maybe faster than some of the U.S.
firms.
Are you seeing significant revenue opportunity starting to develop there? Well we are focused on it across industries given the strength of our banking franchise globally but in particular in Europe.
So on the financial institutions side the expectation is there will be more opportunities to help clients raise capital and restructure balance sheets.
But I think the other factor to consider is it's not just within the state client base.
It's really more broadly across industries.
As we look at in 2008 European banks took share from U.S.
banks.
And that's obviously when this country was going through its capital rates focus and liquidity raise.
And given that European banks are now going through similar issues our view is that that creates an even broader set of opportunities beyond just say again given the strength of our franchise we do see this as an opportunity to gain share.
On the sales and trading side we're well positioned and hope to built off of the momentum that you've seen in some of the numbers through this year.
And then on the balance sheet side I think that again going back to James' comments about the strength of our partnership with MUFG it just further strengthens our ability to help clients in Europe as well.
And I think Guy as you -- in any industry restructuring as the players between sort of 10 to 20 range exit clearly that share is going to flow to those at the top.
And a lot of our businesses were ranked 1 2 or 3 in the key businesses we're in.
So I think there's probably a little bit of a short-term impact but I do think there's a longer-term change in industry structure that should play to our advantage.
Research Division</strong> And is there any sign that some of those changes might be starting to improve market-making spreads pricing? We haven't seen it yet.
Research Division</strong> Two quick follow-ups on FICC and equities.
First in FICC in general whether or not you want to include the CVA changes.
If you back out DVA CVA MBIA is the right starting point for the quarter for FICC on a clean basis going forward $600-ish million? I'll let you judge how you want to look at it.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
I can read that.
In equities Ruth your comments were very clear that cash and electronic was a better driver in the quarter and PB and derivs sequentially were lower.
I mean something's going really right in cash and electronic.
And I just don't know if you have any more you can tell us.
Is it what you and James both just alluded to in Europe? Or is this just constant progress and getting a greater share of client wallet? Of course it's a significant outperformance if it's cash and electronic.
It is real outperformance relative to the market volumes that we saw.
With market volumes down there was strength there.
I would say that the strength of the team across products continues to be a real driver for the performance in the business.
And you see it year-over-year when you look at the sequential improvement the strength that we had in derivatives goes back to a lot of the comments we've had on prior calls which is that the team has been focused on really building adjacencies across its business ensuring that we've built up what we did on the derivative side.
You go back 2 years ago when we said we were going to build up equity derivatives.
We had 3 sequential strong quarters there.
And so it's really across products working together as well as they do and around the globe.
So the benefit of the electronic platform is there's still delivery to clients electronic invoice.
It's working well and it's really enabling us to stay as well connected to clients as possible.
Research Division</strong> Sounds like you feel it's sustainable as well.
I appreciate that you are the only person I cover that actually expanded the European exposure disclosure.
But what's the net-net? Meaning I don't know if I heard the "We feel very comfortable we think their exposures are collateralized." And what's your net-net feeling on your Euro exposures? We do feel -- I think you've summed it up well.
We feel very comfortable with our exposures.
We think that continuing to provide the transparency is helpful.
And so we've expanded the disclosure this quarter but we feel very comfortable with our exposures.
We've got a strong business in Europe and we remain present.
But we like the way we've managed over the last several years here.
And I would say Glenn we were never quite in the camp of the hysteria that surrounded us last October about our European exposures.
We're a little bewildered by it to be honest which led us to a very fulsome disclosure in the appendix last quarter and it's been netted to with the unfunded commitments this quarter.
And frankly the position has been improved by reducing one of the larger concentrated positions.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly is the overhang in Europe and uncertainty there is that the major impetus to remove a cloud to get to a higher earnings level? I appreciate all the progress made but I'm sure people are still looking for more in '12.
That is the primary overhang.
This year -- the past year 2011 has the dual complexity of all of the drama around the debt crisis and the downgrade for the U.S.
But as James said I think there are more signs of progress so far in the U.S.
and that the ongoing uncertainty in the Eurozone continues to be a big cloud.
There clearly also is some of the question marks around regulatory uncertainty.
But if you were to rank them I think the Eurozone and therefore the issues that are holding back some clients from executing on transactions is a problem.
Research Division</strong> I guess first just -- you talked about some of the sort of resizing that you've done.
And I guess I'm curious.
How much sort of the forward-looking -- and you said too.
You've kind of identified businesses you want to be in.
But how confident are you around where the outstanding regulatory questions rules around derivatives Volcker are going to land such that that may still be subject to substantial revision going forward? Or do you think you kind of have a pretty good sense of positioning at this point? Well I think as we've said for a while the most important regulatory change are the capital requirements coming out of Basel III.
And I think we have a reasonably good handle on where that is likely to end.
The whole Volcker Dodd-Frank discussions are obviously still very much ongoing as witnessed by the hearings yesterday.
And listen we've obviously done an enormous amount of work internally quantifying the impact of different rule changes what they would mean for our business and so on.
Our base case is not an extreme shutting down of all market-making activity.
And we think that the original concept of Volcker which was to ensure that deposits were not used for highly liquid prop trading should be honored and then we'd move forward with that.
So the regulatory front remains very much in dialogue.
You've got governments around the world weighing in on the U.S.
position to make sure that the various international bond markets aren't disproportionally affected.
You've got inventory management by large institutions like ours to ensure that we can provide liquidity for our clients.
So it remains fluid as you know it.
But we run all sorts of scenarios against it.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Then separately other sales and trading I was wondering if could give us a little more color on what drove the delta there.
You mentioned hedge gains on owned debt.
Did you repurchase some of your own debt during the quarter? And if so how much? And is that an ongoing activity? Well you got a couple of questions in there.
So the other sales and trading line is as we've talked about in the past is pretty difficult to model.
I appreciate because it has a number of items in it and it has amortizing hedges from debt we bought back in '08 '09.
It has our long-term debt hedging program.
It has our bank liquidity portfolio loan book our deferred compensation plan.
And so sometimes the items all move in one direction and sometimes they're offsetting and so therein lies the complexity.
We did buy back some of our debt over the quarter.
It was a small amount and so that really didn't explain it.
It was really just the various across-the-board items.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Then lastly do you -- similar to what Goldman talked about yesterday on the relationship lending both the CD backstops [ph] is that a big business for you? Are you considering potentially moving to hold the maturity? And tied to that more broadly are there other issues like this that maybe we put in an active mitigation bucket that when we look forward to Basel III helps you to even grow these ratios higher than what the past roll forward [ph] points to? So with respect to lending an HFI fundamentally we are a mark-to-market shop.
I think as it relates to the loan book we obviously have a bank.
We're the 15th largest U.S.
depository by deposits.
And so we're always considering what make sense in terms of capital and funding efficiency.
I think notably in CCAR mark-to-market loans were penalized substantially more than HFI loans.
And our view is it's our responsibility to consider what makes sense for shareholders.
So that is one consideration.
And then the other question I think you're asking is with respect to what other repositioning under Basel III.
And I think we have as I noted continued to focus on 2 things really within Fixed Income.
One is share gains the other is return on capital.
And part of the return on capital driver is really having a forward lens to Basel III requirements and ensuring that we are positioning our businesses to be as capital-efficient under this Basel III regime.
And so there should be continued benefit from active mitigation as we continue to rightsize some of the portions of businesses that are most affected by Basel III.
Research Division</strong> Ruth maybe one follow-up on the expenses.
So you guys have kind of the efficiency initiative over the next I think 2 more years on the $1.4 billion side.
And then you have some of this restructuring.
So I guess just some update on what's going on maybe in the first second quarter on the cost side given some of the more recent moves versus any change on that longer-term efficiency project for the $1.4 billion.
So on the office of reengineering we remain confident with that $1.4 billion that's a target by 2014.
And we're also very comfortable with the run rate target for this year which is $500 million.
The key focus areas are the same as the ones we've discussed previously the highest ones being location strategy procurement programs and tech spending.
And so that's very much on track.
But I'd underscore the non-compensation expense this quarter which as I said was down relative to last quarter.
And that's notable because the fourth quarter is typically our sequential high.
And it really underscores what we're doing at the tactical level.
So if you put kind of the office of reengineering in this bucket a bigger more strategic however you want to define it cost-cutting that takes longer to do because we're repositioning the way we do certain elements of the business and put that to the side.
We also have a tactical initiative and we're pleased with our noncomps because it shows that on even across-the-board small items we've taken a really diligent approach to ensure that we're doing all that we can to control costs.
And that also persists as we move into this new year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then James just on the Wealth Management business so 2 things there.
Just margins in the fourth quarter tend to be low you guys mentioned just given the seasonality of expenses and then given where markets were.
As we head into this year and assuming rates don't change like where do you think margins can get assuming flat slightly up markets? And then just in terms of the buy-in based on what you guys have it marked and where Citi's got it marked in terms of odds of getting that concluded or taking in that 14% stake like if it's somewhere in between like a middle ground is that -- do you see enough value in that business to be purchasing it for some level of that's in that range? Yes.
I'll talk about the second question and Ruth can talk about where we're looking at the margins here.
On the process just recall it's a call option exercisable I think at May 31 or June 1.
If the parties can't agree we go to a third party and it's at fair market value.
I don't think there's going to be a whole lot of mystery frankly irrespective of whatever institution has it marked at is kind of irrelevant.
It's a question of what is fair market value.
And we're both mature grown-up institutions so I think we'll quickly figure out our fair market value.
And if we can't then we'll obviously go to a third party.
So it's not a traditional M&amp;A-type transaction in that the prices are already determined which is market value.
So I'm not particularly focused on that element of it.
And as we said earlier if you look at the strategic rationale for this business it's part of our long-term plan and we obviously count the goodwill against that capital already in it.
So the incremental cost if you will of doing this against the benefit is relatively small to say the least.
Ruth I don't know if we have anything more to add on fourth quarter and where we're looking at this year? Yes.
And the only other thing to add this is our call option.
So similarly our call option on whether it goes to arbitration.
But with respect to margins we're continuing to focus on the mid-teen margin target and the levers that we've talked about remain very much the ones that Greg and his team continue to be focused on.
So on the cost side the lower integration expense having cracked the back on the major expenditures with the technology platform done in the third quarter of last year.
But also given the environment the team has raised the bar in expense management.
And then similarly on the revenue side a real focus on continuing growth of the managed account platform as I mentioned the ongoing growth in lending and a couple of other issues.
And to be clear that's not mid -- That's not 2012 guidance that's kind of our mid-next year guidance.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just had a question on the risk-weighted assets under Basel I.
I think you said $316 billion.
Could you take us through kind of some quantification of the moving parts? And then I also think that you mentioned sub-investment-grade securitizations having done some work on reducing.
Would that then mean that the Basel III -- is that part of the $100 billion rolloffs? Or does that mean that the $480 billion which I think will obviously has gone down post the MBIA to maybe $430 billion if you could confirm that? Does that mean that that number could be coming down a bit? I wonder if you could help us on that.
So on Basel I why the risk-weighted asset is lower there? They're lower in part as I noted because of MBIA and also the balance sheet's lower.
And so our risk-weighted assets came down in line with where the balance sheet is.
With respect to Basel III what we're really focused on given there have been a number of changes affecting -- in guidance affecting both numerator and denominator over the last 1.5 years when we initially gave out guidance on RWA inflation and mitigation.
And Basel 2.5 has moved from an NPR to 2.5 is kind of moving around.
So as a result what we thought is the most effective and useful is to give you where we are in Tier 1 common ratio.
And our Tier 1 common under Basel III we're comfortable that it's approaching 10% by year-end 2012.
In the numerator we are deducting the MSSB NCI and adding consensus earnings.
And in denominator you have RWA inflation and passive mitigation from here through the end of 2012.
We'll continue to be focused on active mitigation to your question.
And so that remains incremental upside of any active mitigation but focused on the overall ratio here.
Research Division</strong> I was wondering if we can continue to focus on Global Wealth here for a second.
So you mentioned that by the middle part of the year the integration should be largely complete on the technology side.
What happens then at that point with regards to the number of offices you have? And how do we think about that assuming all else equal with regards to your ability to take out non-compensation? The offices -- we are continuing to look at where there are efficiencies in combining offices.
Sometimes there are sometimes there aren't because you have fully staffed active offices potentially within a similar area.
So you can assume that across the board we're continuing to look at where it makes sense to further consolidate or take or cut costs.
And the team is being quite detailed about that.
With respect to the technology spend and integration-related cost the integration expense does come down.
There is some software capitalization that then comes in so you can't assume it's a cliff that drops off to 0.
But it's come down meaningfully and that's the real point there.
And so we've hit the high point and it's rolling off.
There are ongoing expenses that hit the P&amp;L and then the other expenses that the team can focus on include everything that you can imagine all the details within the P&amp;L to do whatever we can to drive margin.
Research Division</strong> And so the integration costs this quarter were roughly $70 million or so and you expect that that should trend down a little but not get to 0? The point is the integration expense comes down to 0.
But I just wanted to make it clear that from a margin impact that there are offsets to that namely I think the one most relevant is software capitalization.
And there's some other items that continue to flow through the P&amp;L once we're steady-state.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly on for me -- so thanks for the color earlier on into the very early 2 weeks of the year here.
Obviously a lot of us track activity levels and they certainly seem weaker.
But I wanted to focus in on one area that's more difficult and that's credit.
I think that that's the one area where we look at that we can actually see some good results if you're thinking about credit tightening and structured credit trading.
Is that an area that's been something that's been better than we saw in the fourth quarter which was down -- better in the first quarter that was down last year? Well again it's very early too early to say.
I think that the marks that we -- the pain in credit in the third quarter was acute.
And as I noted it was modestly -- it was better this quarter but still not running at levels that are consistent with historic levels for that business.
We have a very strong credit business broadly.
And so there is upside as credit markets continue to heal.
But I would say that given that the major overhang as both James and I said is the Eurozone crisis and/or uncertainty in the Eurozone it's too early to make a call on that.
And with that we look forward to speaking to you on our first quarter call.
Thanks so much for joining us this morning.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! [Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Howard Chen with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Regarding the meaningful improvement across the sales and trading franchises I was just hoping you could share some thoughts on how you separate what's market-related versus what's related to pay off from all the investments you've made over the past few years.
Well I think we have to start with the investments that we've made over the last couple of years.
What we saw this quarter was real strength across products and across geographies and no one particular driver of results.
Across the 5 businesses all growing kind of within a narrow zone rates FX corporate credit commodities and investment grade securitization.
And what we've been talking to you about over the last number of quarters quite long number of quarters is that we felt there was real upside as we moved back in the flow an area where we've obviously been strong for many years but had underinvested for a period of time and our view was that we were punching below our weight and have the opportunity for market share upside and invested in particular in rates and FX and those were 2 of the important drivers.
I think the other big driver here was we talked internally about adjacencies when we talk about your equities business the benefit of adjacencies which as we've talked about before looks at working with clients across the platform.
And that approach is very much reflected in the way we're running our Fixed Income business as well.
It starts with the leadership team.
It starts -- and then goes to our Senior Relationship Management program our SRM program and that's yet another investment.
And then the third is really the technology investments that we've continued to make.
That in particular is one I've highlighted over time and it's true again this quarter for our foreign exchange business benefiting from our electronic trading platform.
So those all go to investments.
I think the fact that we started the quarter with a lower balance sheet and lower inventories really underscores that this is less about marks and more about flow and engagement with clients.
And so I would say it helped that there was a -- have a constructive environment no question but it goes to what we've been discussing with you repeatedly quarter after quarter the investments in the business and the focus.
I think also Howard the -- I would just take into account the leadership team Colm Kelleher who we put in that job a couple of years ago and Kenny deRegt and Ted Pick in Fixed Income and Equities respectively.
This is now a very seasoned team working extremely well together across the firm.
And I do believe the leadership makes a difference.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And switching gears Ruth on the new held-for-investment disclosure you had a near doubling of the HFI portfolio in the last quarter.
Now is that a function of new clients or active refinancing? And as that portfolio grows how do you think about the impact to your stress capital ratios earnings volatility and hedging costs? Well that's really the driver of the move.
We're clearly a mark-to-market shop as we always talk about but we are a bank.
The 15 floor just depository ballpark today and pro forma for the incremental MSSB deposits will be ballpark the 12th largest depository.
And as we talked about last quarter under the CCAR scenarios the impact of loans under HFI were less punitive than fair value.
And as we're looking to continue to build out our bank consistent with other banks' practices and regulatory guidance we've been focused on what's in the best interest of stakeholders.
And our view was that if HFI is viewed as a -- or results in being a more capital-efficient way to run the lending book that's the appropriate way to migrate our lending book.
And so what you've seen here is that movement to HFI this quarter and you'll continue to see that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then with respect to the Moody's review could you just comment on what a downgrade means to you and what you're all doing to prepare for and maybe prevent a potential downgrade? Sure.
We've done a lot to narrow the impact of any potential ratings change and view that -- and our view is that the impact of potential outcomes are manageable.
Obviously ratings reviews started a few years ago first with S&amp;P and then with Fitch and now with Moody's and so we have had time to prepare.
And so trying to get some perspective on how we look at it or how we think about the impact structure derivatives is obviously the most affected by ratings change but it's also an area of focus for regulatory reform.
And as we've reduced the scope of our structured derivatives business that's very consistent with our change in business mix toward cash and flow products.
And that's been kind of an over time and I just comment on with respect to what we're doing broadly in Fixed Income.
But what that means is at this point only 8% of our ISDA contracts have triggers within the Moody's potential range which helps reduce the size kind of step 1.
The other key point is that a large amount can be centrally cleared and we were early and aggressive to move to central clearing and become client-central clearing broker.
Two of the largest fixed income asset managers were also easy -- early in moving to clearing and we won mandates to become their clearing brokers.
And the trend towards clearing is clearly ratings diagnostics so that further reduces the pool that’s subject to impact.
And then beyond that we have a higher graded derivatives entity and we've slowly been moving derivatives into our bank.
So that kind of sizes and brings down the scope within and hopefully underscores the couple of work streams which underscore why I started by saying we think the potential outcomes are manageable.
The other point I think is really key is that none of our funding has ratings triggers.
So that side of it is very easy to address as well.
I think across the platform we've done a lot to narrow the potential impact.
Research Division</strong> Great very helpful Ruth.
Maybe just a quick follow-up on the ongoing business.
At a percent of figure you noted is that just number of ISDA contracts or is that -- what does that mean as a percentage of maybe revenues or earnings contribution today? Yes that is 8% of ISDA contracts and that's why I kind of started there and then went down to what are the various incremental steps that we've taken.
I think the other thing I would point you to is that we're still A-rated by S&amp;P and Fitch and a lot of clients are doing their own credit assessments so hard to gauge how that translates into any other impact on the business.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to see if we -- if I could just follow up on what you're talking about just now with respect to the Moody's.
I know that that moving contracts into better-rated entities was pretty far down your list of actions that you've taken.
But I'm just interested in the idea of using the bank’s unit and any other entity that you might have developed and sort of how sizable you think that could be in terms of helping you mitigate the impacts.
Well with the respect to the bank broadly our strategy or objective is to build a robust national bank that's consistent with our Wealth Management business and building a balanced portfolio of assets in the bank systematically.
And I've talked at length I think on 2 different topics that are relevant to that.
One is building our lending business of institutional and retail and two is moving derivatives into the bank.
And when we've talked about the lending business in particular on the retail side I've talked about this being a flow systematic steady build building out the suite of products that we're offering to our retail clients taking our time to build that out so that we've got the right credit and quality control over the build.
That's one key portion of the asset side.
And the other is we have talked about before slowly systematically working to move derivatives into the bank.
We started with FX and rates will follow.
And our view is the result of both of those steps will be a balanced asset portfolio against $60 billion of deposits with another $60 billion of deposits to come as we buy in the remaining Morgan Stanley Smith Barney stakes over time.
And our view is and have been that we have a higher rated derivatives entity to the extent it's needed and have stayed on this course of a longer-term approach to moving more derivatives into the bank.
Research Division</strong> And the bank deposit build on the retail side is directly related to the percentage ownership of the joint ventures isn't that right? As we exercise various tranches of the remaining buy-in for MSSB we -- with that comes the pro rata portion of deposits correct.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
I was hoping that maybe you could talk about the restatement of your capital allocations on Page 5 of your supplement.
That's always an incredibly helpful disclosure by the way as I think we've discussed before but you did restate it.
And I'm not sure I completely understand what the footnote is telling us.
So there -- I think one of the key things -- I'm not quite sure what you're referring to but one of the things as we've allocated here on capital back to MSSB the reason we increased the allocation to MSSB was consistent with guidance that came out during the CCAR process which is that associated with NCI under Basel I one now needs to allocate capital for that NCI.
We have been doing that under Basel III and we talked about it last quarter that we had moved from parent capital into MSSB the NCI portion of capital.
Research Division</strong> Okay that helps.
And then just on the Institutional side on the restated basis that you now showed us.
I noticed that the capital allocation fell by almost $2 billion in the quarter.
Is that related to the reduction in VAR and the reduction in the legacy MBIA position? Or is it something else? I'm not sure.
Why don't you follow up with IR on that one? Research Division</strong> First on the Wealth Management business.
So you had the improvement in the margin this quarter.
Given the integration costs I just want to make sure is it that simple meaning as the $75 million or so of integration expense comes out we should see that 11%? I think if I just do the math it will move up to maybe 13% 13.5%.
And then just in the near term given that we've had the market tailwind you gave some stats in the past in terms of how sensitive that business is to an improvement there and then as well as rates.
Any difference there? Because it feels like we're getting the market at least for the time being but just any changes in those sensitivities? The focus on margin is still on mid-teens margin by mid next year.
And although we're getting the benefit of reduced integration expense as you pointed out we're also having some of that offset by increased software capitalization expense as we've talked about on prior calls.
So the way we're driving to the mid-teens margin in part comes from integration expense although it's not quite as big as that full 75 given software cap.
It's also additional cost discipline focus and expense discipline focus is the continued build out of our lending platform that I just mentioned.
And it's also the ongoing growth in managed money.
Those are really the key drivers of margin expansion.
And that's going to continue as we go through next year.
We do get a bit of a benefit in particular next year when we're all operating on one platform.
It makes some of that second category the expense discipline cost saving programs easier to implement but it's really the combination of the same items that we've been discussing over time.
And then as it relates to the market benefit we did get a bit of a lift here given the S&amp;P started the first quarter higher than it was at the beginning of the fourth quarter and going into the second quarter we similarly have a bit of a benefit from that.
But the mid-teens guidance was -- mid-teen PBT margin guidance assumed no market benefit.
And if we continue to have market benefit that helps.
Similarly if Fed funds rise that helps.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on the buy-in so we don't have all the details but when you think about -- obviously the valuation will play a part your other options will play a part.
And then just how -- what flexibility you have with the Fed but when we start thinking about timing of that and in other opportunities what -- is the likelihood you -- still that occurring during the near term? Well Michael it's James.
Let me address that.
We're -- we've said for a long time that we like this business it's strategically important to us.
And while it's been difficult market conditions for a couple of years we do think we know how to manage it well and we're in the last 10 weeks of a pretty massive in fact historically largest integration.
So we're on track and the first call option is available I believe at the end of May or the 1st of June.
And obviously at that time or some time before that we'd have a discussion with – with our friends at Citigroup on the first call option.
We have a pretty clear path over what is now only 2 years to buy the remaining pieces.
We feel no particular compulsion or anxiety to accelerate that.
We have great clarity around what we're trying to do with the business.
Obviously we're always prepared to listen but we're in a position where we have a clear path we have a clear plan.
We've had this plan now for over 3 years and we're frankly rapidly moving to the end of it.
So that's where we are right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last one just on the ROE for the overall business.
Obviously you've seen a pretty good improvement versus the last call it 2 years but you’re still at 9% in a seasonally strong quarter.
So when you think about the legacy assets and the things that you've been doing even on the trading side like how far along are you in that process? Because clearly a better macro environment can still get that up but you also had the seasonality against you.
But just wondering how much of getting rid of some of the legacy issues or transitioning under the new regulatory environment is done versus the rest more of a macro environment improvement will drive stronger revenues? We'll be the first to agree that ROE we're still on a path of improving over time and it is benefiting from systematic execution in the businesses but we are in a path.
If you just kind of go through the 3 big buckets of categories that should continue to drive ROE on the Institutional Securities side we felt really good exiting 2011 having addressed the legacy issues that we have been speaking with you about for so long.
And exiting those having those drags gone is helpful.
We have been reducing our presence in businesses which under Basel III are more capital-consuming and moving to a more -- well model which is more capital efficient so you get some lift just from the mix of the business and that's continuing.
On the GWM side moving in the direction of the mid-teens PBT margin after 3-plus years as James said will help as we benefit from integration and a higher PBT margin on that business.
And then we're continuing our disciplined approach on comp and non-compensation.
So those are just -- those are 3 of the bigger levers that will help continue to drive ROE.
We're doing a lot more but we're comfortable on this path.
And I would just add Michael I think that there were areas of our business that clearly benefited from a I would call it a reasonable market environment not exactly a bullish market environment.
But there were areas that did not.
I mean in the first quarter of the new issued calendar in equities it was not exactly robust.
M&amp;A and advisory work frankly was very low across the industry.
Our Wealth Management business as Ruth said with rates that are basically 0 interest rates and no equity calendar clearly that business wasn't exactly operating at a seasonal or market high.
So there were pluses and minuses as you put it all together with the cost backdrop that we're working on with the integration stuff we've talked about the continued retooling we've been doing in securities businesses.
We're quite comfortable with the path we're on.
Research Division</strong> So look the -- I give you credit where credit is due.
The trading results were awesome and awesome on a relative basis as well.
And everything that you said about the investments made it all make sense.
I guess my question is what's different about this first quarter that produced such a payoff? In other words if you look at it relative to say the last 8 10 quarters' average your increase is literally 50% more than everybody else in both equities and FICC.
So I don't want to complain it's great numbers.
I'm just curious on what you think that made this first quarter to pay off.
Well I think Glenn firstly quarters as I've said often come around with remarkable frequency every 13 weeks.
We're already 3 or 4 weeks into the end of the next month so we're talking about ancient history here.
But I think it's if you look at equities in the last couple of years this is not a flash in the pan.
This has been a pretty considered and deliberate progress with our franchise I think had gained market share of over 350 basis points last year and continued to be strong this quarter.
Fixed Income obviously there was better balance in the business.
A lot of the pieces came together nicely across rates foreign exchange.
Our credit rebounded.
A little bit of it was environmental as we said and a little bit of it was the leadership and a little bit of it was the investments we've made in the platform.
So I don't regard it as kind of a bolt of lightning out of the sky here.
I think it's the aggregation of a series of things that have been steady investments.
Every quarter won't look exactly the same that's for sure.
I'm sure we'll see some ups and some downs over the next several quarters but it shows evidence that the investments we made are in the right direction.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
A question Ruth I heard all your comments regarding funding cost and debt issuance or debt decreasing in the quarter.
I actually have the opposite question on debt issuance plans going forward.
And I think your average maturities in that 5-year range has come down over time where my intuition would tell me that you'd want to be extending duration especially -- some of the things that Moody's points out on the business needing to stand on its own 2 feet.
Can we -- can you help us think through what your debt issuance pay and so on how you think about today's funding cost where they should be over time? Yes.
The way -- I think it's a great question and the way I start on that is really looking at funding requirements as a function of our business mix and our balance sheet.
And as I spoke about on the last quarter's call there are really 3 strategic priorities that frame the way I think about funding.
First our strategy for business mix has moved towards flow from structured and we can fund that efficiently through the secured channel and we are.
Second exiting legacy positions has really decreased the need for unsecured funding.
A lot of these positions were less liquid and they were cash-funded and by exiting them not only do we -- we free up some of the requirements there.
And that was a part of the story this quarter and frankly over the last couple of quarters.
And then the growth of our deposit base consistent with what we're doing in MSSB is funding both our corporate and our retail loan book and enabling us to fund more with the deposit base it reduces our reliance on unsecured funding.
So overall the strategic moves towards a leaner more velocity-focused balance sheet have allowed us to extract funding from the balance sheet which means we're not and we haven't refinanced all the maturities.
So specifically and I made this point in the first quarter we paid down $16 billion in debt.
We issued $5 billion.
In other words net debt down $10 billion in the first quarter alone.
And we've reduced net debt by $16 billion over the past couple of quarters and we did this while improving revenue strength and capturing market share and maintaining high liquidity.
So this is where we really want to be which is delivering for clients and enhancing our funding.
And as I talked about a lot on the last quarter I felt like I was the beneficiary when I'm thinking about funding of all of the strategic things that have been done.
And so very much to your point our maturities our rolling 12-month maturities peaked in September of last year and they've been on a downward trajectory and that gives us some funding flexibility.
And as we think about how to benefit from that funding flexibility we're looking as we have consistently over the last several years at optimizing our unsecured issuance across channels vanilla debt structured notes and ongoing work with our partner MUFG in the Japanese market with the Uridashi issuance.
We're looking across currency and we're being mindful of what's the wham of the overall book.
But the way we think about it is given high liquidity and declining maturities I mentioned this liquidity maturity statistic what's notable is we're now at 38 months coverage.
In other words parent liquidity covers the next 38 months of maturities which is up from 23 months 2 years ago.
And it just goes to the prudent way we're running the balance sheet and the high degree of flexibility we have as a result of it.
Research Division</strong> Of all that's going on I would think your credit spreads would be tightening more.
Maybe last one on that note...
We would agree.
Research Division</strong> On that note with it again price aside I think there's something in it for both sides to do more of MSSB sooner.
So price aside it's highly likely not a big capital call.
Is there a thought to just issue a bunch of debt as spreads come in and take the whole thing in? Listen.
Obviously we're not going to talk about a particular transaction.
As we've said our focus is on number one getting the integration done.
We're 11 weeks away from that.
Number two we will proceed with the first call option and that's 5 weeks away or something like that.
And number three eventually owning 100% of this business which we can do on a very clear program over the next 24 months.
So I'm in the camp of we like certainty.
We have what we think is a well-structured deal that was laid out 3 years ago.
We're right at approaching crunch time which is pretty exciting.
But we -- it'd take a lot to encourage us to get off that path.
Research Division</strong> Yes I was just wondering -- most of my questions have been asked but I was looking at the share count and it looked like about 50 million additional shares.
What drove that? Was it the annual issuance to employees? I think you have to follow up with IR and they'll give you that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just a couple of things.
On the compensation ratio in the Institutional Securities group could you talk about whether that is a level that could hold for the year? And then secondly just to double check my understanding of the 8% to 9% sorry on Basel III look through ratio in Q1 is all of that 100 basis points difference the potential impact of the NPR on Basel 2.5? Certainly.
So starting with the compensation ratio we're accruing what we think is reasonable looking at those absolute dollars and ratios.
It's obviously early in the year and the same thing we talked about on prior calls remains which is we're very focused on balancing driving ROE on the one hand and compensating and retaining talent that's driving that ROE.
And this is obviously an industry-wide balance but we've got a team refocused on it.
And within Institutional Securities the compensation ratio reflects the severance that I commented on.
I think it was just over $100 million $107 million in ISG alone.
So that's part of the overall number but we're still maintaining that very much that lends which is we've got to get the balance right to drive ROE while paying the talent that's driving that ROE and it is early in the year.
On the Basel III question you're absolutely correct that the range really reflects the ongoing uncertainty regarding Basel 2.5 NPR.
And until there is greater certainty we think it's most prudent just to give you a range and we're within that range.
We'll tighten up as we also become more clear.
Research Division</strong> I just want to follow up on a couple other questions that have been asked.
I guess just on the -- in the sort of the strength of the first quarter it feels like your strength your revenue generation actually builds over the course of the quarter with March being stronger whereas I think others have saw the opposite January being stronger.
I mean was there something that -- were one of these areas particularly strong in March? And then obviously it's only a couple of weeks into April but has that momentum carried on? Well actually I think we started January coming into the year I think with the benefits of LTRO kind of as the tailwind.
We started January and things were pretty attractive.
I think we were mindful of the fact that we entered the quarter with low balance sheet and therefore weren't benefiting from much of a big inventory that would be written up but sub a pretty good activity on the sales and trading side in January.
I think it got a little muted in the middle of the quarter and then did end the quarter to your point stronger.
And I think it's too early to call 3 weeks 2 weeks into the second quarter.
I'd be remiss to try and extrapolate from where we are here and so much of it continues to be what's going on in the macro environment.
You tell me that and I'll give you a bit of a cleaner forecast for the second quarter.
So too early at this point.
Research Division</strong> I can't figure that out either.
So just -- it reminds me another point I want to ask on the balance sheet.
So these to the average balance sheet your inventory levels were down.
Can you characterize how the ending balance sheet may have looked versus the average or versus end of 4Q? The average and ending for the first quarter were pretty consistent.
It's in the supplement.
They were within -- they were close and they've kind of stayed at those levels.
We're continuing to run a sub-$800 billion balance sheet.
Research Division</strong> I mean I'm referring more just to your risk capital within the trading business.
I think that's what you're referring to.
Oh I'm sorry.
Yes so that similarly really has not changed much continuing to run at the same kind of more modest levels.
And I think when we look at the Fixed Income results we -- it is a story about breadth across a number of product areas.
But in particular when you look at the fact that we ran at low VAR and the balance sheet where it was ROA was up nicely VAR efficiency was up as well.
It's continued to run at those kinds of levels and no change really there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just back on the credit rating discussion.
So your comments around using the higher rate of bank entity is -- can you -- do you have sufficient capacity given the size of the bank deposit base that are today to accommodate any existing business that may have technical requirements under – if the rating were to be downgraded to move [indiscernible].
If you hear Larry Fink’s comments yesterday saying they will have to move some business away.
I mean can we make sure that Morgan Stanley is not on the ones on the list? Well that's why I went through the various steps and execution paths.
We got multiple execution paths and that's what gives us the comfort to say that outcomes are manageable.
So apart from that which essentially cleared you’re focusing really on and what about the rest of it and as I indicated we have a higher rated derivatives entity and that's a valuable next part of the execution path longer-term.
It goes to the bank but we've got a number of different execution paths which is why there are solutions here that make it very manageable.
Research Division</strong> So no one would actually have to leave right? You can accommodate any requirements? Look I think I would point to one other thing which I commented on which is first and foremost I don't want to prejudge the Moody's outcome but a lot of clients are focused on what are the other ratings that we have for the firm.
We're still A-rated by S&amp;P and Fitch and a lot of clients are doing their own credit assessment.
Some of the questions that are coming up are more structure-related than anything else.
And for that we've focused in I kind of gone through what are the execution options available.
And I think Roger just on ratings it's important to note that when Moody's first came out to render their opinion on all of the banks around the world it was before the stress test was -- the results of that were published which is obviously important information.
And it was before the first quarter results of the large institutions certainly in the U.S.
So they now have the benefit of 2 concrete pieces of information that they didn't have.
And I think it's important and constructive that they're delaying their readout on this until early June as they try to assimilate all of that positive feedback they've had from the industries.
Research Division</strong> What are the investment banking backlogs? And how do they compare to a quarter ago? The equity backlog remains strong and continues to build.
And I feel like I've been saying that quarter after quarter and the appropriate question is and what takes it to move out of backlog and into execution.
We did see a bit more of that in March.
There was some kind of a bit of a pickup in equity new issue product and that gives us I guess I would say guarded optimism that we'll see more of it here in the second quarter.
Of course the market backdrop always being one of the key determinants but that remains an attractive pipeline.
M&amp;A is similarly a healthy backlog and we're having a lot of conversations with clients.
I think the view continues to be that there is still CEO concern about the durability of the recovery not just in the U.S.
but around the globe.
And therefore we would be more guarded on the speed of movement of M&amp;A deals out of the pipeline.
We'd love to see that accelerate clearly but I think the view of our team has been for quite some time if you look at historical patterns it's more likely that it is a back half of the year rather than a front half including second quarter movement out of the pipeline and onto announced transactions.
Research Division</strong> Can you put any dollar amounts? I mean is it flat is it up is it down versus just last quarter? We look at it kind of on a probability-weighted basis and it looks healthy.
I think it's kind of generally around the same levels.
Research Division</strong> And is Facebook going to open up a lot more activity or is that a one-off? How do you think about that? We never talk about any deals in registration.
We don't want to [indiscernible] it.
Research Division</strong> Right.
I just meant generally do you think the technology IPOs are going to be picking up later this year? Same answer.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's fine.
And then just switching gears on the brokerage business what were the net new assets for the quarter? On the brokerage business I'm glad you asked that because we have included in here fee-based assets.
The net new assets were a bit below that kind of consistent with the trend we saw last year.
We have shifted the disclosure as we talked about previously to fee-based assets.
And the reason for that is that's really strategically where we've been focused and that is the stronger relationship between funds movement and our P&amp;L is on the fee-based side.
And so going forward given that's the way the senior team is managing the business we're going to be providing you with fee-based assets.
All right.
Thank you so much for joining us today and we look forward to speaking to you in July.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! [Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Roger Freeman with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> I guess -- thanks for your comments on what you think some of the sort of direct impact of the Moody's downgrade was.
Have you seen -- was most of that that you could quantify before the actual downgrades or after and have you seen any change in behavior as the full impact of this has settled in? So there are a couple of pieces to it.
The portion that I quantified the $225 million came after the Moody's downgrade.
So to be clear it was associated with valuation allowances and contract adjustments.
There are a couple of items we can't quantify.
For example our bankers spend a lot of time with clients and counter-parties throughout the period addressing questions they may have had and that's time which otherwise would have been spent capturing new business.
And as the quarter wore on with increasing speculation on rates on the ratings outcome some clients seemed to take a wait-and-see approach.
So those are tougher to quantify but we certainly felt in particular given the elongated deliberation process that it did weigh towards the end of the quarter.
Overall with the ratings action on the sector finally resolved we are seeing real relief and clients have reengaged.
It's helpful to have that uncertainty addressed.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And has there been any utilization of clients particularly like pension funds that are kind of more sensitive to transacting with the bank? So if you're asking has much gone into the derivative sub there's not much of note.
We have seen an acceleration of foreign exchange into the bank.
We've seen -- we've been writing more new foreign exchange business in the bank.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just last question on this topic.
The collateral postings it looks like you've posted a little less than half of what you're potentially obligated to.
Is that just a function of the other half not having been called? So we posted the $2.9 billion.
Just to give you an update on the total collateral subject to call it's actually a bit lower than in our first quarter Q.
We had an estimate of $6.8 billion in the first quarter.
It's now ballpark around $6.3 billion.
I think it's fair to say that we've been pleased with the pace of call it's just been very measured which in our view underscores that clients have comfort real comfort with the firm.
Since the end of the quarter in July we've had another $800 million called.
But again this pace does seem to be quite measured.
We do expect more to be called going forward.
Hard to forecast how much that is but as we've talked about on prior calls we are fully reserved for the full amount of potential collateral call and the sizing of our liquidity reserve.
Research Division</strong> Right okay.
And just last question overall.
The -- you talked about some of the -- some initiatives streamlining within the units focus on headcount.
Any rough quantifications maybe given current sort of run rates what that -- what impact or benefit they're going to have to run rate expenses? No.
Research Division</strong> James on Fixed Income the targets you mentioned at the beginning of the call appear like a meaningful strategic shift on the rebuild that again before you took the helm.
The RWA targets are interesting but it'd be really helpful to just hear exactly what and where you want the firm to be in the Fixed Income businesses today and how quickly you want to get there and maybe what were some of the drivers of that thinking if in fact you agree with what I'm saying.
Sure I'll let Ruth some of the targets on where we are and then I'll let you know where we're going to end up.
So the focus is continuing to be on fixed income optimization.
As Colm and Kenny have talked about for quite some time they focus on share capital efficiency and cost structure and we're focused on ensuring that our footprint is consistent with what we need to do strategically.
So we have a cohesive suite of products that is consistent with the strength we have across our platform beginning with Investment Banking what we're doing on the institutional equities side and a number of areas within Fixed Income.
But there are certain businesses within the Fixed Income that may be nice to have but they're not necessary and they're RWA-intensive and that's really what James was getting at in the reduction in risk-weighted assets that we're focused on driving.
So down 15% from the third quarter to the second quarter targeting being down 25% in aggregate by 2013 and we're really targeting active business unit management.
So this essentially doubles the RWA reduction from the business.
I think the other point is as we reduce more complex areas it's not just the capital benefit but there's a funding benefit and an expense benefit as well.
Yes I'd just add I sort of see it as a couple of different chapters.
The first was we had some legacy positions that for the last couple of years we've had to deal with and you have to deal with that artfully.
You don't want to take unnecessary pain and we've worked our way out of those positions.
I think the most significant obviously was the Republic of Italy and the MBIA exposures and so on.
The second is that we've been building our footprint on the flow side of the business which also has been a couple of years in the working.
And the third is now adjusting the focus on particularly the heavier risk-weighted asset businesses which we have been and increasingly have been more aggressive on and are reflective of the environment and the world as we see it going forward.
We've consistently said that our focus is going to be on the flow high-velocity lighter risk-weighted asset businesses.
And if anything that focus has been -- the dial has been turned up on that.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Understood that's helpful.
Just on the FID RWA reduction targets I just want to confirm that's on Basel III basis.
And then for starting point purposes what's the FID RWA today on Basel III Ruth? That is on a Basel III basis and we -- what we've been doing is guiding to an overall Basel III ratio not breaking out RWAs by business for the firm.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The reason I asked I guess is if FID is the majority of the firm's RWA and let's just say it's $300 billion and you put 10% equity against that that's $30 billion and that's larger than the market cap of the company today.
I'm just curious is there -- where are you James and Ruth in terms of more transformational thinking within the business because that just seems incorrect in my opinion.
Well I guess there are a couple of points in there.
Our risk-weighted assets obviously are across the business GWM our MSIM business in the lending business and smaller obviously in institutional equities.
So we're trying to give you a sense of the decline in risk-weighted assets or more important strategically what we're driving within our Fixed Income business.
I would add to it Howard.
I understand exactly what you're saying.
If all the risk-weighted assets and capital are tied up in that business why wouldn't we be more aggressive? I think what Ruth is saying is it's not quite as simple as that.
We have risk-weighted assets and capital tied up across the firm.
That said in the areas where it is most lumpy and has generated the least returns we are being the most aggressive and will be increasingly so.
It's a balancing act here of not throwing the baby out with the bath water.
We have some great businesses within Fixed Income and we had obviously a very difficult quarter.
There's no -- we're not going to hide from that in Fixed Income.
It's a tough quarter and a disappointing quarter.
But we have some great businesses within there and we need to manage that very very carefully going forward which is what we're doing.
Research Division</strong> So it was helpful to hear that the business is clearly impacted by the potential action from Moody's and given that clients have reengaged was hoping maybe you could help us think about how the quarter progressed right? Things seem to have got drawn out by Moody's in June.
And so was June particularly rough and was a lot of the impact focused in FICC? Can you help us think about just year-over-year how all of that look? You're absolutely right.
I think the elongation of the deliberation really just started to weigh on us clients counter-parties as it dragged on.
And June you just felt it was -- whether it was fatigue waiting it was -- we just certainly felt it weighing as we got towards the end of the quarter and we're pleased that it finally was resolved.
And I think it was exacerbated by the ongoing concerns about the Eurozone and just led to speculation about what the ratings outcome might be.
And as I said clients seemed to take this wait-and-see approach but it got heavier as it ended.
And finally the third week in June finally resolved.
So we have seen a real release as I said and it was primarily affecting the Fixed Income business.
And so not only did you have the weight of kind of clients' wait-and-see plus our bankers focused on trying to ensure they had what they needed but then the $225 million as we have the collateral at that last week or 1.5 weeks of the month come out.
Research Division</strong> Right.
So if we -- I mean just looking at that sort of 9 95 [ph] assuming thats the sort of adjusted x DVA FICC for that 225 if we make assumptions that okay June was really weak and then we run rate that it looks like x June things were sort of closer to the back half of 2011.
The reason I'm asking or trying to get at this is I'm trying to get at what the actual run rate really was in the quarter x this unusual onetime event which now is -- as we all know is clearly behind you.
Right.
Well there were a couple of things.
There was the macro backdrop and you've added obviously the 225 back appropriately.
I think the other thing that I noted was our commodities was much weaker.
It tends to be a lumpy business.
We called it out on prior quarters because it's a mix of both flow and structured solutions for clients.
We had a number of structured solutions for clients last quarter.
We didn't have any this quarter.
So the drag was exacerbated by the lower results there as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on equities I noticed that VAR ticked up and the results were not so terrific.
Were there any positional losses there or is there any color in equities on that font? No.
Actually VAR -- just to address that VAR was up modestly versus last quarter.
It was really more in the rates line.
But I would say we're continuing to run at historically low levels.
If I point you back to the same period last quarter and if you look at that line aggregation of primary risk category so it takes out the noise from MBIA last year we were at the $135 million of VAR last year down to $81 million this past quarter.
And so we're still running at low levels relative to the past prior years and we think that's very prudent.
That's the way we're running the business.
So wanted just to make sure we were clear on that.
And then with respect to equities when you see the trading histogram for the firm overall it moved a bit to the left but we did not have trading losses there.
We're profitable across the businesses it was just lower levels of activity.
Research Division</strong> Okay okay.
And then how about PB? Did you -- was there the similar themes to what you highlighted as far as the downgrade where there was a great deal of lost productivity and such in that business? Actually in our prime brokerage business revenues were up clients were up and balances were up.
And as I noted in my opening comments revenues outpaced balance growth.
So we felt very good about that business.
Research Division</strong> That's great.
Okay last one for me.
If we could just get a feel for what net new assets were in the quarter and maybe if we could put in a request to reconsider disclosing that number.
I know that you guys are focused on the fee-paying accounts but just -- it'd be helpful just to get a sense of risk appetite among retail investors and the folks that are in the transactional business.
The reason we moved to disclosing managed money is that's the way Greg Fleming and the team are running the business and we think it gives you a better indication of the results in the business.
So that's where we're managing it and that's why that's what we're disclosing.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Any chance to know what the net new assets were this quarter? I don't have them with me.
Research Division</strong> A quick one on Commodities first.
You mentioned twice the no-structured solutions in the quarter.
Curious if you think that's a function of just flat out lower prices and less incentive to hedge on behalf of clients? No as I mentioned it tends to be a lumpy business and this quarter there were fewer of them.
We expect the forward quarters there will be some more.
We're just not going to -- we don't forecast when they come.
So at this point no.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess the broader question on FICC and apologize to both if I'm misinterpreting this.
What I heard was the strategy is pretty similar to the past.
You've put a lot of the legacy issues behind or if not all of them.
The strategy sounds very similar.
It's that you were going to run a much tighter ship on -- lower RWA and tighter on costs in FICC which I think is what people do want.
I just don't know if you had the same level of confidence in the ability to take share and grow revenues in that business.
So somewhere in there is a question I apologize.
No there was a lot in there.
Look as I said Colm and Kenny have been focused on share capital efficiency and cost discipline.
And we put in place tight governance around RWA management so that we can drive down those RWA improvements that James articulated.
And that's still with the notion the key driving factor being what's the strategic suite of products that we need to have the strength in our core franchise.
And so again what -- you'll see real rigor there and it's not about -- we look at the business not about how big it is but about what's the returns in the business and are we placed and positioned where we want to be strategically.
I think the other thing that we're doing is continuing to leverage not just client strength and market share positions across our franchise but we're also leveraging what we're doing on the technology side.
So there's a lot of talk about electronification in the market and we're benefiting from for example the leading MSET platform that we have on the equities side.
And what that does is it helps both execution and analytics.
So on the execution side where we're focused -- and I've talked about this on a number of prior calls markets with discontinuities and rapid throughput very much in the foreign exchange market.
I've talked about the increasing gains that we've had there.
Derivatives also benefits.
We're using or can use our MSET passport products to see what's in the SEF to place orders.
And we've talked a lot about our commitment to central clearing and how we've invested there and you've seen some early wins with clients.
And technology also on the analytic side helps improve service.
So for example transaction cost analysis is something that we think is valuable.
So what we're doing is providing clients with greater transparency and hopefully liquidity.
But the main point here is we're leveraging a real asset we have on the institutional equities side to the benefit of where the Fixed Income market is going and we're rightsizing what we're doing on the Fixed Income side similarly to play off of the strengths we have within Institutional Securities.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Last one on comp.
Obviously comp ratios get amplified when revenues have a tough time and this is a tough time.
But it also makes me think that sometimes there's a certain floor and so let's maybe just stick with Institutional Securities.
I hate using that word but is there a certain level that comp can't really go below without something bigger happening? And maybe if you could comment on the impact of prior period deferreds.
So the way we look at comp is we look at it really again through all the levers we have to control to manage the compensation expense as efficiently as possible.
We -- and so we accrue to an estimate for the full year.
Obviously we're only halfway through the year and relatively strong quarters like last quarter we can accrue more dollars and it's at lower rates.
But that shows really the operating leverage and a better environment.
And then in tough quarters like this we reduce dollars and that underscores the cost discipline.
But the way we think about is we want to drive returns we want to ensure we can the pay people who are driving returns and we need to make sure that we're doing all that we can to use those compensation dollars most efficiently.
That's why we talked about headcount reductions.
That's why we established the Office of Re-engineering to do things like continue to drive location sourcing moving people who don't need to be in centers like New York City to places like our Baltimore outsource location here in the States.
So again it's a number of levers that help us drive down what's that fixed cost component of it and how do we manage overall the compensation expense.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Just one last important one is your Basel III is better than everybody else for the most part.
How will you use that to benefit you? In other words you're going through the process with MSSB now.
There's going to be a price whether you agree on it or it goes through arbitration.
How do you balance accelerating the rest of MSSB or buying back stock if it has a tangible book? What's a better Basel III going to do for you? We think what a better Basel III and strong capital ratios do for us now is underscore the strength of the franchise.
What we've done with capital and what we've done with liquidity are both as I've called them in the past really a fortified foundation and that's a positive for the firm.
We think that over time that will continue to give us greater flexibility with options to return capital to shareholders in -- with the kind of uncertainty in the macro environment.
I think where we are today is very prudent and with the strategic opportunity in front of us as you said we have the immediate use of capital.
But overall accreting capital gives us degrees of flexibility.
Research Division</strong> Could you just briefly discuss NPR2.
If that's on an internal basis or standardized basis? And within that risk-weighted asset Basel III Basel 2.5 framework can you also maybe give us a bit of an indication of how large your market risk-weighted assets are at this point considering the rules are finalized? Sure.
So there's a lot in that question as well.
Why don't I start with first building up our spot in 2012 Basel III and then I'll go to the standardized approach and hopefully can get most of your questions in that.
What we try to do is guide conservatively based on our best estimates of the rules as they continue to evolve.
So at the end of the first quarter we guided to a spot of 8% to 9% and obviously the Basel 2.5 rules weren't final at that point.
And as I said then the high end of the range assumed the international version of Basel 2.5 and the low end assumed our best assessment of the most likely worst case interpretation of Basel 2.5 NPR.
And with 2.5 now done codified we ended up essentially in the midpoint of the range.
But since then the Basel III NPR rules were also introduced and we're focused on both the numerator and the denominator and that's what led us to our best estimate for spot at the end of the second quarter was just under 8.5%.
And as I said that's full Basel III inflation no mitigation.
In other words our second quarter earnings were more than offset by our assessment of the change in rules under Basel III NPR and that flows through as we roll forward to the end of 2012 approximately 9% by year-end 2012.
And then as it relates to your question about the standardized approach I think there are 2 questions that keep coming up on standardized approach one being about the Collins floor and we are well above the minimum which is obviously what the test is about.
But I think what you're really getting at is the impact on the correlation book under CRM model approval.
So assuming we had model approval our Tier 1 common ratio would be about 40 basis points higher assuming the book remains the same size it is as at the end of the second quarter.
We are obviously working hard to get model approval but we have not included the benefit of model approval in the numbers we've given you given the timing around -- even when you receive here our model approval you have to wait a year to see the benefit.
So to the extent -- I leave it to you whether you add that 40 basis points onto the guidance that I've given you but we did not include the 40 basis points in our guidance.
Research Division</strong> That's very detailed.
The second question is regarding CVA.
You mentioned you have another $800 million of -- first of all the $2.9 billion of collateral that you have to put up can I put that in relation to the $225 million CVA charge and can I then use that to very simplistically say okay there's another $800 million that you've done on the third quarter maybe that's even going up i.e.
it's something like $13 million -- for every $13 million of collateral you're putting up roughly $1 million of CVA.
Should we assume basically further CVA impact in the third quarter? And what I'm doing is that correct $225 million where there's $2.9 billion? Well the most important point is that we're working to risk-mitigate any additional impact.
And so I don't want to suggest there that you can do this straight-through extension.
I think your proxy looking at the $225 million relative to the $2.9 billion I'll leave that to you.
But it's not all a valuation allowance.
As we said it's a valuational -- it's primarily a valuation allowance.
There were some contract adjustments so it's a bit less than what you've looked at there.
Research Division</strong> And should you move to CCP some of the collateral? I assume you still have to put up CVA so far based on the proposal so far.
So that shouldn't really help you.
What I'm trying to understand is how could you mitigate this additional -- the additional charges? Yes we're working through a number of different execution paths there.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Lastly on FICC.
I hate to come back to that question of the risk-weighted asset reductions.
The way I understand is you want to reduce capital-intensive businesses.
These are normally your strong business i.e.
if I look on the Basel III and 2.5 that's commodities and credits which historically was -- in FICC have been your strong businesses.
Can you talk a little bit about the revenue impact? And can you be maybe a little bit more specific also on the impact -- does it -- is it actually exiting certain business lines within these areas? Or is it maybe some geographical impact that we should be expecting from this? We've highlighted in the past the areas that are heavy RWA and actually can be heavy funding requirements as well but heavy RWA that aren't within that very tight strategic circle that I talked about that James talked about.
And they would really include structured credit and sub-investment grade securitization so we're still -- we have -- we're still active in various parts of the mortgage market.
But there are parts of it -- some investment grade where we can reduce what we're doing structure credit the same.
I would say that commodities and credit as you've indicated are strong business is credit being one of our strongest and very central to that strategic circle I talked about and similarly commodities has had strength over many years.
So I'll point you back to prior comments consistently regarding the other areas.
LLC Research Division</strong> The first question I have relates to the drop in corporate lending commitments.
I'm just curious as to -- if you can provide some color as to what's going on there.
Does that imply a substantially lower risk appetite or was there a specific transaction that got done? Or could you provide some color on that? No we have continued lending.
I think that what I'd point you to is our growth in HFI -- and I want to make sure you're looking at the entire picture we have been increasing HFI balances.
They're up meaningfully about 40% of our lending book now.
I don't want to suggest that the rate of growth you've seen in the first half of the year is what you'll continue to see.
We obviously moved to HFI.
And I think that's Page 8 in the supplement.
If you look at the 2 pieces combined you'll see that we continue to be active there.
And as James said we're very pleased with what we're able to continue to do with our partner MUFG and there's a real power to the combination through our lending activities together.
LLC Research Division</strong> I would just like to follow up on the higher value at risk in terms of the interest rate and credit spread numbers.
Is there -- was that due to volatility in the quarter or was there something else going on there? Sorry for reiterating an earlier question but...
No that's fine.
It's really just due to the mix of client activity and market volatility.
But again I'd point you to where it has run over the prior 3 years and it continues to be -- we continue to run it at lower levels.
Research Division</strong> I'm just trying to reconcile 2 of your goals; one goal from at least last year if not more recently is to increase the market share in the Fixed Income trading business from 6% to 8% and reconcile that with the new target to reduce risk-weighted assets by 30% by the end of 2014.
If those 2 goals collide which one is more important? Well as I said we're focused on share and capital efficiency and cost discipline and we're continuing to drive share and share growth in areas that stay within that strategic circle.
I keep coming back to that term for lack of a better one.
But for example our rates business was up year-over-year.
We've invested in it it's a core part of the franchise.
Corporate credit as we have already talked about is a key part of the business.
So when we're looking and defining the businesses that are RWA-heavy and in fact it very much goes to the opportunities that we see in other areas then it's about increased balance sheet velocity which Colm and Kenny and all of us have talked about for quite some time that we're driving in our flow business.
And so returns are most important.
We're not going for size for size's sake but we see that in the areas in which we're competing we have opportunity for additional share growth and that's what we're driving again leveraging the strength across Institutional Securities.
Research Division</strong> So a little bit of an evolution more toward returns as opposed to growth? That's probably fair to say.
Research Division</strong> And then I'm looking at Page 5 of the supplement.
And you have $22 billion of your Tier 1 capital allocated to Institutional Securities.
That's a little bit over 1/2 of the total firm.
And my question is when it comes to trading businesses or Fixed Income trading businesses are you reducing risk-weighted assets enough? I mean you're penalized by the regulators you're penalized by the rating agencies you're probably penalized by investors to some degree.
And a lot of these securities will be traded electronically if everything goes to plan.
So why not reduce the risk-weighted assets more dramatically? And that is what we're doing.
As I said we have governance around driving risk-weighted assets down.
We're going to continue to drive them down while again balancing what we believe drives the greatest returns for all of our stakeholders going back to A what's the strategic lens; and B what else can we be doing leveraging technology and other strengths in the business.
But we are very I think consistent with what you're asking driving RWAs down and have a governance process around that to deliver lower RWAs where we don't -- where we feel it's most appropriate.
And I think Mike I mean what becomes dramatically if we're down 30% from the third quarter of '11 in risk-weighted assets by the end of '13 that's obviously a very significant shift.
We've taken a lot of capital out of the merchant banking businesses and we'll continue doing that consistent with the Volcker Rule.
All the prop businesses that we've exited few little stakes that we have in different pieces that have been floating around the strategic investments made every -- part of the last decade or so we've been slowly working our way out of but we don't want to do it where we're taking unnecessarily damage -- unnecessarily damaging ourselves.
So there is underneath this if you aggregate the pieces I would argue a pretty significant transformation.
But we've also got to be mindful as I think you pointed out earlier we're balancing obviously revenues in some very strong businesses within Fixed Income and sales and trading with exiting on a prudent sort of not patient an aggressive timetable but not a reckless timetable.
Research Division</strong> And then last follow-up.
So if Institutional Securities takes up 1/2 of your capital today where do you think that might be 3 to 5 years from now a fourth a third? I don't know you whether we want to wing that.
Research Division</strong> But less? Yes obviously.
The capital makes it look whole corporation's coming down.
We hold a lot of capital at the parent level where as Ruth pointed out under Basel III we're I guess a tad below or somewhere below 8.5.
We feel like on any comparative measure -- I mean it's one thing to have to go and raise capital and maybe have high returns in the short run versus having low returns and having the capital already in-house and that's the position we're in.
And over time as we restructure bring down the risk-weighted assets obviously we'll get much more active on the capital management side which is what something I know all shareholders including us are looking forward to doing.
Research Division</strong> First on the MSSB business.
If the integration costs are going to start coming down in the next couple of quarters does anything change on your margin outlook? And I guess more importantly you mentioned a lot of other things kind of outside the U.S.
that you're working on I mean using the U.S.
as generating more efficiencies.
So does anything change if we're still in this rate environment? Or do you still need rates and market as a tailwind to get to that longer-term 20%? So the mid-teens margin by mid-next year is the -- we're still on track for that and that was predicated upon the integration being done and integration-related expenses coming off so there's no news in that.
The discussion we have -- are having regarding what we're doing with our International Wealth Management businesses are modestly additive to that mid-teens by mid-next year target.
And as we look at the longer-term higher target it's still predicated on a lift from rates or equity markets.
As we've talked about 50 basis points in said funds is 1 point on PBT margin and at some point rates will revert to the mean.
So that is still additive.
But that is how we build it up over time.
Still very much on track and the International Wealth Management is modestly additive.
Research Division</strong> And then on the expenses.
As part of that reengineering effort the $1.4 billion does that take into consideration everything that you're talking about on the fixed side in terms of reducing the risk-weighted assets reducing the cost or would that be incremental? And then on top of that just given the environment and given that $1.4 billion kind of target through 2014 has anything changed to force that up or anything more material? So the Office of Re-engineering was set up quite some time ago to look at reengineering bigger parts of the business like what are we doing with technology structure and outsourcing or legal entity consolidation things like that.
We're very much on track for the $500 million run rate excess from this year and $1.4 billion that we talked about.
What we've discussed today and the benefit of this incremental drive on non-comp expense is additive to the Office of Re-engineering.
So I think a simple way to think about it is there's the Office of Re-engineering.
There are the ongoing tactical expense initiatives that we've talked about and this adds -- the added drive on non-comp comp-related items adds to our savings.
And to be clear in the Office of Re-engineering there is a component that's compensation and non-compensation related because we're fundamentally reengineering certain parts of the business.
But the items that James went through this morning are additive.
And I think that to be fair the bar for incremental expenses for things that are not obviously investments driving really visible revenues is extremely high.
We're -- like everybody else in the banking industry at the moment there are a limited number of things you can control about the external environment.
So we're controlling what we spend very carefully and we'll continue to so.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last question 2 items that are  typically unforecastable.
But the other sales and trading just x the adjustment this quarter expect to go back to that run rate loss? And then on the tax rate same thing a bit lower? A lot of moving pieces this quarter but expect it to go back to more -- a normal level? Well as you said the other sales and trading is hard to forecast because there are a lot of different items in that line item.
With respect of the tax rate I can hopefully give you a little more guidance although the tax rate's obviously a function of geographic mix.
But we would guide to still approximately 30% in the third quarter.
But as I said it's a function of geographic mix and the second quarter was affected by the estimate of full year DVA so that moves around as well.
But best estimate at this point for what it's worth is 30%.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Just wanted to focus in a little bit more on the Global Wealth business.
Looks like it's a little bit trickier quarter for some of the metrics.
The brokerage headcount and I guess the percentage of assets with -- the percentage of brokers with wealthy clients.
How much of this is sort of related to sort of this sort of being the final integration? Or I mean is there something else that maybe you guys can address or was it really just sort of the all the uncertainty around the ratings and things like that? If you could address that that'd be helpful.
Thank you.
So we've talked over the last several quarters about focusing on the quality rather than the quantity of financial advisors.
And the number is down this quarter but again consistent with that strategic prioritization.
Where we really focus is what's the retention of our top performers and the attrition in our top 2 quintiles is consistent with prior quarters which we view as a positive very much to your question about the impact of platform integration.
Given the low attrition while going through platform integration we do view that as a real positive because human nature is people don't like change.
The way the team is managing it is to do what they can to increase the productivity of financial advisors and I think one very good example is the way they restructured the training programs.
So we have reduced the number of trainees incoming trainees from 2 000 down to 1 250.
And the view is that that does quite a number of things for us.
One it raises the bar on the group that we bring into train.
It allows us to do a much deeper job training them.
We attach them to mentors and branches.
And overall we've seen a 30% increase in the success rate.
So reduce the incoming number of people not only is that helpful overall for the incoming people but -- and their productivity but also non-compensation expenses benefit because we have fewer people coming in.
But this is just an example of the types of things we're doing to focus on productivity and quality rather than the number.
And in terms of the AUM for the $1 million-plus that you noted what we see is kind of more seasonal pattern that anything.
It's drifted down in the last several years in the second quarter as well.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then could you guys provide any more specifics about guidance around integration charges for the remainder of the year? I know you guys mentioned it'd be coming down but could you put any hard numbers do that in either Q3 or Q4 or just for the second half? Well historically they were running in the $80 million to $100 million area.
It was $80 million in the second quarter.
It does decline -- I'm not going to do a flag quantifying what that will be in the third or fourth quarter.
But it comes down through the next several quarters for the obvious reason done with integration.
But we are running a number of things in parallel.
So for example data retention we're continuing to keep people employed to ensure we're doing the right things with respect to data quality.
We're also continuing training in the field.
And we also have software capitalization kicking in.
So we've got a number of additional items that's somewhat down.
I think just to add to that that the mix as Ruth said is changing from building the technology to training the people to use it to capitalizing the software that it's based upon.
So that's sort of a mix change.
And I think the third quarter obviously with the transaction we'll be doing with Citibank will be a little messier as we get through that but the outlook is clearly the mix change and the volume change.
All right.
Thank you so much for joining our second quarter call and we look forward to speaking to you again in October.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! [Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Howard Chen with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> You both mentioned the impact of the CVA this quarter.
Can you tell us how meaningful that was? And were there any hedges against that as I think is your historical practice? So there were hedges against it as is our historical practice and as we disclosed in our filings.
And the drag -- just to try and help you size it the drag from CVA this quarter was bigger than the period-specific items we called out last quarter in our Fixed Income business.
In addition we had a drag in equities although it was smaller than in Fixed Income.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then James could you just update us on your long-term strategy vision for the Commodities business and how you see both the physical and the nonphysical segments of the business fitting within the regulatory framework as we go forward? Well Commodities has been a great business here at Morgan Stanley for a long time.
It continues to be an attractive business.
Obviously with the Dodd-Frank legislation there are potential limits to some of the activities that we can pursue in that business.
So it's incumbent upon us to explore all forms of different structures appropriate structures that can take us forward where we can get the benefits of the business but also meet the regulatory constraints that we operate under.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on capital management James you've highlighted in the past to think about this capital management and capital trends as sequential process.
So sequentially you've retired legacy issues you've bought the first 15% of the buy-in crystallized the price for the rest and this Basel III Tier 1 common continues to improve.
So where we are now how do you think about the potential ability to buy back your stock restore the dividend and/or maybe do the rest of the buy-in? Well it's a good question Howard.
Obviously we have CCAR process that we and the other financial institutions go through with our regulators both Federal Reserve and the other regulators.
And in that process one is in a position to pursue a range of capital actions.
The process is now conducted twice yearly.
Last couple of years it's been once yearly.
So there are opportunities going forward to put in place whatever plans we have in place.
We've made it pretty clear that our major strategic objective is to complete the acquisition of MSSB of which we have remaining 35%.
And that would have a very modest capital implication for us given the agreed-upon price and the goodwill we already hold against the position.
So I don't want to get ahead of ourselves and don't want to get ahead of our regulators.
We'll address what and when other actions as we get to the CCAR process in January of next year.
Research Division</strong> Great.
That makes sense.
And just finally for me you noted the heightened litigation costs this quarter.
What specifically did those relate to Ruth? And how far would you say we are through crisis and postcrisis litigation for the firm? Well it covered -- this quarter covered a number of items including the recent decision in one matter but also expenses associated with other ongoing matters.
And I think as you put it litigation has been an ongoing cost for the industry.
And I think it will continue to be.
Research Division</strong> Just going back to I think probably a couple of things Howard asked.
Besides sort of the CCAR process are there other things with respect to buying in the rest of the JV that factor into your decision-making? And what would cause you to accelerate that or not separate from the capital allocation? Well I'll have a go then Ruth can jump in.
We agreed on a fixed price on the JV.
And given that fixed price the capital -- and you can do the math on it -- the capital implications of buying the rest of it are pretty modest.
There are many advantages to pursuing that obviously but again we've got to go through the CCAR process and make sure it's the right time to do it.
But there are advantages to pursue it and we've made that very clear.
This is a strategic imperative.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then just maybe tied to that broadly you've got to a 13% pretax margin excluding the charges.
Your target next year is mid-teens.
Can you just remind us what other milestones we'd be looking for? I mean you're obviously close to that number now.
Does this continue to as you model it out rise over the course of next year so you're at a higher level above mid-teens by the end of next year? So we're still guiding to mid-teens margin mid-next year but 2 components I think to your question.
First is we're looking forward to the fourth quarter and beyond a couple of items.
One integration expense is running lower post the second quarter.
As we've talked about it ran kind of the $80 million to $100 million per quarter area in the first half and then we had budgeted for it to come down in the third and fourth quarters which it did running at lower levels and then dropped off again next year.
So the third quarter margin did benefit from that drop in integration expense which will also benefit the fourth quarter and then it goes down in 2013.
The second thing is that we'll have a full quarter of the expense benefit associated with the charge that we took in the third quarter.
We had 2 of 3 months' benefit in the third quarter.
So there was some impact on the 13% margin this quarter.
We get the full 3 months' benefit next quarter.
Obviously we are always careful to say that PBT margin expansion is not a straight line.
For example in the fourth quarter we do tend to have seasonally higher expenses.
But it's too soon to tell.
And then I think as we look forward and really building on James' comment about the upside whenever it comes with the additional 35% when we buy that in first and foremost we generate earnings on this capital that we're already holding against Citi's stakes.
So that meaningfully improves ROE in the business.
But in addition to that we get the benefit from adding about another $55 billion in deposits over time.
So not only do we benefit from efficient stable funding but we also increase net interest income which is higher-margin.
And then beyond NCI there's an earnings benefit from trading volumes that are now directed to Citi based on an order flow agreement.
That's eliminated when we own 100%.
So some contractual benefits that take it higher and then there are certain other costs from managing a joint venture that drop away.
So mid-teens margin mid-next year is the guidance but I just wanted to give you the path forward.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Okay.
And then just lastly on the Basel III Tier 1 ratio 9%.
The last quarter I think you said you were just under 8.5%.
There was some benefit from the MSSB transaction.
But also is the 8.5% still a comparable number? Because I know the NPR had just come out in June.
And so I don't know if there were any revisions to the historical look-back.
Yes.
That's a comparable number.
The increase really starts with earnings and as you know well DVA is not relevant for the capital calculation.
So starting with earnings there was a modest benefit from the new VAR model.
But I think very important we continue to execute on our RWA plan the risk-weighted asset plan.
Research Division</strong> Can you update us on your FICC risk-weighted asset reduction? How much have you done? And how much more do you have to go? Mike given we just laid it out at a conference recently what I'll say is we're very much on track for the targets that we laid out at the conference.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
The increase in your Basel III Tier 1 ratio was that helped out this quarter by the risk-weighted asset reduction? Or is that to come? And also did the VAR change help out your capital ratio? Yes.
The 3 components that helped the capital ratio was obviously starting with earnings and then I just mentioned that there was a modest benefit from the new VAR model.
And yes we did continue to execute on the RWA plan that was part of the benefit.
Research Division</strong> And why did you make the change in the VAR model? Was it simply to get a shorter time series? And if so what time frame did you have before versus now? Yes.
The primary driver was to have a VAR model that's more sensitive to changes in market volatility.
So it is more weighted to 1 year data.
As we've talked about in the past our prior VAR model was really -- it was based on 4-year data.
And we've been running this model and the prior model in parallel since 2011 which gives us a high level of comfort from the model.
It's been approved by regulators.
It is consistent with Basel requirements.
And in our disclosure what you've probably seen is we've provided the VAR measures under both models for this quarter the prior quarter the prior year.
And we will be doing the same for the fourth quarter.
I thought it would be helpful for you to be able to see the trends under both models which are the same VAR was down this quarter.
Research Division</strong> And you can appreciate the idea of changing a VAR model gets people's attention these days.
Is there anything else you've looked out at given what's taken place recently elsewhere in putting in place a new VAR model? I mean you've put it in place firm-wide you've ran it in parallel for what 1.5 years.
Anything else you can say to assure people? Sure.
So first and foremost it's part of the overall governance around risk management where you have one centralized risk organization.
It reports to the board risk committee.
The risk organization built the model.
It's been thoroughly vetted internally and as I said approved by regulators.
We've been running both models in parallel for an extended period of time.
And the other point is that VAR is just one of multiple measures of risk we use to assess overall risk in the organization.
So we've talked in the past about our proprietary stress VAR model.
That captures a longer time series and market liquidity and tail risk.
And we do constant scenario modeling with stresses for volatility and price changes.
So it's part of an overall to your point very good question overall comprehensive risk management centralized risk management organization with multiple tools.
Research Division</strong> And then last question.
In Wealth Management now that you're on one platform I imagine you had many people working on that integration.
You said you're at your headcount reduction already.
So how many people were working on that integration? And I guess they'll be redeployed for more external activities or elsewhere.
What kind of additional synergies can you get now that the integration is finally done? So as I indicated the expenses were higher in the first half but didn't drop off completely in the third and fourth quarter because we've continued to provide support.
We had built that into our upfront plan.
So you're right.
I don't have the numbers with me but headcount does benefit modestly as we completed the platform and will continue to benefit.
Research Division</strong> A quickie on loan.
Loan commitments have been coming down.
They're actually down like in half.
Is that a function of the environment or a little more a function of the Basel III Dodd-Frank world that we're going to live in? So loans -- what I'd like to point you to is obviously the difference between what's in our fair value block versus HFI.
As we've talked about several quarters ago we were increasingly moving to HFI.
That is up again this quarter.
And overall our loan book is actually up this quarter.
So I think the change is in what's fair value versus HFI HFI is now over half of our total loan book.
Research Division</strong> A totally fair point.
I guess M&amp;A performance is pretty good.
But in general industry-wide you scratch your head you look back and you say "Well conditions actually should be pretty good for a heated M&amp;A environment " yet I think there's a lot of conversations good pipelines and not a lot of trigger-pulling.
I'm just not sure if you can think through the things that would maybe break up that log jam and what your expectations are next 4 or 5 quarters.
You're absolutely right.
Our view is that the conditions that we're seeing today with lower volatility in the markets and low rates so an attractive financing environment if you look historically that should set up for a -- or encourage a pretty robust M&amp;A environment pretty -- higher levels of activity.
And very much to your point industry-wide volumes continue to remain at very low levels.
What we're hearing anecdotally is that much of that continues to be the uncertainty about the environment.
Some concern not just in Europe but increasingly here in the U.S.
and that that is basically putting activity kind of on the sidelines.
Conversation's ongoing and the pipeline's healthy but very much to your point need to have more clarity about the environment and some of the changes that are forthcoming in particular here in the U.S.
for activity to move forward in a meaningful way is our expectation.
Research Division</strong> Excellent.
And last one just more of a big picture one I think everything you pointed out at the beginning of the call is spot-on.
I think Fixed Income snapped back strong.
M&amp;A debt underwriting Equity is all good Wealth Management getting better we're going to own more.
Even if you do the math of you owning more and hitting your margin target I'm still coming up in a single-digit ROE range.
And I just don't know if it's just waiting on a better environment.
I'm just curious if you in your minds have a path towards say a double-digit ROE and what it takes to get there.
Sure.
We do have meaningful ROE upside and are unequivocally focused on driving returns in each of our businesses.
There was noise in the numbers this quarter.
I'll let you model those in.
But taking you to the sustainably higher ROE and focusing on those drivers we've talked about revenue profitability capital efficiency for the various businesses -- let me go into them in some detail.
So in Wealth Management in terms of the revenue upside we're continuing to increase our managed accounts business.
It's up above $550 billion this quarter it's up 20% year-over-year.
And that's accretive to returns.
And we are increasing our lending business.
We have $73 billion of deposits as of October 15 once the deposits came in from Citi associated with the 14% stake.
Those come in under the drag basis -- lag basis rather.
So $73 billion of deposits we're increasingly moving that to higher-margin products which will increase NIM even without any rate increase.
And then on the expense side you've seen it in the third quarter.
The integration is complete so expenses have come down and have more room to go as I just noted.
And the cost savings programs add to that even more.
And then on the capital side as you said when we own -- as we increasingly own more of the joint venture we generate earnings on what I have repeatedly called deadweight capital.
We're holding this capital against Citi's stake and not earning -- generating earnings on it.
Notably as we buy-in the remainder of the Wealth Management joint venture there is contractually significant revenue and profitability upsides that I commented on things like the order flow agreement a limit more deposits -- so more upside beyond that contractually.
And then on the Institutional Securities side starting with revenues we have sizable operating leverage in our institutional businesses and we're executing on our plan.
So we have a stellar platform in banking we have a strong M&amp;A pipeline.
The same is true for equity new issuance and both really played to our strengths.
We have a leading franchise in institutional equities and we continue to increase share even with low volumes low market-wide volumes.
And on Fixed Income we're on track to running an optimized returns business with a strong client franchise putting risk behind clients with smart capital efficiency.
And we're pleased with the momentum in the business.
On expenses we now have very strong expense controls comp and noncomp.
And on capital we're benefiting from more efficient use of capital across the businesses.
On top of that there would be upside from any return of capital and from an improving market over time.
But we're building to a healthy increase in ROE with the revenue profitability and capital levers I've just gone through.
Hey Glenn it's James.
You said at the beginning what an overall big picture on the ROE and as Ruth just laid out all the components.
But just step back for a minute.
The first quarter the ROE was 9%.
Second quarter obviously we fell into a hole with the rating agency action and there is -- clearly we wanted to demonstrate that we've bounced back from that which I think we have clear demonstration.
You put all the pieces together and it's not a terribly heroic assumption to get back to your cost of capital.
And that's clearly what our plan and focus is on.
We will be very very very focused on noncomp expenses.
We are very attentive to our overall capital plan over the next couple of years.
We're determined to make this GWM acquisition work.
And as Ruth said we have huge operating leverage across Institutional Securities.
So again I'm not sure what your math is looking like but I don't think it takes a lot of heroic assumptions to get you to a reasonable ROE number.
And then obviously from then on as the global macro environment improves which I believe it is on the starting basis of doing we take it up from that point.
Research Division</strong> First question is relating to risk-weighted assets again.
You mentioned at a recent conference second quarter group risk-weighted assets were about $500 billion.
Could you give us an update where we stand as of the third quarter with a 9% Tier 1 Basel III? Given we just went through it at a recent conference we're continuing to execute on the RWA plan.
But I don't have it with me because we're not updating it at this point.
Research Division</strong> When will you give actually more details on your Basel III? Because it's been industry standard to start give a little bit more details.
When should we expect you actually to either have it in the press release or in any other form that you give more details on capital as well as Basel III details? Well actually I think that with the delineation we gave and in particular in Fixed Income we've given quite a bit of granularity because we wanted to make it clear how we're thinking about this strategically.
And we've laid out some pretty key milestones.
I think it might be helpful if I roll forward based on that plan where that gets you in '13.
And you've probably already done this.
But based on our current interpretation of the rules consensus earnings and the RWA reduction plan that we did lay out at the conference the math will get you to north of 10% by 2013.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Moving on to funding cost.
Your funding cost is about 50 to 100 basis points higher than your peers.
And I'm looking at your balance sheet and you have about $170 billion of long-term debt.
But I'm sure there's other long-term debt that I'm missing because of the way it's categorized.
How much long-term debt do you actually have or what you categorize as long-term debt in your business? And how does a 50 to 100 basis points higher CDS spread impact your funding cost really going forward? How should we think about how you fund your business and the impact on the ROE? So you've identified the long-term debt.
You've got the right number there.
In terms of funding as I've said on many quarterly calls the strategic moves that we've been making are benefiting our funding costs and our requirements.
So for example the growth of the deposit base which is fairly consistent with our ongoing growth of the Wealth Management business funds both our corporate and retail loan books and additional products in the bank.
And as we increase funding with deposits we reduce reliance on our unsecured funding.
With respect to the business mix as we move more toward flow which we've talked about quarter-after-quarter from structured products we're funding more efficiently through the secured channel.
And as a result of this and all that we've been doing with the balance sheet this quarter alone our unsecured debt is down by $3 billion.
In 2012 year-to-date it's down by about $20 billion.
So in the aggregate as a result of the strategic move which is why I keep anchoring it back to that the strategy is actually yielding multiple benefits.
We've reduced our funding requirements we've increased the durability of our funding because we have more efficiency given the multiple funding sources.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's actually quite useful.
And in terms of the comp ratio I get to an IB-clean comp of 45% in the quarter.
You mentioned noncomp as an improvement area.
Most banks that I talk to are looking at more like high 30s as a comp target over the medium-term.
How do you see your long-term comp ratio outlook assuming no material changes in revenues? Understood.
So in recent quarters with higher revenues we've delivered a lower compensation ratio which evidences our philosophy and continues to drive returns.
And as we've said many times we're focused on appropriately rewarding those who drive returns while improving ROE and earnings.
So it's not just about compensation dollars.
We're also looking at headcount management at location sourcing at the overall expense management program and looking at both comp and noncomp.
Research Division</strong> But with this revenue environment is it fair to say we should still see low 40s as a number on comp? Is it reasonable? Well I was going to make 2 points.
The other important point to note is obviously ratios are not apples-to-apples across the Street.
And as I said we're looking at ensuring that we get the balance right so that we can reward those who drive returns while improving ROE.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And last question on your VAR model.
Do you still use a Monte Carlo model or historic now? Historic.
LLC Research Division</strong> I have a follow-up question I guess to Glenn's question about the businesses and getting to ROE Ruth.
And maybe you incorporated your comments on this but you didn't really focus on the Asset Management businesses.
You're currently running at about a 17% ROE this quarter about half of that on a year-to-date basis.
Is there any meaningful benefit to ROE given the relatively modest contribution now that you see? You mentioned ISG and you mentioned Wealth Management.
But is there anything that we might expect in terms of ROE benefit from Asset Management in the next year or 2? Well you've identified given it's already a high ROE business yes there tends to be less of a question there.
What we've consistently been doing is bringing back C capital [ph] and investing in the core business.
And so again that's accretive to returns in what's already an attractive return business.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then you mentioned that there's been some greater sense of engagement from your clients post the Moody's downgrade and that accelerated in the third quarter.
My presumption is that that is a comment basically focused on your institutional clients.
Can you give us a little more color as to the sense of the retail investor engagement over the course of the third quarter? And any color you might want to provide relative to what's happened since the end of the quarter.
If I'm hearing the question correctly there were actually almost -- maybe 2 points in there.
Post-Moody's we had -- we saw clients really reengaging as you said in the sales and trading side in particular on the Fixed Income side which is the area that dealt with it the most.
There wasn't really a Moody's impact on the retail side.
And so on the retail side the focus has been much more about what's going on in the macro environment.
And as I commented one of the impacts and the drags in the business has been with the macro as weak as it had been or as volatile as it had been we had lower levels industry-wide of equity new issue products.
So that affected the opportunity overall for retail products to go through the system.
But I think what you see in retail which is attractive is the consistency of revenues quarter-after-quarter.
I would just add from observing that part of the business for over a decade that there are periods where retail investors are completely disinterested in the market.
There are periods when they're chasing everything that's moving.
And then there are periods when they're basically sitting on the sidelines.
If a good product comes along they engage.
If there's a better tone in the market they engage.
And we are in that period.
We're definitely not in a fearful period.
We're in a period where the money is there the flows are still positive a lot of money sitting in cash.
And when an interesting product is coming along they're engaging.
And when there is a firmer tone whether it's from here or Europe or anywhere else internationally we see an uptick in activity.
So as Ruth said it's remained enormously stable during a pretty depressed period.
And in my view it wouldn't take a whole lot for that revenue outlook to turn in a positive way.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then finally Ruth you mentioned the hedge funds looked like they're taking a bit more leverage this quarter.
Could you provide a little additional color as to if there are specific markets or products where they are willing to put on more leverage? I think it's a pretty broad-based statement that we're saying.
I can't pinpoint it to any particular market as broader.
Research Division</strong> First a quick one on CVA.
Are we done there? Or is there more of that coming in subsequent quarters? So you specifically asked about CVA not DVA.
Obviously both are affected by movements in credit spreads and so we don't forecast movements in credit spreads.
Research Division</strong> Right.
But I think it was last quarter where you said that there was a big change because of the downgrade.
And so I was more referring to the outsized move as it related to that with the increased collateral.
Okay.
Sorry about that.
So there weren't more collateral calls this quarter so you're not -- there was -- we basically had the initial flurry of collateral calls post the ratings action in June.
And it pretty much subsided even before we got to the second quarter earnings call.
It was initial flurry and that was it.
And so you do not see an impact from collateral calls this quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Good deal.
And then sticking with the capital markets nice to see a pretty solid bounce-back there in FICC and great to hear about clients reengaging.
Is that still -- is there still a tailwind coming there and still continuing to benefit you? Or do you feel as though everybody now is back and FICC is up to full speed? In other words do we have more coming more benefit? Well we always want to be doing more with our clients so I wouldn't put an endpoint on it.
I think that we were helped to have the ratings action behind us and clients reengage.
And you can see that in the numbers.
The move by the ECB in the summer as I noted I do think helped bring clients back into the market more broadly that had been a big headwind as well.
But in our view we've got a very focused approach to the businesses and are looking to continue to build share.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Sorry if I wasn't more specific.
I just meant the reengagement post-Moody's if you felt as though at this point folks are now fully back and reengaged.
It's hard to disaggregate what's going on in the macro from any particular is there any particular lag.
Our sense is that clients have reengaged and we're continuing to work to build market share with them.
And it feels that it's pretty much been addressed but I was actually very directly saying that we're continuing to drive share and looking at that.
So it's hard to be more specific.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
No that's fair.
Aside from benefiting from the market conditions more favorable market conditions as you highlighted in the Commodities business Goldman hit on weakness and specifically highlighted weakness there.
Could you give some more color on how that business went this quarter for you guys? Yes it was -- commodities was up meaningfully versus last quarter.
But as we noted it was much lower last quarter.
And that was due to a more favorable market environment.
It is still down year-over-year.
So I think some of the backdrop continued to be a bit challenging.
And as we've discussed before for us the business is a mix of flow and structured solutions for clients and it can be quite lumpy.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then last one for me.
There was a good deal of noise made in the press on trends within FAs in Wealth Management.
You never know how much of that's noise versus something real.
So have you guys seen any uptick in defections post-integration? Have you seen any tangible evidence of dissatisfaction? I know the total FA headcount went up but sometimes there's junior brokers that get at it and that can skew.
So if you could give maybe some color on that that'd be helpful.
Well FA attrition continues to run at low levels.
In fact for the top 2 quintiles which is what we typically call out the attrition was lower in the third quarter than it has been for the last several quarters.
And if you look at metrics like annual revenue per financial advisor or assets per financial advisor all of the trends are going in the right direction.
So there's always some movement in and out.
Actually this quarter FAs are down a bit as it was between the first and second quarter.
But attrition's lower than it has been.
Or to put it differently retention is running at higher levels.
Research Division</strong> I've got a question around Basel III again.
Given the uncertainty around the outcome of the final NPRs as well as given some of the questions around the model approval process is it possible to give a range of outcome for what your Basel III numbers ultimately could be? Well the way we approach the Basel III guidance is it's based on as I said our current interpretation of the rules.
What it does not include is the benefit of model approval which is obviously a key part of the transition.
And we view model approvals as incremental upside.
And so what we'll do is layer that in as we get model approvals.
I mean there are certain models that are kind of more foundational like IMM.
But if you look at CRM model approval which I think a number of people -- a number are coming back to we don't include the benefit of CRM model approval.
So for example in the second quarter I mentioned that we estimated that our Tier 1 common ratio would be up about 40 basis points based on the book at that point in time.
And the reason we don't bake that into our guidance our spot guidance is as you know even when you receive CRM model approval you have to wait a year to incorporate the benefit in the calculation so that by any -- under any set of facts would be an event at least a year out.
And given that the book changes and we're actively reducing it the benefit changes as well.
So although we're working to get model approval we thought it was most prudent not to include the benefit of things like that in the guidance we give you and as we put it kind of greater than 9% and that gives us the room to take it up as we get model approval.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So to be clear you haven't included CRM.
How about things like stressed VAR and the incremental risk charge? Are those included in your number as well or not? So CRM is not included but things that -- I'll call them the kind of foundational models that move you from Basel I and II and through the various regimes like IMM or IRB are included.
It's just the specific models that are available and that we're clearly working on to take risk-weighted assets down as with the CRM model.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And what do you think is a reasonable time period in terms of getting full model approval from the Fed i.e.
is this something that's months out? Or do you think it could take longer than that? Well the reason we're not including it in our guidance is because we can't answer that question.
So we're working on it and I think it will take -- they seem to -- there's obviously a lot going on with the various moves from I to II to 2.5 and III.
So I can't estimate the date but we will provide updates as the models get approved.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the second question I wanted to ask.
Can you confirm buying out the remainder of Smith Barney doesn't have a significant capital impact? I think you've said that on a couple of occasions.
Given that when we think about capital returns next year should we think about buying out the remainder of Smith Barney versus buying back stock as an either/or decision? Or do you think there's potentially room for you to do both? Well as I think James said it's premature to judge the CCAR process.
We haven't even seen the rules yet.
But as you've seen from actions today and James' comments the first priority is the Wealth Management joint venture the additional 35% given -- or portions that I've given the strategic value of the business.
So at this point it's premature to judge CCAR.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! [Operator Instructions] The first question will come from Howard Chen with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> With respect to expenses the cost reduction targets in a flattish revenue environment is a really strong statement and a helpful benchmark for us.
I'm curious James how do you broadly think about the incremental margins or returns in a potentially better revenue environment? For example if revenues were up 10% with a similar business mix how much do you think would drop to the bottom line? Boy that's not one I'm going to wing.
Look maybe put pencil to paper.
We've been operating so much under the basis that there won't be increased revenues.
Obviously the world is going to evolve so at some point that's not true.
But our approach is being what can we control? How do we drive up margins in a flat revenue environment? And obviously through the expense line is how we're doing that.
By definition if we hold the line on our fixed costs which I think we've been very disciplined about on a go-forward basis one would assume the incremental dollar revenue would throw off a higher incremental margin than the previous dollar revenue.
But I got to go on -- we'd have to go and look at it business by business.
Research Division</strong> And we saw some really nice expense control within Global Wealth Management.
Specific to compensation you've noted in the past the limited flexibility you might have due to the grid-like comp structure.
So I'm curious what's driving that comp accrual lower in 2012? And how sustainable should we think of that? The main driver of the reduction in the comp ratio is the fact that we are done with integration.
As we've talked about on so many calls over the years the integration expense was running ballpark $80 million to $100 million a quarter until we completed the integration at the end of the second quarter then dropped down in the third and fourth quarter taper down.
That's one major benefit.
The second is that as a result of being on one platform we're able to consolidate a number of back offices and management layers the items that we outlined really on the third quarter call.
And so that's sustainable as well.
I think the fourth quarter compensation benefited a bit by what is typical year-end true up true down.
Sometimes it benefits the comp ratio other times it doesn't.
I think it's fair to say near term the ratio is likely to be in the 60% range.
But very much to your point there really -- there are a couple of drivers that will reduce that comp ratio more.
One is as we're continuing to build out the lending product the lending product is a non-compensable revenue.
It does provide a lift to the margin and drives -- that alone drives the margin into the 50s.
And then again a better operating environment.
In particular any kind of rate increase has a meaningful benefit to the margin in the business and that helps as well.
So we're good at where we are here holds you kind of in the first quarter near term to that 15% margin for the reasons I described with upside.
Research Division</strong> And then just finally for me can you discuss your wholesale funding plans over the next 2 years? I think you have maybe $45 billion-ish maturing through 2014.
How much would you like rolled off and how do you think that funding schedule potentially change as you buy in the rest of the JV this year? Sure.
There are a couple of variables to that.
We're obviously sitting here as I noted with liquidity at higher levels about $189 billion.
So there's some flex in there.
We have reduced outstanding indebtedness outstanding debt this year unsecured debt by about $19 billion very much to your point about the changing composition of the balance sheet.
And then as we buy in the balance of the wealth management business the deposits as I think you know come on we'll get about $15 billion when we complete the 35% but the balance of it comes on ratably over a 2-year period of time.
The total size of those deposits is ballpark $140 billion part of which will be used to support growth in the institutional business.
So the 3 components of it will be wealth management lending institutional lending and other bank-appropriate businesses moving into the bank.
As we do that we get dollar-for-dollar substitution reducing unsecured debt requirements and replacing them with deposit funding.
So all of those provides a bit of flexibility with respect to the magnitude of unsecured debt or wholesale funding that will be required on a go-forward basis.
Research Division</strong> So I appreciate the further detail on the RWA wind-down.
I guess a 2-part question is I'm assuming that it's all passive but if you look at it what it does imply and you guys are by no means alone here there's $80 billion of RWA that are clogging up the system that have no real revenue impact.
So the 2-parter is one can anything in the market conditions change that to make there be a positive or a negative revenue impact? Or are we kind of locked and loaded and just waiting for wind-down? And part 2 is what does that RWA wind-down plan imply at all? Does it have revenue implications for fixed income as that plays out? So Glenn when we put out the initial forecast for risk-weighted assets and RWA reduction we were looking at -- there are obviously 3 levels -- levers.
There's passive mitigation active mitigation and model approval.
And the guidance last summer was primarily based on passive mitigation just scheduled roll-offs to maturity sub-positions [ph].
I've had some active but it was primarily passive.
What we've done through the back half of 2012 was accomplished through active mitigation.
In other words we pulled forward some of the passive mitigation that was embedded in that earlier forecast but it was through active mitigation that we ended the year at $280 billion of risk-weighted assets and were able to pull forward our forecast by a year.
And the way we've been accomplishing the active mitigation is really with minimal P&amp;L impact and that's the way we're continuing to look at it.
We're really reducing capital behind positions that are -- in areas that are not revenue-accretive longer term.
Research Division</strong> So just making sure I got it right any way you slice it as the RWA runoff good or bad market conditions it's going to have no revenue impact.
I said it's minimal revenue impact.
That's the way we've been looking at it.
And I think you had one other part of your question I didn't quite address.
The reason we've been able to accomplish this pull-forward is this is as you know a real priority for us.
We have strict governance around it.
Our senior leadership team is very committed to it and that's enabled us to pull forward through active mitigation more reduction in 2012 and set us up for this decline as we're looking at in '13 and beyond at minimal P&amp;L impact.
Research Division</strong> Got it.
Ruth you've mentioned the 43% true comp ratio at ISG.
I'm assuming that was the year not the quarter correct? Correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And that's come down and I think the shareholders be cool with that.
We've seen some stuff in the press about changes on the deferral.
Not something normally I'd ask you to comment on but I'm just curious on the impact on future periods.
So the change in deferred I've seen this happen in the past at some other companies.
How much of a contingent liability does that create on the go-forward? Or is it not material to the overall story? Well a couple of things in terms of the compensation structure.
So we did change the comp structure again this year.
We raised the total compensation level at which deferrals start so over 82% of people don't have deferrals and it's really -- think of it as those who are in the earlier parts of their careers.
So it's really for the more senior people that we have deferrals.
The vesting schedule is still over 3 years and it's the combination of cash and equity which we think further enhances alignments of interest.
But as we talked about on calls last year we said the absolute amount of deferrals would be going down.
It is continuing to go down.
The actual amount of deferrals in 2013 is lower than 2012 and the aggregate amount continues to decline.
And I think as important as James noted in his comments when you combine that with the actions we've taken reducing headcount base and benefits are also meaningfully lower.
We're paying 6 000 fewer people in 2013.
And then you add that to things like location sourcing.
So kind of that fixed element of it if that's where you framed it is declining.
Research Division</strong> Now that's super helpful.
And then last one for me commodities specifically and I appreciate the environment has been a soft one and I've seen it everywhere.
Is the business actually changed such that maybe it doesn't fit inside a broker-dealer anymore? In other words would private equity be a better owner? It seems -- curious if you would allocate I'm sure you won't but I'll try the risk-weighted assets associated with it? It feels like wow 3 out of 4 quarters this year were pretty soft.
In other words in your mind is it cyclical versus something changed? Yes there were some quite specific issues in the environment that affected commodities this quarter in particular.
I mean as you know well our business is both physical and trading and it's also primarily oil and power.
And when you combine storm-related dislocation continued backwardation with lower prices affecting our storage business and then the lower volatility we had a series of things that resulted in basically de minimis revenues in commodities this quarter very unusual one over time.
So we do think there's quite a cyclical element to it storm-related element to it however you want to frame it.
Yes I'd just add firstly to put the quarter in context and I know the second quarter was also challenging you have to go back to 1995 I think to find quarters like that.
So it was fairly aberrant.
These businesses don't turn that quickly on a dime good or bad.
We have a tremendous Commodities business tremendous team.
They had an aberrant environment difficult environment difficult quarter and we moved on past that.
On the broader strategic things I mean if we could find a structure that was more advantageous for everybody we'd do that and obviously as we've said publicly we're open to that.
But this is not because we don't think it's a great business.
We're just constantly looking at the combination of capital liquidity funding and the mix of those 3 things and trying to figure out the best way to move forward.
Research Division</strong> I think this goes in the category of good progress but could it be better.
So starting with Slide 12 you identify targets for return on tangible equity at 11% going to 12% at some point but you don't put a time frame around that.
Can you give us any better sense of timing when you expect to achieve that? What we tried to do Mike was lay out in the deck the key components that are embedded in that 9% so the expense initiatives the capital efficiency the drivers in wealth management and Institutional Securities.
So just focusing on the expense -- well let's start from the top.
Wealth initiative and the buy-in there as James said that's one item that we put into CCAR.
That's with a focus to accomplish as soon as possible subject to regulatory approval.
And the benefit to be clear of the wealth management buy-in is not just the incremental 35% earnings but the contractual upside once we own 100% results in earnings that are about the same as that which we get from retaining the NCI.
And then on top of that when you're talking about ROE clearly as I've been talking about for many quarters we've been holding capital against the stake.
So that's deadweight capital.
We'll finally get not just the NCI but that contractual earnings against it.
That's helpful and that's submitted within our CCAR now.
The expense initiatives as we outlined on the chart are over the next 2 years.
And so you can see the $1.6 billion reduction in the 2-year period of time.
I think the RWA reductions we're continuing to focus on that near term and the growth initiatives as well.
So we're not putting a specific timeline on it but try to guide you there with the way we laid out the other key drivers of the upside.
Research Division</strong> And for the expense reduction now that is a big number $1.6 billion but you've made such good progress here recently that if you annualize fourth quarter results I guess that's just $400 million incremental per year.
Am I doing the math correctly or how should I think about that? Well the reason we pulled it all together in $1.6 billion as we've been talking to you over the last year or 2 about a number of different initiatives the Office of Re-engineering the wealth management efforts the headcount reduction so the goal was to pull everything together with a holistic view of it.
As it relates to reengineering which is both comp and non-comp we targeted a $1.4 billion run rate reduction by 2014 and a $500 million run rate reduction by the end of 2012.
Our expenses in aggregate are down $500 million between 2011 and 2012 a little different mix there but down by that $500 million.
So now when you layer on top of it the integration in wealth management the benefit from the consolidation steps the headcount reduction line by line buildup takes you to that $1.6 billion over the 2-year period of time.
So I wouldn't say annualize the 2011 over 2012 reduction.
This is really by initiative takes you to the $1.6 billion over that period of time based on our best estimates what we know now and as we said assuming a flat revenue environment.
Research Division</strong> And the wealth management margin great you're 17% but I guess your target is still mid-teens.
So why not increase the targets? We're keeping it for now at the mid-teens target and we're pleased with the 17% and all that we had to do with the franchise completing the integration that set us up to achieve the 17% margin.
But as I said previously we wouldn't guide you to hold that 17% in the first quarter for a couple of reasons.
One there are fewer trading days and it is seasonally slightly higher comp ratio.
So holding the comp ratio at least near term in that 60% range implying sort of a 15-ish percent margin near term we think is prudent appropriate.
But again for the reasons we've talked about namely the expense savings through consolidation coupled with the upside we see with our growth in lending that should take you to higher levels.
And if you have any lift at all from the environment in particular on the rate side it does as well.
But we're going to hold for now to the mid-teens and wait to see those play out over time.
Research Division</strong> And then lastly backlogs you said equity underwriting is higher.
Is that link quarter year-over-year or both? And can you also give those -- that information for total investment banking? So the equity pipeline is up going into the year so quarter-over-quarter and as I said it's driven by greater activity in Europe and Asia in particular.
Those were pretty muted throughout 2012.
So with the healthier backdrop in particular in Europe we're looking for more activity.
And then -- I'm sorry the second part of your question was...
Research Division</strong> Just backlogs any other color you can give.
So that's equity.
What about fixed income? Fixed income tends to have a slightly shorter pipeline.
It has been a very constructive environment for refinancing.
I think there have been some debate as to was activity pulled into the fourth quarter from the first quarter.
Our view very much is it was not.
This was just good refinancing effort and corporate clients being opportunistic because of low rates and so there is more to come.
We think that although you never want to forecast an extension off of a record quarter the offset to any kind of declines there.
In fact the M&amp;A market remains as constructive as it appears we could see some more event lending activity in particular non investment-grade activity.
So I don't want to suggest that you should extrapolate off of the fourth quarter given it was a record but we feel good about the ongoing interest by clients in financing activity.
Research Division</strong> Quick question here.
The roughly $50 billion of RWA reduction that we're going from current to year-end '14 have you guys provided the risk weights for those assets? And if not would you do so? We have not.
We thought we were actually being quite expansive breaking out the risk weights by category.
We've given you some of the product areas but we have not broken it out more than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I assume in the run-off that you guys had even though you had some opportunistic active runoff here this quarter that the forward look is still all passive.
Is that right? It's overwhelmingly passive just as we built up the first forecast.
And I think one of the potentially obvious points is given the focus in governance around RWA reduction we were able to pull forward and execute.
And again there's only so many times you can pull things forward.
But this is primarily passive mitigation at this point with a focus on trying to continue to accelerate some of the active.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I'm sorry if I missed this but can you or have you quantified the revenue opportunity that's in the order flow capture once you guys own all of MSSB? We haven't broken out the order flow agreement separately but when you take the order flow agreement the return on higher deposits very importantly assuming that those additional deposits near term merely fund the AFS portfolio and the reduction of the expenses associated with running a joint venture like extra reporting and other items like that those 3 items in the aggregate are about comparable to the earnings from the 35%.
And again a couple of items.
One that's again assuming that if we're just putting that into an AFS portfolio clearly as we're lending it out there it's greater returns.
And that's the key point.
Research Division</strong> Sure.
So as we're modeling this a check figure would be maybe to watch the -- take a look at the NCI and double it effectively.
And then as along as we're getting that kind of upside then we're in the right ballpark.
Yes.
I think one thing you probably want to look at is the slide that James walked you through.
We indicated that the incremental capital ballpark $400 million and that the earnings in the first year ballpark the same number.
So we're kind of helping you triangulate right back to those -- how much that will bring.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Yes I appreciate that.
And then just last one for me.
On the wealth management business can you give some color around risk appetite and what you guys are seeing around all this noise out of D.C.? Is it impacting risk appetites there? Are you starting to see a little relief now that we've moved past some of it or at least people might realize that noise and all that out of D.C.
are just a permanent part of the landscape at this point? Let me take a cut at that because I've been pretty involved with some of the stuff going on in the fiscal side and trying to get the temperature of the retail investor.
I would say that somewhere around early December there was a shift in tone and a pickup in activity and by definition a pickup in risk appetite.
So investors were re-engaging.
Businesses of this size and this geographic dispersity don't move dramatically month to month but there was definitely a tonal shift.
I think it's too early obviously in this quarter to say much about that.
But it feels similar and the more progress that we have on the fiscal front the more confidence investors will have to get out there and invest.
The other thing you have to look at Brennan is that the 401(k) plans are up materially last year so the wealth impact of people is up materially.
They get to the end of the year they see their 401(k) holding is up on average equity side up 15%.
That has a real driving factor around investment behavior.
So I think we -- my personal view is that absent a reversal in the U.S.
economy which I don't anticipate or a complete mess up in Washington which I don't anticipate because they're making progress I think we've passed the bottom.
Research Division</strong> Well you can never not count on a complete mess up out of Washington.
On the lending in Global Wealth Management do you have a target loan-to-deposit ratio that you'd like to move towards? At this point we don't.
I think the main point to note is we do have the largest retail distribution system.
And as James noted we think there's real upside because only 5% of our clients are currently using our lending suite.
It's ballpark 10% for our peers and that's just because historically this hasn't been a strategic focus for us.
So our deposits will be growing to about $140 billion post-acquisition.
We think we have real meaningful upside there.
It wouldn't be fully utilized just on the wealth management side at least in the very near term.
We're continuing to be quite prudent about the way we're growing that portfolio.
And that's why when we talk about deposit growth it's not just with respect to wealth management but it's also what we're doing on the institutional side with relationship lending and event lending and with additional products moving into the bank bank-appropriate products such as things like commercial real estate lending or asset-based lending with our existing corporate clients.
Fair enough.
On your Slide 7 James on the FICC discussion the RWA net reduction of $30 billion through sort of the net of strategic reductions and growth is there any way that we can get under that just to see how you're thinking about how you would shift emphasis on the business within FICC? The focus within FICC is very consistent with what we've been talking about for quite some time.
And so there are areas of growth within those core product areas we're continuing to be active in rates and have invested in it at foreign exchange.
Similarly we're continuing to benefit from the electronic trading platform.
In fact we set new records internally for trade volumes last quarter.
Credit remains important to us.
We're very active in mortgages.
So it continues to be in the areas that we've spoken about and we just wanted to leave some cushion for ongoing growth there which is part of the plan.
Sure that's helpful.
On Page 12 of the slides can you give us a sense for how much of getting to that 9% ROE with no change in market conditions would be contingent on getting to the FICC market share targets that you've laid out in the past? We've tried to give as many levers as we can.
We are still committed to the market share gains the 2% market share gains that we've talked about.
We're also very focused on the returns in the business and you can see that with what we've done on RWA reduction but I haven't broken that out.
Yes but it sounds like fundamentally you did assume in that analysis that you did gain those couple of points of share.
No because what we have here as first bullet is -- no change in market conditions is essentially just a flat revenue environment and then layer in the actions that we've put into this slide deck here.
Okay.
So you don't assume that you have any meaningful share gain within the context of the flat market? I just want to make sure I understand what your assumptions are.
Yes.
We have 2 -- let me be very clear here.
For purposes of the slide and the 9% we've delineated the steps that we're taking assuming no change in market condition.
For purposes of the way we're running the business and the way our business leaders think about the business of course we're continuing to pursue the market share gains for all the reasons that we've talked about.
I was answering 2 questions I apologize.
No but now it's clear.
That helps a lot.
And then finally just not to harp on this margin target on GWM but it almost sounds like you want to raise the target there except that you don't want to do that in the face of some seasonality in the first quarter on the expense base and I understand that.
But should we be thinking that it goes up that the target goes up beyond the first quarter? Let me have a go at this.
I mean listen.
Firstly one quarter is 13 weeks.
So let's not get too wound up about precisely where we are.
As Ruth said there's some seasonality.
We were criticized in the past for laying out a 20% margin 4 years ago for this business.
We didn't anticipate a very difficult market.
We didn't anticipate 0 interest rates and we're guilty as charged.
So we said we would deliver in this business mid-teen margins by the middle of next year and that's what we're focused on.
So let's revisit it Guy when we get to the mid-teen margins in the middle of next year.
LLC Research Division</strong> I just wanted to ask on your Basel III capital ratio and what you think your target is now post -- do you think -- I noticed somewhere there was a 9% yield to investment bank in the capital allocation on the risk-weighted assets side.
And then secondly just within your Slide 12 when you talked about 1% accretion from returning excess capital I mean that seems quite low.
Is that just in 1 year or could you just talk a bit more about that? Certainly.
So we're assuming that we'll run at a buffer above the requirements.
So with our GCP buffer that would put us at about 8.5% run at a buffer above that.
We're obviously looking to continue to accrete capital which will take those ratios up in particular with what we're doing on the RWA reduction side.
And then the question really becomes over what time do we -- are we returning capital and that's a function of earnings in the regulatory environment.
And it's also how do we look to reinvest some of that capital in our business.
I mean there's some pretty obvious areas with $140 billion of deposits coming on and the opportunity to grow the suite of lending products as I've talked about both wealth management and institutional.
Some of it goes behind that.
But we have not laid out a timeline for the return of capital and we'll leave it to you to model in how much upside incremental upside there is over what period of time returning excess capital.
Well with that we thank you very much for joining our fourth quarter call and look forward to speaking to you in 13 weeks.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! (Operator Instructions) The first question will come from Guy Moszkowski with Autonomous.
Good morning.
Hi Guy.
So a handful of questions for you.
The first one is I think we can see plenty of evidence of the cost management moving towards capturing your $1.6 billion expense targets but what’s the best way for us to track as we go through the year your specific progress against the $1.6 billion? So on the $1.6 billion that was based on the calendar year ’12 actual compensation and our compensation expense I think you know through 2014 and predicated on a flat revenue scenario so we do remain very comfortable with that target.
There is some quarterly seasonality so I think as we go through the year you will continue to see progress against the $1.6 billion.
Is there some way that maybe starting with next quarter you could actually track against those base lines what you’ve actually captured? We will try and highlight so you can see the progress that we have in other areas where we’ve laid out the marker and it’s continuing to hit and exceed the goal.
Okay great.
I think that will be helpful.
Moving on to just the whole question of the risk-weighted assets and what we saw happening in the fixed income business more broadly in the quarter you – what you call that rates and commodities as contributing to the year-over-year decline in fixed income revenues.
But what we did see the commodities VaR come down quite a bit if we measure year-over-year the rates bar was actually up pretty materially.
Can you help us square that with both the revenue momentum and with the decline that you called out in terms of the FICC RWAs that got you ahead of your year-end targets by the end of the first quarter? Sure.
Obviously a couple of questions in that.
So within VaR the interest rate line is obviously both an interest rate and credit line and as you know that it was up year-over-year flat to the last quarter and its effective by couple of things.
First and foremost is the measure of risk not necessarily correlated with revenues.
It does pick up the activity in credit as you know that I call that out as an area that was quite strong for us both corporate credit and securitized products and mortgage business generally.
So it's the function of the shape of the book and volatility of the market generally but I think what we're looking at when you look at the total line is pretty consistent with prior period prior year.
I think you then had another question regarding risk-weighted assets.
Yeah I mean to the extent that risk-weighted assets are going to be driven in some measure by your stress VARs I was just wondering if you could try and reconcile for us the movement in VAR versus the decline in RWAs? And I guess the follow-up question on the RWAs is if you already exceeded your year-end target why stick with that as a target basically for the end of the year a couple billion more? So the reduction – when we look at this reduction over the next period of time to 2016 it's ballpark 60% passive and 40% active.
This quarter it was mostly passive.
It benefited from the structured credit contract maturities as James noted but it also reflected a change in the shape of the book and some other changes such as active mitigation.
And our view is that we're very confident that we'll be at that year-end target of 255 billion if not lower but given part of the reduction was the change in the shape of the book we just built in some degrees of flexibility over the year.
And as I said we're confident we're going to at least meet that year-end target.
It may not be a straight-line down quarter-over-quarter just depending on the shape of the book to be higher in the second or third quarter.
And again we remain very committed to the reduction this year and taking it down to that sub-200 level by 2016.
Okay thanks for that.
And then just to sort of continue I guess along the same lines you allocated a large part of the parent company capital down to ISG 11 billion in the quarter after holding a lot of that really at the parent for a pretty long time.
Can you talk about what prompted the decision? And is there anything about that move that kind of traps capital in the business in any way if in fact your RWA declines continue and you might otherwise free up capital? So the way we run the business and the way we look at capital is we really won it with a Basel III lens.
And as I think you know we actually charged capital and liquidity down to the business unit – for the product level so we can look fully-loaded at risk-adjusted returns.
The question then became over the last year or so is what do we do with parent capital given the rule for Basel II and a half and Basel III were still in flight and they hadn't been implemented.
And our view was that once the Basel II and a half rules were implemented at the end of last year and so there was complete clarity on it no guess work and what was being charged to the very segment it was the appropriate time to take that parent capital number and allocate it up to the businesses.
So consistent with moving our Tier 1 common ratio to the Basel II and a half metrics we allocated the parent capital.
And just to make sure it's clear because it can be confusing given the nomenclature.
It is still Basel I even though it's using the market risk rules under Basel II and a half our fourth quarter '12 Basel I number was 14.6 the Basel II and a half for the fourth quarter was 10.6.
So if you're looking at where our Basel I ratios were last quarter under an apples-to-apples basis to Basel II and a half 10.6 last quarter going to 11.5 this quarter consistent with reporting ratios that way parent capital has allocated into the businesses.
And then to your very good question of does that mean that there is trapped capital as we think about the businesses we look at a – again a Basel III lens with that [SIFY] buffer and then above that we believe we have degrees of flexibility with respect to capital return and we're continuing to build that Basel III ratio based on that capital accretion from earnings as well as the capital optimization through things like the risk-weighted asset reduction and so that does give us greater degree of flexibility.
Okay that's a very helpful description.
Thanks.
I'll just ask one more which is the Moody's announcement and conference call a couple of weeks back kind of puts into focus that Morgan Stanley still has a lot of its derivates booked held outside of the bank unit and I was wondering if given what they're talking about doing that pushes you to try to move more into the bank to the extent that you can? Well we’ve been focused on moving more into the bank.
We continue to write new foreign exchange derivatives in the bank as we’ve talked about on prior calls and move old foreign exchange derivatives into the bank and we do plan to write new interest rates derivatives into the bank this year and timing and speed is really a function of some of the regulatory processes.
But I think more broadly on your question about Moody’s we feel good about the steps we’ve taken to position Morgan Stanley for greater quality and consistency of results and accept us up well.
We’ve talked a lot about the changes to the business mix and funding on calls like this with clients and counterparties which really all go to the strength of our standalone credit profile and what we’ve done.
And I think also when you look at the change in the business mix for example with fixed income it really moved more towards cash than derivatives and so that puts us in a good spot.
And obviously the industry changed as well in the past year with adjustments post the ratings action.
So it would mute the impact of anything that maybe done on the ratings front but I think the main thing is our – we think that all that we’re doing continues to build our standalone credit profile.
Great.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Hello.
Hi Glenn.
Just one quickie follow-up on the RWA reduction and FICC.
It doesn’t sound like it had much of an impact on revenues.
I just want to make sure that – I clarify that point.
Correct.
The majority of it was passive.
The active was P&amp;L neutral and on the structured credit position there wasn’t a P&amp;L impact as we really heads out the revenue and risk.
Okay great.
And then on commodities; it's been a tough revenue backdrop for everybody given the lower trending prices.
I just want to make sure that you still feel this is mostly cyclical trending lower oil and things like that and make sure that there aren’t any structural changes needed to the business.
Our view is that it is a cyclical headwind as you said it continued backwardation and it won't turn on a dime.
Cyclical changes can take time to turn but it is cyclical.
It affects opportunities for us.
It affects opportunities for clients related to in particular structured solutions which benefited us last year but we do view it as cyclical.
Got you.
And in terms of the physical oil you tend to hedge that at all times correct? Yeah we don’t take out right positions.
We hedge our physical inventory.
Super.
And last one is there were some not overly – not that big but modest shifts of revenues and expenses in the reporting from last quarter from Wealth Management to the institutional securities group I mean had a drop of an effect on – positive effect on the margin.
But the real impact on the margin besides the good markets was a core drop in non-comp at Wealth Management.
And I just want to see is that a function of the systems integration cost running off and this is good run rate to run with? So a couple of things.
In terms of the international Wealth Management market and you nailed it it's a small move.
If you look at the supplement from the fourth quarter to now it's about a 10 basis point difference so a small portion of the – a  small difference.
In terms of the overall margin I think I’d highlight two points.
One was the strength of the new issue underwriting activity.
In particular closed-end fund activity was very favorable last quarter and that helped on the top line.
So that you can assume we’re going to have the same volume in the next quarter that was a positive.
Expenses clearly we have remained focused on and the integration being done and rolling off was very much as planned and we’re continuing to stay focused on the expense line.
But I think if you’re looking forward to the second quarter assume expense is pretty much hold at that level not withstanding the fact that we remain tight on expense discipline you’ve got the closed-end fund new issue activity hard to forecast.
We do see new issues activity generally a lot of that is outside the U.S.
and the real catalyst comes from the U.S.
At the same time the S&amp;P is about 10% higher than at the end of the first quarter which benefited our fee based revenues.
I think those two revenue items sort of offset one and other.
And so at this point we’re holding kind of our margin expectation pretty much in the area where it is although you can see we’ve got a number of leverage that we’re continuing to push.
Awesome.
Thanks Ruth.
Thank you.
Hi good morning James.
Good morning Ruth.
Good morning.
Morning.
On the remainder of the MS/SB volume what specific approval are you waiting for from the Fed regarding that? We've gone through obviously the CCAR which is a capital approval and gotten the non-objection there and then the approval Dodd-Frank process approval.
We did the same thing last year when we did the 14% buy-in.
That approval – so it's process approval versus capital approval that approval last year came in May which wasn't really as relevant for timing because we didn't have the call until June and then we went through the arbitration process which took it out basically to the end of the summer.
And I'm not suggesting they can read anything into that May date but it's the only proxy we have for what that timeline was at least last year.
Great thanks for reviewing that Ruth.
And then James speaking of the CCAR the test results came in a bit – your own test results came in a bit below down to the Fed and I just wanted to get your thoughts on what you believe drove that difference? What's in your control to maybe bridge that gap going forward? And how does it impact timing and quantum of the next stage of capital return post the buy-in? Why don't I start on some of the technical? I think you're pointing in particular to our PPNR versus the Fed which you could see in the disclosure.
Our understanding is that the Fed had its own model which relies on historic data and given we've invested meaningfully to increase the quality and consistently of earnings there have been charges that have obviously been going through the P&amp;L such as MBIA which are negatives and short financials but on a go-forward basis eliminated drag improved the quality and consistently of results.
And so it's understandable there's a difference between the two if one forecast is based on historic results on the impact and the other is looking at a fundamentally different business mix.
We don't know the extent to which those historic results in the Fed model were adjusted and so it's hard to know precisely how the models are different.
But that in our view is one of the key things that we're focused on working on over the next period of time before the next submission to (inaudible).
That being said if you just look at our fourth quarter earnings and our first quarter earnings the first two quarters of the CCAR submission that would add an additional 60 basis points to our ratios.
So we will be focused on dealing with the PPNR differences and methodology.
We are continuing to accrete capital and we think that that does continue to give us degrees of flexibility.
And I think Howard the difference between what we submitted and believed the models should throw out and what ultimately came out of the black box that is the CCAR process was actually narrower – the difference was narrower than what it was last year.
We've obviously got better at it and I think it was relative to some of the other firms out there was frankly not a very surprising result.
So we'll play this forward.
Our focus now is getting the Smith Barney which we got the capital approved.
Understood thanks.
And then quick numbers on Ruth.
I realized – you said that RWA reduction this quarter was P&amp;L neutral but what's driving the other sales and trading results.
It seems to be less of a headwind than it was in the past.
Well it's a number of items that does move around and it's difficult to model.
It includes things like our long-term debt hedging program and our bank liquidity portfolio our loan book DCP.
So it's kind of an aggregation of a number of different items.
Okay thanks.
And then just finally from me it remains a pretty fragile environment for you and peers within the Institutional Securities business.
I was just hoping you could comment on overall attrition levels both absolutely and relative to your expectations? Thanks.
I think that beginning of the year and having some departures is not in any way unusual.
We actually feel very good about the strength of the team.
We've got a very talented senior team been together for many years.
We've hired and think it's a great time at Morgan Stanley to be adding senior talent.
People are excited to join given the clarity of where we're going and the momentum moving in that direction.
So it's kind of seasonal and we don't read anything into it.
And more specifically the attrition is actually trekking along exactly what it was last year.
And I believe and Celeste will correct me later a little low than what it was the year before.
Perfect.
Thanks so much for taking questions.
Thank you.
Hi.
I guess my questions can be grouped into the good bad and the ugly; so I'll start with the ugly.
Financial advisory if you look at it linked quarter or year-over-year among the five largest U.S.
players it looks to perform the worst based on fees and you had some management changes there.
Can you reassure that franchise is still as strong as it’s been historically? Yes it is.
The M&amp;A lead tables are exactly the same as they were last year it tends to be lumpy in the first quarter and particular given market environment with low activity of levels and we’re consistent leader of a very strong M&amp;A franchise as I noted in my comments part of it is just that lower volume and it tends to be lumpy and part of it we had a very strong fourth quarter and there were some fee realization that moved in – within the fourth quarter so that partially explains it as well but we feel very good about this and I think if you’re just objectively look at the lead table this year and last year it [dwells] throughout the year.
And then in my bad category the actions of buybacks I know you’re not able to do that but trading at such a big discounted tangible book if you have confidence in the value of your balance sheet which I assume you do why wouldn’t you take more aggressive actions to downsize and why not be more aggressive with your big targets? Why not take some other action to strength to move up that Basel III ratio even faster? Well I think Mike there are couple of questions meshed together there.
I think the actions on reducing our risk-weighted assets and fixed income from I believe it was $390 billion in the third quarter of ’11 to $253 billion this year we’re a year ahead of schedule last year and we’re at the end of the years point already in the first quarter of this year it would be easy to reduce it faster but you would also destroy revenues and destroy good businesses.
So our job is to balance a sensible risk-weighted asset reduction without destroying revenues and parts of that business that we find very attractive.
So we actually think we’ve been very aggressive bringing it down from $390 billion to a committed sub $200 billion by 2016.
If we see more sensible opportunities which don’t destroy value obviously we’d be all over it.
The capital buyback is completely different topic.
The – as we said at the beginning of the year we adopted a very clear posture with our regulators which was that our focus was on the strategic benefits of buying Smith Barney for two reasons.
One it was an attractive business and being already carrying the effective cost of the capital for that business so we wanted the earnings from it.
And its $600 million pre-tax a quarter 35% is real money.
So that was our focus.
We didn’t want anything to get into the road to that focus.
We did not want to jeopardize that focus by prejudging where we come out on CCAR or prejudging how the beginning of the year would start.
The beginning of the year has started at $1.2 billion significantly above where we were in the fourth quarter as CCAR came out at 5.7 I think 5.6 net of the capital allocation in this.
So we’re now waiting for the federal reserves to go through the application process.
When they do that we know our number and as we go through the year obviously the next question we’ve for ourselves is when and under what conditions we have to see buybacks but we’re not going to react very short-term on this.
We’re trying to do get this firm back on the rails which we’ve done over the last couple of years in a very deliberate path and we believe we’re now well on that path.
And then the good category would be the brokerage margin which came in higher than what you guys had expected last quarter.
What is your brokerage margin target? Is it still 15% it seems pretty low and you had one peer yesterday reported margin over 20%.
So what are you really trying to achieve margin wise in that business? Well I have to take that one again Mike because I was the one who foolishly couple of years ago went out with a 20% margin when we had then three years of zero interest rates following out.
So I admitted to my mistake on that and we set a more conservative margin target for the middle of this year which was 15%.
The fact we’re ahead of it is good news.
Now we’re certainly not going to turnaround and reset margins based upon short-term impact.
So our job is less around what’s setting the margins is actually delivering them and what I’m pleased about is the fact that we’re delivering those margins.
The competitor numbers I’m not going to talk about except to observe that they actually have a different business mix that comprises that ultimate margin number.
Was there anything unusual with the 17% margin this quarter or can we consider that a base looking ahead? No there was nothing unusual.
As I said the strength versus what is usually a seasonally lower margin it's typically seasonally low because compensation expense tends to be a bit higher in the first quarter.
But what we had offsetting that as I noted was the stronger transactional volume the new issue activity with closed-end funds.
That really helped coupled with the ongoing expense discipline.
And so if we look forward you're starting with the good base in the first quarter was at 17%.
Thank you.
Thank you.
LLC</strong> Good morning.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Just a couple of questions.
First of all on the deposits you saw about 4% decline in deposits in Wealth Management I think overall 3% down.
Was that largely seasonal or was there something else going on there? Deposits came up in December.
We saw some selling out of the markets.
We think it was primarily tax driven by investors as distinct from real concern about the market.
But our expectation was that it would come back into the market in the beginning of the first quarter and it did.
So it's really just the positioning by investors at the end of last year then coming back into the market and staying in the market as they have.
So no there's not anything more to it than that.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just thinking about your debt underwriting business given that there's obviously been pretty strong demand for that product over the last couple of years you've admitted that you're a little bit subscale on high yields relative to some of your competitors.
Does that have any effect on your desire for a couple 100 basis points of market share gains within fixed income if that business continues to be relatively robust over the next couple of years? No.
We set a target of 2% market share increase kind of 8% total market share for fixed income sales and trading.
We feel very confident with that given the products that our fixed income underwriting which is actually reported – those sales are reported in the investment banking line and we did have a record – we had a record quarter last quarter.
The first quarter was actually the best ever first quarter that we've had.
What that ends up driving is the secondary sales and trading as you know well but we feel very good about – we remain very much focused on our share gains equally focused on how we optimize returns.
So it's really both of those but no change.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then let me just confirm finally; the 60% compensation ratio in Wealth Management you mentioned last quarter that that we should about that ratio being pretty unchanged for the next couple of quarters.
What would allow you to get that ratio down presuming a steady revenue environment? And is that something that we should be looking for towards the end of the year? The 60% compensation ratio in the first quarter is precisely the reason we had indicated that the margin tends to be seasonally weaker in the first quarter these tend to have fairly higher comp in the first quarter or things like FICA and other factors.
So it does tend to be a bit higher.
Coming down a point or so near term is very – it's a reasonable way to think about it but the great – the best driver of the comp ratio over time is really the growth of our lending product.
As we talked about we're going to have deposits up to about 140 billion in the two years post buying in the rest of the Wealth Management business.
That's going to support growth of both Wealth Management lending product and Institutional product.
And on the Wealth Management side it's on a different compensation grid relative to the [formulate] grid that generally drives that comp ratio and that is what really gives us meaningful operating leverage in the comp line and that brings it down to the high 50s.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just want to follow-up on – you're sitting on about 23% of your balance sheet in excess liquidity.
Can you discuss where you are sitting in terms of the LCR do you feel like you're pretty comfortable for that or do you need to build more? On the LCR we're over 125% and that really has given all that we've done terming out the secured book.
It's obviously just a 30-day test and we do triangulate as we've talked about on some prior calls with an outlook over 12-month period of time in a stress environment.
One of the reasons liquidity is running at these higher levels as I noted is that we want to ensure that we have ample liquidity assuming we do acquire the 35% of Wealth Management.
So there’s a bit of flexibility thereafter.
Okay maybe just to follow-up on -- as you buy in the rest should we -- what is the timing around the deposits and how quickly do you think you can reinvest and then I guess longer term do you think that can help you bring down the excess liquidity and obviously help to improve profitability? So the deposits the way it works is they come in over the two-year period of time.
We get about 14 billion of deposits within a few weeks of closing and then 40 billion ratably over the following 24 months.
And that will -- that supports as I just said both retail lending as well as institutional lending.
And I think the best way to think about it is one it gives us growth opportunities because there’s a suite of products within institutional securities that haven’t grown as much as they could because they would be funded with unsecured debt versus substantially more efficient deposits but they’re still bank appropriate areas and areas where we have we’ll expertise.
So whether you’re talking about project finance or commercial real-estate those are good examples of areas where we get our incremental growth opportunities based on our competencies today and our clients today but it would be funded with more efficient deposits in the bank.
And then there are also areas where we will be able to move businesses from institutional securities into the bank and that enabled us to do it dollar-for-dollar substitution reducing unsecured debt and replacing that with deposit funding which is more efficient.
And so yes there is some efficiency that comes in in that way.
And then overall if the question is also and what does that do for liquidity.
As those deposits which are currently really supporting the AFS portfolio go into support the lending product the bank liquidity comes down as those are moving into support loan growth.
So we should see that excess liquidity start to come down as those deposits come in? Yeah it's all – if you take a look over time the answer to that is yes but as those deposits come in for example that first 14 billion of deposits … Oh sure.
Right in the short-term it could go up.
It goes up; then it goes into the AFS portfolio; it's positive carry on the AFS portfolio as it comes down again because it's supporting loan growth.
Yes it does come down again but at a higher return.
Right.
Okay thanks a lot.
Thanks.
Research Division</strong> Knocking under the wire.
Good morning guys.
Brennan good morning.
Good morning.
Research Division</strong> So just a quick follow-up on FICC it was obviously pretty volatile in some of these markets here this quarter.
Is there any which we think about maybe the fact that revenue might have been a little bit lower than usual just because there might have been some principal loss given some of that volatility and this is actually really a pretty lousy run rate? You know the run rate we do think given the markets where more challenging especially in March just affected activity and as I noted rates was lower and then commodities is dealing with a cyclical headwinds we’ve talked about.
So I think it is very fair to say we don’t deal a $1.5 billion of revenues.
Our revenues this quarter is a ceiling on what’s attainable even with quarterly seasonality.
And you know I point you to the strength that we have in a lot of areas like credit and the mortgage product and foreign exchange and we’d expect that rate – rates are higher so we do think that given the strength of the client activity levels that there is upside from here.
I think an interesting way to even just look at client activity and volumes across the platform is just looking at the brokerage and clearing line which is up which really goes to client activity.
So long way of saying it if we don’t think that $1.5 billion in revenues is a ceiling and look forward to the continued activity.
Research Division</strong> But where there any principal losses to specifically highlight or was it mostly volume driven within the FICC line? It was not principal losses no.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Thanks.
And on capital once I understand that its uncertain about when you get the green light on MSSB but if we assume that happens prior to mid-year is it too aggressive for us to think about given where you guys are on the capital ratio front.
In fact at MSSB is already fully baked into Basel III that you could be looking to take a second bite of the apple here with the regulators in a potential buyback with a – with the new submission? Well as James said our number one focus is closing the Wealth Management acquisitions given the strategic benefit in the upside promoting 100%.
So we're just focused on closing that acquisition which was our capital progress.
We are accreting capital.
Your question is fair but we want to get it closed before we think about anything else.
Research Division</strong> I figured I'd give that a shot.
And then the last one.
The lending platform is there anything operationally that you guys are waiting on to get going because it seems as though you have excess deposits currently.
So it's not really a matter of funding and not having the right funding.
So is there like a system investment process you need to go through in order to get everything up and running? Or is there any operational issues holding you back? Do you want to have all of MS/SB completely bought in before you really start more aggressively pushing the lending platform? I guess I don't understand what's – why it's been so slow to ramp so far? In 2009 it became clear that over time we would be buying in the remainder of the Wealth Management business and at that point started investing in the systems the risk management personnel analytics to ensure that at the point we ended up with the full 140 billion in place we had the systems and infrastructure requirements there.
The gating factor is and we've used this word so often in describing how we're building up the banking team and the banking effort within Wealth Management its prudent consistent growth.
There is no reason to rush it.
We want to make sure that we do it in a high quality way and that we're leading with risk management.
So it is better to do it prudently over time than to try and rush it.
That is really the governor of the growth in that business.
We feel good about the strength and the build.
As James said it's both on the mortgage side and on the PLA side and that's what we're continuing to do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I will note one other thing we've said this I think last quarter that relative to our peers we are under penetrated in the lending product and so what we're seeing is good take up and we're just keeping it at a measured pace.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
At some point after that book assuming that you guys want to grow that book to a certain size.
Does that mean that there will be a transition to accrual accounting and we'll start to see sort of that level of detail for you all? Well so we talked about the fact a couple of quarters – I think over a year ago now that we moved from fair value to HFI for our lending products that's most relevant for what we're doing on the institutional side.
And at this point about 69% of the book is on HFI.
So that has been the approach that was very clear coming out of the CCAR process over a year ago that that was a logical way to approach it and that's what we've been doing systematically.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Thanks.
Thank you.
Great.
Thank you so much for joining us and we look forward to speaking to you in a quarter.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! (Operator Instructions).
The first question will come from Mike Carrier with Merrill Lynch.
Maybe first question just on the wealth management business so you’re hitting the margins you do the buy in.
The one area that it just seems like for that business it still looks little bit on the lower side would just be on the returns and grant this quarter.
There is a lot of charges and you don't get the full benefit.
But it just seems like even on an adjusted basis it might be in that 7% to 8%.
Just going forward what's the driver there of improving those returns? Obviously as the margins pick up that's going to benefit it.
But just what's the long-term opportunity for the return in the Wealth Management business? Well a couple of points given there was an acquisition there is goodwill associated with it.
So the return on tangible equity in the business is about 30% today.
And we do see the profitability the profit margin and the returns on that business increasing.
So up nicely year-over-year increased versus the last quarter and really reflects the ongoing strength on the revenue line the benefit as the cost moves that we’ve made on expense line.
I did call out that there were some higher expenses this quarter but fundamentally the benefit on the expense line.
And we do see longer term upside as we continue to execute on the lending products.
So again upside from lending.
We revised our target to 20%-22% by the end of 2015.
And again to be clear that was with no assumption about higher equity market levels or rate changes and we expect that we would be above 23% with the benefits of market and rates.
The other thing I would note is that this quarter we did take the charge associated with buying in the balance of the wealth management business.
That's $152 million charge so the return on equity excluding that 10% but again I would focus you to the return on tangible equity given the acquisition.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
And then maybe just as a follow up on the capital side.
So you gave the color on the leverage you know ratio and the outlook in terms of 2015.
In terms of -- how do you get there? What are the different leverage points that you have? And then any impact on the revenues of the business.
And the probably more importantly given that you have got the buybacks this quarter and for the rest of the year how do you think that plays in? Because obviously their earnings power is improving the leverage ratio is lower but you are getting some buyback opportunity.
So when you think about buybacks going into '14 and '15 any view on that just given the different dynamics.
Thanks.
Sure.
So let me start with the leverage ratios.
I indicated we estimate we are spot at about 4.2% this quarter and as I said we expect to be above 15% in 2015.
We do see opportunities with both the numerator and the denominator and most important they are very consistent with the strategy against which we have been executing.
So starting with the denominator where we see a big opportunity there are a couple of things to note.
First with our focus on reducing risk-weighted assets in fixed income this is not model approval but passive and active mitigation and as a result we are taking balance sheet down because there is a relationship between risk-weighted assets and gross balance sheet.
So that’s the first point.
And as we repeatedly said we are taking risk-weighted assets down in areas that are not accretive to revenues.
So we don’t see that as impacting the business.
The second is our focus on central clearing.
We have talked about that on many calls.
We have invested meaningfully in central clearing.
We are well positioned to increase the volume of our derivatives through central clearing and back-loading old trades leads to an elimination of the gross up in the denominator.
We are obviously accreting capital which benefits the numerator.
So when you incorporate those items 500 million share repurchase we talked about and then assumption that we do continue to return capital on the future that takes us to this glide path to above 5% in 2015.
Now to be clear on top of those items we do believe there are additional opportunities to reduce the denominator but it's too early to quantify.
A couple of examples.
With banks on both sides of the Atlantic focused on reducing balance sheet we believe there could be lower derivatives notionals by compressing offsetting trades between clients and counterparties for non-clearable derivatives.
A second opportunity is more upside in central clearing.
In our calculation we only incorporated our expectation for the amount to be cleared in the next 12 months.
We didn't go beyond one year.
This is an important area and so we do see again upside in the reduction in the denominator from the amount that's centrally cleared.
And then finally consistent with all that we have been doing to optimize capital business unit leaders have the analytics to optimize the returns we have talked about this in the past.
We charge them for the capital balance sheet and liquidity needed to support their business.
And when you look at the way we are organized with our bank resource management effort we've talked about that in the past BRM.
It's a centralized resource governance structure.
We are well positioned to make appropriate resource allocation adjustments.
So we do feel good about the strength of our capital base.
We have baked in returning more capital into that calculation and I would note that we are already above 6% at the bank.
Very encouraging to see the buyback.
Can we assume that that was something that was approved as part of your approvals process with Fed just ahead of the joint venture buy-in? So just to break it down in the 2013 CCAR the only request we put in as we've talked about on prior calls was for the wealth management acquisitions given how strategically important that is.
And there is a provision though within CCAR once you have capital approval you can apply for an additional 1% of tier 1 capital for capital action.
So upon closing it I think this is where you are going but just to make sure I’m very clear on it as we went to the final closing of the wealth Management acquisition we put in the request to use this incremental 1% of tier-1 capital for capital actions.
We thought it was the logical next step and are pleased to have the approval no objection and to be commencing the share repurchase.
It hasn't yet started.
We just got approval for it so it gives the ability to use it as James said in his opening comments.
I think Guy that the key first I'd say consistently is to focus on the strategic platform get Morgan Stanley in the shape that it needs to be in for the next decade and more.
And then the financial management through buybacks and other capital actions obviously follow from that.
So were very careful to make sure we got the deal done even though it was a modest capital outlay of $400 and some million before started anything on the capital action.
And we’ve taken this first step and obviously we’re pleased to do it.
But just to follow up on it then as we think about the platform and the capital that's needed in it I look at the capital allocations that you give for the different business unit which is as I told before a very very helpful disclosure which a lot of people don't do.
So thanks for that.
I noticed that you brought the capital in ISG down this quarter by a little over $1 billion.
And with the accumulation of retained earnings you brought the parent unallocated capital up by a little over 2 billion.
Are we supposed to read or can we read anything into that and to what you think you need for the different business platforms and how much you might be accumulating for ultimate return? Let me first clarify what's in the allocation of required capital.
So you’re absolutely right the parent capital number went up.
The allocation is based on the final Basel I Basel 1 plus 2.5 if you want to call it that.
And with the reduction in risk weighted assets and fixed income that we require less capital in fixed income which is why the ISG number went down and the parent number went up accretion of earnings plus the reduction of capital required in the business.
Now the way we are managing the business is with the Basel III lens as we’ve talked about and we will shift this table to Basel III as soon we are -- the industry is reporting on the Basel III basis completely.
But fundamentally what you see here is that we are continuing to accrete capital.
That's why we said we believe we are increasing our degrees of flexibility that's reflected in our Basel III tier-1 common ratio and in particular the clarity we think we have with the execution path on the leverage ratio.
So directionally yes and then the numbers have changed a little as we move to Basel III.
Congratulations on the buyback and results.
On the core client fixed franchises it's been a challenging backdrop but I think you've expressed some level of disappointment on absolute basis and the results somewhat like it appears.
As you looked at broader fixed franchise performance what do you attribute under performance to? And what's within your control from here to improve those results and the trajectory of it? Well it was a tough quarter.
We reduced risk in May given our concerns about the potential market volatility within fixed income products.
You can see that.
When you look at VAR we ended the quarter with VAR down about 15%.
And as I noted risk weighted assets were down down to $239 billion.
In our view it does set us up well going forward to support higher client activity.
And we do -- I think that we have upside in quite a number of the products areas.
And we’re continuing to benefit from the leadership positions across our franchise given the benefit of adjacencies.
I would just add how there is a little bit of an obsession comparing for size.
We don't frankly compare for size.
We have a different structure business from a lot of other institutions for very important reasons.
We’re not a global commercial bank in the traditional sense.
So we’re always going to have smaller foreign exchange and rates businesses.
But we focus on our returns.
We’ve been through a period where we had to clean up a lot of stuff that we had.
We did that going back to MBIA and longer.
We had to then build out our flow footprint which we’ve been doing over the last couple of years.
And now the business is aligned the way we like it.
We’re now working on each of those paths as we laid out at the last analyst call getting to their individual returns.
The sum aggregate obviously gives us a decent return for the business.
So we’re much more focused on returns that on size.
Understood thanks.
And then switching gears over to GWM.
Ruth asset administration fees grew but may be not as much as we expected with the lag pricing dynamic.
So I was just hoping you could walk through the dynamics of the moving parts of the referral fees this quarter? And any other notable trends ex the referral fees that you might have seen through the business? Well you went right to the key point which was the referral fees.
That referral fee is set on an annual basis and it's based on rates at the time.
It was reset late in the first quarter.
So this is the first full quarter of the lower deposit referral fees.
It gets reset again next year.
And the deposit referral fee just like the higher FDIC fee as well both of those roll off as the deposits roll over to Morgan Stanley.
And then my final question thanks for all the thoughts on the supplemental leverage ratio just if I heard you correctly it sounds Ruth like most of the mitigating actions you could take are mostly on fixed income.
And I guess when I take a step back I inherently think of yourselves in trading franchise equity is being inherently more levered business than fix.
So how do we kind of marry that with you having fantastic equities results with that inherently being a higher leverage business with you achieving the glide path if that makes sense? Thanks.
So a couple of things.
One we are managing a leverage-based capital -- looking at both leverage-based capital and risk-based capital and a portfolio actually when you manage those two results in the highest overall return.
Second on the gross up.
In terms of the gross up for the balance sheet the areas that we're running down are areas entirely consistent as I said with the strategy we're executing upon.
So back to James' comment that we are not focused on fixed income size for size's sake we are looking at the returns on the business.
And so the run down in risk-weighted assets enables us to focus on the areas that are core to our client franchise where we are continuing to put risk behind clients and the reduction in denominator associated with the move to central clearing.
Again we have repeatedly said on calls that we believe that central clearing is not only good for the market because it increases transparency and standardization but it does play to Morgan Stanley's strength because it's less about competing on size of the balance sheet and more about content and service and execution.
So we were moving in that direction in any event and the opportunity to back load old trades in the central clearing and thereby reduce the denominator again consistent with our ability to have a right a focused fixed income business that plays to our strength and again benefits from all that we are doing across the franchise.
Okay.
Maybe just one follow-up on that.
I guess what I am asking is it doesn't sound like there is a high level of concern that this supplemental leverage ratio and mitigating to that will disrupt these great results share gains that you have all made in the equities business over the last few years? I know as I said I think what the elegance of the rundown to 2014 if that's the right word to use is it is consistent with the strategy that we have already articulated and against which we're executing.
And our equities franchise is a stellar franchise continued strength across products and geographies balanced across the franchise and so again able to continue to execute.
I just wanted to clarify Ruth when you said getting the leverage ratio of 5% that has an assumption for return of capital in the future.
What did you mean by that? We included an assumption but I don't want to prejudge where 2014 CCAR comes out and given flexibility that we have as I enumerated the various other items to further reduce denominator.
We have built in levels of flexibility so that again it will be based on where CCAR is at the end of this year and managing the mix of levers that we have.
But I noted it because 500 million is a good first step in terms of a share repurchase and it is a tool that we believe we've built flexibility to use on a go forward basis but don't want to prejudge 2014 CCAR by putting a number out there.
I would just point out though since the last CCAR we have had earnings of 800 round numbers 800 of [BM2] and 900.
So we are obviously accreting reasonably healthy levels of capital quarter-by-quarter.
Still on the topic of capital the ROE is about half of where your target is.
Any general thoughts on how you’re going to improve the ROE from where it is in this quarter? Yeah.
So James laid out in January the six point ROE plan and as he said we've already made progress substantial progress on a number of the items.
Completing the Wealth Management acquisition obviously a key step.
The earnings this quarter don't have to benefit of that incremental 35% we closed on the last day of the quarter.
That starts July 1.
The revenue and margin upside we've delivered but as we indicated we think there is more upside there.
The reduction in risk weighted assets in fixed income we’re very much on track if not ahead of track and we do believe that there is upside in that business.
We're continuing to execute on the wealth management -- sorry on the expense ratios.
And expenses were a bit higher this quarter as we noted.
Litigation was a bit higher and again we're on a good trajectory to have tighter expense ratios as we go through to 2014.
We’re executing on our on the bank strategy which again gives us some upside and capital as well.
So the ROE this quarter was obviously also depressed by the charge associated with buying in the Wealth Management business.
But when you roll those items together excluding the charge about 6% and then we see upside from the six items that we've consistently taken you back to.
Mike I'd just say there is nothing that we have seen in this quarter that changes our view on what we laid out on our ROE projections.
We stand by them.
And you mentioned backlogs a little bit but could you elaborate a little bit more? Sure.
The pipeline does remain healthy.
U.S.
Activities is strong as I did note.
Europe is up but that's versus a very week prior 12 months.
Japan continues to be strong.
Emerging markets are mixed.
China is slow.
Brazil has a big pipeline but as challenged.
We think that's on pause at least for now.
But we’re seeing greater opportunity in Asia Pacific.
So it's very country specific.
I think the intriguing element is this backlog in M&amp;A which has been sitting for quite some time and I’ve said on prior calls we attribute that to CEO confidence.
But what we are increasingly hearing is reassessments of timing in particular as Fed comments are that any moves are data dependent.
Where there are signs of improvements in the economy that isn't inspiring in conjunction with concern about higher rates and what that means is if there is a delay.
So we are hopeful to see that backlog start moving through the execution.
The drivers today on activity have been more cross-border as I noted in the sponsor and activist related activity.
The equity pipeline is stable.
It’s skewed more towards the U.S.
Mexico and Japan.
And two more smaller ones.
Litigation how much was it this quarter and where do you expect that to go and what's normal? So the second quarter was up a 140 relative to the first quarter.
It's proven to be an ongoing cost for the industry associated with all the pre-crisis matters.
It's proven to be lumpy tough to forecast.
But we called it out in terms of the expense comparison because at some point the financial crisis is behind the industry and these start to abate.
And just to give a sense first half this year versus first half last year we were up $250 million.
And then lastly your VAR was down at some others it was up.
What is that? Is that just a more cautious risk profile or is this just temporary? The VAR was down in particular on the interest rate and credit line.
And that really goes to my comments that we reduced risk in May given concerns about potential market volatility within fixed income products.
And I think the team did a good job managing that but it does set us up well to put to support client activity this quarter going forward.
We have capacity there.
So a quick one on leverage.
Does the new rule change your view on moving derivatives over to the bank sub? That's a great question because I indicated that we’re above 6% at the bank now.
And the way we are looking at it it's obviously just come out and it's still in the proposal stage.
But if we move derivative to the bank we get a dollar for dollar benefit because we’re not obviously funding them with unsecured any more but with deposits.
So there is some optimization there.
And I think the way we are thinking about it is client preference efficiency logic of it how the market is evolving we have some capacity in the bank that we have a clear flight path for the holding company.
So it's much more about looking at the specific asset classes and assessing it and it's too early to actually answer it more specifically than that.
That's fair.
So switching gears then I guess as you guys continue to work to improve margins in wealth management is there a way we should think about FA headcount going forward? Well FA headcount is up a bit this quarter.
We continue to be very focused on FA productivity which as I noted is at a record high.
And kind of in and around this level is logical and again our focus is primarily on FA productivity.
So it's not a line in the sand here.
It will bounce around a little bit quarter-to-quarter.
Honestly I wouldn't think about it too much.
But really productivity is probably the bigger driver in the way that we should think about it more so than actually the number it has? Yes.
By far.
Great.
And then last one from me.
As NII becomes sort of more important to you all and the asset leverage increases paying a lot more attention to that and so this question is a little dated but I kind of not pay as much attention to [NII] guys for a while.
It seems as though NII and ISG has been really weak since 2008.
What's been behind that? Is there any way to think about that or what are the drivers there? No I think your opening comments actually answered it.
NIM is much more a banking book than a trading book concept and so it's much more relevant for the wealth management business and it has been improving nicely and should continue to as we deploy deposits.
So really it's less relevant in the trading business.
Okay.
And on the [latter] business the wealth management business we have seen kind of a move here in the two and three year treasury.
Is there any benefit that we can expect down the line for you guys from that move or is the deposit investment for shorter and only really like the six months LIBOR would have an impact? Yeah we've indicated that it really is -- we focus on the much shorter end.
So the first 150 basis points in Fed funds is about $1.1 billion in PBT for the business.
To the extent we're seeing rising rates because there is improving economic activity that's constructive for all of the businesses but the guidance that we provided was really anchored at the short-end.
Could I just ask a follow up question on the derivatives business as you move to central clearing.
We talk a lot about the numerator benefit but have you done any work trying to figure out what the if any capital benefit would be on a Basel III basis and going to moving more and more of the derivatives to centralized clearing platform? Still too early.
But is it at least -- it makes sense that you get some benefit or there is just no way to tell at all.
No our assumption is there is some benefit.
There is benefit to it.
And trying to quantify it for our call it's too early or to estimate (inaudible) capital too early.
Okay.
And just a follow-up on the spread question on the deposits.
As you pull in $55 billion over the next 24 months.
How do we think about you talked about your leverage is more in the short-end but in the near-term I assume you are putting it mostly in the AFS portfolio.
Correct.
And with the backup in yields in the intermediate bond area wouldn’t you get some benefit.
I know your target was 1% spread before the rate spike should we be assuming a little bit better than that? We are still fairly short and it's been our philosophy given we have been in the low interest rate environment is to keep duration short given the inevitable rise in rates would prove to be a financial drag and I think that was the right thing to do.
I guess just on the FICC business you are talking about risk having come down in May with markets more normalized this sort of the level of liquidity provision going up.
And what was -- the client may just the volatility or I know you had some management changes too so I’m not sure if that’s factored in there.
I was concerned from the team about potential market volatility and just thinking that was it prudent risk management to bring risk down in the business given that concern.
And we’re pleased that they did.
And market normalcy has returned from your perspective so far as where it seems like we learn that from others? It does seem that way yes.
And just back on the buyback and CCAR I know you’ve probably said what you can but just thinking about the 1% is that a mechanical outcome of this provision to be able to apply for that and not to read into that one way or another as to the Fed's thinking on approving capital stock buyback requests with say your leverage ratio where it is against the target? Are they separate issues? Well there’s the provision that you have the opportunity to apply to use 1% of your tier-1 capital but it's still an approval.
And so we're pleased to receive the approval no objection and to be able to proceed.
And I guess the only other on the clearing rollout how's that in the swaps businesses.
How's that going from your perspective? And it seems like what we’re hearing from others is no real impact on customer volumes.
Have you found the same thing? Yes.
The big event was obviously category two.
The move went well.
Clients are ready.
We didn't have operational issues.
We do think the staggered rollout of clients was constructive between category one and category two.
At this point it's premature to judge I think the impact fully on market activity because there were so many other exogenous events.
But it went well and we feel we are well positioned.
Two things.
Firstly on the Basel III look through the 9.9 versus Q1.
I don't know if you could talk about the numerator and the denominator because the RWAs keep on going down in fixed income but there seems to be something offsetting it was the first question.
And the second question was the total exposure number.
So the supplementary leverage ratio exposure and the move to that through to full.
If we look back and you have that big reduction in FICC Basel III RWAs could you tell us where the exposure would have been or the leverage ratio would have been at the bottom just to work out what the correlation is potentially? Okay.
So on the first question the Basel III firm wide RWAs are $426 billion.
Some of the movement between the first quarter and the second quarter obviously there is earnings accretion.
There was obviously the charge associated with the Wealth Management acquisition and then just finalization of the rules.
That gets you to the 9.9%.
And then could you repeat the question regarding the leverage ratio? I'm just trying to understand the moving parts on the total exposure because we've obviously seen the fixed income RWAs come down a lot in the last 18 months and you’re getting more towards the end of that process.
So how much is the total exposure going down is really due to the fixed income? Is it -- those total exposure numbers would have been much higher before you started reducing the fixed income book.
It would have been much higher before we started reducing the fixed income book.
And I think the two buckets that I broke out one the RWA reduction and the RWAs in fixed income were $390 billion at the peak.
They’re down to $239 billion and most of that really is in areas that are relevant to the growth subs in particular our structure credit credit correlation business.
So yes we've absolutely benefited from what we’re doing and we continue to be on an execution perhaps to take it down even more which is what gives us the confidence we can continue to do so.
And then similarly we’ve moved already moved quite a bit.
We were early in central clearing.
And so we’re already seeing some benefit in the denominator from the move to central clearing and look forward to continuing to execute on that portion.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
I appreciate the disclosure particularly specific to Wealth Management loans on page 12.
I guess I'm just curious as to if there is any dollar target or growth target of those loans now that you've got deposits obviously flowing in from the MSSB transaction given your ongoing statements about trying to grow the spread revenue within wealth management? So I may give you a somewhat unsatisfactory answer because I'm not going to be able to quantify it by buckets and the reason is we've said consistently that we are leading with credit risk management and that it will be a prudent build-out of the portfolio and that is how we are continuing to build it.
So the deposits are going to continue to grow and support growth and lending product both for wealth management and institutional securities.
And on the wealth management side the biggest growth is on the securities based lending and secondarily on residential mortgages.
We have 5% penetration of our clients relative to our peers who have 10%.
So our view is that there is tremendous upside.
We've got a tailwind there but we're again leading with prudent steady growth and that's going to be the continued philosophy around it.
And then on the institutional side that's also how we are going to be utilizing some of the deposits.
We do get a funding benefit when we move dollar for dollar funding benefit when we substitute unsecured debt with the more efficient deposits.
So certain product does move to the bank and obviously our relationship or maybe not obviously our relationship in that lending is in the bank.
And then we have an attractive opportunity growing bank appropriate product in the bank.
So areas where we already have very strong teams domain expertise client base like commercial real estate lending asset-based funding project finance we can grow the lending suite an area we hadn't here too far been focused on.
So it is a real diversified portfolio of assets supporting growth on both wealth management and the institutional securities businesses that we'll build over time.
And we'll be sharing more about the bank and the bank strategy over time given the growth that we are seeing there.
Then just switching gears a little bit James maybe a question for you in terms of how you are thinking about the long-term total payout ratio of the firm given that you've now taken a big step towards that with the announcement of the 500 million share buyback? Well as I say journey of the 1 000 miles begins with a single step and we've had our first step that's really what mattered.
We don't want to get ahead of that obviously.
It's what payout ratios are.
It's going to be a function of where absolute earnings are and managing against the changing regulatory environment.
But what we wanted to do is put ourselves in a position where we could launch a buyback and begin that process which is what we did.
Thank you so much for joining our second quarter call and we look forward to speaking to you again in October.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! (Operator Instructions) And the first question will come from Glenn Schorr with ISI.
Hi thanks.
So I heard your comments loud and clear on fixed income in the quarter I just want to make sure that the RWA shrinkage is on track at the same pace that you had laid out for us and that there is no necessary mindset change in offshore [ph] and still think that you can put up in the I don’t know $1.5 billion to $2 billion a quarter range in normalcy?  So our orderly reduction program [ph] is very much on track has not changed that.
The only thing that I did discuss at a conference in September is to provide greater clarity about our consistent perhaps to reduce [indiscernible] within fixed income.
We are breaking out lending from the RWA total so we’re presenting just RWAs for fixed income so in the second quarter when I said we had 239 billion of RWAs in fixed income if you exclude the lending related RWAs that number is 219 billion.
This quarter we are down to 213 billion and we've similarly reset our end state it was 200 billion it's now sub 180 billion.
So very much on the same path no change there and then as it relates to how we're looking at managing the business overall we’ve a very keen lends on driving to and ROEs that is greater than our cost to capital.
We think that the reduction and risk weighted assets is a core part of that expense management is core part of that and that is a key driver.
We’re looking at revenues expenses capital optimization but the key lens is really on in ROE and excess of our cost to capital.
Fair enough.
On that front just I noticed first is the Basel III ratio that you gave at 10.8 is that standardized versus advanced and curious on how we got 90 basis point growth in the quarter I mean earnings were okay but risk weighted assets were down 2.8% it's a big jump was just curious how they got there.
That's on advanced it's fully loaded and it is driven by two things one earnings accretion and then the associated reduction in numerator deducts under Basel III and the reduction in risk weighted assets.
So both numerator benefits and denominator benefits.
Not something we should be looking for every quarter right? I mean it's a big big move.
I'm not going to I will let you do the forecast they were continuing to drive earnings and was continuing to reduce the risk weighted assets.
Okay last one you were also on the long-term lending commitment page 12 there is a wealth management loans and lending lines that's been growing sub-45% year-on-year it's up 7% in the quarter.
Is that in any way a leading indicator for deposit deployment or am I mixing apples and oranges there?  No you are very much focused on where we’re focused strategically one of the big benefits of the acquisition is onboarding of the deposits.
The rate of onboarding this quarter this past quarter the third quarter was unusually high.
We had a big slug come over immediately upon shortly after closing the acquisition and on a go forward basis we will have 1.75 billion in that area 1.75 billion coming over on a monthly basis.
So we had a bigger on boarding this quarter but the focus really is deployment of those deposits to support loan growth both in wealth management and on the institutional security side and as we've talked about in wealth management the real opportunity is we’re underpenetrated versus our peers.
Now we’ve got about 5% penetration our peers have about 10% and we see very attractive growth opportunities both with PLA product that's security based lending as well as residential mortgages and so that's what you're seeing and that's what we've been building towards since 2009 when we created the joint venture and we’re executing on that.
I just want to know are those commitments is that securities based lending because my gut is it's a tough environment while refi is dropping by 50% in the quarter is that securities based lending? What am I looking at to see that kind of growth in commitments? Because something good is happening.
So PLAQUE the securities based lending PLA you are seeing strong growth in it residential mortgage is where you have commitments and that we've had a strong pipeline of demand there so even with the slowing environment we have more demand than we’re executing against but the bigger growth is in PLA.
Just a follow-up on slower quarter for everyone we can see that you de-risk.
I was just hoping you can discuss where returns are in the major fixed businesses today.
So we can just track progress over time as the environment improves and you do evolve of what you want to do on capital and expenses?  So the – was that – it was lower volumes industry wide I would note that and I said this in my comments given the tightening in our credit spreads we did also have a meaningful negative swing in CVA sequentially.
If you exclude CVA in both quarters our FICC results were actually down single-digit percentages but going through the products as you asked rates was challenging risk remained low.
We continue to run with the historically low levels there.
It tapers down in May as you may recall I talked about that last quarter.
So we would look to see some upside in that business longer term if markets normalize.
Foreign exchange was down quarter-over-quarter.
That was volumes and mix.
Electronic is better but voice is lower and that’s the higher margin.
So that was bit of a drag.
On credit – on the credit side as I noted it was a bright spot.
We were actually up quarter-over-quarter.
We had good performance across IT distressed and high yields and was balanced across geographies.
That’s been a consistent strong area for Morgan Stanley.
Mortgages was also quieter and commodities was up a bit modestly but still running at lower levels.
So overall I mean the net of it you can see in the results was slower quieter quarter.
Our risk was down we are always down in those areas and we would expect to see some upside as markets normalize.
Okay thanks Ruth.
And switching over to supplemental leverage ratio can you discuss what the change in centralized clearing assumptions did to the model and is it simply earnings generation during the quarter that made up to that delta for that model change and with the positive inflows you mentioned or is there something else that’s going on?  So in terms of clearing in the second quarter I think the general industry lead was clearing would benefit the denominator.
And obviously in the second quarter the rules have just come out prior to various earnings calls and we have now had time to assess clarify certain items.
There were changes in both the numerator and the denominator.
And in particular with respect to central clearing the rules clarified clearing unto itself doesn’t – isn’t a deduct it does facilitate compression trades and we are still very focused on back loading.
And we have seen an acceleration in interest in compression trades by banks both in the U.S.
and in Europe because it’s one of the few tools to reduce exposures.
The other thing that changed quarter-over-quarter is the on-boarding of deposits that I mentioned we on-boarded $21 billion of deposits.
So just those two were – was about a 30 basis point reduction and the offset to that really was in the numerator between earnings and some of the numerator deducts was the offset.
Okay thanks.
And then you have been speaking to higher litigation expenses over the past few quarters James you have talked about it more broadly to the investment community I was just hoping you could take a step back and just give us a sense of what inning you believe Morgan Stanley is in working through just crisis related litigation issues?  Well that’s an interesting question Howard.
I think we have obviously fully disclosed all of the litigation risks that we have out there and we are working our way through it.
I can’t really tell you what inning we have been taking elevated expenses for a couple of quarters I am sure there will be – some of that will continue but we are managing our way through.
We have I guess the good fortune to be one of the smaller dogs in this price and as an institution and we obviously have less of the traditional mortgage exposure.
So in some areas we are just not participants happily but in the traditional – in some of the litigation we are.
Okay thanks.
And maybe just a last follow-up to that one Ruth how would you sort of size the incremental litigation expenses this quarter and could you also just give us the size on the gain on sale of Hub as well? Thanks.
So litigation has been running about $200 million to $300 million higher per quarter than one would assume in the end state and state the obvious it’s lumpy it’s unpredictable but we got to tell you more it’s on the same set of issues associated with pre-crisis matters and so it should come down when these issues are behind the industry but it’s been about $200 million to $300 million.
And then with respect to the sale – the gain on sale it’s part of the overall investments line.
There are number of items in that.
And I think on a go-forward basis if you look at prior quarter prior year that’s probably more reflective of future run rates.
Okay thanks.
I just wanted to clarify a little bit the comments that Ruth made about the receipt but not really deployment of the deposits.
I mean there must have been some impact on net interest income for GWM and maybe more broadly for the corporation from the receipt of those deposits or is that not fair?  I know that ain’t fair.
What I was trying to say is that with the on-boarding of deposits we did have a big portion come over in this quarter a lot still in cash and we’re deploying it into AFS and loan growth and so you do see this quarter some of the upside in net interest income and wealth management is due to growth in our lending balances.
The other benefit you see in NII is associated with the acquisition part of the acquisition we eliminated outstanding preferred with Citi and the expenses associated with it.
So two drivers of net interest income but you're absolutely right there is upside this quarter in that and we expect to continue to see more upside as we’re deploying out of cash into AFS and loan growth.
And then you gave a you told us that your quotes are one of 10.8 under Basel III was under the advanced basis.
Can you tell us what the calculation is on standardized basis?  So on a standardized basis RWAs are a bit higher it's obviously the second test we establish a minimum and if we’re running greater than the required we’re not required to report it but we are above that minimum.
So you're saying the RWAs are higher and so the standardized ratio would be lower?  Yeah.
The standardized ratio will be lower; I guess that's most relevant actually under CCAR moving to standardized for 2015 but of course requirements under CCAR for standardized is 4.5%.
Right.
Goldman gave some comments on their investment banking backlog and said that it was actually the best it's been in five years.
Can you give us a sense for your comments sounded a little bit more cautious in that regard but can you give us a sense for the direction of your backlog relative to last quarter?  The backlog is up it's actually it's high been in years.
My comment with respect to in particular M&amp;A is the backlog in M&amp;A has been growing nicely throughout the year consistently but the main factor really is while we have talked about on many other quarters which is M&amp;A is proxy of CEO confidence and given the impacts in the last couple of weeks and the fact that we don’t have a final deal in DC but it's kind of an interim step here.
I just had a caveat that until there is confidence about the economic outlook I wouldn't want to suggest that that growing pipeline actually goes through to announce and closed.
It's frustrating because all signs had been that DC was improving and confidence was up and the pipeline was building accordingly and hopefully we get a resolution and we actually see that work its way through.
The equity pipeline is also very strong the highest it's been in years and I think that we would expect to see more activity that moving through the pipeline.
The fourth quarter tends to be seasonally better than the third quarter given July blackouts and August and it's a very strong high-quality pipeline.
And then the final question is on FICC you have someone else had asked identified in the past a minimum target revenue of 6 billion and I think the implication has been that in order to exceed your cost of capital you need to generate that kind of revenue levels year-to-date on a cleaned up ex-DVA basis.
You have done about 3.5 so let's say that you're cracking for 4.5ish this year.
That’s still well below the 6 billion do you remain as confident as you might have been a couple of quarters ago that the $6 billion is a realistically achievable level and if not have you are you making any incremental changes to your resource deployments?  We remain very focused and confident about the path to a higher ROE in fixed income and as I said there are three major levels revenues which is a function of the operating environment among other things.
And so we will put that to the side expenses and capital.
And we are looking at all three levers but the main thing is controlling that which we control to drive ROEs greater than the cost of capital within fixed income.
And so between expense management some of the things that we have been doing there continue to do and capital optimization we have a flight path to an ROE in excess of cost of capital.
And that’s the real value.
If there is one metric to stay focused on it’s ROE.
That’s the way we are managing the business.
Got it.
So it sounds like you feel that you might be able to achieve that cost of – that that return ahead of the cost of equity without necessarily achieving $6 billion in revenue given the expense and other capital levers that you can use.
Is that fair?  Yes.
Okay great.
That’s really helpful.
Thank you so much.
Thank you.
Hi.
I just wanted to follow-up on your comment James that you are just beginning to see the benefits from acquisition of the 100% of the joint venture.
I mean your branches are already down your profit margin is up some to have the deposits aside from additional loan penetration to your customers what other benefits are still to be achieved?  So I will start on that.
There are quite a number if you just go through the items that we talked about that are the contractual benefit as a result of the acquisition that will probably give you a sense of why we believe we are just beginning to see it.
So one is the order flow agreement that we terminated that upon completion of the acquisition and so order flow previously went down over JV partner stays at Morgan Stanley that’s in the principle trading line.
However given industry volumes were lower in the third quarter just with the overall markets having seasonality we had a more modest benefit lower than we would expect on a quarterly basis and then a more normal environment still upside there.
Net interest income I already commented on but with continued loan deployment that’s a very important area additional upside in particular given the margin on that – on loan products we see real upside in NIM.
There are couple of other ins and outs to deposit referrals in the FDIC fees smaller and then obviously the elimination of NCI which is below the line but does benefit earnings.
And so again a more normalized environment continuing to build out the loan book the upside from that lending product are dropping to the bottom lines.
And I think Mike I would add a couple of additional thoughts.
One is if you look at where the industry the wealth management industry now is it’s very concentrated.
And during the period of turmoil of the crisis post-crisis and then our acquisition of Smith Barney and various staggered pieces that we hurdle on the way there was a lot of attrition a lot of moving people between different firms.
And that is the tax on the industry obviously and it’s inconvenient for clients in many cases but that level of turnover has dropped significantly and we expect it to continue to drop.
So that reduces your overall compensation costs because obviously recruiting deals can be very expensive number one.
Number two the strength of the old Smith Barney business at its core was its managed money program and the strength of the Morgan Stanley business at its core was its capital markets capability which is based upon Westchester.
And we are continuing to see each of those strengths sort of populate the other side of the house.
So it’s now become together as one firm.
And that’s why you are seeing so much growth in the managed money side and you are seeing very good retail distribution of institutional underwriting.
So I think just fundamentally it’s a more robust business and the broader industry structure is more accommodating to better performance over time.
As far as the outlook for the number of reps the number of offices how much you are looking to organically grow the business from here and also how long will it take to deploy the new $20 billion of deposits again?  So in terms of FA headcount it was up this quarter for a couple of reasons.
One attrition has been running at low levels for some time.
It was even lower this quarter and then we had a higher number of trainees with the probably the training program and the time of the year.
You could see that number going up a bit.
Really we are not managing it to a number.
It’s we are still focused very much on as a productivity and we just had a larger training program strong for your needs [ph] we’re just starting.
So kind of in and around that level.
In terms of branches you saw the number of branches come down this quarter the way we look at that it it's a function of really market by market analysis [indiscernible] the question is do you have completely fully staffed offices within any market strong culture no more room in this space.
No need to consolidate or should you consolidate so at this point the big reductions that we've seen are really behind us now it's just market by market analysis and then in terms of the deployment of the deposits to support loan growth you're really going to see that the deposits deployment go not just into wealth management products but also institutional products and of course the AFS portfolio and as we consistently have said we’re very much leading with risk management credit risk management.
So there is nice growth near-term and we've been building that infrastructure as I've said since we created the joint venture back in 2009 but we’re leading with risk management we're not just going to keep using the term prudent study pace and you will continue to see it deployed over the next continued study phase.
Then last follow-up what specific loan products by category would it be a lot of mortgages or what else in addition to that?  Well the main thing is really this PLA product the securities based lending product which is a more flexible product for our clients really enables them to retain their securities portfolio continued to be invested in the market that's the primary one.
We’re underpenetrated as I said residential mortgage is next on the list the next major category for our retail area and we continue to have strong demand because we’re off of such a small base and again given the low levels of penetration.
And then on the institutional security side its product very consistent with our strong areas within our franchise to James opening comment where we have strong client franchise strong bankers that built the incremental infrastructure required.
So for example in commercial real estate in project finance areas consistent with the businesses we’re already in where we are already serving clients we're now just expanding the suite of products.
So it's growth in both areas.
Just a follow up on the SLR you mentioned some changes in that process.
You guys have gone through the proposal in terms of getting from 4% to 5% in 2015.
Can you just give us an update on that glide path again in the past you said collapsing is in trade but anything that has changed based on further review of the proposal?  Certainly so greater than 5% in 2015 we’re very confident with the supply path there because there are opportunities with both the numerator and denominator and very consistent with the strategy against which we’re then executing.
So we’re not assuming any benefits from potential changes in the rules and starting with the denominator where we see the biggest opportunity the first is with our focus on reducing risk-weighted assets and fixed income that leads to a reduction in the balance sheet a reduction in the grossed up balance sheet of this relationship between RWAs and grossed up balance sheet.
So that's number one its very much on strategy.
The second is derivatives growth as I said can be reduced through compression trade; we've been focused on that for some time.
We had not previous as of the second quarter hadn’t quantified it and viewed it as an additional upside opportunity.
All that we've done in central clearing our focus in particular on back loading helps facilitate the pace of compression trades and just in the SLR was announced and the BIS proposal was announced we have seen an interesting in compression we think both in U.S.
and in Europe and the total compression opportunity is greater than what we had assumed from clearing.
So that is very much in the plan.
There is also numerator benefits from capital accretion and some of the numerator mitigation so that the combined gets us to a strong glide path to greater than 5% in 2015 and also important to know it includes the assumption that we would have spiteful capital returns to shareholders.
And then just on the asset management business it seems like each quarter it comes in stronger than expected.
I guess just two questions on that on the traditional side it seems like it was a little weaker you mentioned performance fees to just trying to figure out how much that impacted it? And then when I think about the real estate and merchant banking just longer term you just want to try to gauge how much of that business you guys can still do meaning its funds managed by others versus anything that you might have to shrink over time.
Just want to get an update on that?  Sure.
So on the traditional asset management side you identified that it’s – it was down due to higher performance fees in the second quarter.
And then we had higher waivers on liquidity funds this quarter.
And then on real estate and merchant banking as I said the upside was gains there.
We recently broke through hurdle rates on two funds.
So we had catch up on carry for those two funds.
We are now close to the end of the catch up for those two funds.
We are earning carry on several other funds but good performance and had attractive catch up on carry.
And then in terms of looking forward and those funds we have strong teams in place.
We are pleased with the returns there.
And it’s clearly a function of how much capital you have in those businesses.
Yes I don’t think there is any constraint or in fact I think the business is in some ways more attractive because increasingly it’s fee-based businesses because you have less capital at risk where we are in private equity we are in mezzanine finance we are in real estate we are in infrastructure funding we have a pretty broad-based merchant bank.
And a number of those groups are in fundraising right now.
And I think its good teams as Ruth said good performance limited capital and it’s a nice business model.
Got it.
Thanks a lot.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So just to follow up there real quick on Mike’s question is it possible to quantify the carry in the catch up that you guys had this quarter just so we can understand how much is recurring and how much was sort of more one-time?  No we don’t break that.
I can leave that to you.
That’s alright okay.
I figured I’d give it a shot.
And then on asset management just to sort of verify because I think there was a little bit of confusion before to be open on this would you guys had a bump in your investments line in the investment management division but that really – it’s my understanding that primarily washes out in NCI for that segment is that right?  No within investment management we had carry catch up as we indicated because we broke through the hurdle rate on a couple of funds.
And so a majority of that actually is retained at Morgan Stanley and NCI can see as well there is still NCI associated with the funds but now we retain a large portion of that in-house.
Okay.
So that was the primary source of the carry and then we have got to just basically come up with our own assumptions about how much is catch up and how much is repeatable?  Correct.
Okay.
And then you gave some great color on the strength in the equities business of remarkably strong quarter really especially looking at the U.S.
counterparts they have reported here to-date.
And it didn’t sound like there were any kind of one-time components or things that wouldn’t repeat but just kind of just want to verify is there anything that we should think about as one-time in nature in that number?  No we have consistent – I feel like quarter-after-quarter we talk about the strength in our Institutional Equities business.
There was another strong quarter across products and geographies and I have said that a number of quarters in a row here balanced across the franchise.
DV balances were very resilient and that was notable given summer seasonality.
And cash equities the market data indicates that we outperformed with industry volumes down so a strong quarter.
Typically the fourth quarter is lower in part with PB balances lower as managers go into year-end but nothing to note other than consistent strong performance by the Institutional Equities business.
One of the things that has been a determined move by the equities management is to provide a much more integrated approach across cash derivatives prime brokerage to our clients.
And I think that help me as gain market share and obviously helps with the stability of the revenues.
Terrific.
Thanks.
And then last one for me just on the buybacks is this the right pace we should assume or should we assume some pick up here in 4Q and the buyback is approved through the first quarter too so we should carry that through that right just want to verify my understanding there?  Yes.
The approval process for CCAR through the end of the first quarter of 2014.
So you should assume that we will use it no later than the end of the first quarter of 2014.
And is it okay; is it right for us to assume that there is a space for a pickup in the phase?  Well the map would just that given what we've used so far.
I just have a couple of follow-up questions on [indiscernible] and deductions.
Firstly on the deductions they seem to have fallen quite significantly on 1.5 billion sequentially could you explain what’s driving that what kind of things whether its into institute GTA [PH] or private equity funds I'm not sure and then the secondary is on the Basel III RWAs they have gone down outside of fixed income I think for the first time I remember it.
Are you doing something particularly outside fixed income as well on the Basel III efficiency basis? Thanks.
So in terms of Basel III RWAs the main focus really is in the fixed income as you know as you said I think it just consistent with overall wider market low volumes the backdrop that we have been talking about.
In terms of the Tier 1 common and numerator and deductions there obviously the buckets and waterfall of numerator deductions based on Tier 1 common levels and so again as we create capital there are reduced deductions numerator deductions kind of the waterfall.
Just two clarifying questions one back to the SLR glide path does the continued on-boarding of deposits is that done sort of ratably over the period of time in terms of their contemplation in SLR or is the endpoint somehow fully loaded in the current figure?  So there are two parts to that question the on-boarding of deposits was very large in the third quarter due the that was contractual nature of the acquisition one large tranche came on as I said a couple of weeks after closing and then the balance of fit is about 1.75 billion per month through the middle of 2015.
So the big increase that we saw this quarter you’re not going to see on a go forward basis that’s the terms of the contract 1.75 per month through mid-2015 and yes that is fully loaded into the estimate of greater than 5% in 2015.
Got it it's just that the influence of the incremental is just not so significant over the-  Exactly and as you have deployment you have greater earnings though you’ve a couple of variables going on as well.
Got it and then just returning to FICC it sounds like the most significant comment you made is that adjusting for some of the items that your results quarter-on-quarter would have been down actually relatively little and so I'm just trying to reconcile that with the and of course it looked like there was a little bit of share gain in credits from some of your commentary.
And so I’m just trying to reconcile that with the continued reduction in RWAs to understand how it is that there is this group of assets that seem to have so little profitability associated with it.
That's precisely the problem they have so little profitability associated with them currently and on a go forward basis.
So the RWAs that we identified that we’re reducing structure credit long dated uncollateralized derivatives are drag on the overall returns in the business and through passive and active mitigation we are pleased to be shutting them at the fastest pace that we can.
You've seen that we are materially ahead of anything that we laid out you know we were 390 billion on the old [ph] basis RWA is back in the third quarter of '11 it's been a lot of heavy lifting and we are getting near to the -- there is light at the end of the tunnel given the pace of execution and with business leaders having the analytics dashboards to know how to reduce risk weighted assets that’s helped the pace.
So we are pleased to be exiting them and it does help on the overall returns because it not only helps free-up capital from fixed income but I think that it's providing us with more consistent quality earnings base within fixed income which is one of the key elements as we’re thinking about how to resize any kind of capital return on a go forward basis.
Hi good morning.
Just on the – back on the share repurchases you think you commented I think earlier greater share repurchases to hit the greater than 5% target.
And obviously also as part of the ROE expansion does that – that doesn’t assume anything sort of beyond the pace that you have been approved for is that right?  I mean the answer what I think your question was and then let you have a follow-up if I missed it.
Okay.
So I was answering one question regarding the very small share repurchase program we approved to do this year that ends through March we enter the end of the first quarter.
And as we look forward given all that we have done to build capital given the greater consistency of results the accretion of capital we are building in our view increased flexibility to return more capital on a go-forward basis.
We are not going to judge CCAR or timing cadence but it does build greater flexibility on a go-forward basis and that’s what I was trying to convey.
I am not sure if I hit your questions.
Yes mostly.
I guess the point being that greater share repurchases is part of the active hitting 5% and that’s 2015 target that’s kind of implies that you would expect to do higher than the small repurchase next year as that gives you a year?  We have certainly built in that in providing this guidance of higher than 5% but until we see the CCAR number we have the capacity to do it.
Got it.
As what the greater than 5% means and my caveat we haven’t seen the CCAR rolls the shocks.
So we are not going to prejudge CCAR as that I am not going to say what it will be next year but we certainly have the capacity with the glide path to greater than 5% with much higher share repurchase even included in that number.
Okay.
And then I just wanted to maybe get any updated thoughts you have on the physical commodities business obviously we don’t have final walker yet but there has been a lot of obviously discussion in the industry and others have gotten out this is where -- how do you think this stands for you strategically?  Well I don’t think there is much change from what we commented on previously.
It’s been a good business for us for many years.
We want to be smart about what we do to drive returns in the business for the firm overall and so really no update at this point.
Okay.
And just a small one on the – back on the carry I know you are not quantifying the size but what percentage of the way – the carry catch up is this typical 80-20 in catch up?  Yes probably I think a bit more than that.
So basically…  Right 75% and 80% away there?  No so we have done a carry catch up this quarter and we are almost through it.
And so again it’s going to be a function of the market in the economy.
Okay.
So there is a little bit to go.
Okay.
Right.
Alright okay thanks.
Hey good morning.
One quick follow-up on the SLRs are compression trades and OTC clearing are they in your guidance? I thought it was excluding that it was just sort of the run-off would get you to 5% or did I misunderstand that?  So in the second quarter as I said the general industry read was that clearing would benefit the denominator.
Since then its clarified clearing unto itself does not so take that out.
When you take that out and you add the deposit growth that’s the 30 basis point deduct that I mentioned previously.
However what we have separately – we have the time now to do is go through and quantify the benefit from compression trades.
So compression trades is distinct from clearing reduce the denominator and it’s really the pace of activity with compression trades volume that we are targeting with compression trades is what helps is one component of what drives the leverage ratio higher.
The fact that we have been focused on central clearing for some time and that we have been focused on back loading facilitates the pace of compression but put those two as distinct issues and it’s not the clearing itself but just compressions.
Fair enough the compression in your guidance of that.
Yes.
Compression is in the guidance.
Okay thanks.
And then on the cost saves can you give us some sense in where you are you targeting $1.6 billion net by the end of next year? Where do you stand at this point?  So we are very much on track for the expense reduction goals.
When we set out the goal as you may recall of $1.6 billion reduction it's at the end of 2012 and said by the end of 2014 we would be down by 1.6 billion but we're also very careful to say that that was predicated on revenues flat to 2012 and indicated that it was higher revenues which we expected certain expenses would go up in particular those that are activity-based but that we would measure progress based on overall expense ratios we’re trying to hold for it number of different components and when you look at the components of non-composition expense year-to-date activity related costs like brokerage and clearing and transaction taxes are up while non-activity related costs like occupancy and market data are down and so when you kind of go through the map take 2012 revenues deducts that our expense ratio back then was I think it was 84%.
If you deduct the 1.6 billion expense savings we said we would get that takes your expense ratio down to 79%.
We now have revenues up from activity related costs up but net-net we’re at that level and if you exclude elevated litigation expense we're ahead and our view is that litigation expense will be a cost for the industry for the near-term but we’re improving our fundamental cost base and we will get through that at some point.
So very much on-track for the expense program ex-litigation.
Right I mean I understand what you're saying you had targeted ratios but revenues are up where do you think they should be current revenues or I guess another way to say if you think your 50% of the way through it 25% or 75%.
I mean obviously you must have some kind of thoughts on absolute headcount or something like that?  Just on the numbers given we are already at the 79% expense ratio that was implied back in 2012.
One way to answer I would say that we’re excluding litigation that we’re that we have achieved but we’re only partially way through executing it and so we have the balance of next year fourth quarter balance of next year to continue to execute on programs that we've laid out and for that reason we say that and I would say that we’re there but we're continuing to execute on the programs that we identified back at the end of 2012.
So we’re feeling very good about our ability to continue to reduce expense rate.
I will just add that there is a culture of expense management across the firm but we haven't seen for long time whenever I travel around the world local offices sub-business groups everybody understands the program; everybody understands what we’re doing.
We have a very well-coordinated program with 40 or 50 executives as part of it.
So this is going to be continuous process.
As Ruth said on the percentage basis I mean we’re already at the 79% but that's honestly that's not our focus our focus is continue to make the firm more efficient by bringing in together as one firm which we did taking three platforms to one in wealth management operating wealth management closer to institutional securities lot of the electronic development within institutional securities.
So there have been a lot of things that are going to be ongoing for next several years and I think we will continue to add.
So we completed three of eight quarters and achieved the target in the end state and we’re continuing to work.
You guys provided a lot of details on fixed RWAs but if you talked about the total assets in that business?  We have not broken that up no.
I guess if I can take a stab at trying to get to the opportunity of reducing those assets if we think about RWAs coming down by 30 billion to 40 billion obviously there is a multiplier effect for the overall firm.
I will thing it's more for FICC.
It seems like it might be in the 100 billion to 150 billion range in terms of total assets within FICC that might come down?  I'm going to go through the map on the call if there is some technical you want to follow up with IR you can do that.
Okay but it should be a multiple of RWAs I would think right?  So we're looking at the RWA reduction we're looking at grossed up balance sheet and we’re managing all of our businesses through a risk based capital lends leverage based capital lends increase doing an SLR lend.
So again while we’re driving is the strongest return in that business so balance sheet is coming down as we -- and grossed up balance sheet is coming down even more as we reduce risk weighted assets.
Okay and then just separately as we think about the remaining 35 billion or so deposits coming in some of the benefits that you still get from what just came on how should we think about the blended yields you deploy that into.
Obviously this could be a mix of retail loans corporate loans and some securities but what’s maybe a good blended yield to think about?  In a recent presentation James actually laid out the return on cash AFS lending product and so we are continuing to deploy the cash into AFS and then between both the wealth management and institutional book and so let you build out the growth there.
The components are in the presentation.
Okay thank you very much.
Thank you so much for joining our third quarter call.
We look forward to speaking to you again in January.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! (Operator Instructions) The first question will come from Glenn Schorr with ISI.
Thank you.
Within your plans for Fixed Income I was wondering if you could elaborate on how we get the ROE up in rates and isn’t an ROE focus as opposed to a revenue focus? I’d appreciate that.
So the focus is an ROE focus as opposed to a revenue focus.
And as we indicated we have a number of areas that are driving the overall ROE higher.
First and foremost we talked about Commodities and the steps that we’re taking in Commodities.
We are selling two physical oil businesses there the first one as we’ve talked about; we have announced the sale to Rosneft.
In December we expect it to close in the second half of ’14.
The PBT in that business is essentially breakeven and it has about $4 billion risk weighted assets so accretive to returns there.
With respect to the second business TransMontaigne we’ll share more when we have something to say on that.
With respect to moving to centralize -- the move to centralized management we have a very systematic and clinical approach really to optimizing returns within each of our businesses.
It’s a focus on revenues expenses and capital and we’re continuing to balance those to drive returns and rates as we have in other businesses across the platform.
Rates right now is still the biggest revenue piece of FICC I take it? As I said we’re really focused on the overall returns in the business and we’re looking at within each of the product areas revenues optimizing revenues expenses and capital and so we’ve really driven returns within the FICC across products to levels on a normalized basis that are at or above cost to capital.
We in fact made significant improvement in foreign exchange this year this past year and are at this point operating with returns basically in line with our cost of capital when you look at RWA’s on a normalized basis so the next one to add here with the same approach is rates.
Okay cool.
Speaking of RWA hopefully I did the math right and I think Basel III RWA was up 3.5% almost quarter-on-quarter and I’m just curious because I know the overall focus is down in Fixed Income and down overall.
Was there anything particular that drove that this quarter because I know the direction is going the other way? So you’re right.
We have been reducing risk weighted assets within Fixed Income but the reason there’s an addition here is a key component of the calculation is ops risk that captures litigation.
And so with the higher reserve here in the fourth quarter that would change the overall calculation of the ops risk capital charge so that’s what you’re seeing.
A question on that Ruth is if that happen in the quarter that you realized higher legal costs or is that a permanent addition that kind of sticks through the process until further notice? So the way it works is with the addition of a sizable data point within the overall distribution of data points you have to calculate ops risk.
Once you add a more sizable data point as we did here data in the tail would affect the overall calculation.
Smaller pieces kind of in the belly of the distribution don’t actually have an impact on the capital charge and once it is in the dataset it remains in the dataset until you see a change in the distribution so it is in there for some time.
Got you.
I guess I mean if James is right on his comment of putting most of the stuff to bed and maybe within a years time you start to get the benefit of that I know the CCAR process moves slow.
Last one Wealth Management loans and commitments were up another 10% this quarter or up almost 50% year-on-year I guess there is the PLA component and all the securities based stuff and then the mortgage part.
I don’t know if you can share with us which one of those is growing and of the overall pie how important is it to Wealth Management in general because I know it comes on a different comp grid.
So overall loan growth is important to Morgan Stanley across businesses; we’re having deployments supporting growth in institutional securities as well as Wealth Management and in fact on the ROE walk it's the most important incremental driver to returns.
But to your quarter with respect to Wealth Management what you’re seeing is the benefit of the growing deposits that are asset optimization and then what that translates into.
Growth is across both PLA or the securities based lending product and residential mortgage.
There’s more of it in PLA although I would say in the mortgage side we’ve continued to see strong demand.
Historically we were deliberately constraining production there because we were both focused on client experience and in fact applications were up in the quarter.
But the bigger part of the growth has been PLA.
And again what we’re benefiting from here as we’ve talked about on prior calls is we’re under-penetrated relative to our peers this is very logical consistent product for them.
Okay.
Thanks Ruth.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Just a quick question on the SLR first of all; did you have a chance to think about what the impact of the final BIS add-ons that were announced last weekend would be? We have been working through that it's a complex calculation in particular with respect to the net long CDS sold portion of it is as you know well.
Our preliminary calculation is we are approaching 4% on that basis well above the 3% required.
Great that’s helpful.
You talked about a number of drivers to get the SLR on the NPR basis up to the 5%.
Can you talk a little bit about what the implications might be of some of those moves for revenue and I guess that’s where maybe it gets into the overlap with what you’re doing on the rate side? Well the path to greater than 5% in 2015 and again that’s including an assumption about increasing returns of capital as I just break them down into the numerator and denominator.
In the numerator not only do we benefit from earnings accretion but there is a multiplier effect because of certain deductions most notably DTA and the investment capacity deduction.
The investment capacity is based on the size of Tier 1 capital so certainly as Tier 1 capital increases you have a larger basket smaller deduction of holding capital against certain items that fall into that basket amount like our joint venture in MUMSS at each end of the bucket.
So when the bucket gets bigger there are fewer deductions.
And then there are specific steps that we can take to focus and that we are taking to focus on items that are captured in the investment bucket.
So I would think of it its earnings accretions and a multiplier impact on that for the reasons that I just described.
And when it's being efficient with some of those numerator deductions that’s not a -- that doesn’t have an impact on revenue.
Preferred obviously also adds to the numerator.
You can do – so the dividends you could say would be the deduct we continue to have a benefit from the RWA rundown and as we've talked about that's in areas that are not accretive to revenue.
And I'd say the other one that is important is compression.
And I would put that in the bucket of just good hygiene.
So we've invested quite a bit in central clearing back loading into central clearing.
It gives us great opportunity for compression.
We're seeing more interest in that from banks on both sides of the Atlantic and again that's just in the category of good hygiene.
So I think that we're very comfortable with the implications of this the various levers we have to move up to the greater than 5%.
So it doesn’t sound like you loaded into that a lot of the strategic changes that you might be making in rates? For example maybe changing the way you look at repo or anything like that? No.
And the assumption on – that's embedded in this slide is consensus earnings but I'd say that the other items that I enumerated are quite very important and no there isn't enough change in the assumption on some of the other items.
Got it.
Is there a new sort of breakeven level of thick revenues that you need to achieve to get to that ROE equal to your cost of equity and when I say breakeven I mean specifically a level of revenue that you would be given your cost base in order to get the whole FICC business to earning at cost of equity? I think in the past you've talked about 6 billion or so and I just wondered if its lower? So let me answer that by pointing you back for example to Commodities.
We've talked about the thing we are clinically focused on is driving returns higher in that business.
And to your question you focused on one of the three levers it's revenues it's expenses and it's capital optimization.
So as I indicated with the business that is being sold throughout and after this point it is essentially PVT breakeven from Morgan Stanley.
It has about 4 billion of risk-weighted assets in it so yes there may be a diminution in revenues there but when you look at the cost structure running that type of business within BHC it's more valuable in the hands of an investor or player.
We have higher capital liquidity levels associated with the business and that's why we say what we're looking at is ROE.
That is smart move for us for the business for our stakeholders it's accretive to ROE although there are some revenues that go with it.
Got it that's helpful.
One of our big competitors took a large charge for FVA as they adopted that approach on their derivatives book.
Is there – maybe you can tell us whether you currently do that or not and whether that's something that you're contemplating? So that obviously refers to the potential implied financing costs around collateralized derivatives to the extent that those are observable.
We do continue to evaluate it.
There has been a lot of industry discussion around FBA.
In our view transparency has been lacking and today in our opinion there is not a basis to take the adjustment.
From a risk management perspective we do allocate capital and liquidity down to the product in debt level across our sales and trading businesses so liquidity is allocated based on our liquidity funding model which models outflows in a stressed environment and those are as I said allocated down to the product level.
So from a risk management perspective the businesses are being charged appropriately.
That is different from seeing transparency in the marketplace.
Got it.
Last one from me you mentioned FX and having achieved some success there in terms of getting the returns to where you want it to be.
I did notice that in the quarter your FX bar is up a significant percentage of where it was before.
Does that reflect changes in the business or just market volatility? No the FX flows up quarter-over-quarter and it just reflects plan activity.
Got it.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Good morning.
So within ISG was there a shift this year to less deferrals and would that maybe have put a little bit of upward pressure on your GAAP comp expense figure just trying to maybe think about that even if we don't get specific numbers just from an area of perspective? So the ISG comp ratio I think you have this is down from 45% to 42% this year.
We did bring down the deferral rate as we indicated we would so the deferral rate has come down.
And when you think about our comp ratio on a go-forward basis our view is that it will trend down to about that 40% range.
Okay.
But with deferrals coming out that would have put all else being equal even with the comp ratio coming down some upward pressure on that ratio.
Isn't that the right way to think about it? Yes.
Okay great.
And then thinking about a dividend that you guys sort of introduced in Slide 13 if you think back to 4Q trailing GAAP earnings when you guys submitted a CCAR which clearly includes some headwinds but in any event we know that the Fed sort of looks at that.
Very simplistically we just apply a 30% payout ratio to that it would imply a $0.50 dividend per year.
Any issue with the math on that? You think that people are thinking about it that way would be too aggressive? Let me answer it this way.
Our view is that the way to maximize return of capital over the longer term is to request steady consistent increases in capital returns in the interim as opposed to any type of discontinuous move.
So given the ongoing accretion to capital and the higher ratios at Morgan Stanley we think now it's the right time to increase the size of our share repurchase program and begin to increase the dividend.
But I'd start it with our philosophy because I think it's an important way to frame how we think about legging in to any kind of change.
Okay that's helpful.
And as we think about Wealth Management and you guys have had terrific momentum there clearly and your outlook for improvement there and kind of with engagement continuing to improve do you expect that that would increase the fee rates that you guys get on your managed assets? That had been under a little bit of pressure recently and it's sort of at lower levels.
Does that reflect a lower level of engagement and does your expectation for increased engagement mean that that probably should all else equal have some upward pressure there? No… Okay.
I'm sorry go ahead.
It's asset mix but no that was an improvement.
Okay.
And then last one you guys are looking for like a near doubling of the loan book as you laid out in the slide deck from now until 2015.
How much of that doubling should we count on from Wealth Management versus institutional? And as we watch the disclosures that you guys gave in the supplement is it mostly in the health or investment volumes that we should be watching? I think you have a couple of questions in there.
We've laid out the asset growth by product and I discussed it in a conference earlier in the year.
The loan growth overall is supporting both as I said product and Wealth Management as well as institutional securities.
So we talked already about mortgage and PLA within Wealth Management.
In institutional securities the product is similarly very consistent with our client franchise where we have strong domain expertise areas like commercial real estate project finance continuing to expand with our clients.
It is primarily HFI.
We've really migrated to HFI over the last several years and we see this as prudent steady growth across a suite of products to support growth in those two businesses.
We've laid out the products and the deck that James went though so you can get a sense of the suite of products on both sides.
Okay thanks for the color Ruth.
Thank you.
Hi.
I think you said the margin ROE targets do not reflect a change in interest rates so what is Morgan Stanley sensitivity to higher interest rates for example or a 100 basis point increase in Fed funds? We gave two targets and let me make sure we're very clear.
When we focus on increasing the PVT margin in Wealth Management we kept it on a basis consistent with the way we described it last year.
So last year we had a Wealth Management target of 20% to 22%.
We said we were holding rates and equity markets constant.
And so as we hit our 20% PVT margin this quarter excluding the impairments of 20% PBT margin.
We took our guidance up for Wealth Management and that again is holding rates constant.
We don’t give ourselves the benefit of even the forward yield curve.
It's holding rates where they are today and holding equity markets where they are today.
If we now switch over to our ROE walk and look at the upside that comes from the bank with respect to the upside in the bank and the slides that looks at asset optimization and the yield on the various categories in that we have embedded the forward yield curve and nothing more than the forward yield curve.
So we try to give you a lot of the pieces with respect to asset growth and the mix and that assumption so that you can do all the sensitivities that you think are appropriate given your outlook on the market.
So if you did have a 100 basis point increase in fed funds then we could assume a higher PBT for the Wealth Management business? Yes so rates obviously our benefit to the bank overall and to the Wealth Management business.
You mentioned prime brokerage is back to that level since 2008 is it all the way back.
I know the business was hurt during the crises and you trying to get customers back; are you back at a steady state or you’re still gaining share? We’re in a very strong business with PV and I would say that they has been a quite substantial change overall in prime brokerage over the last several years a restructuring of that business and the way the business is funded post to ’08 it's so we’re in a strong position with balances I think that’s reflecting the strength of it and the overall contribution of the franchise.
So we feel very good about where we’re in the business very important business to us and we’re – the team continues to deliver.
In FICC compared to your peers it looks like you underperformed and it's tough to breakout how much of that underperformance is due to the deliberate downsizing versus poor execution I mean are you satisfied with the execution this quarter or not? So a couple of parts to that question as well.
As a reminder Fixed Income and Commodity is made up of the Fixed Income product and Commodities two separate – two different businesses that on the one hand Commodities on the other we were substantially weaker in Commodities down meaningfully quarter-over-quarter.
The thick revenues excluding Commodities are up quarter-over-quarter not withstanding the bigger drag in CVA due to spread tightening.
So in our securitized products area in credit and foreign exchange they were all up in the quarter.
So to your second part of your question I feel good about the direction of those businesses rates was down as with the market and our view is that we can continue to do to deliver more in that business which is why it was highlighted in James’s comments.
I would just add to that Mike.
I wouldn’t draw a lot on percentage movements off of that number which is a fairly modest number to begin with to be perfectly frank.
So I would focus more on the business mix as Ruth described part of the business did well parts of it didn’t.
The new management has a plan to drive this higher and we come from where they plan.
And then last question Ameritrade last quarter said that the wire houses have made some moves which may get more difficult on the breakaway broker side and I am not exactly sure what the online broker was referring to.
But can you just address what you’re doing say to either retain customers or brokers or how the environments changed from several years ago say for example against online brokers or other competitors? Thanks.
Well attrition in our business you can see from the headcount numbers it continue to be very low.
It's actually down a bit this quarter from the very low levels that we’ve been talking about and we think that has a lot to do with the quality of the platform and when you look at our ongoing growth in assets you’re reaching 1.9 trillion this quarter I think again the clients are speaking and FA’s are speaking.
It's a different market segment.
All right.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Maybe for James just on the walk the ROE target I guess I am just trying to figure out when I look at the pre tax margin being increased.
The risk weighted asset reduction coming on sooner expenses in line the market up 30% but the ROE target is still in that 9% to 10% plus range if we get a better environment too.
I guess I am just trying to figure out it seems like it should be better I mean it seems like things have gone better than current expectations or what the expectations were a year ago.
So anyways I am just trying to get a sense on has some things gone the other way to keep the ROE target there or is it just being conservative.
Listen this is a journey.
Three years ago I think our ROE was close to 2% two years ago it was about 5%; this year exited litigation is about 7%.
You’ll see on that chart Mike that we’ve got return target of 10 plus percent and then we talk about the additional upside so you control your own conclusions from that.
But I think we’ve said pretty consistently we were a kind of one step at a time management team.
The one step is to get us to 10% and we’ll do what that happy opportunity once we get there so lets just play it out at a time.
Okay thanks.
And just as a follow up; based on giving more clarity around broker I mean you guys have been probably more strategic in terms of moving forward in FICC there maybe some other problems but in any other areas in particularly investment management maybe unlike the merchant banking side are things fairly much set or should we be expecting much more to change in that part of the business based on what you know on the broker side as of now? I don’t expect material changes for the investment management business plus broker I mean we had a lot more capital tied up in that business pre-crises.
The bad news is we wrote a lot it off unfortunately the good news is we now had much of those capital tied up in the business.
Okay all right.
Thanks a lot.
Hi good morning; thanks for taking my questions.
So I just want to try to ask maybe the interest rate sensitivity question another way.
I think the last formal update that we received was that a 100 basis point curve shift would increase net interest income by about $700 million.
So is that still the firms view and if that’s still in the range; can you give us any insight around how you’re thinking about the viability side of the equation meaning how much of the benefit of the rate increase do you expect you have to pass along to customers? So the rates have moved up a bit since we provided that guidance and that’s why we attempted in the material here and in the slide deck to break out the various component parts of it.
You can apply whatever timeline you want to it and look at it at various points sometime and so clearly in rising rate environment there would be some be it mostly higher increase in deposit costs as well but overall we have meaningful operating leverage from this.
I think again one of the key points for us with respect to the bank is the cost structure of the bank.
We don’t have client acquisition cost because we’re talking about our embedded client base both on the Wealth Management side and on the institutional security side.
We don’t have bricks and mortar.
We have made the investments fruitfully all of the investments that needed we continue to invest in the businesses of course in particular to continue to improve the customer experience.
But as a result the incremental margin on this product is very high for Morgan Stanley substantially higher than it is today and it's not just -- that we’ve clearly benefited from a rising rate environment and look forward to that whenever that may occur but it's also the cost structure of that business that is very different.
Okay I appreciate that color.
And then just with respect to the litigation expense how should we think about that moving forward.
I know it's going to be lumpy but can we think that maybe some of the outsized provision this quarter could reflect some pull forward from issues that maybe were thinking that were going to be addressed next year; just any other additional color there would be helpful.
Well as James said this reserve coupled with the reserves to date are appropriate based on what we now know and that being said litigation is the biggest headway for the industry but this is obviously a substantial move.
The key on the litigation is we wanted to make significant progress.
It's estimable and probable and working with our legal team and finance and some that’s where we came out.
So from what we see we made significant progress.
Okay great.
And then just lastly within the investment banking backlog; can you guys give anymore granularity around what you’re seeing and just kind of the businesses from a cyclical perspective kind of where you are today versus maybe what you think the upside maybe as we do get a cyclical recovery? So the pipeline does remain strong.
I think most gratifying is the pick up in M&amp;A momentum coming from CO confidence that we’ve all been looking for for quite some time now and it's really on the back of more data that supports the thesis of global economic growth.
We are seeing more cross-border activity.
We've talked about that on some prior calls.
The Century deal that we announced early this week is yet another data point in that trend.
We think that's an important one.
I did comment that we're seeing more activity with corporate.
I think last year much of it was much more about financial sponsor activity but now we're also seeing more corporate activity.
And very valuable is increased participation from Europe as well have pretty subdued there for quite some time.
We feel good about where this is and if you look historically M&amp;A still at pretty low levels.
Equity underwriting momentum continues industry wide and globally and I think with debt underwriting it's less of forward calendar but given debt related financings expect some ongoing strength in that area as well.
Great.
Appreciate all the color.
Thank you.
Good morning.
As we think about the ROE progression from roughly 7% ex the litigations and the noise right now to the 9% it seems like the improvement in PVT is worth about 1% to ROE.
And then the FICC and the commodity is a big driver.
Can you quantify how much ROE upside there is from that? And I understand there's been a lot of questions asked what the revenue opportunities the expense opportunities and there's constant some moving pieces there.
But from an ROE point of view if you get FICC and Commodities where you want it how much of a driver is that to firm-wide ROE? What I'd like to add to it because it's the most important incremental driver to ROE is the bank.
I've commented on higher yield to asset optimization and the cost structure we have.
We also have growing deposits and those are contractual.
It's part of the acquisition from Citi that we're now getting in 1.75 billion of deposits per month to the middle of next year.
So the result is a higher return on a larger base and given the cost structure the incremental margin is substantial as I've already noted so essentially just all drops to the bottom line.
You start with that.
I'll let you do your own forecasting and map on that plus the Wealth Management higher profitability that we laid out here on this slide.
And Fixed Income yes we are talking steps.
We are moving it forward but we're not assuming a recovery in the FICC market so that's not the biggest driver not much there.
And then we have more on the expense reduction program to come in as James says and finally the increasing returns of capital over time.
So I just want to make sure you've got the full list.
And again the importance of the bank is not to be understated.
I would just add at a sort of macro level if you think about it simplistically comp to revenue ratios aren't going to change a whole lot certainly going to be – we broke them down this year given revenues went up and we would expect them to come down as revenues go up.
So that's kind of known.
The firm is being managed very tightly from other non-comp expense basis.
We have a comprehensive worldwide effort as Ruth just referred to making progress on that.
And we're not going to take our foot off that.
We're going to be driving those non-comps very aggressively.
So it's really just the question what the revenues are.
I think the clarity of our expense base is probably as high as it's been for a long time.
And now as we said with this substantial progress on the litigation behind us it really is a revenue show right now.
And just a follow-up on the expenses sorry if I missed it but of the 1.6 billion of savings how much is in the run rate either for the full year 2013 or 4Q? I'll refer you to the slides that James went through where we tried to break out the key components of it.
Okay thank you.
Good morning James.
Good morning Ruth.
Thank you for taking my questions.
Just a follow-up on an earlier question on the 100% growth you expect in lend-in.
Just be helpful to get some color on where you're seeing such robust loan demand? Is it completely new loan demand from your clients or is it your clients switching from existing lending providers to you? And what is it about your lending program that is driving such outsized growth relative to the industry? If I break it down into the two sides of the business that are benefiting most from deposits.
First on the Wealth Management side; lending to clients where we have the deep relationship.
Their assets are here at Morgan Stanley.
And what we have talked about is we're underpenetrated relative to peers with lending product had not historically been a focus for our system.
And over the last several years we've been building up the number of bank advisors who sit with financial advisors providing the requisite support for their client base.
So we're starting in a position where we're underpenetrated have the client assets with us.
This is product the clients want.
It's simple products.
For example PLA our securities and base lending program enables clients to maintain their portfolio as is but continued to invest as they wanted.
So it's a very productive add on to the work that they're already doing with us.
And again given this is product that's significantly over-collateralized and as I've said with our existing client base we've had virtually no credit losses to-date.
It's mostly floating rate product and you're seeing growth – we're seeing nice growth in that.
It's the bigger part of lending growth within Wealth Management and I'll refer you back to the conference I did earlier in the year where there's more detail on that one.
In the mortgage side we are continuing to see strong demand.
To be fair it's off of a low base but we were deliberately constraining production there as I already noted so continuing to see upside in that business.
If you switch over to the institutional security side we have historically been focused on relationship lending and event lending if you were to expect and what we're now adding our – well I always characterize it like sleeves of product all modestly sized that are consistent with the client franchise that we have.
So this is business that otherwise we were not doing with our existing client franchise.
This gives us the opportunity to continue to delve and that's what we've been doing in areas like commercial real estate and project finance.
Great.
Thanks for the detailed answer.
Thank you.
Just switching over the capital return I can see that quantum of capital Morgan Stanley can return would be subject to regulatory approval.
But as you consider the future's capital structure of Morgan Stanley do you envisage being able to return more than a 100% of earnings to shareholders in the foreseeable future? Listen I think let's take one step at a time.
We're in the CCAR process now.
We had our first capital outlay last year which was the final acquisitions of Smith Barney.
We had our first buyback last year since 2008 which was starting the $500 million tranche.
We're participating in CCAR right now.
We'll get the results of that in the first quarter.
Let's just take our projections from then on.
Okay.
Apologies if I missed this earlier on.
But with regards to your 9% ROE target what Fixed Income revenue assumption are you making? Is it kind of 4.2 billion you did this year or is it more like fourth quarter's run rate? Just trying to get a sense of what's embedded in that 9% ROE target? The main point as I said about the 9% ROE starting point for the firm is that within Fixed Income we are driving a return on capital that's in excess of our cost of capital.
And as we indicated with the steps in Commodities there is continued improvement in that ROE.
In Fixed Income across a number of products we've already reached that type of return looking at RWAs or your capital on a normalized basis.
We've added foreign exchange in 2013 notwithstanding what was challenging – more challenging foreign exchange market environment and we are looking to do the same with rate.
So it is very much if we are looking at what's the return for the overall firm it is about achieving those types of returns for Fixed Income.
But I'll repeat what I already said which is we are not assuming a recovery in the FICC market industry-wide in 2014.
So it is not much of a driver to the upside in our ROE.
Got it.
And just lastly from me question on just regulation in the Wealth Management space.
As one of the largest financial advisor networks in the country just be curious for your thoughts around kind of potential amortization of whether there's differences between the SEC and FINRA regulated advisors and any potential implications for Morgan Stanley and its competitive positioning? Boy that's a pretty broad one.
Honestly we run the business and aspire to run it as well as anybody in the industry.
We're constructively with the regulators.
There are obviously some differences across FINRA and SEC but I'm not going to get into predicting harmonization impact on us.
I would be very very surprised if there are any material impacts on our business based upon any harmonization.
Great.
Thank you.
Thanks very much.
Ruth just to go back to Slide 14 for a moment.
Obviously the simple math is that looking at the potential numerator benefits gets you to 6 to 6.3.
But I'm just curious about the box that you have in terms of potential offsets which foresights the balance sheet growth I'm just trying to reconcile that with what James indicated the targets are on page 11.
So does that -- does this outlook on ’14 embed this asset growth and driven by the deposit growth over the next two years? So on the -- when we described or show the growth in assets for the bank to be clear that’s looking at the asset side so we have deposit growth but we have equity supporting the bank.
So that’s the -- that’s the asset side of the equation a bit higher than the deposit growth that we’re talking about.
When we go to the potential offsets we’re looking at this ongoing on boarding of deposits and yes it is built into our statements that it will be greater than 5% in 2015 with growing returns of capital.
We manage overall the balance sheet to put – our balance sheet and capital behind growth areas within the firm so we built in the capacity to have growth within the firm across our various businesses including the obvious deposit on boarding and so that’s one potential offset that has been incorporated into our outlook and the greater than 5% and then capital returns I think speaks to itself.
Got it.
And so does the same view get you to the SLR target on the bank level as well? We are already at about 6% on the -- on our larger bank MSBNA and even higher than that on the other bank.
We capitalized those banks to support the growth that we anticipate and so those are already in a strong position.
Got it.
And so just finally on this -- so as I think about the ROE targets and all of this going forward is it fair to say that the governing issue at this stage is much more the compliance with SLR than CCAR capital? Our view is that we have a very strong flight path to greater than 5% in 2015 and that incorporates returns of capital.
And so that doesn’t serve as a constraint and so the CCAR process is -- it was obviously an annual process.
We feel very good about what we have done over the last several years and last year with the consistency of the businesses that we have the ongoing accretion of capital the ratios that we have but we don’t view the SLR as a constraint on that because we built into our forward look return increasing returns of capital.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Thanks so much for joining us for our fourth quarter call and we will speak to you in 13 weeks.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! [Operator instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with ISI.
Hello.
So I have a couple parter on commodities first just if you could frame how much of a contributor it was to FIC in the quarter whether it be relative to last year or prior peaks – obviously something went very well there.
Well there were a number of important factors in the overall FIC performance strength in commodities clearly being a big driver given volatility in the market due to weather and robust client activity; but as I noted we also had strength in credit corporate and mortgages and those continue to be strong areas for us.
So overall it was up meaningfully.
It was the biggest driver in year-over-year performance.
Okay and I don’t know if there’s anything you can update us on.
There’s one of the competitors sold a piece of their physical business.
You guys have been contemplating that.
A if there’s an update on that/ and b in the quarter how much of a contributor was that just for the thought process on the go-forward? Sure yeah.
To try and help you size it you exclude the two physical oil businesses that we’re selling overall fixed income was up slightly year-over-year on a percentage basis so still up excluding those two physical oil businesses.
And then in terms of where we stand on that we’re continuing to work on the sale of Transmontaigne and we’ll give you an update when we have something more to say on that.
Okay that’s cool.
You also mentioned and we could see it in the numbers prime brokerage is doing awesome.
Curious on how you weigh that business doing as good as it’s doing with the fact that you still have the lowest leverage ratio in the group and have some work to do.
So I heard your comments on what you can do in derivs land but is there any pricing benefit that you can pass through on prime brokerage? Just curious how you balance that.
Well I think there are really two different points within your question.
Prime brokerage is a gem franchise for us.
We’ve spent a lot of time talking about how we manage our business across nine boxes product on the one hand cash derivatives and PB and geography on the other hand – Americas Europe and Asia – and we manage really intently within each box.
But over many quarters I’ve talked about the importance of adjacencies in particular with our PB clients.
The deeper we go with them the deeper they go across our franchise so we think have a very positive strong mutually productive relationship with our PB clients and that’s an important franchise for us.
If I switch to the leverage part of your question in our view we have a very strong clear path to improve our leverage ratio and it is consistent with the business strategy we’ve talked about.
The real levers are things that go to things like compression trades or RWA rundown and spec so that’s a very different answer.
It doesn’t affect what we are talking about here on the PB franchise side.
Okay cool.
I appreciate that.
Last one – without opening too many cans of worms here I wanted to get your thoughts on all the focus on high frequency and what it means for your equity business.
How can you help us frame that? That would be super-helpful.
Sure.
You know since 2009 Morgan Stanley has been very vocal with regulators and has been on the record about the necessity for changes to market structure to protect clients.
We’ve advocated for increased transparency and trading protocol.
You can see that in docs we’ve filed with regulators as far back as 2009 – they’re all in the public domain so we welcome ongoing enhancement to equity market structure.
I think we’ve been a leading voice in this area for a long time and in fact we’ve implemented protocol and governance consistent with this in our business.
And then maybe just to be annoying the book mentions a really big number for Speedway and I think it controls a lot of volume.
I don’t know if you want to help us with what’s the real number in terms of contribution or size that.
Well just to clarify what it is it’s an execution tool in our electronic trading toolkit.
It’s consistent with offerings across the Street.
We make it available to all our clients many of whom you’re familiar with and the key to us in all that we do is risk management.
Risk management checks add latency and latency is inconsistent with extreme speed strategies.
And also to clear up any source of confusion it facilitates connectivity only to (indiscernible) around the world.
It doesn’t connect to any dark pool anywhere and overall H&amp;Ps (ph) are not a meaningful driver of our business.
Okay that’s good for me.
Thank you.
Thanks good morning.
I noticed that the capital allocated to the institutional business came down by about $1.5 billion linked quarter.
Is that directly related to RWA reductions that you would have had in the fixed income business or it more complicated than that? And if it is maybe you can explain to us what’s driving it.
Sure.
It is more complicated than that but we did have a further reduction in risk-weighted assets in fixed income.
They’re in fact down to $199 billion as of the first quarter down from $210 billion in the fourth quarter so continuing to make progress there.
The way we calculate required capital is based on whatever the capital regime is in place at a point in time.
In this quarter as a result of the regime change in particular with the Basel I numerator moving to the transitional Basel III numerator that drove the capital reallocation.
The Basel III transitional numerator by definition has deductions that phase in over time so in managing the business we look towards a Basel III fully phased in lens.
There are a couple of moving pieces – yes we reduced the risk-weighted assets but the biggest driver here at the table is the regime change.
Got it.
And if I can just relate the comment that you made about the increase in the old-style SLR in the quarter which I think you alluded to about 30 basis points how does that relate to the target that you laid out back in January for a 30 or 40 basis point increase just from exposure compression and the like? Is that being driven by that or were there other puts and takes? So there were a number of drivers.
As I said we’re still very comfortable – greater than 5% in 2015 and with increasing returns of capital.
This quarter in the numerator we benefited from higher earnings and as we talked in prior calls that adds what I keep calling a multiplier effect because it reduces the deductions on DTAs and importantly it also increases the investment capacity for those items that get into that 10% bucket thereby reducing the numerator deduction.
In addition to that we have been quite focused on mitigating some of the numerator deductions so you’re seeing the benefit of that beginning to flow through and then in the denominator of course we continue in with compression trades in RWA reductions as I indicated.
Got it and then just to beat a little bit on the SLR horse there has been a proposal made just in the month of March by Basel—people assign different acronyms to it but I’ve heard SACCR which would be a standardized approach to counterparty credit which I’ve heard broadly could be a plus as well.
I was wondering if you had done any numbers on that preliminarily.
Yeah if SACCR is adopted that would be about a 50 basis point benefit to the SLR and a 30 basis point benefit to the standardized ratio.
Wow so it’s quite meaningful.
It is.
And you’re calling it SACCR – is that a patented Morgan Stanley term? You can use it if you want.
Okay thanks.
I guess the only other question that I would really have would be if you could—you know we talked a little bit about commodities and the fact that fixed income would still have been up or FIC would still have been up year-over-year even with the planned sales having taken place.
Can you give us a little bit more color on what you saw in the rates business in the quarter because obviously for banks that have a heavier contribution from rates and from FX so what’s called the macro businesses we saw much much weaker results so far.
Well look I think that we—and I said this—and we saw the same headwinds you’ve heard from others with lower client activity.
That was a tougher market just given all that was going on in the environment.
For our rates business it was down year-over-year reflecting lower volumes but up nicely versus last quarter.
We are really focused on this centralized federalized resource management across all of the macro product but it was a tougher part of the market.
Got it.
So mix was just one of the more important differentiators for you guys I guess? It was.
As I said it was commodities it was credit it was mortgage.
Right.
Just one final question on wealth management – a 10% increase in the loan balances linked quarter is obviously strategically what we want to see but it is a very large percentage on what’s starting to be a fairly sizeable business.
How comfortable are you that your risk controls are where they need to be in what’s obviously been a tough mortgage market? So the growth—again we’ve got a couple of things going for us.
One is very low penetration with a very large client base.
We’re meaningfully underpenetrated versus our peers and we’ve been slow to build this product precisely for the reason you flagged which is top of our list which is ensure tight proper credit risk management and all of the processes around it as well as ensuring that it’s a good experience for our clients and our financial advisors.
So it’s up a nice percentage.
I would say the other thing that’s benefiting that is it’s up a nice percentage off of a small number and we’re continuing to see good growth in the mortgage side given this low penetration.
We’re finding that FAs who use the product are using it longer and increasing their penetration.
The credit standards are very tight – you know FICO (indiscernible) 50 LTV 60%; and again it’s with our client base so we know the clients.
We have their assets here.
The other growth area in PLA is a very—is the highly over-collateralized significantly over-collateralized product as I think you know.
It’s securities-based lending and again it’s all with our existing client base.
There’s virtually no credit losses to date and risk management has been the driver across all of these businesses.
Great.
Thanks so much for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Good morning guys.
So just a real quick one to clarify I believe Ruth you said that your IB backlog is up.
Just wanted to make sure – is that based on year-end because Goldman highlighted that their IB backlog actually shrunk since year-end.
So our backlog is up across all products from year-end.
M&amp;A as I noted in particular is strong and the pipeline continues to build.
I think you can see that just from the flurry of announcements that have occurred since quarter-end.
Yeah – no it’s great.
It’s just good to see continued momentum there.
Then another one – the CCAR was sort of a surprise here to some firms this year and I guess the Fed highlighted some process improvements in their comments.
Do you guys have any outstanding process improvements with the Fed and was there anything in that CCAR process that sort of jumped out that investors should be aware of? So I think the whole industry is waiting kind of the formal Fed feedback process but I think—you know we generally received positive feedback about our processes.
As James said in his opening comments we’ve invested meaningfully in the process and for the last several years we had something we call our CIP program – continuous improvement program.
So regardless of what we even hear back we look to up the approach and the analytics each year and that process hasn’t stopped.
We continue to raise the bar for ourselves on the overall process.
We feel good about our processes around CCAR.
Terrific.
And is it your view that the Fed feels good about your processes as well? I understand you can’t—based on the information you received from the Fed is that your perception? Brennan I don’t think we want to get in the business of trying to explain what the Fed’s view or isn’t.
All that mattered to us is we put in for a buyback and dividend and they are approved and we’re continuing down the path that we laid out.
Appreciate it.
Just trying to maybe get some insights into what is proving to be a very murky process for all of us on this end.
Understood.
Then is it right that you guys have slimmed down your management structure in wealth management? I think we saw a reduction in the number of divisions and regions.
And maybe could you help us think about whether that’s driven by potential expense basics or whether that’s done to slim down decision-making and the like.
Maybe help us understand that move a little bit.
I think it’s probably what I would describe as the last gasp post-the integration.
This has been a four-year integration and now that the business is very stable I think the FA account was flat to maybe modestly up.
The new leadership under Shelley O’Connor determined that she could make some changes there to just make the organization faster moving a little more nimble a little more efficient and put the team in place to make that happen.
Great.
Thanks a lot for taking the questions.
No problem.
Hi.
So to the extent that prime brokerage has performed better can you give us any numbers around that – what are the prime brokerage revenues this quarter versus a year or two ago or can you give us some market share figures around your prime brokerage business? Well as you know we don’t break out components within businesses.
The client balances and revenues are all up quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year.
Okay and how does it compare to the time of the crisis? I remember a lot of clients were leaving Morgan Stanley and then they’ve come back.
Have you gotten back to pre-crisis levels? Do you expect to get back there? These are the highest balances that we’ve had since the crisis.
We’ve continued to nicely steadily build.
Okay.
Shifting over to wealth management you’re redeploying the deposits.
What are the yields and margin that you’re getting as you deploy those deposits? So last quarter in the deck we laid out a couple of things because we thought it was important as everyone was doing their analysis that we show you what the asset growth would be and the changing mix over time as we moved from cash into FAS and loan deployment and included yields there current yields and then just to follow the forward yield curve.
Those really haven’t—you know we’re getting the benefit of the improving mix but yield by product hasn’t really changed much as you can see with the rate environment.
But really the upside to us is the ongoing deployment across the portfolio.
Separately I’m looking at your deck from January where you said you wanted to drive ROE above 10% in fixed income and commodities.
Did you exceed that in the first quarter and how is that progressing? Well we’ve certainly had progress because you can see the revenues and I just provided the RWAs.
So we’ve had higher revenues reduced RWAs now down to $199 billion – that’s relative to the $210 billion last quarter and to about 250-ish last year.
So we’re certainly getting better returns in that business and our view is that we have more do to there.
As we said when we look at ROE and we’re managing to ROE in that business it’s about revenues expenses and capital optimization and the team is continuing to focus on all of those.
Can you give us any update on the run-off of legacy assets in FIC? I think you sort of get that Mike in the RWA rundown.
So that’s a combination of passive and active and part of the active is how trades are structured and part of it is actually running down as much as we can as rapidly as we can.
So if you go back to third quarter of ’11 we had $390 billion of risk-weighted assets in our fixed income business and as you know we keep bringing forward our target in time.
We dropped for that $180 billion from 2016 to 2015 and what that really captures is your question – we’re running down those legacy assets as rapidly as we can.
We are pleased to have that deadweight capital pushed out of the business.
And then my last question – your ROE target is for a 9% ROE and this quarter you’re still below that.
Can you either re-affirm or give us a time frame when you think you’ll achieve your ROE target? I’m not seeing return on tangible common equity – if you can give that to us too.
Right.
So on the ROE we’re looking at an ROE in excess of cost of capital.
We’re talking about a 10% ROE.
I appreciate you’re looking at the building blocks we provided last quarter.
We did see progress across our businesses and our view is that the upside continues to come from the bank.
It’s in its early days and given the opportunity with the bank and moving again from over-weighted in cash to deployment into loans as well as AFFs there’s a real benefit there the continued focus on expense management and then the ongoing higher return to capital.
That 9% number is obviously without higher capital returns.
We’re pleased to have doubled our dividend doubled our share repurchase program and as James said our intent is to continue increasing return to capital over time.
So just to be clear so now your target—since you’re able to return capital now your target is now 10% return on common equity? Our target has consistently been 10%.
What we tried to break out last quarter was what it would be without higher return to capital and then the return to capital takes it above and beyond that.
But we continue to be focused on 10% return on capital as kind of the next stop along the way.
Okay and this quarter return on tangible common equity was what? Nine-point-three—9.8 I apologize Mike.
Nine-point-eight.
Okay 9.8.
Okay thanks a lot.
Good morning.
I wanted to discuss your 10% FIC ROE target for a moment.
Clearly the progress you’ve made in mitigating RWAs has been nothing short of extraordinary which has driven required capital levels down pretty meaningfully.
What I’m wondering is given the tough treatment for derivatives under the modified SLR approach even when we contemplate some of the future benefits from various forms of mitigation whether it’s CDS maturity matching SACCR model approval et cetera it appears that required capital for FIC under the modified SLR calculation could still be pretty materially above that under the risk-based framework.
So essentially I just wanted to clarify that the 10% FIC ROE target which you’ve highlighted in the past is still achievable whether one evaluates under a leveraged or a risk-based lens.
Yes and we look at our businesses under a risk-based and leverage-based capital lens now.
It’s the current leverage-based capital rule; but again we have the added lens of what’s at the SLR and business unit leaders have their balance sheet under that SLR lens and that’s helping really put a spotlight on the opportunities for mitigation in the areas where mitigation is absolutely key.
So as you pointed out in your question there are additional work streams that can added to that which we discussed last quarter with the inclusion now of net long CDS so that opens up an added work stream.
So we do see a good path forward to greater than 5% under the SLR including higher return to capital; and yes we hold ourselves accountable for that greater of risk-based capital and leverage-based capital.
Okay thanks.
That’s really helpful.
One of the things I wanted to inquire about was the Fed had clearly stated its plan to consider applying additional capital surcharges on wholesale borrowings.
The details that have been disclosed thus far regarding the methodology or the potential approach remain somewhat murky but I wanted to see if you had any additional thoughts or insights regarding how that rule-making could potentially shake out.
So you’re right – the rule is—the discussion at this point is unclear.
I think the terms that have been used such as short term wholesale funding is one phrase.
We talk a lot about the difference between short-term wholesale funding and durable funding and we’ve invested quite meaningfully as we’ve talked about on many calls to term out our secured book and that’s built in durability that has been evident in all sorts of periods of market stress market stress in Europe.
We think that liquidity durability is important.
You know our LCR we’re well north of the 100% requirement in large part because of all that we’ve done all that we’ve invested.
I mean it doesn’t come for free – it’s expensive to term it out and get that durability but we have an LCR that’s higher than 100% for that reason and we’re very supportive of the Federal Reserve’s focus on CLAR the mirror test of CCAR but focused on liquidity given all that we’ve done to build in what is a very durable approach to liquidity and funding.
So don’t know which way it goes because some terms are being used in a sort of broad way; but again given what we’ve done with our capital stack we feel that we’ve built in a lot of the durability that is what regulators are looking for.
Okay and I guess one more question on the SLR proposal.
Parsing out the language in the Fed’s document it highlighted two key size criteria for identifying systemically important banks one being GAAP assets in excess of $700 billion and AUC in excess of $10 trillion.
Based on your interpretation of the Fed proposal do you believe that the GSIV (ph) classification can potentially be avoided for those banks which operate below those designated thresholds and specifically would you consider optimizing your balance sheet size if it enabled you to potentially bypass the tougher 5% leverage rule or is that simply not a viable strategic option given growth initiatives at the bank and other potential opportunities that will drive future balance sheet growth? Well given our suite of businesses and the strength of these businesses we don’t see going below $700 billion as practical.
In particular we see the opportunity to mitigate a number of the items as I’ve already discussed both the gross up in the denominator and reduce some of the deductions in the numerator which are accretive to the SLR.
If you look at some of the—the relationship across our various businesses so for example as I talked about on prior calls within our investment banking franchise quarter after quarter after quarter we’ve had about $500 million of fixed income underwriting and that’s a service that our clients want it’s accretive to the overall relationship it’s accretive to the bottom line for the firm and it does require that we have a corporate credit capability – you know origination and distribution.
So there are a lot of linkages between the businesses increasingly so with the wealth management business and our view is that when we look to the single most important thing which is how do we drive ROE for this firm given there is a path to increase the SLR that enables us to keep the suite of products as we’ve defined them and as we’ve reshaped what we’re doing in fixed income our judgment is that the best way to drive ROE is with this suite of products and we don’t see how that would take us lower than $700 billion of assets.
Okay understood.
And just one final one on the numerator upside you had discussed regarding the SLR.
We really appreciate the helpful detail in terms of the individual components that you disaggregated driving the 80 basis point build in the SLR over—towards that 5% goal.
I was hoping you could at least clarify the level of incremental preferred issuance that’s assumed to help close that gap just to get some clarify on those which will impact future earnings versus those which will have—essentially be earnings neutral.
Sure.
So the—as you saw we did about $2 billion of preferred last year – that was in two transactions.
We will continue to optimize our capital stack and do think that preferred plays a valuable role in that so we’re going to continue to leg into more over time.
I think when you—you know the two that we did last year you can see that we tried to size them—modestly size them or appropriately size them whatever word you want to use for it and we’ll continue to leg into more of time.
So that is another addition to the numerator.
I would say that what we’re quite pleased about is the pace with which we’ve been able to mitigate a number of those numerator deductions and that investment basket has within it a couple of opportunities to continue to mitigate some of the numerator drag.
That’s great.
Thank you for taking my questions and congrats on a strong quarter.
Thank you.
Good morning.
Can you update us on the expense efforts? Obviously good revenue this quarter so expenses were higher; but it sounded like in the past that there’s still some opportunities within FIC to manage the expense base.
I was hoping for an update either on FIC expenses or just overall expenses.
So we’re very much on track for the expense target ratio that we laid out at the end of 2012 going into 2013; and just as a reminder at the time we had an 84% expense ratio and with the $1.6 billion reduction assuming revenue’s constant so you don’t have to adjust for the noise around activity-based revenues we said we would get to a 79% expense ratio excluding elevated legal expenses and if there any write-offs any write-offs and that would be by the end of 2014.
This quarter we’re at a 75% expense ratio excluding DVA so I think what that underscores is expense—you know very much part of the DNA of all of our business leaders.
We have the balance of the year to continue focusing on expense reduction but it’s built into programs across all of the various businesses and we’re constantly looking for ways to add to the program.
It doesn’t end this year; it keeps going.
It’s just business as usual at this point but we’re pleased that we’re at a 75% expense ratio relative to that 79% with still more time to get to the end of the year when we said we would hit that number.
Okay and if the revenue environment improves a little bit tougher from here in say the markets businesses do you feel like you can still maintain the expense ratio around here or still look back towards a 79% goal? So what we indicated was that we would be at a 79—back at the end of 2012 when we laid out the $1.6 billion we said a 79% expense ratio assuming revenues were flat to 2012.
Again depending on where the world goes I think what we’ve evidenced over the last many years here is that we don’t stand still but we’re pleased with the way we’re starting off the year.
Okay.
Outside of the core expenses it didn’t seem like there was any unusual litigation this quarter.
I know it’s really hard to tell looking forward but any thoughts on how we should be modeling out litigation expense from here? Well you sort of answered the question – it is lumpy as you’ve seen.
Our view is that litigation does remain a headwind for the industry.
We’re pleased to have FHFA behind us but legal can be lumpy as you’ve seen.
Okay.
And then just switching to the wealth management the 19% PBT was in line with what we had for this quarter.
Just any updates on how you feel about the 22 to 25% target by the end of next year? We still feel very good about that and I’ll hold that as something that we are looking to deliver.
As you know that doesn’t assume any benefit from rates in the environment.
We’ve got a number of factors that are taking that higher.
I think one of the important ones really is what we’re continuing to do with lending product and the benefit from the growth in lending and you can see the ongoing momentum there.
What we’re pleased about is we’ve always said we have a bit of a tailwind given we’re underpenetrated with our clients and what we’re seeing is as FAs starting working with their clients with lending product they continue to further penetrate their client base and we see much more of a take-up.
So that is an important element of it along with back to your prior question the continued focus on expense management.
Okay.
All right thank you very much.
Thanks for taking the questions.
Just maybe a follow up on the wealth management business.
You mentioned some seasonality in the first quarter versus the fourth quarter I think fewer days.
Maybe just a little color on the comp – Matt just asked about the margin about how that impacts it and just the outlook as we kind of go throughout the year just assuming less seasonality.
So as you said seasonality comes from a couple of things.
One is several fewer trading days relative to the fourth quarter.
There’s also seasonality on the comp line because FICA is a first quarter event so when we compare our 19% quarter this year to our 17% quarter last year that’s really isolating the difference in quarterly seasonality and a nice pick-up from the 17% last year to the 19% this year.
What we also saw in the first quarter this year was some lower issuance activity in particular in closed end funds and what’s of greatest interest within the wealth management system is U.S.
new issue product and in particular closed in funds and that was just a bit lower.
We had a nice underwriting calendar but it was more skewed outside of the U.S.
and very little in closed end fund activity.
So as we’re looking forward to the second quarter we have a couple tailwinds going into the second quarter.
Asset management fees will be modestly higher given the starting S&amp;P level and we’re clearly focused on the transaction volume which is a function of the environment and the new issue calendar; but the pipeline is stronger in the U.S.
It’s clearly too early to tell but it’s stronger in the U.S.
And then in aggregate expenses should be a bit lower given the comp point I made – FICA being a first quarter event and non-comps do tend to be a little bit higher in the second quarter but overall should result in an improved margin here.
Okay thanks.
And then just as a follow-up just on the trading side whether it’s on equities or fixed income anything lumpy this quarter and then any color—I know it’s still early but on the fixed income side in terms of the OTC markets transitioning on to SEF like any color there.
Thanks.
So as it relates—nothing really lumpy to note.
I mean we had—there was a good volume of activity prime brokerage activity with portfolio rebalancing just given volatility in equity markets; and then in terms of the impact of SEF on the market we really think the lower volumes last quarter were related to broader market events and in particular lower volumes in macro as I’ve already commented on given all that was going on globally and markets lack conviction – they traded in a tight range.
Spread product did better but macro was weaker and we think it’s very tough to disaggregate the extent to which if at all that was really SEF-related.
We think that it was swamped by what was going on in macro.
Good morning.
Just a quick follow-up on the expense question.
I just want to check – if you think about your closest competitor on an apples-to-apples basis they’re at around a 70% expense ratio.
You guys are 75% in the strongest quarter a target of 79%.
Do you think this is an interim target and you can get more as you move forward as revenues get better and/or you still have some more expense leverage elsewhere? Can you just kind of walk through that? Well I obviously can’t comment on any other peers and we each have different business mixes.
You know I’m often asked the question about our comp ratio as an example and the comp ratio in wealth management is off of a formulaic grid so it starts higher than their institutional securities business.
And is it trending lower? Yes it absolutely is trending lower.
We’ve talked about that quite a bit.
It will continue to benefit from the growth in lending product but you’ve got some real apples-to-oranges comparisons if you just start with that line.
As it relates to our non-comp expenses we’re continuing to see benefit across the franchise the ability to use technology more broadly across the franchise as an example and so we are focused on the items that we identified internally as part of the 2014 plan as I said.
We’re continuing to add to it because it’s part of the DNA within all of the business unit leaders to look for opportunities to be efficient whether it’s working across divisions or in any other approach to the business.
But just going back to my comp differential I’d say part of it is also business mix.
And to be clear those business mixes also have different capital requirements and there are a whole host of different elements that go along with it.
So when we talk about ROE it’s revenue expenses and capital.
Fair enough.
I was just talking about the institutional business but I hear your point.
Maybe just quickly another question on the dividend.
I think James had mentioned looking at a payout that would approximately or get close to the net income of the wealth management business but as that business grows it seems like if you were to approach that level of dividend payout you’d exceed the sort of 30% soft cap with the Fed.
Do you think that is doable? I don’t want to get into sort of hard projections but what we’re indicating is that with our business mix now with half the firm’s business essentially coming from a relatively stable annuitized set of businesses in wealth and asset management one thinks about your dividend payout a little bit differently as it relates to your ability to afford it coming from things that you know are fairly predictable.
Obviously when you aggregate it all you come up against what appropriate payout levels are at a regulated level and that’s a different question.
We’re simply indicating we believe we have capacity given our business mix.
Okay – no that’s helpful.
One last quickie – on the physical oil sale you mentioned or sort of gave a guide on the revenue impact.
What would be the net income impact? I assume it’s a lot smaller.
In terms of the businesses that we are looking to sell as I indicated last quarter one of the things that was quite intriguing was precisely that is the more modest PBT and we’re reducing risk-weighted assets pretty meaningfully.
So it’s ROE-accretive? Yeah and that’s over—obviously over time.
You have to transition these things.
Sure right.
Okay great.
Thanks.
Hey good morning.
How are you? I just have a couple follow ups on investment banking.
So I guess first with respect to M&amp;A announced activity in North America has actually recovered since August levels 2007 but you guys have been noting on the last couple calls here that EMEA more recently has been feeling better.
I just wanted to get some thoughts – does it feel like we’re still on a distressed asset sale cycle in Europe or are you starting to see more traditional strategic M&amp;A accelerating there which I think would be necessary to see a real recovery in activity in that region.
Well we’ve seen some broadening across industries of activity and what we still haven’t seen is a real growth in the number of deals but if you look at the dollar volume in EMEA it’s up and the acquirer activity out of EMEA cross-border activity is up.
So again it’s early days but what’s very positive is whenever a negative trend reverses itself.
And comparable to GDP growth in EMEA is still modest but it’s gone from negative to positive and we’re starting to see the knock-on benefit to some of the activity levels.
And I would just add the largest economy and the economy that’s doing best over there is Germany and having made a couple of trips recently I think the corporate CEOs are still quite conservative in their views so there will be a tipping point here.
Obviously with what’s going on with Russia and the Ukraine that’s putting a damper particularly on the German CEO view until we get better clarity there but I think there will be a tipping point and we’re not there yet.
There have been isolated transactions across the U.K.
Spain and other places.
Great.
Appreciate that color.
And then fixed income underwriting results have obviously also remained really resilient and I know it’s still an attractive rate environment but are you starting to see a mix shift there at all in terms of what products are really driving this strength? Has there been any change in mix? There has in the sense that it’s been much more of a refinancing story and now we’re starting to see the benefit of the higher levels of M&amp;A.
In the first quarter I think what was notable was there were a lot of deals across investment grade high yield leveraged loans.
It wasn’t as though there were some really big chunky items that drove the quarter.
It was a balance across the various products.
But what you’re starting to see is much more of this is event-related and we think given the pipeline in M&amp;A that bodes well for continuation of strong debt underwriting notwithstanding the fact that we’ve had a long string here of strong quarters with debt underwriting.
Okay.
I guess just with respect to how that ties in with FIC results there was a flurry of activity in corporate issuance in March so I’m just trying to get a better understanding around the strong results within credit and maybe how much of that was a function of issuance really starting to pick up towards the tail end of the quarter.
Any color around maybe how credit specifically progressed throughout the first quarter.
Credit on the fixed income side was pretty consistent throughout the quarter.
I think if you go back a couple of quarters ago when there was more volatility in credit markets what you saw was notwithstanding a strong new issue calendar it was pretty much buy and hold and you didn’t see the follow-through to secondary trading.
You’re seeing more of that follow-through to secondary trading now and hopefully that continues in particular given the volume of what we would expect would continue to be new issue product on the fixed income side assuming the M&amp;A pipeline continues to hold up and we see the execution continuing as it has these first couple of weeks in the quarter.
Great thank you.
Thank you so much for joining us today and we look forward to speaking to you at the end of the second quarter.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! (Operator Instructions) The first question will come from Guy Moszkowski with Autonomous Research.
Good morning.
I was wondering if you could clarify how you treat something that you mentioned but didn’t quantify in your remarks which is the CVA on the derivatives books of the market businesses.
I think everyone is pretty clear in the industry now about calling out DVA but I’m not sure that CVA gets very consistent treatment and in particular since we are also focused on how FIC and equities are trending.
Just want to make sure that I understand how you treat CVA and how much of your credit spreads swings might have impacted FIC particular in regard to CVA this quarter? So as much as we call out DVA and talk about revenues excluding DVA because that does not flow through to capital.
CVA does and so it goes right to the P&amp;L.
So when we discussed our fixed income and commodities revenues it reflects the impact of CVA into your point firms do it differently but it does reflect at Morgan Stanley the impact of CVA and given the meaningful spread tightening we had in particular year-over-year that’s pretty notable.
So for example year-over-year our fixed income business was up in all major products except foreign exchange however given this spread tightening we had a big drag in CVA and if you exclude the impact to CVA our fixed income and commodities business actually would have been up.
Got it.
And was the impact much more in FIC than in equities? Yes.
Okay.
Thanks.
Also just to pick up on something else that you mentioned I think to recall that in years passed like before the last couple of years your prime brokerage business did a very strong seasonal business in European dividend arm in the second quarter in particular.
Can you give us a sense of how much that might have contributed in the second quarter this year? So we – that does continue to be a benefit in the second quarter and again along with the strength we had in PV more broadly with growth in revenues clients and client balances we continue to benefit from the seasonality.
So if you look at year-over-year performance in equities that would normalize for what is continues to be a second quarter seasonal event.
Got it.
Thanks.
Okay.
One more question which is really more on capital you moved equity capital looks like from the parent into the business unit couple of billion dollars on the average in the institutional about $500 million in investment management which is a fairly sizeable percentage increase for that business.
Is this also because of the regime change that you talked about in terms of going to the Basel III or is there something else going on there? You nailed it.
The way we disclose the allocation of capital across the various businesses is based on the capital regime in place at that point in time.
And so this quarter as a result of yet another regime change both the numerator and denominator are under Basel III transitional.
Last quarter the denominator was Basel I plus 2.5.
This quarter the denominator is Basel III transitional advanced.
So it’s a regime change we just following the required regime quarter-after-quarter.
The result is more capital move from the parent to institutional securities.
Got it.
Okay.
That’s great.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Good morning.
So quick question first on the $1.92 billion RWA in fixed does that include TransMontaigne? We closed TransMontaigne as of July 1.
And so that would include TransMontaigne because that’s the second quarter number.
Perfect.
Can you help us think about how much that might help reduce that number in 2Q or in 3Q rather? Excuse me.
So that – so TransMontaigne is about $2 billion of risk-weighted assets and there is also a modest liquidity benefit.
Great.
Thanks.
So we noticed that deposits in the bank – deposit program fell this quarter was that seasonal and can you help us think about that this year because it didn’t seem like we noticed as much with seasonal decline in prior years.
So was there anything unusual going on there? So firm-wide the deposits are reported in two lines.
You’ve got the bank and then the parent and we have had the onboarding of deposits from Citi.
So the deposits overall were up $1 billion $5 billion from contractual onboarding deposits the tier point that was offset by the typical season outflows for tax payments.
Tax payments were actually greater than outflows and what we saw was increasing use of PLA or securities based lending product by clients to pay taxes.
I think what’s worth noting is in the fourth quarter deposits tend to be higher due to year end selling.
And then on the flip side we see deposits going down some in the second quarter with tax payment.
So net-net year-end selling and tax payments due tend to even each other out over the period but what you are seeing here is the second quarter seasonality.
Great.
And then just clarifying because I got a handful of questions about it before the opening.
The bank program deposits include Citi’s portion right.
And if we look down at the footnote we can see Morgan Stanley’s piece and that went from 108 to 109 this quarter.
So the rate slowed but it is still was headed in an upward direction correct? In the wealth management line? Right.
Yes wealth management went down right.
Perfect okay.
And then also on the comps and the wealth management business is it possible to think about how much of that is from the amortization of forgivable loans written to recruit brokers because the past several years we have gone through sort of elevated recruiting environment.
And if we think about I think maybe James made some comments at the Morgan Stanley FIC conference about how recruiting in competition maybe moderating a bit.
And so if we think about turnover staying at current levels is it possible that you guys can help us think about to wealth management comp over time? Well let me give you a couple of pieces.
So the comp ratio is down this quarter and that reflects typical first quarter seasonality with FICA and it’s typically down it was here.
The reason we are guiding down to the 55% or lower comp ratio over time really goes to the growth in net interest income and the execution of our bank strategy and the tremendous operating leverage we have as we continue to deploy deposits into lending product.
And so if you again looking at the overall business where we will be driving it to 55% or lower because the margin on that product -- lending product is as pretty significant and the lending product does not on the same formulaic comp grid.
So I think if you are trying to gauge where is the comp ratio going the biggest driver of that will be NII and the growth in lending product.
Sure.
Hey Brenan just to separate it.
I think your issue was around the amortization also of the deals in addition to what Ruth just described.
Yes.
Long-term strategically in an oligopoly structure you would expect there would be less movement of financial advisors between firms.
That doesn’t translate yet into the financials.
But over the long-term we think it will.
Okay.
Great.
Are you were exactly right Jim I was kind of – I completely get the NII and how that’s not necessarily on the grid type of a payout and therefore should help the comp.
I just was hoping to try to get at maybe some of that amortization.
So I guess the only color you guys gave is over the longer run assuming competition stays down that should also help as a tailwind overall as well to.
Yes.
It will.
Okay.
And then last one from me – touched on it a bit prior but prime brokerage was definitely a positive you hit on seasonality but as you said when we look year-over-year that should normalize for the seasonality and you guys were flat which in this quarter flat is the new up.
So maybe could you help us in parsing out maybe any other benefits that you might have had and was it mostly in prime brokerage and aside from seasonality were there any drivers and tailwinds there? We talked about for many quarters this is a stellar franchise.
They have had consistency of performance for many quarters.
It’s a diversified global franchise across products and geographies we often talk about managing it leading it across the nine-box strategy with the product cash.
Derivatives and PV on the one-hand and the regions of the world Americas EMEA and Asia on the other dimension and looking for leadership and delivering for clients within each of those boxes and then looking at opportunities to build adjacencies across those various boxes.
We had strength this quarter led by prime brokerage as I noted already with growth in revenues clients and client balances.
And then in terms of cash products we continue to have strong performance in cash.
We do believe we took wallet share there.
We had good client engagement in index rebalancing.
Derivatives was a bit lower on the back of lower volatility but overall it’s a very strong franchise that continues to deliver.
Terrific.
Thanks so much.
And congrats for good results in a tough quarter here.
Thank you.
Thanks Brennan.
Hi.
Ruth you mentioned you are moving to leverage your status as the 10th largest depositor in the U.S.
and looking at the bank data from call reports it looks like the ROA of the bank is only 60 basis points and I’m not sure if you should just look at the bank in isolation.
Also if we look at the information in your package today it looks a loan to deposit ratio of 39% or so.
If you could just confirm whether this is at least one way to look at your company and to highlight where you want to go let’s say loan to deposit ratio or the ROA of the bank? So what we try to lay out in a number of presentations is the contractual growth in deposits where we are in terms of asset mix.
And as you look over time how we look to deploy those deposits moving more from cash until lending products.
And clearly the yield today continues to be pretty low given where we are still over weighting cash philosophically the way we are looking at it is deposit growth is going to support lending is supporting lending in both institutional securities and wealth management both are leading franchises with a large base of untapped clients.
And we have a very strong opportunity therefore to continue to build out a nice diversified asset mix here.
And while maintaining strong credit standards.
So I think if you look at the decks that we put out you will see where the yield on that should go over time.
There is a lot of noise in the call reports that directionally it would give you sense of the mix between these two franchises wealth management and institutional securities.
How much would Morgan Stanley benefit if interest rates increase by 100 basis points maybe just on the bank side or for the firm as a whole I don’t think you guys have articulated in that way? Quite meaningfully I mean what we have articulated is the comp structure in the bank and so again we are a best portfolio continues to be very short duration and as we are looking at continuing to deploy deposits into lending products the rising rate environments quite meaningfully the margin in the bank given we have no bricks and mortar we have no customer acquisition cost because we are really lending to our existing client base which is not only a cost benefit but a credit risk management benefit.
We have already built the infrastructure to support the loan growth and I have already commented on the compensation approach it’s not on the formulaic grids.
So the bank has a very high margin rising rates to be significant.
What we did in the deck that I have already alluded to as we indicated where we were at a point in time and just following the forward yield curve what kind of lift you would see in the yield if you are just following the forward yield curve.
And what we tried to do is give you all of the various levers so between the bond boarding and deposits the current mix of assets the deployment plan over time you can talk about how you want.
And then lastly James you gave a comment it was almost an aside in talking about your ROE targets saying well perhaps 15% ROE is possible some day and it was the first time I heard you say that 15% would even be possible for an ROE and that’s a long way from where you have been and it’s a nice stretch from where you are now? But did you say that and why did you mention that you feel more positive about the outlook or is it just a hypothetical one day sort of statement.
I think the time that I said that was in the context of what was available for the industry.
And this has been an industry Mike as you know where ROEs have 20 plus percent were the norm.
You double the capital you shrink the balance sheet and unless you create new businesses you are 20 plus percent ROE immediately dropped to sub 5% which is exactly what happened with the industry.
The industry is now working its way back to 10% ROEs through buybacks more efficient capital usage for the balance sheet management.
And in our case building diverse businesses that use less capital and obviously contribute to our ROE.
So I think – I certainly not making an immediate projection this is sort of a stage field where the industry is going is it probable the industry returns to 20% plus ROEs no I don’t think that’s probable.
Is it probable the industry stays below 10% no I don’t think that’s probable.
So it’s sort of framing it now.
You will draw your own conclusions about Morgan Stanley’s business mix versus obviously lots of other financial institutions and I think your point about the bank you just asked Ruth about is exactly at sort of strategic core part of the next evolution of this firm is to develop $130 billion deposit bank within Morgan Stanley which is a very exciting prospect it’s not going to happen immediately.
And it’s going to be done with prudence as respect to lending.
But it will be done.
And it will be done over several years.
Just if you have a superior business mix that should eventually mean a superior ROE otherwise it might not be a superior business mix.
So at some point with higher rates is it possible Morgan Stanley could get an ROE of 15% or so? You know there is a great old phrase of a journey with thousands miles begins with a single step.
And we are working our way towards 10% when we get there we will have another conversation with you.
All right.
Thank you.
Good morning James.
Good morning Ruth.
Good morning.
Firstly a first quick question on the investment management business Ruth.
In the investment management business the core asset management fee line was up 10% linked quarter which is a little bit surprising just given AUM growth was closer to 4.
Any color you have on what’s driving that would be appreciated.
We have continued to execute on the business.
We had good flows in the business.
Have been investing in in distribution.
You can see flows were up across the broad in traditional asset management.
And I think that the team continues to execute well.
Okay.
Got it.
James on the wealth management business I mean first of all congratulations on getting to the $2 trillion club.
While asset growth has been strong both financial advisor head count and branch growth have been more muted.
I appreciate your focus in that business has been on an increasing productivity and efficiency.
That said I would be curious if you guys actually have plans to grow your core advisor base and locations going forward? So as we have talked about for quite some time we are focused on productivity and quality of FAs rather than just sheer number in it and in fact have over time reduced the lower productivity financial advisors we feel very good in and around this level.
We are not managing to a specific number and as it relates to the number of locations that we have.
We have had an opportunity in particular post closing the acquisition of the joint venture to look at places where we could consolidate offices within major cities.
And again that’s done on a case by case basis as we look at leases rolling off the question is within any particular area is there logic in combining an office where you have a fully staffed office with a great culture working really well.
It doesn’t necessarily mean you want to try and merger two offices together that may not be the most effective for clients or the best experience for financial advisor.
So we reduced the number of locations quite a bit over the last couple of years I think the big bulk of the opportunity we really achieved there and now you will see ones and twos depending on any particular market.
But no plans we feel good about where we are.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then lastly from me just on the prime business you spoke a lot today.
Just curious if you – what you are hearing from the clients in terms of pricing trends just given the implications for supplementary leverage ratio across the industry? We are starting to hear some peers are repricing balance sheet as it affects this business and fixed income product as well very much to your point as a result of the SLR.
Okay.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Thanks very much.
Ruth just circling back to the SLR for a moment.
I’m looking at the slide that you and James put out for the update in January which highlighted the potential sources of increase.
I’m wondering if you can help me understand kind of what the approximate contribution of these categories were to the 40 basis point improvement sequentially? The biggest driver then taking it from 4.2% last quarter to 4.6% this quarter was the numerator that was most of the improvement and that was due to the combined benefit from earnings of the preferred issuance we did early in the quarter the multiplier effect with DTA and investment capacity deductions.
We talked about previously.
We continue to focus on mitigating some of the other numerator deduction.
And then the remaining improvement is from the denominator items that we talked about previously.
Some ongoing compression RWAs were obviously down in fixed income where you see the PFE grows up.
Some mitigation just early days of mitigating the net long CDS sold in some modest balance sheet reduction.
But the overwhelming the majority of it was in the numerator and we are executing the opportunities now in the denominator.
And is there any change to the guidance given at that point of those various benefits generating 188 around 200 basis points of potential improvement? Well the rules change now the inclusion of net long CDS sold and we have obviously had a big move in the ratio from 4.2% to 4.6%.
We feel very comfortable with greater than 5% in 2015 with higher returns of capital which may not surprise you even we are sitting here at 4.6% today.
And as I said across the various work stream we are continuing to execute to reduce PFE where it makes sense while still supporting our client activity and client franchise.
There are certain areas -- that’s the example of which is compression which I characterized in the past is a good hygiene.
It’s effective to reduce the overall PFE through compression activities and we are executing there.
The pace is strong.
We have accomplished a lot year-to-date the protocol around it has improved.
And so we expect the pace will continue to be good.
So we are continuing to execute against each of these the mix may change a bit as we have added now net long CDS sold mitigation as an added opportunity given the role change.
Great.
And if I can just transition quickly on page 7 of the supplements in the other funded loans category which I recognize is small relative to the balance sheet but up very significantly.
And I think the footnote suggest that much of this could be purchase loans.
And I’m just wondering what would be the strategy behind growing a purchased loan portfolio? No.
I’m glad you asked because the growth within the lending book again across wealth management and institutional securities is really executing with our clients and areas where we have a strong franchise strong client base domain expertise.
And so within institutional securities it is an area consistent with what we have discussed today.
I talked about it as small fleet across a number of different areas including commercial real estate warehouse project finance.
That’s really the bulk of what that’s what drove the increase in funded loan balances up about $5 billion which is as you said is a good increase but small relative to the scale of our franchise.
I mean it’s an example of commercial real estate with a 20-year track record that leadership with a really high quality franchise there and we have history originating loans outside the bank.
We are now doing more in the bank but we are targeting very much our client base in areas where we have domain expertise.
Great.
Thanks and just finally speculating that the fact you called out on legal costs suggests that they were de minimis in the period? I’m sorry.
I didn’t hear the question.
That there was no call out on legal cost suggest that they were low in the quarter? Right.
There was really not much to note.
Great.
Thanks very much.
Hi.
Thanks.
Ruth you mentioned lower funding cost earlier and it’s clear they have gone down a lot.
How should we think about how long it takes to work its way through is it really just inverse of maybe the average maturity.
So in other words you get a 15% to 20% of that benefit each year as your debt rose? That’s a fair way to think about it.
Okay.
And so that could – I wouldn’t call it material but it can move the needle in the firms overall earnings on a year-by-year basis? Yes.
Our view is you have seen real compression across the industry but we outperformed peers.
And I think that our view is that it reflects all that we have done over the last number of years to reposition both the business mix and the balance sheet.
And so we view it as another tailwind that will leg into tier point over time.
But it’s a benefit and it will be a benefit even in a rising rate environment on a relative basis given our spreads have come in more than peers.
Okay.
Yes.
That’s fair enough.
I don’t know if you have already addressed it pieces across the other questions but are there – you mentioned bits and pieces of repricing or attempts to repricing prime brokerage.
Maybe a broader question of how you think SLR is mostly impacting the big banks and brokers are impacting the markets and how it will impact how you do your balance sheet planning? Well we do think it continues to be the way of constraint for banks on both sides of the Atlantic and you are seeing the reduction of balance sheet in lower return assets.
And as I noticed some peers are repricing balance sheet using a harsher lens on allocation of balance sheet.
So we are seeing wider bit offer in certain financing markets.
There was some dislocation in treasury sales which we see as transitory.
And the fed prevented additional dislocation with the by-side using the RRP program prevented a more painful readjustment period but you are seeing the impact kind of ripple through in a number of different ways.
But sounds like a lot of that stuff has made its way through in other words it’s rippled through but its not creating sea change I’m putting words in your mouth I realize? I think you are still seeing an evolution here.
I would agree for example on treasury sales we view that as transitory.
But as firms reposition where they are using balance sheet and putting balance sheet behind client activities I think it continues to evolve in particular given some of the requirements for the European banks.
We feel good about where we are because we have evolved our business mix not to keep coming back to that but it’s really important way we think about our business given the changes that we made over the last several years with the strength of wealth management.
The lens that we have on balance sheet within fixed income going back sometimes now.
We feel we taken the steps we need to take and have clarity about the execution path within fixed income equities continue to be performing as it consistently as and we have opportunities to support our banking clients with the growth in lending products.
So we feel good about where we are but I wouldn’t say that it’s necessarily done across the industry.
Okay.
And then just a little clean up you have a market gain in the quarter and where was it? That was in the investment lines.
It wasn’t a meaningful impact.
Okay cool.
Thanks Ruth.
Thank you.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So I had a follow-up question on operating leverage at the bank and well I was hoping to clarify when we go through the modeling process for wealth management earnings and higher rate scenario.
The implied comp ratio that we derive is actually closer to the – outside of very low 50s.
So about 300 to 500 basis points that are -- than your stated target of 55%.
And I was wondering whether your mid-50 target contemplates the benefit from higher rates.
And maybe even in that same vein where do you see operating margins peaking in a more normalized rate back drop? So the 55% comp ratio and the PVT margin guidance of 22% to 25% assumes the flat rate environment.
And we specifically did that so that you could model in your outlook for a rising rate environment.
But very much to your point there is tremendous operating leverage in a rising rate environment for the wealth management business.
And throughout that the growth in that lending book and through what we were doing in the FS portfolio.
So there is upside and you will see that flow through as rates rise and will let you forecast when that happens.
Okay great.
And just switching gears for a moment or two.
I have a capital question pertaining to FIC and just an in effort to help us better monitor your ongoing FIC ROE progress under all the different binding constraints had exist today.
It would be really helpful if you could help clarify the current level of required capital as measured under the SLR to support the FIC business specifically.
And also given how proactive you have been on the mitigation front how you should think about required capital levels trending over the next couple of years.
So we have broken out a lot of detail here in particular risk weighted assets within institutional securities breaking it down to the fixed income level.
So if you get a sense of what – the progress we are making in that business you can see revenues here today and I think that’s where we are going to leave it we have been indicating ROEs high and I think it’s intuitive given lower required capital separately we are breaking out lot of the components of the various capital ratios and the leverage ratio and are on good path forward to this greater than 5%.
Okay.
And there has been any change to I guess is roughly $5 billion plus or minus of FIC revenues that were required to achieve your targeted 10% ROE within FIC presumably it would be a little bit lower just given that you have been more proactive once again on the mitigation front? That’s the indicator we are very much focused on increasing ROE and their multiple levers to get their between revenues expenses and capital.
But as an example couple of quarters ago when I was talking about our commodities business the physical oil commodities businesses that we were selling they have revenues that are PBT break-even with some capital tied up in them.
So exiting physical oil may reduce revenues but it’s accretive to capital.
And accretive to earnings and again that’s why as we are looking at we said we want to be very clear we are not looking at revenues – revenue sake we are looking at what’s the most vibrant fixed income business unto itself and when we talk about our fixed income business we are looking at a return on capital greater than 10% within fixed income and moving in that direction.
And then beyond that it’s accretive to the returns of the firm.
And I talk about this often on these calls but it is key within investment banking yet again this quarter we had over $500 million of fixed income underwriting revenues which is accretive to those client relationship with our clients are looking forward from us but really does benefit from the execution capabilities within fixed income.
And similarly within our wealth management business our clients want fixed income product municipal product more specifically and that benefits from the strength of what we have within fixed income.
But we are holding fixed income to a standard like all of our businesses of generating an appropriate return on capital and systematically doing using each one of those levers to drive to a higher return and then everything else that’s accretive to the other businesses benefits the bottom line.
Okay great.
That detail was extremely helpful.
Ruth thank you for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Just one quick last one.
When we think about the outlook on the Institutional Securities business and this is either James or Ruth.
Can you give us some sense I guess two parts just on the Investment Banking side given the pipeline of M&amp;A when – from a timing standpoint when a lot of those things will close once announced? And any other revenues that can shoot off from there.
And then on the trading side of the business we're used to normal seasonality based on the last 20 years.
Given that the business has changed and firms have restructured some parts of it has anything changed on that front whether it's because of client mix or because of its product mix that we see less seasonality than we have in the past? So starting with the first part on M&amp;A and closing and implications for revenues if you look through the year it does.
And obviously varies depending upon the nature of the deal the industry the regulatory approvals required so it can be from a month to many months think 3 to 9 months indicate that they can cut across a number of different periods.
And typically much as a financing is done towards the latter end of that as you are closing although there can be some hedging activity up front.
I think the main point that is encouraging as the pipeline continues to be very healthy across all products and in M&amp;A I noted the momentum with these key drivers across board or corporate activity and activist activity and now we are seeing larger deals.
But probably one of the most additional encouraging elements for the team is that the velocity of deals has really picked up as well in other words if you go back a year or two we talked a lot about a healthy pipeline that just wasn’t crossing the finish line and getting into execution and being announced whereas now what you are seeing is much greater clarity and velocity going from identification of a strategic opportunity to announcement and execution that velocity we think is encouraging and the underwriting calendar does remain strong globally it remain strong in particular the equity side outside of the U.S.
So that should be – that should give us again all things equal some momentum going through the balance of the year.
And then on the trading side it’s tough to call as I said we saw a pick up in June but too early to call whether that have legs to it given most of this year we saw lower trading volumes lower volatility.
And so bit of a pick up in June is not something I would say is fair to extrapolate from here.
And as you pointed out summer seasonality is in front of us.
Whether the trends change over time and trading businesses as a result of regulatory requirements tough to say I think the one that’s clear is summer seasonality.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Thanks so much for joining us for our second quarter call.
And we are look forward to speaking to you again in three months.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! The next question will come from Matt O’Conner with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
Good morning.
I was hoping just to follow-up on your comment about further capital actions given the strategic changes.
I don’t know if that’s just referring to the CCAR process earnings were higher there has been more stability so think about higher payouts or was there something else that you are referring to maybe related to selling the commodities business bring up capital things like that? Why don’t I take that? I think we’re just pointing out that in the context of all the things going on at this time we are obviously building pretty solid capital buffers.
That said we live in a dynamic regulatory environment with potentially new G-SIFI buffers coming out but we feel strongly about where we are with our capital base and we feel strongly about where we're going coming into the CCAR process.
We certainly expect to continue to return capital to shareholders in increasing amounts over the coming years.
And then have you guys disclosed either the assets or revenue related to the commodities business either what you sold or just the entire unit? No we haven’t.
Okay.
And then just separately there was an article in the paper a couple of weeks ago related to the dividend arbitrage that some clients are using that the US broker dealers and global broker dealers are helping.
I am just wondering how big a business is that for you guys and remind us of the seasonality around that and thoughts on I guess just the business going forward.
As we said repeatedly our equity business is strong diversified across products and regions and that's what drives it.
We don't break out particular pieces and there are seasonal patterns throughout the year.
Okay is that an area that you think you and others will pull back a little bit given just that it's being highlighted and maybe scrutinize a bit more than the past.
It is one of the number of services that we provide to clients and it's really based on client activity.
Okay.
And then just lastly the non-comp I mean expenses overall actually came in pretty good this quarter in general.
The non-comp in particular has been managed down quite nicely.
Is there anything I guess from here or more that you could do or should we think about this as a pretty reasonable run rate?  Our view is that there is more to do.
We remain very focused on expenses overall and if you go back to 2012 when we first laid out our expense reduction goals we had an expense ratio at that time of about 84% and we indicated by the end of this year we’d get to 79% or lower.
Year-to-date we're at 77% but the process of going over the last couple of years is really to provide the analytics the tools the dashboards to the businesses to ensure that engrained throughout the organization is a real focus on expenses and expense management and we view that as an ongoing part of the way we run the business.
As I talked about at a recent conference we divide our expenses into what we call run the bank and change the bank and we've been able to extract savings and run the bank to fund what we called change the bank requirements which include both regulatory requirements as well as ongoing innovation in the business investments to ensure we're enhancing client experience and applications and across the platform.
So again we got a very strict lens on that because it does create incremental capacity as well and we think it's the appropriate way to run the overall franchise.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Thanks.
Can you just updates us on the FICC RWA this quarter and maybe just more strategically as we think outward if there is more pressure from regulators with the SIFI surcharge on top of a surcharge focused primarily on repo and other aspects of the fixed income business do you think that that there could be some changes in trying to push the RWA lower overtime.
Thanks.
So risk weighted assets in fixed income are $191 billion this quarter down from $192 billion last quarter.
We just had less roll off this quarter and we remain very comfortable with the $180 billion target for fixed income which was originally end of 2016.
We pulled it forward to end of 2015.
As I indicated at a recent conference we want to make it clear though that there not -- just as with the non-comp expense question there is not a line in the sand on a particular date or activity stops beyond the $180 billion.
There is about $25 billion incremental risk weighted assets that run off overtime in areas like structured credit and long dated and collateralized derivatives which generated a negative ROE because we have to finance positions legacy positions and so as we exit we take those from a negative ROE to neutral and as we redeploy them you shift to a positive ROE and we're already generating strong ROEs in a number of business within fixed income like credit and securitized products and so we have an opportunity to reallocate to get a higher return on those and that's really the way we're looking at what we're doing within fixed income.
As it relates to changing regulatory requirements and the potential surcharge I would note that our ratios are very strong.
The transitional ratio at 14.3% and even fully phased in as we’re talking about 11.7% standardized 12.6% advanced.
So what we’re really looking at is how to best optimize within each business to drive the ROE within each business and we believe we’ve got room to really use a number of different levers to do that.
All right.
So that’s helpful so if you think about the 180 there’s 25 that’s sort of run off beyond that but you might be re-investing depending upon the environment.
Is that the way to think about it? Yeah depending on the environment and client activity because we have the opportunity already resident within a number of products within fixed income to generate an attractive return.
So depending on requirements there’s ample capacity.
Okay great thanks.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Mike Mayo with CLSA Hi what inning are you in in redeploying the deposits that you achieved from the joint venture? So we are -- what inning you frequently do ask the inning question.
I think we’re well on our way and I think let me give a couple of parts to that.
The early days I guess you would say even pre-game was building the infrastructure required to support the growth when once we closed out the acquisition and started onboarding the deposits.
And so that a very important element of really the setup ensuring that we had the infrastructure the risk management the banker supporting the financial advisors.
So that as the deposits started onboarding we could have positive growth a good experience for our financial advisors as I already addressed and see the kind of roll-out that we’ve had.
The other thing is we’ve emphasized repeatedly that our focus is on prudent loan growth prudent loan growth within wealth management and institutional securities and we have two broad franchises that enable us to have strong demand.
But what we’ve been focused on is really prudent loan growth and so we have ample capacity beyond here we’ve been closing the gap versus the industry average but still believe we have ample capacity beyond here to grow and that is just with the contractual onboarding of deposits where as you’ve seen this quarter there’s organic on top of the contractual.
So we view this as the opportunity to have the [inaudible] depository embedded within Morgan Stanley that creates substantial incremental opportunity in a flat rate environment or a rising rate environment and I’ll give it to James because he tends to like cricket matches and they last a lot longer and that’s the way we view this this bank has got a long way to go.
Well I'm not sure you’re asking about cricket innings but if I were to put a number on it I’d say we are somewhere around the bottom of the fourth in baseball and the afternoon tea session on day two of a five day test match.
Okay how much do interest rates help if they increase and how much do they hurt if they don’t increase.
I mean some of the more traditional banking peers will actually quantify this for us and you guys haven’t done that.
Can you just help size the benefit or the harm? Yes I’m glad you asked that question because it’s an important one given the way we see the outlook for the bank.
So overall rising rates are a good thing.
They do benefit the bank if we deploy deposits into lending and AFS.
And second it should signal an improving economy which would increase activity levels across the franchise.
But the main point and I tried to indicate that in the opening comments is that the main driver of NII growth is deposit deployment and you can see that in our year-over-year numbers we’re benefiting from deploying these legacies city deposits and with more coming on board we have a positive impact even without rates rising.
And so you take that -- that to us is really differentiated and managed we’re pleased to see the underlying growth in NII again even without rates increasing.
So now you put to the other side at some point rates will increase and for modeling a couple of key points.
I guess the first is that the reason we’ve gone through this the giving you contractual deposit on-boarding kind of what the schedule is and what the current asset mix and what the target asset mix is is that you can model the rate impact whenever you do expect it to occur.
The other component in modeling that we think about is one what’s the impact of higher rates on deposit outflows and the data suggests that for Morgan Stanley that would be de minimis because our deposits our working capital and client accounts are very sticky.
We’ve talked about that in some prior calls.
In terms of deposit pricing we model that based on historic data from both Morgan Stanley as well as for retail deposits at regional and large money center banks notwithstanding the fact that as I just said our deposits do behave very differently than those retail deposits and our analysis in our model would reflect about a 45 basis points increase in deposit pricing with the first hundred basis points increase in rates.
We do believe that is conservative given the nature of our deposits and structural changes in deposit alternatives.
But it’s what we would assume kind of as something to put into a model.
Fed funds is the most relevant rate for our business and the last point is that the average duration of our bank assets is about 1.5 year.
So rising rates do benefit us quickly.
So the way we look at it is in the flat environment there’s upside given NII growth but it’s all about asset optimization in a rising rate environment given the factors I went through and the cost structure of our bank no bricks and mortar the investments have already been made any rise in rates does drops nicely to the bottom line.
Just two quick follow-ups the deposit data of 45% seem somewhat low compared to many traditional banks.
Are you sure about that I mean it’s not a whole lot of sensitivity there? When we look at the data that we’ve looked at overtime and again given the nature of the deposits as I indicated our view is that that’s appropriate given the nature of the business and as I said that we’re talking about the first hundred basis points so it moves overtime.
And then low rates it stays lower for longer what impact does that have on your refinancing of your debt.
You issued a lot of debt when your credit spreads were blown out a few years ago and now they’ve come in.
Can you take advantage of that? We can and we have because we’ve started refinancing debt as you noted came on kind of came on in the 2010-‘11 period.
We do realize the benefit overtime given the weighted average maturity of our unsecured debt is about six years.
So we would lag into any benefits overtime but at this point we’re refinancing debt we issued post crisis and there’s a benefit.
All right thank you.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Good morning.
A quick one first the $141 million gain that you laid out was that only on that real estate sale or does it also include the gain on TransMontaigne? That no it’s just on the real estate.
Okay can you -- is it possible to quantify the TransMontaigne gain was that significant? We don’t break that up that’s included within the other revenue line and just as a reminder that also includes the contribution from our joint venture with NUFG for the real estate at [inaudible] there is a number -- it’s in the other line items in that one.
Okay so I guess though given the fact that you broke it out would imply that you didn’t view it as a material number and it wasn’t material enough to break out is that fair? It’s included as I said within the other line.
All right and then thinking about the rest of the physical business and the potential sale to Rosneft what are the next steps if that doesn’t go through here by year-end can you start to shop the asset now is there any sort of change that can be made proactively on that front? Well as you know and the way you framed the question the terms of the contract are such that if the deal doesn’t close by year-end the contract expires and so we’re considering alternatives if that doesn’t close.
Okay is it possible also while on the physical commodity front to think about what growth rates might have been if we exclude either the TransMontaigne component of these physical commodities revenue out of FICC or physical commodities overall just given that it’s getting shopped? So yeah TransMontaigne would have been immaterial to the results and as we indicated commodities overall was very low.
It was down meaningfully year-over-year and quarter-over-quarter.
So it wasn’t much of comp produced in across commodities generally.
Okay so it is possible that the growth rate might have been higher if we ex out the physical business? Yes.
Right and then one last one just when we talk about the loan book a lot of times we focus on the wealth management and I'm just kind of curious you disclosed that always half of the loan growth is going to be coming from the institutional side.
How should we think about the NII from those loans flowing through your P&amp;L and generally how should we think about the spreads on those loans versus the loans in your wealth management business.
Is there a way to sort of frame how to think about that side of the loan growth? Yes it’s a fair question because as you know in IS in the institutional securities business NII is a function of a number of factors.
So it’s not as easy to parse through as in wealth management.
Just to give you some loan growth numbers so in wealth management I think I indicated securities based-lendings up $2 billion residentials up $1.5 billion and institutional securities we were up $1.5 billion on the quarter primarily in commercial real estate and we are focused continuing to build the diversified portfolio and our focus is on lending in areas where we have strong client franchise strong domain knowledge.
So the other element of it is it’s enhancing our overall client experience within institutional securities.
It’s in addition to what we are already doing with key clients.
And so it’s reflected there as well and it’s in our view accretive to the overall relationship.
We have some slides that we have used in prior conferences that give you yields on a blended basis.
Okay.
And when we think about those yields and how that those yields play in my guess is or my sense should be that the level of competition in those markets is probably a bit more intense than you would see on the retail side.
Is that a correct assumption or is that off base? Well again as I said part of it is on both sides wealth management and institutional securities what we are doing is really focused on our client base and in institutional securities it’s adding on to what we are doing within our key franchises.
So that we view all of our businesses as competitive.
We don’t take anything we are doing with any of our clients for granted but we have got in our view a strong opportunity and what we said repeatedly is that we are focused on prudent loan growth.
It’s not as though we are looking to originate volume merely to originate volume.
There is a substantial opportunity within our client base on both sides of the house and the key lens as you have probably heard us say too many types prudent loan growth and it’s driven with the title funds on risk management and that’s what’s key to the way we are looking to build the Bank here.
Okay thanks for the color Ruth.
Thank you.
Thanks a lot.
Just on -- some of the regulatory ratios any update on the bank SLR or the LCR? So the bank given we capitalize the bank to support the loan growth that I am pleased that we have been talking about a lot on this call we are in a strong position on all the various capital ratios; LCR SLR and again it’s because we capitalize the bank to support what we expect will be ongoing loan growth.
Okay and then small items but just in terms of the tax outlook and then also the CVA just wanted to find out significant this quarter or kind of an average level? So in terms of the first part of your question overtime given our business mix the tax rate should be around 30% and then on CVA it was positive this quarter.
It was a drag last quarter and last year but one point that is worth noting is fixed income excluding commodities was up quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year and if you exclude CVA that same trend would apply.
So the business fixed income products broadly excluding commodities up quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year excluding CVA.
Okay and then just on trading so on commodities anything in the quarter that you would say was like a one-off versus environmental and that’s more going into the fourth quarter and the next year and then I guess same thing on equities just given the relative strength anything that you would say was especially strong that you wouldn’t expect to continue? No so starting with commodities not -- nothing specific to call out and so our view is that what we are looking at appears to be structural headwinds in certain commodities markets and as a result the key question is how to best maximize returns if in fact these are structural headwinds.
And but there was nothing specific there and similarly in equities we had broad-based strength again across products and geographies just given the leadership in that business.
We did benefit from a strong global underwriting calendar but I would say that’s kind of core to the overall franchise and the strength of what we are doing in equity underwriting generally and the equity underwriting calendar remains strong but nothing specific to call out as broad-based strength again.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
I guess just to add one of the things to note is that we have seen in the past that challenging result in overall poor performance.
You often see reallocation but overall I think that one of the key things is typically activity slows as you go into the end of the year in particular with prime brokerage clients we've seen that in prior years.
All right.
Thanks.
The next question will come from Fiona Swaffield with RBC.
Hello.
I just had two questions.
Firstly was on just understanding the compensation ratio sequentially a bit better because you took out the gain in your analysis on the pretax margins so I assume you should also do the same on the comp ratio and if we do that obviously has approved less could you also explain this issue of the employee deferred comp and how that would affect the comp ratio sequentially? And the second question is on the SLR could you talk a bit more about the balance sheet or the denominator it obviously seems to have gone down which is helping and is there more prospect of that continuing.
Thanks.
Certainly.
So I am starting with the SLR 4.9% versus 4.6% last quarter.
We had a contribution from both the numerator and denominator.
The benefit on the denominator was actually primarily for mitigation of the gross up and so we've been talking for quite some time about the number of work streams against which we've been executing including the net long CDS sold the pickup in compression activities the reductions in fixed income RWAs overtime and that was the bulk of the benefit that we saw on the denominator.
As you noted we also had a decrease in our GAAP balance sheet but the other items were a contributor to the benefit from the denominator.
And then on the numerator beyond earnings we did have a prep issuance this past quarter.
Those two drove the numerator higher.
In fact the split between the numerator and the denominator was about two-thirds of the benefit came from the numerator one-third came from the denominator.
Thank you.
The next question will come from Christian Bolu with Credit Suisse.
Thanks for taking my questions.
Just quick one on FVA a number of your peers have now implemented this adjustment to [inaudible] of these books curious on your latest thoughts on where Morgan Stanley stands on this.
So FVA referring obviously to fair value adjustments refers to the potential implied financing cost for uncollateralized derivatives and only to the extent that those are observable we do continue to evaluate it.
As you noted there is a lot of industry discussion there has also been a lot of academic discussion on the topic but in our view transparency continues to be lacking so there is no basis to take the adjustments.
Okay and then quickly on VaR that came down particularly interest rates credit lines assume there was more connectivity during quarter so just curious if you could parse out the decline debits we position in versus volatility.
It's come down I think in line with overall this activity level is coming down we see it and you noted one line I would say that in commodities it also came down so it was really just more in line with connectivity.
Got it.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
James I appreciate your comments on your CCAR focus internally and clearly you made considerable progress delivering stronger return over the last four quarters and one thing I was little bit surprised by just looking at your latest company run mid stress test is that your PPNR forecast of $8.3 billion was it meaningfully different than your prior company run submissions? And I was wondering this merely reflects increased conservatism on your part in an effort to maybe match the Feds historically conservative view of your PPNR profile and just given the progress that you've made over the last 12 months assuming no meaningful changes to the CCAR guidelines would you expect to see a better result this coming year? Why don't I just take the top line for a minute on the better results this year? We didn't ask something that we didn't get last year so it's not like we have been restrictive we have behaved according to what we thought was the right balance for the business and the right balance for capital action.
So yes as we are accreting earnings which we have been doing throughout this year significantly and we’ve made the capital ratios which we expect to meet and we’re entering the CCAR process with a reasonably high degree of confidence again I think it has six goals around -- we would expect to have further action on the capital side.
So it’s not like we asked for something didn’t get it last year we’re just proceeding on a plan that we’ve been on for several years.
No I certainly wasn’t suggesting that it’s more focus on the I guess your perception of the PPNR in the - progress that you made and it’s probably the one area where as I’ve -- one clear argue that the fed has been overly conservative at least certainly that we’ve heard from other market participants as well.
That’s a fair comment and I think I’ll let Ruth take you through how we think about it this year? So we would agree it’s obviously premature to comment on 2015 CCAR since we haven’t seen the royalty that we would agree.
We think the PPNR calculation was very counterintuitive last year and our view is that another year of evidence the benefit of the change in the business mix logically should help in last year it was the completion of the most strategic transformation of the acquisition of final piece of the wealth management business and you’ve seen we substantially increase the quality and consistency of earnings with the acquisition.
So our view is that this is an iterative process that improves all parties have improvements throughout the course of time and it was counter intuitive and we’re working hard to highlight all that we’ve done and the benefit of the earnings stream and so again that’s been the key focus you’ve identified we did think it was counterintuitive.
No thanks that commentary is extremely helpful and then just switching over this one quick question on preferreds.
You issued the additional billion as you noted in the quarter.
It appears that you’re at least fast approaching the 150 basis points of RWA target others have contemplated as has been mentioned by Basel I'm just wondering at this juncture do you feel as though you’re full on preferreds at the moment or should we anticipate additional issuance going forward? We have no plans for more preferred issuance this year.
Over the past few years we’ve been optimized on capital stack as you said but prospectively I'm not going to close the door prominently but at this point no plans for preferred issuance this year.
No I understood.
Okay thank you for taking my questions.
Thank you.
Thanks so much for joining us for our third quarter conference call and we’ll speak to you again in 13 weeks.
Ladies and gentlemen thank you for participating in today’s conference call.
You may now disconnect.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Morgan Stanley Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Good morning.
This is Kathleen McCabe Head of Investor Relations.
Welcome to our fourth quarter earnings call.
Today's presentation may include forward-looking statements which reflect management's current estimates or beliefs and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially.
The presentation may also include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please see our SEC filings at www.morganstanley.com for a reconciliation of such non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP figures and for a discussion of additional risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of Morgan Stanley.
This presentation which is copyrighted by Morgan Stanley and may not be duplicated or reproduced without our consent is not an offer to buy or sell any security or instrument.
I'll now turn the call over to Chairman and Chief Executive Office James Gorman.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you Kathleen.
As we begin another year I'd like to share my thoughts on the current state of Morgan Stanley discuss our progress against last year's priorities and share our plans for 2015.
During my comments I'll be referencing a presentation that you can find on the Investor Relations section of our website.
For the past five years this management team has worked hard to the following.
One to put the trouble for the financial crisis clearly in the rear review mirror.
Two to reposition our firm to benefit from our world class and complimentary franchises in Institutional Securities Wealth Management and Investment Management as shown on slide 3.
And finally to lay out specific plans with clear signposts for investors to follow as we work towards sustained higher returns.
Each year we like to remind you of the key elements of the plan mark those elements to market and refresh the plan for the coming year so investors can properly judge our absolute and relative performance.
Before I make my strategic comments let me briefly touch on the quarter.
Our final result this year reflect a number of idiosyncratic issues including tax benefits compensation changes FBA implementation and legal reserves.
In addition the quarter reflects a difficult market in trading environment across the industry especially in October and the last few weeks of December.
Our trading businesses in particular fixed income and commodity sales and trading were clearly not immune to the unfavorable market environment.
While Q4 had several complicating elements it was also an important quarter as we continue to put residual issues from the financial crisis behind us.
In a few minutes Ruth will take you through the quarter in much more detail.
Before doing so let me begin with the mark-to-market for 2014 which you can now see on slide 4.
2014 was a year focused execution against the strategic plan we have previously articulated.
In Wealth Management we continue to improve our profit margin and are well on the way to delivering 22% to 25% margin by the end of 2015.
Fixed income and commodities we continue to resize and reshape the business and doing more to drive ROE.
We continue to improve our expense ratios.
We made strong progress in Morgan Stanley -specific growth opportunities most notably growth in the banks.
We increased our share buyback and for the first time in several years we increased our dividend.
As a result of these collective actions we've made progress towards returns that meet and exceed our cost of capital.
With that let me turn to the six areas of strategic focus for 2015.
First Wealth Management which is on slide 6.
For full year 2014 we delivered a 20% margin on wealth management up 200 basis points versus 2013 and we have a clear path for achieving our goal of 22% to 25% by the end of this year.
After taking into account the adjustment to our compensation deferral the pretax margin improved through the year.
Our fourth quarter 2015 target is driven by the revenue and operating leverage from deposit deployment and the ongoing benefits of scale.
It is important to note that this target does not take into account the benefit of eventual higher interest rates and stronger equity market levels.
The target also does not include the benefit of the positive secular trend towards fee based managed account.
This trend plays to the strength of our advisory based model and generally translates into more stable revenues and deeper client relationships a trend we've discussed with you in the past.
There are several additional drivers of upside for wealth management as we've outlined on slide 7.
We continue to grow our assets under management and ended the year with over $2 trillion of client asset benefiting in particular from our focus on the high net worth and ultra-high net worth client segments.
Since 2009 we've grown assets in the $10 million and above household by 82% and assets in the $1 million to $10 million segment by 35%.
Our model based on providing high valued advice helps position us to meet the broad and complex financial planning and investment needs of these clients.
We have further upside as we attract more of our clients' deposit that go consistent with our growing bank presence.
Given the magnitude of the client base even a modest increase in our share of client deposits hold significant upside for us.
Greg Fleming will share more of this opportunity with you later this year.
Second is our bank strategy.
On page 8 we described to you the components of revenue growth in our banks.
We continue to benefit from the three tailwinds; one growth in the deposit base and associated assets.
Two the optimization of those assets namely moving cash into [AFS] [ph] and lending and three eventual upside from higher rates.
We see strong loan demand among our sizable wealth management and institutional securities client base.
With no bricks-and-mortar and embedded client base and a required infrastructure investment behind us the incremental margin on lending product is exceptionally high.
As a result of our ongoing progress in the bank we are providing you with updated targets for 2015 as well as growth to $180 billion in assets by year-end 2016 up from $151 billion as of year-end 2014.
Based on current market rates and our expected asset mix at the end of 2016 the blended yield would be 2%.
If we substitute the yield indicated by the forward curve on the same asset base the blended yield would be 3.1%.
Turn now please to Slide 9.
In our Institutional Securities business our leadership in advisory and equity sales and trading continues to provide further stability along with upside.
In advisory we finished second in global completed and announced M&amp;A.
We've continued strength in large cap cross border M&amp;A activity we believe our global footprint and leadership across products and geographies positions us well to benefit from current trends.
In equity sales and trading we build on the momentum of recent years.
With full year revenues of $6.9 billion ex-DVA placing us first among US peers and we expect first globally.
Our success in 2014 reflects high quality execution and share gains.
This brings us to our third area of strategic focus Fixed Income and Commodities as seen on slide 10.
Against the challenging backdrop we made some progress on our plan to drive for return exceeding our cost of equity.
Within fixed income we reduced balance sheet risk weighted assets and non-compensation expenses.
We also maintained normalized ROEs of greater than 10% in our areas of strength namely securitized products and credit corporates.
Furthermore we continued to optimize returns in rates and roll down structured credit RWAs.
Within commodities we reduced our exposure to physical oil most notably by selling TransMontaigne and we remained committed to selling our oil merchanting business.
We are also integrating the balance of our commodities business within sales and trading.
From a capital perspective we remain on track to reduce fixed income and commodities RWAs to $180 billion target by yearend 2015 down from $390 billion in 2011.
Furthermore as you can see on slide 11 we will have an additional $25 billion of dead weight risk weighted assets that will roll down by the end of 2018 providing incremental ROE upside.
Assuming we find the right opportunities we will utilize the associated capital to maximize return across the franchise either within fixed income or in other areas where client demand is consistent with the highest return opportunities.
Number four.
Next area where we see upside is the benefit from lower funding costs shown in some detail on slide 12.
As the market is recognized improvements our business makes and balance sheet our spreads have contracted dramatically.
More so than those of our peers.
This reduces our funding costs as we finance older more expensive debt.
This should result in meaningful reduction in our weighted average cost of unsecured funding on both an absolute and relative basis over the next several years providing us with a further tailwind.
Last year we issued new debt and an average spread of 100 basis points over three months LIBOR and improvement of 200 basis points since 2012.
From peak to trough our average funding cost is expected to decline by approximately 25%.
Fifth is our ongoing focus on expenses as shown on slide 13.
The changes to the compensation structure announced in the fourth quarter reduced the overhang of prior year deferrals and decrease the portion of current new compensation deferred into future years which was the prudent thing to do.
The result is a reduced liability in a muted environment and greater operating leverage in an improved revenue environment.
With these changes we've decreased our target compensation net revenue ratio in our institutional securities business to 39% or less in 2015 and beyond.
Notably this guidance assumes a flat revenue environment.
In a better revenue environment the compensation ratio could go even lower.
In addition we reaffirmed that we are working towards the compensation ratio of 55% or lower in wealth management and 40% or lower in investment management.
We also remain focused on non-compensation expenses and achieved a 29% non-compensation efficiency ratio in 2014 excluding obviously the elevated legal expenses versus 2012 levels.
With the changes to our compensation structure and our disciplined on non-compensation expenses we remained on track to deliver an overall expense ratio excluding elevated legal of 79% or lower in 2015.
Six is the return of capital to our shareholders.
We've repeatedly emphasized our commitment to prudently increase our capital returns over time subject to regulatory approval.
Our plan is to increase both our share buyback program and our dividend with greater returns of capital supported by the increased proportion of our revenue and earnings coming from more stable businesses.
As you can see on slide 14 since 2012 we've grown our total payout ratio from 13% to 30%.
While also investing in our business through the completion of the wealth management JV.
Critically during that same period we've grown our capital base by 12%.
The key drivers of increased return to shareholders over time our consistent earnings a strong capital ratios and a strategy that is consistent with evolving regulatory requirements.
Finally let me address returns.
Our focus remains on generating high returns for shareholders by improving our ROE to sustainable level that exceed our cost of equity independent of market conditions.
We see a clear path to an ROE of 10% based on the levels we've just described you all of which are within our control.
To summarize this includes achieving our wealth management margin target executing on our bank strategy completing our exit from a physical oil business progress on our optimization and fixed income continued focus on disciplined expense management and continued CCAR capital approval.
We also see higher than 10% returns with an improved rate environment improved global economic growth which in turn drives our wealth management and institutional securities business performance.
And higher payout ratios reflecting higher capital returns.
Now that we finished the broader strategic discussion let me return to Ruth who walk through the details of the fourth quarter performance and way we finished 2014.
Good morning.
I will provide both GAAP results and results excluding the effect of DVA.
We have provided reconciliations in the footnotes to the earnings release to reconcile these non-GAAP measures.
Results for the fourth quarter include several significant items which complicate comparisons to prior period.
They include a net discrete tax benefit of $1.4 billion or $0.77 per diluted share principally related to the restructuring of a legal entity.
Compensation expense adjustments of approximately $1.1 billion or $0.40 per diluted share related to changes in discretionary incentive compensation deferrals.
A pretax charge of $468 million reflected as negative revenue or a loss of $0.17 per diluted share related to the initial incorporation of funding valuation adjustments FVA into the fair value measurements for certain over-the-counter derivatives and legal expenses of $284 million or a loss of $0.12 per diluted share associated with several legacy residential mortgage related matters.
In addition the impact of DVA in the quarter was positive $223 million with $161 million in fixed income sales and trading and $62 million in equity sales and trading.
Excluding the impact of DVA reflecting the impact of $468 million related to FVA firm-wide revenues were $7.5 billion down 13% versus the third quarter.
And earnings from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley common shareholders excluding DVA were $783 million.
Earnings from continuing operation per diluted share excluding DVA were $0.40 after preferred dividend.
Earnings from continuing operation include the impact of the previously mentioned funding valuation adjustment net discrete tax benefit and compensation expense deferral adjustment and legacy residential mortgage related matters in the quarter.
On a GAAP basis including the impact of DVA firm-wide revenues for the quarter were $7.8 billion.
Earnings from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley common shareholders were $928 million.
Reported earnings from continuing operations per diluted share were $0.47 after preferred dividends.
Book value at the end of the quarter was $34.62 per share and tangible book value was $29.63 per share.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Total assets were $808 billion at December 31 down from $815 billion at the end of the third quarter.
Deposits as of quarter end were $134 billion up $9 billion versus Q3 reflecting the on boarding of deposits from city and typical seasonal increases in client cash.
Our liquidity reserve at the end of the quarter was $193 billion compared with $190 billion at the end of the third quarter.
Turning to capital although our calculations are not final we believe that our common equity Tier-1 transitional ratio will be approximately 14.2% and our Tier-1 capital ratio under this regime will be approximately 15.9%.
Basel III transitional risk-weighted assets are expected to be approximately $423 billion at December 31.
Reflecting our best estimate of the final set of reserve rules our pro forma common equity Tier-1 ratio using the Basel III fully-phased in advanced approach was 12.4% at December 31 down from 12.7% in the third quarter.
Our pro forma standardized ratio was 11.7% flat to the third quarter.
Pro forma fully-phased in Basel III advanced RWAs are expected to be approximately $432 billion.
We estimate our pro forma supplementary leverage ratio under the U.S.
final rule to be approximately 5% at December 31 up from 4.9% at the end of 3Q 2014.
These estimates are preliminary and are subject to revision.
Turning to expenses.
Our total expenses this quarter were $7.9 billion up versus the third quarter reflecting the significant items I noted at the outset.
Compensation expense was $5.1 billion in the quarter driven primarily by the change in compensation structure.
Specifically the quarter include an expense of $1.1 billion representing $756 million related to the reduction in the average deferral of discretionary incentive compensation award for the 2014 performance year and $381 million for the acceleration of investing for certain outstanding deferred cash based incentive compensation award.
This provides us with operating leverage in the upside and reduces liability in the down side as best evidenced by the reduced compensation ratio target for 2015 and beyond the James noted.
Non-compensation expense was $2.8billion for the quarter up 13% quarter-over-quarter driven by increase legal expense.
Let me now discuss our businesses in detail.
In institutional securities revenues excluding DVA were $3.2 billion down 25% sequentially and include a pretax charge of $468 million related to the initial incorporation of funding valuation adjustment.
Revenues excluding the impact of FVA and DVA were $3.7 billion down 15% sequentially.
Non-interest expense was $4.3 billion up versus the third quarter.
Compensation expense was $2.4 billion for the fourth quarter up 37% versus the third quarter driven by the previously mentioned compensation expense deferral adjustment.
Non-compensation expense for the fourth quarter was $1.9 billion up 23% versus the third quarter driven by increased legal expenses.
Including the impact of DVA and FVA revenues were $3.4 billion.
In investment banking revenues of $1.3 billion were down 3% versus last quarter.
According to Thomson Reuters Morgan Stanley ranked number 1 in global IPOs and number 2 in global announced and completed M&amp;A and global equity at the end of the fourth quarter.
Notable transactions included in advisory Morgan Stanley continued its leadership position in cross border and large transaction including as lead financial advisor to Cubist Pharmaceutical and its announced $9.5 billion sales to Merck.
In equity underwriting Morgan Stanley a sole book runner completed a $4.7 billion H - share follow on offering on behalf of China based insurer Ping An Insurance Group.
In debt underwriting Morgan Stanley acted as Lead Left book runner on Alibaba's $8 billion inaugural senior notes offering.
This was landmark deal the third largest debt IPO globally and largest bond transaction for an Asian issuer ever.
Advisory revenues of $488 million increased 24% versus our third quarter results driven by increased revenues in EMEA and the Americas.
Underwriting revenues of $807 million decreased 15% versus our third quarter results driven by equity underwriting revenues of $345 million down 26% versus the third quarter reflecting lower volumes in Asia and the Americas.
Fixed income underwriting revenues of $462 million down 5% versus the third quarter primarily due to decrease in investment grade loans partly offset by increased issuance in both investment grade and high yield bond.
Equity sales and trading revenues excluding DVA were over $1.6 billion down 9% compared to last quarter.
Cash equity and derivative revenues were down sequentially due to more challenging market environment.
Revenues in prime brokerage were flat versus the third quarter.
Fixed income and commodity sales and trading revenues excluding DVA were $133 million down significantly versus the third quarter primarily reflecting a pretax charge of $466 million related to the initial incorporation of FVA into the fair value measurement of certain over the counter derivative.
Revenues excluding DVA and the pretax charge related to FVA were $599 million for the quarter.
Commodities revenues were challenged in the quarter due primarily to the decline in oil prices.
Credit revenues in the quarter were down versus the third quarter driven by a difficult market environment.
Average trading VaR for the fourth quarter was $47million up from $42 million in the third quarter.
Turning to wealth management.
Revenues were $3.8 billion in the fourth quarter up 1% sequentially.
Asset management revenues of $2.1 billion were flat to the last quarter.
Transaction revenues were up 7% compared to last quarter consisting primarily of commissions of $573 million up 14% to the prior quarter driven by a pickup across most products.
Investment banking related fees of $173 million down 23% versus last quarter primarily reflecting lower activity in closed end funds and trading revenues of $230 million up 24% versus the third quarter reflecting higher revenues from deferred compensation plans.
Net interest revenue increased 4% to $625 million driven primarily by higher revenues from our bank deposit program and continued growth in our lending product.
Other revenue of $67 million decreased 40% versus the third quarter primarily due to the absence of the gain on sale of a retail property space we discussed in the third quarter.
Non-interest expense was $3.1 billion up 3% versus last quarter.
Non-compensation expense was $777 million down from last quarter.
Compensation expense was $2.3 billion up versus the third quarter primarily due to the compensation expense adjustments related to changes in discretionary incentive compensation deferral previously mentioned.
The compensation ratio was 60% up versus the third quarter reflecting the change in compensation structure.
The PBT margin was 19% which similarly reflects the impact of the change in compensation structure.
Profit before tax was $736 million.
Total client assets exceeded $2 trillion global fee based asset inflows were $20.8 billion fee-based assets under management increased to $785 billion at quarter end representing 39% of client assets.
Global representatives were 16 076 essentially flat to the third quarter.
Deposits in our bank deposit program were $137 billion up $8 billion versus the third quarter.
Approximately $128 billion were held in Morgan Stanley Bank.
Wealth Management lending balances continued to grow reflecting the ongoing execution of our bank strategy.
Investment Management revenues of $588 million were down 12% sequentially.
In traditional asset management revenues of $432 million were down 8% versus the third quarter driven in part by lower market level.
In real estate investing revenues of $103 million were down compared with the third quarter.
Merchant banking revenues were $53 million down 38% driven by the absence of investment gains versus the third quarter.
Non-interest expenses were $594 million up 25% from the third quarter including compensation expense of $381 million reflecting a compensation deferral adjustment mentioned previously.
Non-compensation expense was $213 million down 4% from the third quarter.
Profit before tax was loss of $6 million in the fourth quarter.
NCI was $12 million versus $18 million last quarter.
And total assets under management increased to $403 million driven by higher flows primarily offset by market depreciation.
Finally our outlook is consistent with data that suggest ongoing growth in the U.S.
and the expectation the key market outside the U.S.
will benefit from central bank support.
Both should benefit client activity level particularly in the sales and trading businesses.
In investment banking the M&amp;A pipeline is up driven by continued strength in large and cross border M&amp;A where we are well positioned given our global franchise.
The global equity underwriting pipeline remains similarly healthy benefiting from broad base global activity.
The pipeline also includes traditional issuance from transaction that was deferred to the first half of 2015 during the market choppiness of October.
In Wealth Management which is overwhelmingly U.S.
driven our outlook is also positive.
Our margin target indicates upside in the business and underscores confidence about the state of and growing contribution from the execution of our bank strategy.
As James noted lower funding cost continue to provide upside in revenues for our sales and trading business.
Regarding the regulatory environment.
Through all the actions we've taken in the last five years we are well positioned to deal with the requirement we face.
With the strong capital and liquidity ratios we've built we have great flexibility to deliver for clients and stakeholder.
Thank you for listening.
James and I will now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning.
Quick question on the outlook and the strategic update which is much appreciated.
The potential to take FIC RWAs to $155 billion based on the passive roll down what sort of time line should we use to think about that? So the target is as we indicated is $180 billion by yearend 2015.
And that includes the additional $25 billion of run off over time.
That additional $25 billion will run off through 2018.
So that would take it to the $155 billion unless of course we find opportunities to reinvest within fixed income as James said.
So that's over 2018.
Got it.
Thank you.
If you guys find that FIC returns sort of remain at current levels we kind of get this current environment proves to be a bit more of the steady state rather than what many of us are hoping is a cyclical weak point how low can that number go beyond that if you find that you need to allocate more money over to the equities and the wealth management from a capital perspective? Well we have ample capital and so we are supporting the client demand and activity in the equities business and don't want to leave you with that the final comment you made which is to -- is it a trade off between the two.
So again very importantly given the strong capital positions in and given the strength and importance of the equity business two or three of ample capital to support client activity there and are -- as it relates to fixed income our approach has been as we've said repeatedly to be very clinical about capital balance sheet expenses and that was the main point that we made here this morning.
We've reduced each of those in 2014 and we remain very focused on how to drive returns in the business.
So being very diligent on that.
Okay all right.
Thanks for that.
On FIC there was a change leadership in the commodities business.
Is that indicative of a new direction for that business? And then also as we think about the commodities business is it possible that the overall business there has been impacted by the sort of drawn out sale process to the physical business? Brennan I think we put in place the commodity strategy couple of years ago which was completely independent of the regulatory environment we are in which was essentially we did not want to be a significant player in physical businesses.
The largest physical space we had was in oil.
And we completed the TransMontaigne deal and we are well underway to complete the rest of the sale when obviously ran into other issues requiring government approval.
So we are still on that track.
So the management changes were completely independent of that.
These are big businesses.
We management evolve and company of this size periodically.
So I wouldn't read great deal into that.
We are well on track with commodities.
So with where we wanted to be.
Did it affect the performance the business; the fact ran the sale process.
I can't really say whether it did or didn't.
Certainly I wouldn't say materially I think much more material was actually going on in the oil market in the last several months.
We didn't have a good fourth quarter in commodities.
It happens almost probably almost volatile business segment.
I don't expect that to be a permanent state.
Okay.
Thanks for all that color.
And then last on capital markets.
You guys highlighted lower revenues in derivatives and cash.
Was there anything episodic impacting those businesses? Because we heard some of the competitors highlight some strength in some of those businesses especially cash recently.
No.
I would say that overall our client franchise remains strong and so we are continuing to see levels of activity.
Cash tends to be seasonal as you wind up the year.
So no I wouldn't call out anything particular choppier markets are more challenging for derivative.
Sure sure okay.
That's helpful.
And then deferred comp I think you guys weighted out I know that it can sometimes impact both the revenue and expense line in wealth management changes in the deferred comp.
Did we -- can you quantify that for us and did that impact the pretax margin in wealth management this quarter aside from the noise that was going in the change in deferrals? No.
You just said it the key point in the margin was really the change in this structure of compensation usually PBT margin neutral and so no it didn't -- the main point was the change in structure.
Your next question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
So you noted the legal on the quarter.
I am curious if you had handy the all in legal cost for the year? And if it is right for us because I am thinking about lot less next year given that mortgage put to bed LIBOR setting bank and obviously had limited FX business? So the full year a legal related expenses for 2014 were around $600 million.
And you think I am crazy if I am thinking for next year? Well the point we take consistently is it litigation from the crisis and resolved that remains headwind I appreciate the question.
It is tough to forecast neither timing or announces is fully in our control.
So appreciate the question but that's about all I think.
So I like to slide on the lower funding cost and I think lots of are benefiting you are benefiting maybe little more than most can you put that in a dollar term for us in terms of what means for next year the year after.
I understand that it is fallen and it is pretty dynamic conversation.
I am just curious if its dollar.
Well we realized the benefit over time given the weighted average maturity of unsecured stack is about six years.
So as we refinance out of that well leg into at over time at this point we are refinancing some of that we issue both crisis and that's why wanted to give the trajectory and overall the trend line.
All right.
Two other clean up.
So one the clean comp ratio for 2014 for ISG is a lot of ex all the FVA DVA and comp charges? Right.
So full year again excluding all of those is full year about a point.
Around to -- is it 40 41? Yes full year 41 down from 42 after.
Got it.
Okay and then last one on deposit front.
The fee based flows were huge for any quarter fourth quarter; I don't remember being usually a big quarter for it.
Usually think of that is more as beginning of the year if there was any seasonality to at all.
The question is has anything change on incentive wise or no product wise or is it just the continuation of the process? No.
We had strong flows during the fourth quarter and the full year.
There can be some lumpiness as we talked about last quarter but continued strength in it as you appropriately said it is kind of -- you look at a full year and it is very strong and underscores the point that James made which is that there is a strong secular trend here and we benefit from given the scale of the business we have and the breadth of products content and service we are providing.
Your next question comes from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Autonomous.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning.
Just trying to read into the ROE chart at the end of the strategic presentation.
Last year the base line was 9% this year the base line number you built of is 10%.
Is it really just that the 10% base line now includes higher confidence on capital actions.
Is that the main difference or should we be saying that there is material underline increase when all the puts and takes are taken into account? I am glad you pointed out because we do think it's important.
There are number of items that are reflected in that.
I would say the change in compensation structure is the contributor as well and so James laid out the various items.
And as you know this is without the benefit from a rising rate environment.
So it is what we see the upside wealth management and the bank is incorporating revenue benefit from the lower funding costs we are continuing to make progress in fixed income.
Although we are doing on the expense side as I said that compensation structure change is important and did allow us to reduce the comp ratio in ISG to 39% or lower that's in flat revenue environment.
So better revenues we have even further operating leverage but that's an important point.
And all the stuffs we've taken over the last several years.
The expectations about continued increases and return to capital.
So we've made some tough choices appreciate a complicated some of the comments this morning but made these tough choices that did have a negative impact on the quarter but sets us up well and that's we put it in here as we are modeling a 10%.
I would just add Guy what we've always try to do is when we have clarity of vision on something is too laid out there for our shareholders.
And we have much more clarity of vision around the 10% frankly.
As Ruth said because of all the things that we have checked off and some of the things we've put behind is in the change in the comp and where we have capital much more clarity of vision.
So when we see something that we think is clearly achievable that's what we are going to put out for shareholders and we have also identified that there is obviously upside.
It is depended on something which are less within our control but not unreasonable to expect at some point in the future.
And is that additional upside about the same as it was last year? Obviously all we have is hopefully proportional hunk of a bar chart to compare it against but it appears that's largely unchanged? Yes.
I wouldn't draw too much into our graphic skills and ratios of bar sizes.
No I think we are saying we clearly see an improved rate environment.
We are in a business mix that we think does well with the improving global economy and we are over-weighted to the U.S.
because of wealth management which is we all know is doing best among the developed countries on risk adjusted return basis.
And we clearly see additional capital returns because we are seeing all the capital ratios that we’ve talked about.
Got it.
And just as a follow up on the capital ratios.
Thank you Ruth for the fully phased figures on both advanced and standardized why did the advanced come down a little bit? So as you know we are governed by standardized as flat under standardized and the RWAs under the advanced approaches were up for a couple of reasons primarily due to volatility but also lending growth and ops risk goes in there.
So those are up; it was really RWA is up.
Got it.
On the oil business which as you pointed out ran into a roadblock because of the Russian situation in terms of trying of sell it what's the outlook there and if it is not sold would you look to wind that business down and over what timeframe? So we do remain focused on selling it as a business and we'll let you know when we have something to say on that.
Yes I mean we are clearly intent on getting out of the physical oil business.
We made that very clear.
We had a contract for sale.
We couldn't complete for reasons outside of our control.
And we will get out of the physical oil business.
And I guess the question was really around if it's harder to sell in the current environment and you need to wind down elements of it what kind of timeframe should we be thinking about? We actually don't see if the question is really with lower oil and that affect the sale of the business.
We don't see it negatively affecting the sale.
We have excess storage capacity so that actually sets the business up well to benefit from rising oil prices and we think capacity at these levels and benefiting as oil prices rise.
So it doesn't affect the sale process.
Okay.
That's helpful color.
On the FIC target just with run off down to the 155 and this is maybe a subtle change in what you are communicating but I want to make sure I understand it.
I think you had said previously that as you got down to the 155 – 160 level from the run off you would look to redeploy within FIC to the 180 level.
But now it sounds like you are leaving the options open to redeploy more broadly across the business.
Is that right? And if so what drives the thinking? That is correct.
And what we are saying is look there have been structural headwinds in the industry there have been some cyclical ones as well.
We have a clear plan that includes the reduction in balance sheet capital and expenses that we've talked about.
And we just wanted -- we are being -- what we are saying is we're being very clinical here which is we are targeting 180 there is another 25 that comes off and the right prudent thing to do as custodians of the business is to ensure we put that incremental capital capacity to support the highest return businesses across highest return products and if that's within fixed income where we've already some products that are generating attractive return such as in corporate credit and securitized product.
And there is client demand for incremental capital that's an opportunity but we will look across the franchise.
So you are right.
I am glad you drew that it out; it is change we just want to make it very clear how we are approaching it.
Good well I think your shareholders probably appreciate that that flexibility so that's good to understand.
In terms of the reduction in the ISG comp target.
Is all of that reduction to 39% or less due to the change in the deferral strategy or is there actually a view that in the current environment you can reduce the comp payout? It is due to the change in the comp structure.
It was an important step for us to take; it gives us as I said reduced liability on the downside importantly operating leverage in the upside but by pulling forward future deferral and changing the deferral rate it enabled us to set that compensation ratio at 39% in a flat rate flat revenue environment.
It was operating leverage a lower comp ratio and a better revenue environment and we think underscores importance of that change.
Cool.
And then just one final one for me on the legal cost this quarter.
Was that essentially a litigation reserved build because of things for which you had estimable and probable or was it actually a clean-up of current quarter expenses? And if so can you give us a little color on what they were? Yes.
Reserves as you just said are based and estimated each quarter based on FAS5 so probable and estimable.
[Operator Instructions] Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi.
I was looking for more color on slide 15 with the ROE target.
And does this imply that going from 9% to 10% that if you have capital action so could be 11% and on tangible basis it could be 12%? Again I am just comparing this year slide 15 with last year's slide 15.
And related to that you talked about having a greater clarity of vision but this also comes in a quarter where you missed consensus expectations.
So is this quarter a one-off in your mind or how do you think about all that? Firstly the 9% to 10% reflects all of the things that are implied under the -- or listed on the left hand side of that page Mike.
It also talks about as last of those receiving non objection on our CCAR capital request.
And what we pointed out is that obviously in future yes we see future upside as we make additional capital returns as we are reshaping the balance sheet and reshaping the businesses.
So it's -- when we talk about clarity of vision we are one year closer.
We are seeing real progress in the wealth management business with a margin improvement of 200 basis points.
We expect progress to continue.
This is why we set goals which are currently above where we are performing.
We see real opportunity in the lower funding cost.
It is clear that our bank strategy is being well executed in building the asset side of the balance sheet and we’re continuing to see roll on of deposits et cetera et cetera.
So we felt it was important to lay out for our shareholders.
And the timeframe for this target? Obviously we haven't given timeframe on these targets because we can't control the market environment around us.
Okay.
Well some more specifics related to this.
In terms of higher interest rate slide 6 you talk about the margin improvement and you said your 22% to 25% wealth management pretax margin does not rely on higher interest rate.
Can you describe your interest rate sensitivity if rate did increase 100 or 50 basis points? So you are actually right this does not include benefit of higher rate.
You can somewhat say the benefit rate through the roll forward that we have on the bank side.
We frequently discussed there are a real positive for us the factors to consider in that as you are modeling it out is we do generate higher net interest income even in the flat rate environment because we are still in relatively early stages of deposit deployment.
I think that's quite differentiated but rising rate environment just a component again it does drop meaningfully to the bottom line because of the cost structure the bank and James said we've already invested in the infrastructure required.
We don't have bricks and mortar; FAs are not paid on the grid.
All the things that we've talked about with you before.
And then what we did as we provided yields and assets mix to help you model the NII upside and we actually extended out the estimate of asset growth to 2016 on that slide.
Previously we had out to 2015; it builds on the strength of the performance in 2014.
In fact we ended prior to our estimate for 2014.
And I think the other couple of elements in it but just no update on that.
So given deposit here are different from retail bank.
They are very sticky given the nature of deposit and more like working capital.
We continue to assume about our 45 basis point increase in deposit pricing with the first 100 basis point increase in rate.
We do believe that model is conservative given the nature of our deposits and structural changes and deposit alternative.
Those funds -- it continues to be more relevant rate for our business than the average ratio of bank asset is around year and half.
So again rising rates benefit as quickly but the point on this on the bank side really was to extended out so that you can model in the benefit as you see-- as you escalate rising rate.
What is your efficiency ratio for the bank since you are talking about that your expense to revenue ratio? Because you highlighted the fact that you don't have bricks and mortars so I assume the efficiency ratio would be better than the typical bank? Yes.
We don't rate that out separately but you are absolutely right which why we said it drops meaningfully to the bottom line.
Yes.
I mean it's obviously better because the whole strategy around the bank is driving more throughputs through an existing branch structure.
And then lastly you highlighted compensation so did I hear you correctly that the compensation expense should decline from 41% on a core basis in 2014 to 39% or less in 2015? Is that correct? Yes.
Correct.
In a flat revenue environment yes.
And James you have been very vocal in the past and I guess in hindsight giving a lot of stock to people at much lower stock prices worked but can you talk about the trade-off between paying your people and then meeting Wall Street expectation? In other words getting the desired earnings growth.
There is talk about people from brokered firms going elsewhere such as private equity.
So how do you manage that trade-off? Well firstly Mike I am delighted for all of our shareholders if the stock is appreciated 26% I think last year 60 something percent years before and 25% year before that including our employees who frankly deserve that.
They are the ones who rode the boat.
They got the job done and they deserved it.
So I have no qualms about the employees benefiting from the rising stock.
And listen it is a balance.
What we did coming at the crisis was we deferred up to a 100% our employees' bonuses we did that for a very specific reason and it is unnatural act of 100%.
We've recognized that and we were working our way down over a period of years to 50% and we decide to bite the bullet and get it done in 2014 and bring ourselves back where we think the industry will settle which is at 50% deferrals.
We are still high relatively to our competitors so certainly from a shareholder perspective it remains a very friendly concept.
It continues to tie our employees into the firm which is what we want and what they want as evidenced by a low attrition.
And no I am not concerned about the onesies and twosies who choose to go into different paths of the financial sector we get very attractive employee base coming in this firm and as frankly it's just not an issue.
Your next question comes from the line of James Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi good morning.
I just wanted to follow up quickly on the low-- the funding costs trajectory.
I guess first is there any -- you highlight again 25% by 2016 is there -- is that presumption of the rate environment or is that pretty much locked in? Just how should we think about that net benefit? So the funding cost reduction reflects the forward curve so it builds in that -- those higher rate so with kind of respect rate move we do swap our debt to floating because our assets are floating but it spills off the forward curve.
Okay.
So but any change in the forward curve would have an impact on that assumption okay.
Yes.
And then if we think about the funding cost target if we just look at your interest expense from last year which I think was about $3.7 billion that how we should think about the 25% reduction of that $3.7 billion? No.
There are obviously number of components in that.
So it is not quite straight forward as that.
So would be a little less than that? You are not going to help okay.
Yes you do modeling.
And was there any meaningful CVA this quarter? CVA was a bit of drag this quarter and last year and positive last quarter.
So yes just a bit but -- just a bit.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Carrier with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead with your question.
Thanks.
First question just on the FIC outlook for RWA.
Just want to see if you had any I guess lost revenues related to going from the $188 billion down to say $155 billion? One of the points we've made over time is that these are -- we call them dead weight it is really dead weight capital and that it is supporting assets that aren't generating revenue worth funding old positions and so they are negative ROE now.
And they were loss they go from negative ROE to neutral to zero and the objective is then to take that excess capital and put it behind client activity and areas that are most accretive to the overall franchise.
But the most important point is they are negative ROE because -- it is really just the financing cost on these long dated positions.
Okay.
And then just on expenses for the legal the $284 million  I just wanted to be clear because it seems like each quarter there are some legal cost obviously at the firm.
But is this just related to the residential mortgage in a matter or is that everything in the quarter? And if it wasn't just what was your kind of your normal legal in the quarter? So what we call that was as we said related to the residential.
Okay got it.
And then last one just in terms of the -- where your CG1 ratio is just given we had the buffers out there where do you expect to run the ratio in a longer term? And then based on the Basel and SFR any update or any guidance in terms of how you guys stand? So in terms of the buffer on the various ratios sought we are in a very strong position as we said fully phased in standardized 11.7 advanced 12.4 well above requirement even with estimates of what may occur with the incremental buffer and at this point given these are required over time not just are quantifying above or above that.
But we got a --we are running substantially above the requirement which is again consistent with our view that we have capacity to continue to return capital.
As it relates to the net stable funding ratio we are above a 100% as currently proposed by Basel obviously still awaiting the final US rules.
And you probably heard me say too often that we firmly believe in the durability of funding is imperative and that's how we run the firm.
One concern about the rule is that it actually isn't proper ALM and certain transactions which create liquidity in practice or our consumers of liquidity under the NSFR construct.
I think it's notable that this element the rule has been left to national regulators to tailor in the final rules.
But short answer to your question we are in a strong position with NSFR as it stands and that's keeps us in a strong position to deliver for clients.
Your next question comes from the line of Steven Chubak with Nomura.
Please go ahead with your question.
Hi good morning.
So James you noted in your discussion on FIC that in addition to shrinking RWAs you also managed to shrink actual fixed balance sheet assets and when looking at the product level commentary or disclosure you provided it does appear that businesses that are actually generating returns below their cost of equity are more concentrated in those areas like global rates where they are more balance sheet or leverage intensive than risk intensive.
I just want to get an understanding as to how much more optimization potential we could see on the asset side of the equation that could help improve returns over the next couple of years? Well let me take that couple of point.
Year-on-year we had a sizable decline in our balance sheet and that is at the same time that we were increasing deposits.
We have this ongoing contractual on boarding of deposit supporting our lending business.
So what that really reflects is optimization and trading businesses and that's primarily within fixed income.
And so we are continuing advertise lends on balance sheet as we go into this year.
There is some growth from deposits and we are very focused on making sure to the heart of your question that we are using every -- all assets all resources where we can drive the strongest return and that's been part of the optimization on balance sheet to date.
I think the other point is as I noted our SLR is at 5% and so we've been -- we are in a good spot we said we will be there in 2015.
We are here as we ended 2014.
And again that gives us -- so we've got ample opportunity and what we are looking it as to how drive returns.
Thanks Ruth.
And then just one more question on ISG actually switching over to the expense side.
I appreciate the disclosure on the comp target for 2015 assuming a flat revenue environment.
I was hoping if you can give some color as to what the non personnel ratio should look like ex legal going in 2015 also assuming that you have a flat revenue environment for the coming year.
I don't have that with me.
Okay.
And then just one quick final one on wealth management.
Did appreciate the disclosure on the yield opportunity for the bank but just giving your expectation as to how the funding your liability profile evolve what the reasonable expectations for what the NIM trajectory should look like over the coming years not just assuming a flat revenue environment but also contemplating the future yield opportunities that you highlighted on the asset side? So the reason we laid out as we did if we wanted to give you the growth in the slide that James went through on the bank as we also broke up the split between deposits supporting growth and institutional securities versus wealth management we are seeing growth in both and we laid out the yield.
So that you can actually you can model it out over time.
Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Please go ahead with your question.
Good morning.
I was just hoping the follow up on the timing of the 10% ROE target.
You talk about relatively stable macro trends in terms of trading investment banking.
So it seems like it is more about execution and call it the passage of time specifically in FIC so I guess as you think about the timing is this 2015 target? Is this a five year target? Just trying to push a little bit on this.
Look as James said we have given you the key drivers of it and not putting a date on it but you see the key drivers of it and certain other steps that we took as we ended this year.
Put a fine point on certain of the elements that will drive ROEs higher for example the change in comp structure enabling us to take down the comp ratio and some of the other elements that we have delineated so I will be repetitive I go through we are no putting a date on it but you can see the actions we've taken put it will give clarity about execution against them.
I can promise you one thing though.
It is not a five year target.
Okay and then in terms of the capital against it obviously you've got probably more than you need on the Basel III ratio the SLR could be the constraining factor for you guys and the peers.
How do you think about how much SLR you need to run? And is there some opportunity to optimize that more so than say the Basel ratio? Well at this point as he said we got a strong excess above requirement on risk based capital and given the SLR it is not required until 2018 as I just said.
We were looking to get to 5% in 2015 and here we are at 5% now.
So we don't view that as a constraint on our ability to return capital.
At this point there are continues to be opportunity to mitigate as really primarily and reduction of the gross- up in the balance sheet net long CDS sold and compression activity obviously the ratio will continue to benefit from earnings but more in the gross up on the balance sheet and when you look across the ratios given all that we've done with the business and given the strength of where we stand today and capital that's why our view is we set ourselves up well to continue to steadily increase return of capital over time.
Our philosophy is no discontinues move but steady increases over time and that's what we remain focused on.
Okay and just separately a follow up question on the changes to the comp structure.
Am I thinking correctly that essentially taking the charge on the cash deferred cash piece that will benefit you the most in the early years and then less later years? It will continue to benefit us.
So it is -- both of them benefit us and that's why we are free setting the comp ratio here today.
Thank you.
This concludes the question-and-answer session.
And please proceed with any closing remarks.
Thank you for joining us for our fourth quarter conference call.
We look forward to speaking to you again in 13 week.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation.
Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the Morgan Stanley First Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Good morning.
This is Kathleen McCabe Head of Investor Relations.
Welcome to our first quarter earnings call.
Today's presentation may include forward-looking statements which reflect management's current estimates or beliefs and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially.
The presentation may also include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please see our SEC filings at www.morganstanley.com for a reconciliation of such non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP figures and for a discussion of additional risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of Morgan Stanley.
This presentation which is copyrighted by Morgan Stanley and may not be duplicated or reproduced without our consent is not an offer to buy or sell any security or instrument.
I will now turn the call over to Chairman and Chief Executive Office James Gorman.
Thank you Kathleen good morning everyone and thank you for joining us on what is the last earnings call from our favorite CFO Ruth Porat.
I will now give you some highlights for the first quarter results and mark to market our execution against the strategic plan that we provided an update of in January.
We begin this year on a solid footing with all businesses contributing to our performance.
Excluding DVA this was the strongest quarter in firm revenue and PBT in many years.
In fact it was the second best quarter in revenue ex-DVA in the firm's 80 year history.
Key highlights include the following.
Equity showed continued leadership.
We delivered strong performance across products and regions both quarter over quarter and year over year.
Fixed income delivered a stronger quarter consistent with our strategy.
Investment Banking performed solidly and the pipeline remains healthy.
Wealth Management achieved record revenue record revenue per financial advisor and delivered a pretax margin of 22%.
Investment Management results were steady but there's more to be done as this business remains an important part of our growth opportunity.
Most significantly we took a meaningful step toward achieving our state of return on equity target delivering in this quarter an ROE of 10.1%.
This ROE excludes the affect of the net discrete tax benefit and DVA.
On a reported basis as you'll have seen the ROE for the quarter was actually 14.2%.
This performance reflects our strategic plan and demonstrates the business' flexibility to respond to increased client activity and market movements.
While the firm has clearly made progress there remains work to be done in achieving the six-point plan we laid out in January.
An update of which I'll briefly provide today.
First we continue to improve our wealth management margin which reached 22% for the quarter.
The business is also benefiting from additional factors described during our last call.
Secondly we'll continue to execute on our bank strategy through deploying our deposits and again delivering prudent loan growth across Wealth Management and institutional securities.
Third fixed income and commodities saw its strongest revenue quarter in three years as volumes returned to the market with increased volatility.
This quarter was important evidence of the execution of our strategy to significantly reduce the capital required to support the fixed income business while maintaining the appropriately sized global footprint to meet our client’s needs.
Needless to say we must see this play out for more than one quarter.
Fourth we're just beginning to realize the benefit of lower funding costs as we refinance the debt post crisis.
This provides us with a tailwind across the businesses.
We maintained our focus on expense management discipline and showed strong progress in the first quarter delivering an overall expense ratio of 72% excluding DVA.
This level reflects an Institutional Securities compensation ratio of 38% and that ratio is consistent with our stated target of being at or below 39%.
Finally with respect to steadily increasing capital returns to shareholders we were pleased to receive a non-objection from the Federal Reserve on our 2015 capital plan to increase our dividend to $0.15 per quarter and a repurchase up to $3.1 billion of common stock for the five quarters beginning in the second quarter of this year.
We hope to maintain this trend of increasing dividends and share repurchases in future cycles subject of course to regulatory approval.
In aggregate we continue to execute against the benchmarks previously established and will remain focused on them for the duration of 2015.
Before closing I would like to note several organization changes we recently made.
These changes where we moved executives across the firm reflect our strong desire to build a very deep bench of senior management for the years ahead.
And finally I would like to thank our CFO Ruth Porat for her partnership friendship and commitment to Morgan Stanley and to me personally.
She has been an extraordinarily highly valued part of my team for the five years and a tremendous asset to this firm since her arrival.
We indeed have been lucky to have her.
We are delighted to appoint as CFO Jon Pruzan a 20 year veteran of our investment banking division at the end of this month and I wish John luck in this new role.
I will now turn the call over to Ruth to discuss the quarter in detail.
Thank you James and good morning.
I will provide both GAAP results and results excluding the effect of DVA.
We have provided reconciliations in the footnotes to the earnings release to reconcile these non-GAAP measures.
Results for the first-quarter include a net discrete tax benefit of $564 million or $0.29 per diluted share primarily associated with the repatriation of non-US earnings at a lower cost than originally estimated.
In addition the impact of DVA in the quarter was a positive $125 million with $100 million in fixed income sales and trading and $25 million in equity sales and trading.
Excluding the impact of DVA firm-wide revenues were $9.8 billion up 30% versus the fourth quarter.
Earnings from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley common shareholders excluding DVA were $2.2 billion.
Earnings from continuing operations per diluted share excluding DVA were $1.14 after preferred dividends.
On a GAAP basis including the impact of DVA firm-wide revenues for the quarter were $9.9 billion.
Earnings from continuing operations applicable to Morgan Stanley common shareholders were $2.3 billion.
Reported earnings from continuing operations per diluted share were $1.18 after preferred dividends.
Reported return on equity from continuing operations was 14.2% in the first quarter excluding both DVA and the net discrete tax benefit our ROE for the quarter was 10.1%.
Book value at the end of the quarter was $33.80 per share and tangible book value was $28.91 per share.
Turning to the balance sheet.
Total assets were $829 billion at March 31 up from $802 billion at the end of the fourth quarter.
Deposits as of quarter end were $136 billion up $2 billion versus Q4.
Our liquidity reserve at the end of the quarter was $195 billion compared with $193 billion at the end of the fourth quarter.
Turning to capital.
Although our calculations are not final our common equity tier 1 transitional ratio will be approximately 13.1% and our tier 1 capital ratio under this regime will be approximately 14.7%.
Basel III transitional risk weighted assets are expected to be approximately $440 billion at March 31.
Reflecting our best estimate of the final Federal Reserve rules our pro forma common equity tier 1 ratio using the Basel III fully phased-in advanced approach was 11.6% at March 31 up from 10.7% in the fourth quarter.
Our pro forma standardized ratio was 11.6% up from 10.9% in the fourth quarter.
Pro forma fully phased-in Basel III advanced RWAs are expected to be approximately $449 billion.
Pro forma fully phased-in Basel III standardized RWAs are expected to be approximately $446 billion.
We estimate our pro forma supplementary leverage ratio under the US final rule to be approximately 5.1% at March 31 up from 4.7% at the end of 4Q.
All of these estimates are preliminary and are subject to revision.
Turning to expenses.
Our total expenses this quarter were $7.1 billion down 34% versus the fourth quarter.
Compensation expense was $4.5 billion in the quarter down 11% driven primarily by the change in compensation structure discussed in the fourth quarter partly offset by increased compensation related to higher revenue.
Non-compensation expense was $2.5 billion for the quarter down 55% quarter over quarter driven by decreased legal expense as well as continued expense discipline.
Let me now discuss our businesses in detail.
In Institutional Securities revenues excluding DVA were $5.3 billion up 45% sequentially after excluding the implementation charge for FDA in 4Q.
Non-interest expense was $3.6 billion down 49% versus the fourth quarter due to legal expenses and the compensation expense adjustment occurred in the prior quarter.
Compensation expense was $2 billion for the first quarter down 17% versus the fourth quarter reflecting the impact of the change in compensation structure I just noted.
Excluding DVA the compensation ratio was 38% down quarter over quarter and down approximately 300 basis points year-over-year reflecting the impact of the change in compensation structure and operating leverage in the business.
Non-compensation expense was $1.6 billion down 65% versus the fourth quarter driven by significantly lower legal expense in the quarter.
Including the impact of DVA revenues were $5.5 billion.
In investment banking revenues of $1.2 billion were down - last quarter.
According to Thomson-Reuters Morgan Stanley ranked at number one in global IPOs and number three in global equity and global announced M&amp;A at the end of the first quarter.
Notable transactions included in advisory Morgan Stanley acted as sole financial advisor to AbbVie in its acquisition of Pharmacyclics for an aggregate value of $20 billion.
AbbVie obtained financing for Morgan Stanley and MUFG.
In equity underwriting Morgan Stanley as joint global coordinator lead left book runner and stabilization agents priced a $3.7 billion follow-on offering for Citizens Financial Group.
This was the largest financial institutions follow-on offering since 2012.
In debt underwriting Morgan Stanley acted as active book runner for Coca-Cola in its EUR8.5 billion senior unsecured notes offering the largest euro transaction for a US issuer on record and the second largest euro transaction of all time.
Advisory revenues of $471 million decreased 3% versus our fourth-quarter results driven by lower revenues in EMEA and Asia.
Underwriting revenues of $702 million decreased 13% versus our fourth quarter results driven by equity underwriting revenues of $307 million down 11% versus 4Q reflecting fewer IPOs and lower revenues from EMEA and Asia.
Fixed income underwriting revenues of $395 million down 15% versus the fourth quarter primarily due to decreases in non-investment grade loans and high-yield bonds that more than offset increases in investment grade activity.
Equity sales and trading revenues excluding DVA were $2.3 billion up 40% compared to last quarter.
Results reflected broad-based gains across products and regions.
Cash equities saw increased volume and share gain.
Derivatives revenues were higher across regions.
Prime brokerage revenues increased driven by an uptick in balances and client activity.
Fixed income and commodities sales and trading revenues excluding DVA were $1.9 billion up significantly versus the fourth quarter.
Commodities results were up meaningfully versus the fourth quarter benefiting from structured transactions improved client flow and extreme weather.
Fixed Income revenues increased quarter over quarter driven by increased contribution across regions with particular strength in macro products and EMEA.
Average trading VaR for the first quarter was $47 million flat to the fourth quarter.
Turning to wealth management.
Revenues were $3.8 billion in the first quarter up 1% sequentially.
Asset management revenues of $2.1 billion were relatively flat with the last quarter.
Transaction revenues were down 3% compared to last quarter consisting primarily of commissions of $526 million down 8% to the prior quarter driven in part by fewer trading days as well as activity levels.
Investment banking related fees of $192 million up 11% versus last quarter primarily reflecting a revenue-sharing arrangement with Institutional Securities related to municipal securities.
And trading revenues of $232 million a slight uptick versus the fourth quarter.
Net interest revenue increased 10% to $689 million driven primarily by investment portfolio returns as well as continued growth in lending products.
Non-interest expense was $3 billion down 3% versus last quarter.
Non-compensation expense was $754 million down 3% from last quarter.
Compensation expense was $2.2 billion down 3% versus the fourth quarter in part due to the change in compensation structure last quarter as well as a revenue mix change with growth in non-compensable revenues this quarter.
The compensation ratio was 58% down versus the fourth quarter.
The TBT margin was 22% profit before tax was $855 million.
Total client assets were $2 trillion.
Global fee-based asset inflows were $13.3 billion fee-based assets under management increased to $803 billion at quarter end representing 39% of client assets.
Global representatives were 15 915 down 1% to the fourth quarter.
Deposits in our bank deposit program were $135 billion down $3 billion versus the fourth quarter.
Approximately $130 billion were held in Morgan Stanley banks.
Wealth management lending balances continued to grow reflecting the ongoing execution of our bank strategy.
Investment management revenues of $669 million were up 14% sequentially.
In traditional asset management revenues of $439 million were up 2% versus the fourth quarter.
In Merchant Banking and real estate investing revenues of $230 million were up compared with the fourth quarter driven by higher investment gain.
Non-interest expenses were $482 million down 19% from the fourth quarter due to the change in compensation structure discussed last quarter.
Compensation expense was $273 million in the quarter reflecting a compensation ratio of 41%.
Non-compensation expense was $209 million down 2% from the fourth quarter.
Profit before tax was $187 million in the first quarter.
NCI was $17 million versus $12 million last quarter.
Total assets under management increased to $406 billion driven by market appreciation.
Turning now to our outlook.
In the first quarter the firm benefited from growing investor and corporate interest in global opportunities with higher activity levels in the US complemented by a meaningful pickup in activity in Europe and Asia.
In investment banking the M&amp;A backlog is higher than a year ago supported by the trends we have discussed previously; robust cross-border activity activism and larger transactions across industries.
The underwriting pipeline similarly remains healthy increasingly driven by acquisition activity.
In sales and trading we continue to benefit from the breadth of our strong global franchise with renewed client interest in European and Asian markets reflecting the varying stages of global recovery and the impact of central bank actions across product.
The obvious factors that affect these results going forward are global events and the nature of volatility.
Our Wealth Management clients remain well engaged with their financial advisors.
The key catalyst for higher activity is the level of US new issue activity with the pipeline up versus Q1.
Q1 levels also reflected client caution in anticipation of Federal Reserve rate moves which should play out throughout the year.
We are pleased to have achieved this starting point of our 22% to 25% margin target in a lower transaction environment underscoring the great operating leverage in this business.
The outlook for our bank remains strong given the lending pipeline in our wealth management and institutional securities businesses.
This enables us to continue to benefit from earnings upside even without the benefit of rising rates.
Our goal with the roadmap we introduced several years ago was to address your many questions and be transparent through metrics and goalposts so that our progress could be measured.
We had early confidence that the transformation of Morgan Stanley's business and balance sheet would deliver returns to all of our stakeholders and I am proud that the levers we articulated are increasingly evident.
Beyond the business outlook we expect to benefit from lower funding costs and the impact of capital returns to shareholders.
Although the path to a sustainable acceptable ROE is not a straight line from here I am confident that the road is a clear one.
I will miss working with you and I'm grateful for the strong support and for the analysts on the call for your very constructive guidance and analysis.
Thank you.
It was a privilege to be in this role at this moment in Morgan Stanley's history.
I thank my partner and boss James Gorman for the opportunity but far more important for what our great team has accomplished.
We will now take your questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Autonomous Research.
Good morning Ruth and James.
Good morning.
Morning.
First question I guess is if you could give us a little bit more color on fixed income and commodities.
Given that it seems like you've had a pretty high hurdle to deal with commodities not only having done well in the first quarter of last year but also you having sold TransMontaigne.
Can you give us a little bit more color on how you managed to see revenue there actually up year-on-year? Certainly.
We had strong contribution from around the globe.
Strength in EMEA across products with meaningfully higher client volumes.
The bigger driver was strength in macro rates and FX were up nicely year over year; and importantly that's not withstanding a meaningfully lower balance sheet and RWAs and fixed income were also lower; they were actually at $174 billion.
So through our target we're keeping our target at $108 billion; but this really goes to what we've talked about over many quarters.
Our focus is on centralized resource management so nice performance there.
Credit was up from a weak fourth quarter although not at last year's levels.
And then as you noted in commodities Q1 is seasonally strong.
And even with the sale of TMG TransMontaigne in last year's results we were up.
And the performance was across the board.
It was physical client flows structured transactions for clients.
So we saw strength across the board there.
Are you still looking to sell those storage and other physical businesses? Well as you've heard us say many times we're committed to selling oil merchanting; and we'll let you know when we have something to say.
Okay.
Great.
And maybe a little bit of color on the reduction in the RWA in thick in the quarter.
Can you give us a sense for how much of that was from runoff of some of the legacy positions that you've talked about in the past that don't generate revenue? So included both active and passive mitigation.
There was some benefit from market move as well.
It was really all three.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then final question on moves in the capital account.
There's a lot of moving parts it seems like this quarter.
We know that overall capital was kind of flat.
But we can see in the average allocations that you provide that you moved or retained more capital in the institutional securities business.
And I was wondering if you could give us a little sense for given the RWA movement what's going on there? So you actually answered in your question.
There were some ins and outs.
But obviously given it is an average calculation there are timing implications that flow through.
And you can see therefore more capital moved up to ISG.
So we shouldn't necessarily expect that to remain in ISG as we move through the quarters of the year or is there something to do with continued regulatory changes that would drive those capital levels a little bit higher? Well over time it will.
I mean the required capital calculation is based on the capital regime in place today at any point time.
So that does continue to be on a transitional basis.
Over time you'll see a reduction in some of the phased introductions.
So it will change over time and more of that parent capital would be allocated across the businesses but more of it going to ISG over time.
But of course that's a couple year period on the phase in.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks very much for taking the questions and obviously for your service and your tremendous clarity of vision and explanation of everything over the last several years.
We've appreciated working with you.
Thank you very much.
Your next question is from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Hi.
First question for James.
You have a 10% ROE target.
You certainly achieved that in the first quarter.
What is your target time frame to achieve the 10% ROE for the year? Well Mike first of all appreciate you noting the first quarter.
We have as you know resisted giving you a formal time frame because obviously the ROE is an output and it's a function of returns both revenue and expenses as well as it is of capital accretive over time and what our capital plans are.
So we have resisted trying to put a formal date on it.
I can assure you everybody in this building would want it sooner rather than later.
And the fact that we achieved it in a good environment but not an extraordinary environment in the first quarter and before many of the tailwinds that we have behind us are fully baked in was very comforting.
We're not going to give you a formal date on this.
We are intent on achieving a 10% ROE year over year and beyond that in the outgoing years.
So we're off to a good start here in 2015 and let's hope we keep it up.
What is the 10.1% on a tangible basis? It's 11.9 is that right Ruth? Yes it is.
Various numbers are we reported 14.2% translates to 16.6% on tangible.
And so adjusting up for DVA and discrete tax benefits equivalent ROTE rate of 11.9%.
And then a separate question.
Your VaR stayed flatten from the fourth quarter when your VaR peers actually went up.
What's your thought process there did you leave money on the table is that a lower risk profile? What's going on? So VaR is heavily weighted to changes in current market volatility.
And as you know our VaR was flat but what we're focused on is our VaR was flat on performance.
We were very active with clients.
We were able to achieve VaR efficiency.
We reduced balance sheet in certain areas that were less constructive.
We reallocated by client activity.
We have capacity to take VaR up.
But you can see in the results we had strong performance with flat VaR.
I think the key to this is we did not dial up risk to generate these earnings.
Whether we left money on the table if things had turned out differently some people might have said we left losses on the table.
In this situation we didn't dial up the risk.
We delivered the earnings.
But obviously we have a very successful trading business in parts of this firm.
And they will react to the market volatility as I said.
And then lastly Ruth you're yet one more banking executive to lead the industry.
Any last comment about the regulation in the banking industry? Well I think that fundamental regulatory change was needed with the backdrop of 2008 and it was implemented.
And I think there's been meaningful improvement in the stability and resiliency of the industry as a result with all that's been done.
The higher capital levels liquidity stress testing recovery plans resolution plans governance -- all the changes in business activity.
I think if I look back over the last five years some made those changes kicking and screaming.
I think we were of the view that it was clear where it was going and it was needed and are proud of the changes we've made.
I think at this point given how much has been accomplished it is time to pause digest and assess.
It will be good to have a timeout and see the impact on markets and see where there was an undershoot and an overshoot.
And hopefully that's what we see going forward.
I think the main point is the industry is substantially more resilient and that's a big accomplishment.
It's a lot of work to get here for all of us.
It may mean lower returns but it means a more resilient industry; and that's a positive place to be.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI.
Hi thanks.
Ruth you mentioned in your commentary on SIC about structure transactions being a contributor.
I'm curious if that is only in commodities or if that was in other parts of the business and how big of a driver.
And more importantly is that a sustainable appetite by clients because we've all been waiting for that for a while.
I'm glad you asked that.
It was a comment specific to commodities.
In commodities it was a combination of structured activity the physical and trading activity.
The majority of client facing flow in structured business it was in the backdrop of what's gone on in the oil markets it was good to see the volume of structured transactions.
But as I said I'm not going to do a forecast on.
Okay.
And does that mean – I don't want to put words in your mouth but was the commodities contribution of the quarter larger than normal times just because of some of the things you mentioned plus the weather? Well commodities as you know well is stronger in the first quarter.
And so it was up some versus last quarter.
But the bigger driver was the strength in macro with rates and foreign exchange up nicely year over year.
Okay cool.
And then RWA down 4% for the firm sequentially I think you said 6% in SIC.
It's good; it's welcome.
Is that not a number that we want to straightline right? I'm sorry the number… Can it fall at that pace on an annualized basis? So two parts to that question.
At 6% sync [ph] I noted that it's down to $174 billion; and we're retaining the target at $180 billion.
We're very focused on RWA efficiency and we've indicated there's another $25 billion that runs off post 2015.
And we're going to be very clinical and flexible in the way we allocate that capital across the franchise in a way that optimizes returns.
But to your question would we want you to straight line from there I think I've answered that.
Cool.
Last one easy one share count was flat year on year but you got a higher authorization.
That's just math right? We can count on maybe 2% shrinkage this year in the share count? Yes the main thing is we got a higher authorization and that we start executing on the share repurchase as we come out of the second quarter.
And we expect to execute that radically over the time period.
Thanks for everything Ruth.
Thank you very much.
Your next question is from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Good morning.
Couple of quick ones here.
Cap Markets the equity strength.
How much of that I know you highlighted across regions and you gave some great color Ruth on some of the various components.
How much of a tailwind was Europe this quarter just given some of the strength and on the back of QE there? Well as we've talked about on many quarters we run the business with a nine box strategy product across the top cash derivatives in PB and then regions Americas EMEA and Asia.
In the first quarter every box was strong.
The big theme as I said was increased investor interest outside of the US and particularly US investors in the rest of the world.
We clearly saw a pick up in client engagement in the EU on the back of the CB actions but we also saw cash share gains in Asia with a pickup in client activity on the Asia growth opportunity and relative value there.
We had nice frets to the business.
The key question is the ongoing macro backdrop as I said and the nature of volatility.
This quarter was characterized by LV trending volatility and a lot worked well.
It was the best quarter in a long time.
Looking forward we'd anchor the outlook to what we've see over the last few years.
But there were a lot of good things going on around the globe.
Okay.
Thanks for that color.
And then thinking about Wealth Management here can you give maybe a little color? It's early but on any potential impact from the Department of Labor proposal? So respect to the DOL proposal it's still in the comment period' there are a number of open items to address.
Based on our best interpretation of the proposal at this point we don't expect a meaningful impact on our business.
We do expect some changes in activity and we do expect more compliance-related costs.
Okay.
And then I know the loan growth environment is sort of tough.
But sequential loan growth slowed somewhat and it looked like PLA slowed more than mortgage.
Was there anything driving that and should we ratchet down expectations for loan growth? Or was that more sort of like a single quarter type of a slowdown there? Yes.
Loan growth is still very much on plan consistent with what James went through on the fourth quarter.
We talked a lot about prudent loan grow.
There is some seasonality with PLA in mortgages in the first quarter.
But we have a healthy and diversified pipeline and expect it to continue to deliver steady prudent loan growth.
The main point to talk about is two sizable franchises with diversified assets.
We have ample opportunities for loan growth.
Terrific.
Last one from me.
Any chance to quantify the legal charge in both overall firm and in the securities business? No we commented that non-comp expense was up a bit here due in part to legal; but we're not breaking it out.
Okay.
The main takeaway on that is that the big legal stuff relating to the crisis we feel is behind us.
We are dealing with some of the one-off smaller events as we move forward here.
Thanks for that James.
Congrats to you Ruth.
Best of luck on your switch over to the left coast there.
Thank you very much.
Your next question is from the line of Michael Carrier with Bank of America/Merrill Lynch.
Ruth one more on equities.
And not really focused on the quarter but if I look over the last four or six quarters it seems like the traction of the progress has just been continuous.
And it's been pretty consistent across products across geographies.
I just want to get a sense when you look at what's going on in the equity business and when you look at some of the pressures on the business and on the regulatory environment with clients are you seeing more market share in areas where you guys are differentiating versus the customers or versus competitors? And is there any nuance between the high touch the low touch or anything else? It just seems like the consistency in the traction has been very consistent across the past two years.
So we are of the view and I've talked about this on prior calls of the view that we're benefiting from a lot of investments in the business over many years.
So it's back to early technology investments in the business that enable us to execute on behalf of clients in all market environments and do so on a cost efficient basis where we're driving returns for stakeholders as well.
It goes to the quality and content of the team so that it very much is high tech high touch and the breadth of the franchise.
Talk about the nine box strategy because it's so core to way the team runs it and with this maniacal focus within each box.
But then as we talked about over many years now a focus on what are the adjacencies so that has we go deeper with clients in certain areas they go deeper with us.
It is a very tightly run business but its delivering results.
I'd just add to that Mike that remember coming out of the financial crisis our prime brokerage business clearly took a hit.
And that is being rebuilt.
I think over time essentially gained share.
The strength of that business has been a real additive.
And secondly these businesses do well in a large part because of the quality of the leadership team running them.
And we've had a very stable and strong deep leadership team running now [ph] these business for several years and I think that makes a difference.
Okay.
That's helpful.
You have set out the ROE target and you hit around that area this quarter.
And James it sounds like when you talked about dialing up the risk it wasn't one of those quarters where everything worked.
There was obviously good progress but it could've been better.
I just want to get a sense of when you guys look at some of the things that can improve in terms of the Wealth Management pretax margin things that you have control of it still seems a little surprising when I think about a 10% ROE and then I look at your business.
20% is fixed income and then 80% is equities banking and wealth management and investment management.
Things that we generally think of a higher ROE.
When I think about going over the next couple quarters years besides the things that you have control of are there other things on the capital side or the balance sheet side that will continue to boost that ROE? I know the ROTE is higher; it's around 12% versus the 10%.
I just wanted to get your sense on what will be the drivers to improve that besides the margin in the wealth management business.
Well let me take a cut at that and I'm sure Ruth will add on.
Firstly I think a lot of folks really haven't given much attention to the E part of this equation.
When we started as a team five years ago our E was around $40 billion; it's now around $68 billion I think.
So if we were still operating with the same equity we had five years ago our ROE would actually be in the order of magnitude of 15% our ROET well above that.
So we've been through a major repositioning of this firm in the regulatory environment.
The key has been to put ourselves in a position where we had enough capital where we wouldn't be going needing to go out and raise capital accrete excess capital and so on.
And ultimately the test of that would be successful CCAR capital distributions.
We've now had three years where we've lifted our dividend from $0.20 to $0.40 now $0.60 a year.
Lifted our buyback from 500 to 1 billion to now 2.5 billion and we expect to increase capital actions in the years ahead.
The E part of this equation I think deserves a little bit of attention.
On the R side two things are going on.
One we have a very very focused non-comp expense program we've had in process for a few years which has a huge team here led by Charlie Chasen here.
They are very focused on that.
We're not going to let go or let hold of the non-comp side.
And on the comps side it's pretty clear.
We said the ISG comp to revenue ratio would be below 40% and indeed it was.
And we're bringing down the comp to revenue ratio for the other businesses as we build scale.
Then you look at where the opportunities are and they are many frankly.
We're not yet in a global economy which is by any means robust.
The Wealth Management full transition to the managed product hasn't yet occurred.
The bank loan products we've still got tremendous capacity there.
We haven't seen the interest rate hike which we're going to get at some point in the future.
The M&amp;A and ECM businesses clearly will pick up as the global economies pickup and I could go on with a long list.
I'm giving a long answer because it's a complicated multifaceted thing.
But I would look at all of those starting with the move to non-comp the comp to revenue commitments capital plans and then follow with the particular revenue drivers in each of the businesses that exist today and are likely to exist in the changing high rate environment going forward.
Okay.
Makes sense.
Thanks a lot.
Sure.
And your next question is from the line of Christian Bolu with Credit Suisse.
Good morning James.
Good morning Ruth.
Morning.
James on the regulatory environment the SEC seems to be focused on the potential abuse of fee-based accounts so-called reverse churning.
Given Morgan Stanley's fee-based accounts have more than doubled since 2009 I'd be curious as to what kind of controls or checks you have in place to ensure the proper use of fee-based accounts at Morgan Stanley Well this is one of those questions which depending on the environment you could ask it one way or the other.
A lot of people spend their time complaining about the churning on transaction type accounts which is why the fee-based industry has really evolved.
Where clients certain clients have wanted the certainty of knowing they pay one fee and with that they either do none or as much transaction activity as they want to do.
So it seems to me it would be a very natural market segmentation.
There will be some clients for example people with large restricted stock positions which that would probably not be something they want to do.
But from many others who want a more advice driven relationship it obviously is.
Whether its transaction activity or fee-based activity we have an enormous compliance operation in our wealth management division driven down to the branch level.
Both at the personal touch level and also at the model-driven level where we look for exceptions which looks at suitability concentration risk and all the other things that you would expect to make sure that the clients are properly served at the pricing that they're getting.
Okay.
That’s helpful.
A question on the tax strategy.
I think tax benefit seems to be recurrent theme quarter after quarter.
At a very high level could you explain the firm's tax strategy and how we should conceptually think about any tax benefits going forward.
Well this quarter was the result of a legal entity simplification consistent with resolution.
We would still guide you to around 30% as the effective tax rate on a go-forward basis.
Okay there's no wide tax strategy or anything in that nature we should think about? No.
As I said this was legal entity simplification; and I guide you at 30%.
Okay.
A couple of cleanup questions.
On the M&amp;A backlog I believe you said it was up year over year.
How does a look on a link quarter basis? It is up year-over-year and that is the way we've been looking at it.
Okay.
And then on the funding cost benefits how should we think about the allocation between FIC and equities? So as we've talked about a number of calls we allocate funding balance sheet liquidity based down to the product level.
And it's really based on the asset mix and so that's the real driver of it.
We haven't broken that out but it's going to benefit across sales and trading.
And it's a nice tailwind that is increasingly building through 2016 year.
Okay.
Thank you.
And just lastly like the sentiments of my peers it's been a pleasure working with you Ruth.
You're definitely going to be missed.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
I feel like all of you are going to start selling tick stocks.
And your next question comes from the line of Steven Chubak with Nomura.
Certainly pleased to see the ISG comp leverage really show through in the quarter in light of the revenue strength.
I was just wondering how we should think about the comp leverage versus the full-year target of 39% assuming you can actually deliver revenue growth for the full year? So when we set the comp ratio it's with a full-year outlook.
So the 38% is the full-year outlook.
Again that's all things equal.
That's the way it's set.
We remain very committed to rewarding those who drive returns.
And we think with the steps we've taken on comp structure and the operating leverage in the business this is a full-year outlook -- again all things equal.
Okay.
And then maybe switching over to the capital side for a moment.
We're certainly pleased to see the significant build in the leverage ratio in the quarter.
When parsing the individual components of that ratio it looks like the improvement was really driven by a reduction in SLR add-ons more so than anything else.
And I was just wondering if you could speak to what the current level is of those SLR add-ons and maybe how we should be thinking about sources of future mitigation potential.
Well from the benefit this quarter was really both numerator and denominator.
You're absolutely right; in the denominator we have work streams against all the various gross ups and we had reductions in net long CDS sold.
And we're benefiting from compression activity which I would say industry wide has become more business as usual which we think is a real positive.
We were early on that and it's good to see it has been broadly embraced.
The numerator clearly benefited from earnings in our preferred issuance early in the quarter.
So we remain focused on all of the items that are possible and logical for mitigation.
Compression as I said but across the board remain focused on ensuring that if we're using balance sheet where we're using balance sheet.
It continues to provide the kind of returns commensurate with the capital that's being required here.
And so it's again a deep focus; but it's both a numerator and a denominator benefit.
Okay.
Thanks Ruth.
And then just lastly on the Wealth Management side and specifically the new long-term deposit target of $200 billion which Greg spoke to at a recent investor conference.
In the past you've highlighted some metrics where maybe your under penetrated relative to peers to help drive future growth.
And was hoping in the context of this specific target whether you could highlight any specific metrics which would support that additional growth towards that $200 billion.
Well we've talked about I say it so often I'm sure you're tired of hearing it but we're focused on prudent loan growth across both wealth management and institutional securities.
We do believe we have meaningful upside from here given the scale of the client base and the relative penetration in particular in wealth management.
We've talked about that.
The $200 billion deposit target is really married to our expected loan demand over the next several years.
And so the execution plan on deposit growth as we looked at what is the loan potential given these two large franchises the expectation for deposit growth was two phases.
The contractual on boarding from city and as I think you know that ends this quarter the second quarter of 2015 but we are in an excess deposit position.
Our loan to deposit ratio is at 51%.
And even if we load in standby liquidity to support loans the ratio is at 74%.
So we do have a nice runway before we need additional deposits to support loan growth.
And then as we've talked about on the fourth-quarter call and as Greg commented on we have substantial organic deposit growth opportunity given our client base.
We still have a large portion of cash held away.
But it's really calculated with a lens to what is the loan growth opportunity across Wealth Management and institutional securities.
And we see quite of bit of opportunity from here against which we will execute over time prudently leading with credit risk management.
Okay.
Thanks Ruth.
That's really helpful.
And congrats on the new role and best of luck at future opportunity.
Thank you very much.
Your next question is from the line of Matthew O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.
Good morning.
You had mentioned earlier about long-term debt cost coming down and I think implied you're still early on in that process.
Maybe if you could just size how much benefit you've had so far from that and try and shape how much opportunity is still in front of us.
Well as we indicated from peak financing costs to end of 2016 it's down about 25%.
And the benefit comes in as we refinance debt that was issued post crisis given our credit spreads are meaningfully tighter.
And so as we see more of that we refinance the greater the benefits.
That's why it lags in over time.
And do you have what the blended rate of your long-term debt is the $155 billion? I don't have that with me.
Okay.
It's in the filings I don't have it with me.
Okay.
But just I mean conceptually are we halfway through - your spreads have been coming in quite a bit market rates have been coming down even just the past year here so.
I think there's still additional opportunity to bring those rates down.
There is a decent opportunity.
Some of the debt that we refinanced was put on pre-crisis and so we've only recently begun to tap into that portion of it that was put on post crisis.
At a certain point it was actually more of a headwind.
It's been turning recently to become a tailwind and that's why we called it out when we did.
We delayed to call it out and at the point at which we were starting not to refinance the early 2000 debt but what was put on post crisis.
That's why it's a delayed benefit here.
Delayed posts are the contraction we've seen in our credit spreads.
Okay.
That makes sense.
All right thank you.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Jim Mitchell with Buckingham Research.
Hey good morning.
Just maybe a follow-up on the capital question.
You are substantially above on your common equity tier 1 ratio; but on the SLR you're just slightly above the minimum.
How do you think about the interplay of the leverage versus the common equity to a point where you can start to return even more of the common equity to maximize returns? Is there a lot more to go on the denominator in the leverage ratio or does it mean potentially more preferred to maximize shareholder returns? How do you think about that dynamic over time and what kind of a cushion do you think you need on the SLR? So I've already answered part of it in response to an earlier question which is we've talked frequently about the way to maximize return and capital over the longer term is to have steady increases.
No discontinuous moves in the request for return of capital.
And we're very pleased to have the ability this year at the $3.1 billion share repurchase over the five quarter period and the dividends up 50%.
So when we look at the requirement there are clearly a number of them.
Interest rate capital it's SLR it's the CCAR process itself it's how you think about the stress losses.
SLR obviously was not in CCAR in the last round.
But we have a forward-looking lens as we think about the business where we consider all of those factors.
And as we looked to optimize the opportunity across the franchise both from a returns perspective and the ability to return capital we look through each one of those lenses.
At this point though as I said SLR hasn't been included in the CCAR that would govern how much we can return.
But that obviously hasn't stopped us implementing strong work streams to mitigate the gross up in the denominator as we've already talked about on this call.
We look at all.
You have to look at all; you can't just tip to one versus the other.
Again it's with a lens that we want to ensure we're providing balance sheet capital behind client activity and doing it in the most constructive way.
But it's complicated.
There's no question with the multiplicity of requirements.
But that's what we've been managing against.
So hear but on the CCAR your constraining factors were more of the tier 1 ratio's right the leverage the total capital? So I'm just trying to get a sense.
Do you think there's a lot more to do on the denominator side or do you think it would make more sense to issue more preferred to deal with that? Or do you think you have enough time to make more efficiencies on the balance sheet side? That's what I'm just trying to get at Okay sorry.
On that part of it is the CCAR process itself.
We were pleased this year that on one input to the overall calculation PP&amp;R the estimate by the Federal Reserve increased.
We believe that reflects the greater consistency we have in earnings.
We put a lot of effort behind trying to clarify that and we're pleased that it picked up.
And when you look at what were some of the things that took the total capital calculation lower the leverage lower there was a difference between estimates firm and Federal Reserve on balance sheet growth or RWAs over the period.
And our view is that the test is a learning process even though there's not that much transparency in it and that it's really about addressing some of those elements of it.
So that's one component trying to narrow the gap between the Federal Reserve's estimate and the firm's estimate on things like balance sheet growth.
You know is the fair value firm and we don't see that kind of balance sheet growth.
And then on the second part of it of course ensuring we are being very clinical and direct on balance sheet use in other elements of it.
We look at all preferred and sub debt as ways to optimize capital over time and we'll continue to do so.
We've been doing that for the last couple of years.
Just think about where we've come from.
The SLR we're at about 4.2%; a year ago we were at 5.1%.
With some of the actions we took we intentionally depleted our capital in the last several months including the charge relating to the Attorney General action Department of Justice and the charge related to our deferrals.
The good news is we're above 5% now.
We have several years to stave up 5%.
We have several years to work the balance sheet and as necessary use preferred securities.
So we have a long runway to keep this in motion and we're pretty confident we can stay above 5% and do the things that Ruth talked about.
Absolutely.
Thanks.
Your next question is from the line of Devin Ryan with JMP Securities.
Just a couple quick follow ups here.
So on the bank and strong loan demand is it reasonable to think that you could skew more towards loans than you presented? I think you've given roughly 60% loans as a percent of assets by 2016 end.
Is that the optimal mix; or if the demand is there could we see that mix look more lending heavy? Just 13 weeks ago James refreshed our outlook on the six-point plan and provided we added another year on the bank outlook to give you a sense of the asset mix.
And the real point of doing that was so that you could model when you expect a rate increase.
We're giving you our outlook on asset mix and there's no updates there on what was reviewed last quarter.
Okay.
All right great.
And then just coming back to the strength in EMEA in the quarter.
It sounds like that was more trading heavy in the trading businesses.
Were there any specific areas that really experienced improvement? Does that tone of activity still feel good and do you see that spilling into other businesses? I've indicated it was in both equities and in fixed income in macro products.
But as I noted it was not just Europe.
We saw a focus on the opportunity in Asia as well.
It's an early start to the quarter here.
As we typically say at this point a couple of weeks is not a quarter.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Your next question is from the line of Matt Burnell with Wells Fargo Securities.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Ruth I wanted to focus one more question on the debt opportunity and specifically on the legacy trust to preferreds that you have outstanding.
I think your plan previously was to potentially redeem most if not all of those this year.
I'm wondering what the timing is on that based on your CCAR results this past go around? We did include the redemption of trust in CCAR because it's expensive relative to where it stands today.
The rules are complicated but we do remain focused on eliminating the drag.
That was the piece we withdrew.
We did not change our requested return of capital.
The $3.1 billion share repurchase and the dividend increase of 50% weren't altered.
And we're pleased to attest qualitatively.
Okay.
And then just in terms of investment banking trends obviously very strong quarter across the franchise in trading.
To James's earlier point you're not hitting on all cylinders and banking within ISG was a little bit less strong.
Can you give us some color as to your outlook as to the potential opportunities or strengths within EMEA and Asia specifically within the banking business? I think firstly just looking at the banking franchise it's a terrific franchise.
We actually had a strong quarter; some others had very strong quarters all power to them.
We have a good pipeline.
Obviously it's a lumpier business in any 13-week period than some of the other businesses so you're going to expect a little more bouncing around.
No concerns there.
We are seeing a pickup in Europe.
Asia has been slow.
Japan was a little slow earlier in the year but we're starting to see some cross-border activity there.
Well-positioned strong franchises in Japan and China.
So I think the outlook remains very firm.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
I think that brings this call to an end.
I just wanted to take a moment to thank our dear friend Ruth wish her well.
I'm also sorry to see the analysts are now moving to the West Coast following her.
We'll have to pick up some others over here.
But on a more serious note she's been a great partner.
Has sat in the office next to me for five years and done a terrific job in helping get this firm back from the depths of the financial crisis.
And it takes a great team.
Ruth had a great team working with her.
She followed also a terrific CFO who helped us navigate the crisis during extraordinarily stressful period Tom Kelleher.
And she now precedes another new CFO as I said John Pruzan who I think will also be terrific.
And throughout it all we've had a deputy CFO that many of you have not heard on these calls but has been in many of the meetings.
Paul Wirth has been an extraordinary able and steady hand now through the last three CFOs we've had at this firm so great team.
Thank you Ruth.
We wish you well.
And don't forget us.
We're going to leave Ruth with something to remind her of Morgan Stanley not that she would ever forget us.
But we wish her the best.
Thanks everybody for a good call.
Thanks.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes your conference call for today.
Thank you for your participation.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Thanks very much.
So you have done well across just about every business.
I'm trying to get a feel for is how much seasonality we should think about? And I know it’s always hard to answer but between Asian equities so strong and second half usual seasonality in FIC and the big results in merchant banking and real estate I’m just looking for any guidance on how much of that we should expect moderating in the second half just on seasonality? Well great.
I think as you said Glenn the business was much more balanced in the first half across all of our businesses and all of our products in all our -- all of our geographies in terms of seasonality.
All I would say is from a capital markets perspective the third quarter is usually seasonally slower but that’s all I would really comment.
Maybe on the merchant bank and real estate is that a function of sales or its just really good environment and having things to mark up? Yes I think as you point out in merchant banking and our real estate business we did see good principal gains in the quarter.
It was a combination of both marks in distributions and it's been a good environment for monetizations here.
James noted the two notch upgrade may help in FIC.
Can we talk about specifically where and maybe also just flush out within FIC.
Normally your great and strong credit -- obviously that was weaker but your results held up really well to your point on rates and FX.
Have -- do you feel like you’ve fully transitioned to a more balanced business? There were lot of questions in there.
In terms of the Moody’s upgrade as we said we’ve gotten some positive feedback from our clients.
We were pleased with that result.
But I wouldn’t necessarily tie the upgrade to any specific level of performance in FIC.
The balance -- the business was much balanced much more balanced in the first half across products and geographies.
You did point out that our historically strong credit businesses and SBG businesses are a little bit softer.
We did see strong results across regions in rates in the first half.
The FX business was strong in the first quarter given the positive trend in volatility in the U.S.
euro FX movements that did come down a little bit in the second quarter as currencies traded in a tighter band and there was more muted volumes but it was still a strong quarter for us.
So I don’t -- I wouldn’t say that we are done here but we are clearly pleased with the progress that we made and there is more to be done.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Starting out in capital markets and Glenn touched on this a little bit the Asian strength definitely a driver again this quarter.
Maybe can you help us understand how much of a tailwind that was and then also given some of the volatility we have seen since the end of the second quarter how are clients reacting to that and what is your expectation for continued strength in the region? Sure.
First I will comment our Asia-Pacific results and business we are strong across all our businesses equities fixed income and investment banking this quarter.
We do have a diversified business not only in China but across all of Asia.
So it's not just China and it’s really all products.
We did benefit from activity levels being higher in China this quarter.
We did see increased volatility there but given the liberalization of the capital markets in that region we’ve seen significant increases in investor interest in the region.
It's obviously a large and important region and has significant growth opportunities there.
So we would expect that level of engagement to continue.
We saw lots of volatility in the second quarter.
I would say that was more broadly dominated with some macro headlines towards the end of the year not just in China so we did see as we said risk positions come down and client engagement slow down a little bit in the back half of June and early parts of July.
I would say we have started to see some of those headlines tied down and a little bit more stability in some of the volatility indexes come down particularly in U.S.
and in Europe.
So we’re starting to see some more reengagements by our clients and our investors.
But I wouldn’t -- I would say it’s a little too early to say anything about the quarter but we feel good about the client activity and the client engagement.
Okay great.
Thanks for that.
And then on FIC clearly year-to-date results have bounced back nicely.
What’s your view on returns in that business currently? Can you give us an idea of what returns you’ve been generating here year-to-date and whether or not that is what you’re hoping for in an environment like this and how much more juice there is for continued improvement there? As we’ve mentioned many many times we have been focused on reshaping and optimizing that business.
We are clearly focused on improving the ROE in that business and we think we’ve made real progress here in the first half.
We think there is still more opportunity.
Some of those opportunities include continuation of the balance sheet optimization strategy that we have.
We are very focused also on the velocity of our balance sheet and even though we’ve kept a tight lid on expenses we still think there is more to be done in that area as well.
I would just add to that that obviously we have done a lot of internal restructuring both in cost and in balance sheet.
Clearly we have a very focused stable team running our FIC business.
We saw the two notch upgrade from Moody’s as Jon said you can’t draw a direct line from that to activity but at best at worse it’s neutral and the best it’s more than that and the feedback from some clients is that over time it will be additive.
And as others have observed in the global FIC investment banking sales trading marketplace there is clearly more turmoil in other parts of world than there is in the U.S.
and we think that there is potential for over a period of time for share gain for our business.
So we take a long view on this.
We don’t really focus on -- I mean we obviously report on the quarterly basis but we don’t get that excited quarter-to-quarter.
We are more focused on how we’re moving this business over a four or five year period and obviously the more recent result suggest it’s moving in the right direction.
Yes.
No agreed.
And then switching gears over to Wealth Management the continued grind down in comp expense how much of that -- is that purely mix driven? And then as we start to see some rate tail wind here God willing that only continues to support the mix shift right.
And then when you think about your loan to deposit ratio it’s still low.
So should we think about any change in loan growth with Citi's deposits all on boarded now? So I think in our Wealth Management business the drivers are still pretty consistent with what we’ve seen in prior quarters both in terms of the fee-based businesses as well as the deposit deployment and the improvement in NII.
We think that both those trends will continue.
We’ve been very focused on the expense side of the equation.
We’ve been benefiting from increasing NII and therefore non-compensable revenues.
I believe the expense ratio came in -- the comp expense ratio came in at 57% this quarter.
Our stated target is 55% so we will continue to drive towards that target.
PBT margin was 23% so that was up nicely from the second quarter.
In terms of our deposit deployment strategy and our excess liquidity in our banks we still think that has room to play out and that will be a continuation and the primary driver of our NII growth going forward.
We saw $4 billion of loan lending balances increases in the Wealth Management business this quarter.
We saw lending balances increase about $6 billion in totality so we had about $2 billion of growth from our Institutional Securities client and we see that trends continuing as well.
So again a nice steady quarter in Wealth Management and we’d expect those trends to continue.
Great.
Thanks for all that color and congrats on the solid momentum.
Thank you.
Good morning.
So we hear some commentary about potential for FIC share gains obviously there was some press a few weeks ago about whether or not there was a strategic change.
At the same time I’m looking at capital balances in institutional and they are down about a couple billion dollars this quarter.
I was wondering if you could help us understand how the two things are trading off the potential for perhaps more FIC engagement and market share and on the other hand the decline in the capital that’s allocated to the Institutional Securities group? Well let me just start with talking about the strategic issue and given that it was in the press and it’s been raised and I tried to address it in my opening comments.
It’s a good example of don't believe everything you read in the newspaper.
And I read a lot of things in the newspaper not knowing the facts I’ve learned not to believe all of them.
What is true is that we did have a two notch upgrade.
What is also true is that a number of institutions are going through a relook/restructuring of their fixed income businesses which is obviously public.
And thirdly what is true is that we have been through that process over the last several years and feel like we have a business right sized where the risk weighted assets have come down from I don’t know Guy about four years ago there were 390 billion I think in FIC and there we just reported somewhere close in the 160s.
So it may be even lower than that.
So what we’ve said is the strategy is not changing.
That doesn’t mean that we won’t get more velocity on sheet.
That doesn’t mean we are not going to be more efficient providers and it doesn’t mean that we won’t pick up share and that does mean that as these markets continue to grow relatively low volumes there won’t be more opportunity for us on the revenue side.
So its -- we are not trying to make it more complicated than that.
This was a very solid quarter not a sensational quarter in FIC.
Obviously the fact we are up year-over-year.
It was important but also to be honest a year-ago we had a relatively light quarter.
So we wanted to be up and we needed to be up and we proved we could be.
And just a follow-up on the reduction and capital that -- that’s allocated currently to Institutional Securities.
Is that as simple as what you talked about in the opening remarks that the balance sheet was smaller at the end of the quarter and it was going to kind of bounce around that way or is there something more strategic going on with respect to for example run-off of some of those legacy positions that you were talking about that’s driving down that FIC RWA that's driving the -- almost $2 billion reduction in capital NIS? Well there is certainly nothing strategic going on behind it.
I’ll let Jon talk about where we ended with the capital in the quarter.
Guy I think your first comments were accurate regarding the balance sheet usage.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then just a follow-up on that.
A $1 billion increase in what’s allocated to Wealth Management whether we look at average common equity or common equity Tier 1 linked quarter what’s driving that? Again in terms of those disclosures I think you see a couple of things here.
The parent is increased driven by the less segment usage as we just talked about plus the earnings accretion that we had and then the mix is driven by each segments relative contribution to the total.
Fair enough.
And then just one more thing that was topical for investors during the quarter based on your 10-Q.
I know you addressed it a little bit at your conference a few weeks ago but maybe you can talk a little bit about the decline in interest rate sensitivity that was evident in your Q the degree to which that might have reflected just a difference in asset deployment strategy securities versus loans whatever and whether there are any risk management elements that we need to think about with respect to the change there? Sure.
I think there is a couple of different questions in there.
Maybe I can try to address them in two parts.
First would just be our overall interest rate position and how we think about NII and then the second part of the question really around the disclosures.
Let me address the first one.
As you heard from James the on boarding of the Citi deposits came to conclusion this quarter.
We brought on a little over $4 billion in the quarter and that program has now run its course.
The NII was up nicely and we expect a continuation of that trend.
The primary driver of that as we’ve said before is the deposit deployment strategy.
If you look in the supplement you will see that our investment portfolio was down about $5 billion this quarter and our lending balances were up $6 billion.
I mentioned $4 billion of that from Wealth Management clients and $2 billion from Institutional Securities clients.
That’s obviously critically important because as you remember from our January presentation where we laid out some illustrative asset yields you saw that our lending products were generating 150 to 250 basis points more of yield than our AFS or cash or short-term investments.
So that is the primary driver of the improvements in NII.
We are also starting to see the natural run-off in our investment portfolio being reinvested in higher rates and the realization of the forward curve that’s a couple billion dollars a quarter.
And then lastly just on our overall interest rate positioning our NII growth and results are in line and consistent with where we were in the beginning of the year in terms of our views.
On the actual disclosure that we have in the Q a couple comments there.
First you should know that we don’t manage to any individual rate scenario or rate shock instead we’re trying to optimize across the range of possible outcomes.
The second comment about that disclosure is you know it’s a 12 month disclosure and we’re clearly focused on a longer term view when we think about our balance sheet and our interest rate positioning.
That disclosure as you know is an instantaneous and parallel shock above the base case.
So it is our 12 month forward NII base case.
The important thing to realize there is that our base case includes two critical things.
One of them is our own which is our deposit deployment strategy which is the primary driver of our NII growth and the second is we use the implied forward curve and today the implied forward curve has 225 basis points increases in the fed fund rates.
So we have captured much of NII expectations already in our base case.
And the last point I would make is that that number and that disclosure is going to move around as we manage our overall interest rate risk in the bank.
Great.
That’s actually all really helpful color.
I appreciate you taking the time.
Okay.
Thanks.
Thanks.
Hi.
My first question is on Wealth Management.
You said you have a $140 billion of deposits of what's left to redeploy and we estimate a Wealth Management net interest margin of 2%.
What would you consider a normal NIM for that business? So in terms of the first part of your question Michael I think as we said the deposit deployment strategy is one of the critical strategies in wealth and we still think that that has plenty of room to play out here.
We still have excess liquidity in the bank and we will be redeploying those cash balances into the lending product for the foreseeable future.
I’m sorry the second part of the question? Yes.
What is your NIM in the Wealth Management business? We’re estimating 2% but if you want to clarify that.
But what do you think is the normal margin for lending in Wealth Management? That’s really a hard question.
As you know we do have an overall bank strategy part of that benefit of having the bank appears in Wealth Management a part of it appears in other parts of our businesses.
So that’s not really how we look at it.
We’re obviously focused on the overall PBT in that margin -- PBT in that business which came in at 23% which is we said before was up nicely and we continue to hopefully make progress in that going into the future quarters.
So where do you hope the 23% ratio to go over time? We’ve stated in the beginning of the year that our target is between 22% and 25% for the year.
We’re obviously inside of that target and we’re going to continue to try to make progress there both on the revenue side and the expense side.
Alright let me switch to Institutional Securities.
Prime brokerage you said has gone up in all regions and we lack some transparency to see some of the data underneath.
Can you just give us some sense as to whether its market share or a percentage increase or really just why.
We know many clients left during the crisis.
Is that still a factor people coming back or what's the underlying reason for that growth? Listen I think the underlying reason for the growth in all of our business is our client engagement and client activity.
We’ve just seen a significant pick up around the world and around the globe in terms of engagement with our clients and we’re there to meet our client’s needs and that’s why we’ve seen the growth in our balances.
Okay.
How about just a general question the ROE on a core basis is 9% and that’s below some of your peers and I know the target could get over 10%.
But what is the ROE still under 10% when half of your company is a lot more annuity like than some of your peers referring to wealth management asset management being half your ROE is still under 10%.
If you are to give the three main reasons why that’s the case or why it should change what would it be? Well Mike firstly I admire your consistency in coming back to this question every quarter and that’s obviously something which remains a focus for us.
Reason number one not to be facetious is what our earnings are.
Reason number two is what our current capital is and reason number three is what our ability to deploy that capital back to shareholders is has driven in large part by the CCAR process.
So in short we have a high cost problem.
We’re not capital or short if anything we’re capital heavy.
We continue to accrete capital as we have already this year significantly above what our presumed pay out and buy back plans are.
So our ability to grow our ROE is both the function of improved earnings the firm is generating and the ability to right size that capital base for the business mix and model that we have.
Through the first half of this year I think our ROE is running at about a 10% not including the first quarter tax gain which we had.
And as we’ve said publicly we believe we should be running at 10 plus percent ROE business.
When we get to that point we’ll layout further goals and objectives above it but this has obviously been -- if you look back over the last four years and you strip out some of the one time whether its MBIA whether it was Revel or whether it was the treatment of the deferred comp whether it was some of the big litigation with Department of Justice FHFA you take all of those things out.
Essentially the last four years ROEs have gone from 2% 4% 6% 8% pretty much in lockstep.
And as I said the first half of this year we’re running right on 10% 9.1% this year quarter I think 11% in the first quarter.
So nothing more to say nothing more to project.
We’re as intently focused on this as you are but it’s a function of controlling both the numerator and the denominator and the denominator is a little more complicated given the regulatory world we live in as you obviously know.
All right.
Thank you.
Good morning Jon.
Good morning James.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So couple of questions on the longer term prospects of the Wealth Management business.
So on the comp ratio just like to get your thoughts on the competitive implications of driving the ratio below 55%.
I do appreciate a lot of that is lending related but I would imagine some of it also includes some comp rationalization.
And what is the hypercompetitive environment for advisor recruitment? Does a lower comp ratio affect your ability to keep or attract high quality advisors? Let me deal with that because it’s got a long term aspect which obviously we think a lot about.
Firstly the reduction in the comp ratio is overwhelmingly driven by the business mix as in non-compensable for revenues and by the cost structure non-compensation expenses that we've realized some benefits and scale coming out of the integration a couple of years ago of the Smith Barney deal.
The changes to the compensation for financial advisors and support now actually it’s been very modest and -- but at the same time I would say the recruiting environment the ins and outs has also been very modest.
That is not it might feel hypercompetitive because some of the wise run every time somebody moves from one firm to another they run a story on it but actually in the size of these firms now the competitive environment on recruiting is really pretty stable.
So that's not what's going to be the big driver here.
We are not changing the compensation models for financial advisors to drive those kinds of economics.
It's really business mix and it's the scalability of the business.
Once you cover your fixed costs the margins obviously improve.
Interesting.
So maybe just another question on that business and advisor growth remains weak and you've talked about trimming the lower producing FAs.
But I'd like to get your thoughts on maybe growing that business via another transformative M&amp;A deal.
A number of European banks have very sub-scale presence in the U.S.
businesses that look like they could fit very well with yours.
I would like to get your thoughts on maybe the appetite for in another deal and any pros and cons of doing a deal? Well Christian I admire the question but well obviously I wouldn't talk about deals on a call or corporate strategy like that.
But suffice to say we're very conformable with business we've got and the size of the business and we think the opportunity to improve margin with the business we have particularly by building out the bank and by organic growth within the businesses is extremely attractive to us.
We had a desire to get to scale and we are well and truly at scale.
So we feel good about that.
I appreciate that.
I just wanted to get maybe pros and cons of doing a deal but I hear you.
And then just -- one last question on other revenues within ISG could you quantify how much loan marks contributed to revenues there? No again I think that the primary driver was the marks on the loans in the event book but I think that's where we will leave it.
Okay.
Thank you guys.
Thanks.
Hi.
I just had a quick question following up on the fixed income risk weighted assets.
How much of the fall is due to the massive roll-down happening more quickly than expected because I think that by the end of 2015 you were still thinking you're going to have $25 billion left to roll off.
Has that changed at all? Well I would characterize reduction in RWAs in FIC really a meaningful portion of that was a decrease in client activity going into and through the Greece situation.
There was some passive roll off but it was really a mix of those two things and more geared towards the risk reduction of our clients.
Should we still [technical difficulty].
Did you hear that? Sorry I think we’ve lost you Fiona.
Fiona? Okay.
Hi.
Can you hear me? Yes.
We can hear you now.
I was just checking whether we should still take the 1 5 7 and assume the $25 billion could roll off from the end of 2015? No.
I would tell you that two things.
One we've got a stated target of $180 billion of FIC RWA in that business we’re going to clearly operate within that target.
The actual quarter-to-quarter RWAs is really just going to be a function of the macro backdrop client activity and supporting our clients.
So that number can move around but we're clearly going to operate within our target.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Hi.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So was hoping to dig a little bit deeper into some of -- into the SLR in particular.
It looks like you've reduced leverage exposure by 7% since the 1Q ‘14 peak so continue to make good progress there but just given the Fed's proposal from Friday which suggested that the SLR will likely be incorporated in CCAR.
I just want to get a better sense as to how much incremental SLR mitigation potential you see on the horizon especially given the backdrop for at least the planned strategy to continue to grow Morgan Stanley bank? Well as you noted the SLR did increase from the 5.1% to the 5.3% that was a combination of both some movement in the numerator and the denominator.
On the numerator we obviously had the earnings accretion for the quarter and on the denominator not only did the balance sheet come down but we also made some progress on the SLR add-ons.
We're clearly comfortable with that ratio where it is today.
That rule doesn't go into effect until 2018.
And I would tell you that we're going to continue to manage our business across all of our capital ratios and continue to remain focused on having enough capital to grow our business.
Okay.
And as a follow-up to that Jon just thinking more broadly when you look at the current regulatory landscape and the multiple constraints that you're managing too.
What do you believe longer term represents Morgan Stanley's binding constraint and how does that inform your strategy in terms of where you see opportunities to better optimize those ratios? Well again it's a complex question because we have multiple ratios.
Clearly in terms of capital return our binding constraint is CCAR.
CCAR continues to evolve quarter -- year-over-year and we're going to continue to do our best to manage our capital ratio so we can return capital to our shareholders as well as continue to grow our business.
Okay.
Thanks.
And just one more for me on capital with the Fed's proposal from Friday suggesting that the advanced approach will be deferred indefinitely in CCAR I would appreciate if you could disclose A; the current level of standardized RWAs and B; how we should think about the trajectory in standardized RWA in the context of some of the mitigation targets that you've laid out in the past? In terms of the -- I think we -- I mentioned in my remarks that the advanced RWAs was about $429 billion on a preliminary basis standardized is pretty close to that.
It's about $420 billion.
We've seen those numbers converge over the last several quarters.
In terms of the proposal that was put out on Friday clearly having clarity and simplification around some of the initiatives is very helpful.
The delay in the SLR as you said the delay in the advanced approach as well as the removal of the Basel I test it’s helpful for us and positive for 2016.
We’ve spend a lot of time and energy on CCAR and any time there are changes.
We obviously have to go through a process and model validation and pattern recognition and so when there are fewer changes it's easier for us just to continue running those models as we've been doing in the past.
But overall I think it's too early to comment on the overall 2016 CCAR.
This is A; only a proposal and B; we haven't seen the scenarios or the final instruction.
So while this has been positive because it keeps the model similar to what it was last year it's too early to comment overall on the process.
Right.
Understood Jon.
I appreciate you taking my questions.
Thank you.
Good morning and thanks guys.
The first question just on the expenses and your operating leverage just looking year-over-year I think your revenues are up around 12% expenses up 5% the margins are around 27% 28%.
So just when you think about going forward in a positive revenue environment I just wanted to get an update on some of the targets that you had for like the comp ratios by segment and probably more importantly on the non-comp side because that's been fairly well managed there’s obviously been some volatility around legal in the past.
But just when you think about areas where you're still working on efficiencies versus some incremental spend in the business whether it's on growth or regulatory initiatives.
I just wanted to get an outlook on like incremental margins in a positive revenue trending environment.
Sure.
I think there are a couple questions there.
In January James laid out specific comp targets.
They were 39% in ISG; we were at 38% for the quarter.
They were 55% in Wealth Management as I mentioned they were at 57% in the quarter.
And we laid out a target of below 40% in Investment Management and its running slightly above that I think about 41%.
So again tightly managing compensation our non-comp in terms of targets I’m not sure we have specific targets but we as I said been very focused on non-comp expenses.
We've been trying to support the business growth so the level of activity will drive that number.
Obviously the level of regulatory change will also drive that number but we've been very focused on keeping a tight lid on expenses and we will continue to do that going forward.
And I would just add that the -- what should be obvious to everybody is these businesses are enormously scalable.
Once you’ve covered your fixed costs you'd be hard pressed to grow your non-comp expenses absent legal.
You’d be hard pressed to grow it at the pace of what the revenues grow at in the last quarter.
So we’re going to keep that discipline.
Obviously as Jon said there are certain parts like brokerage and clearing certain marketing development which do go up as revenues go up but there's a heck of a lot of it that doesn't which gives you the incremental margin is always going to be higher than the existing margin.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just a quick follow-up on the Wealth Management business just two things there.
Just on the transaction revenues what type of an environment would you start to see that pick up? Because it’s been a couple of quarters and it hasn't been just you guys it’s been more the industry.
But I just wanted to get what do you think the big driver the weakness there is? And then second is just on the DOL proposal on the common period do you think its getting ready to close.
So I just wanted to get an update on your guys view on some of the challenges or the opportunities if that precedes into the back half of this year.
Sure.
In terms of the wealth business and the transaction line as we stated the retail investor is still somewhat on the sidelines.
I think what changes that is the function of consumer confidence whether that's acceleration of the GDP growth whether that's rising rates but I think we need to see some more confidence before the retail investor sort of totally reengages so that would be on the first question.
On the second question on DOL you did highlight that the the comment period comes to a close tomorrow.
As you know that is a complicated rule and the comment period was actually extended till tomorrow because there's been a lot of industry dialogue and a lot written on it.
FINRA Chairman Richard Ketchem recently spoke about his idea of a single standard.
So to have a single standard across all products and accounts and not treat anything differently like a 401(k) or an IRA and we think that makes sense.
Our clients clearly want choice and we would support an approach that gives our ability to deliver that choice to our clients.
So we'll see where the final rule comes out.
Okay.
Thanks a lot.
Good morning.
Good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered but I had a follow-up I think I asked it last quarter.
The amount of long-term debt you have coming due the next 12 months was a good disclosure and here it’s showing us $27 billion.
But what's the difference in the long-term debt rate that's on the balance sheet versus what you get on new issuance? Obviously rates have come down.
The two notch upgrade helps.
How much revenue benefit or reduction in interest expense occurs as debt rolls off and you get to reissue at a lower rate? So a couple of things.
One you saw in the first half we did -- we issued about $23 billion and we took advantage of some very attractive markets and we tried to frontload our issuance.
So we would expect our issuance in the back half of the year to be lower.
In terms of the rate or the cost of that debt I think one way I look at it is if you think about the WAM of our debt stack in 2010 was about five years.
So if I look back at 2010 to look where we were issuing debt at that time it was on an average of about Treasuries plus 210 so our credit spread is about 210 basis points over.
That is a debt that is maturing today and our new issue -- our credit spreads today are closer to 120 so two plus 120.
So we are clearly getting a benefit as our more expensive debt roll off recognize that that roll off is not our entire debt stack.
We have over $155 billion of unsecured debt and so that benefit will accrue over time but that's sort of a magnitude for you.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Hi.
Good morning.
My question was pretty similar to Matt.
If you can give us sort of an update of where you are in your target of reducing funding costs by 25% in the context of the debt issuance conversation are we close 50% of the way just so if you can give us a sense of how much more we can expect on the lower funding costs? Again I think -- I tried to answer that question when Matt asked it.
I would just say we continue to see a benefit and until we run through the entire debt stack we’re going to just keep getting that benefit over time quarter-over-quarter.
But you don’t want to give us like you’re 50% of the way there at 75% of the way there? Correct.
Okay.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Thanks for taking my question.
Jon maybe a question for you on the Wealth Management loan growth and deposit growth now that the city transfers are effectively done what are you expecting for deposit growth within the bank? And what are you expecting for the growth rate particularly within the retail side of the loan growth in Wealth Management? Its been running about 40% annualized is the -- other than just the fact that the denominator is growing is there any reason to think that that would slow at any point over the next 6 to 12 months? Well yes I mean again I’ll answer that last question first.
The law of large numbers that growth rate will come down.
But in terms of our FA penetration and our client penetration it continues to improve quarter-over-quarter.
I think we’ve designed some very unique products for our Wealth Management clients and we’ve had really good take up both on the SPL product as well as the mortgage product.
And I think we feel good about the growth rates that we’ve seen and our ability to penetrate our client base.
So we’re comfortable with the growth that we’ve seen and we will continue to see.
And then again I’m sorry; I forgot your first question.
Just in terms of your expectations for deposit growth now that the city transfers are done? Yes as I mentioned we did see some seasonality for tax season in the deposit number this quarter.
We still have significant excess liquidity that we’re going to be deploying.
I think Greg has mentioned some innovation we’re doing around digital cash management and payment solutions so we think that will be ultimately a good driver for growth.
But right now in terms of our deposit balances we have excess deposits that we can deploy without requiring deposit balance but we’re going to continue to try to penetrate our client base and grow those deposits with some new products going forward.
Okay.
And then if I can just move over to the institutional loan port -- Institutional Securities loan portfolio that’s actually growing in some cases faster than in -- than in the Wealth Management side of things.
But I found it interesting that the percentage of the loans that are investor grade are also growing.
Can you give us a little more color as to where you’re seeing opportunities within the Institutional Securities portfolio? Sure.
As I mentioned we had about $2 billion of growth in the Institutional Securities balances this quarter.
What we’ve seen certainly in some of the M&amp;A and event financing we’ve seen a shift more towards investment grade borrowers as we’ve seen a pick up in strategic activities so that’s a driver.
I would say the growth has been balanced between our products in terms of the warehouse lending facility as well as some of our other corporate products but that shift in investment grade is really being driven by the event book.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Thank you.
Thank you everyone for your time.
With that we’ll bring our second quarter earnings call to a close and we look forward to speaking to you again next quarter.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you! Good morning.
This is Kathleen McCabe Head of Investor Relations.
Welcome to our Third Quarter Earnings Call.
Today's presentation may include forward-looking statements which reflect management's current estimates or beliefs and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially.
The presentation may also include certain non-GAAP financial measures.
Please see our SEC filings including this quarter’s earnings release and financial supplement at www.morganstanley.com for a reconciliation of such non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP figures and for a discussion of additional risks and uncertainties that may affect the future results of Morgan Stanley.
This presentation which is copyrighted by Morgan Stanley and may not be duplicated or reproduced without our consent is not an offer to buy or sell any security or instrument.
I will now turn the call over to Chairman and Chief Executive Officer James Gorman.
Thank you Kathleen.
Good morning and apologies for my winter cold.
I wanted to start off just by saying obviously after a relatively strong first half the third quarter was obviously disappointing.
It reflected a difficult market environment throughout the quarter.
Before we discuss some of the things that are behind these numbers and that drove this result let me touch on a few of the positive aspects of the last three months.
Our M&amp;A franchise remained strong this quarter benefiting from a robust deal environment.
While much of the underwriting calendar was deferred from the third quarter we expect the business to take place in the fourth quarter and early 2016.
Equities once again finished number one in the US this quarter and we expect to be number one once all global peers have reported over the coming weeks.
After a strong first half the business held together in a challenging environment across regions and products including cash derivatives and prime brokerage.
We expect this trend to continue.
Our wealth management franchise was impacted by a lack of new issue product and a general retail investor step back from markets given volatility.
While we do not expect this to be a long-term trend we remain focused on expenses in the meantime.
Our year-over-year earnings improved in spite of lower revenues and we generated a 23% margin which is consistent with our stated goals.
Turning now to the challenges of which there are three to note and of which Jon will take you through in more detail in a moment.
First and obviously fixed income underperformed in the quarter largely due to a very challenging market environment in which we were significantly impacted given our business mix particularly our focus on credit and rates.
Second most of the investment management business performed solidly but the aggregate results significantly underperformed.
This was driven largely by a reversal of carry in our Asia private equity business a business which historically has been a strong contributor for over a decade.
And third we also had $320 million in legal expenses in the quarter an increase of $250 million from last year driven largely by the settlement of the CDS litigation.
We remain focused on resolving outstanding legal issues and have made significant progress to date.
Notwithstanding the challenges of the quarter our core long-term strategy remains in place namely a balanced business model in which the consistency of wealth management offsets potential volatility in institutional securities.
The team is highly focused on those levers within our control that enable us to manage the business in a way that reflects the environment we are in and whatever the environment we may face in the future.
This includes a continued focus on expenses.
We recently made significant management changes in two businesses to better leverage our business model.
Ted Pick who has managed equities to the number one position on the Street has become Global Head of Sales and Trading.
Having institutional equities fixed incomes and research under Ted will allow us to leverage our infrastructure while continuing to make sensible investments in the ongoing electronification of both our equities and fixed income franchises.
Dan Simkowitz has become Head of Investment Management which includes Merchant Banking real estate investing and traditional asset management.
Dan will report to me and work to broaden our platform and products while leveraging distribution channels that we have in place.
Investment management is an important business for Morgan Stanley for the future and deserves our intense focus.
Finally our capital funding and liquidity positions remain robust.
With that Jon will take you through the quarter in more detail then we will open up for questions to both of us.
Thank you very much.
Thank you James.
Good morning everyone.
I will review our quarterly financial performance and business results and then James and I will be happy to take your questions.
Before I discuss the individual businesses I will first make a few comments on our overall performance.
The quarter was very challenging.
In contrast to the first half the third quarter backdrop was less constructive.
Besides the normal summer seasonality the quarter was characterized by global equity markets trending lower volatility metrics increasing spreads widening policy uncertainty and periodic bouts of risk aversion.
Against this backdrop revenues were $7.8 billion in the third quarter or $7.3 billion excluding DVA down 20% versus second quarter '15 or 23% excluding DVA.
Our expenses for the quarter were $6.3 billion down 10% versus $7 billion in 2Q '15.
Compensation expense was $3.4 billion down 22% versus $4.4 billion last quarter driven by lower revenues.
Non-compensation expenses were $2.9 billion up 9% versus $2.6 billion in 2Q '15 driven by an increase in litigation reserves which included an increase related to the settlement of the credit default swap antitrust litigation matter.
Our effective tax rate of approximately 29% was lower than last quarter driven by our geographic mix of earnings.
ROE for the third quarter was 5.6% or 3.9% ex-DVA.
Now to the businesses.
Our institutional securities franchise had a difficult third quarter with revenues of $3.9 billion or $3.5 billion excluding DVA down 25% and 30% respectively versus second quarter of 2015.
We saw underperformance in fixed income driven by relative mix of our business primarily by lower revenue in credit and securitized products in a challenging credit market in addition to lower activity and rates given investor uncertainty on said action.
More broadly in our sales and trading and capital market businesses we were impacted by seasonality and lower than typical levels of activity in September.
However we continued to demonstrate strength in several key franchises.
Equity sales and trading revenues were strong as clients remained engaged across regions and products and in advisory we had our best quarter in several years as M&amp;A volumes remain strong.
Non-interest expense was down 9% versus the second quarter.
Non-compensation expenses were $1.9 billion for the quarter up 15% driven primarily by increased litigation reserve I mentioned previously.
Compensation expenses were $1.3 billion down 31% quarter-over-quarter.
Excluding DVA the ISG compensation ratio was held flat at the first half rate of 38%.
In investment banking we saw strong performance in our M&amp;A business offset by weakness in the debt and equity underwriting markets resulting in investment banking revenues of $1.2 billion down 18% sequentially.
As of September 30 Morgan Stanley ranked number one in global IPOs number two in global announced M&amp;A and number three in global equity.
In advisory we benefited from a continuation of a robust M&amp;A market.
We saw strength in cross border M&amp;A and large cap transactions and acted as M&amp;A advisor on several of the quarter's most significant transactions.
We acted as sole financial advisor to Cigna on their merger with Anthem in the transaction valued at $54 billion in cash and stock.
The combined company will be the leading health insurer in the US.
Morgan Stanley also acted as sole financial advisor to ACE on their acquisition of Chubb for $28 billion in cash and stock.
Advisory revenues for the quarter were $557 million 32% higher than the second quarter.
The M&amp;A pipeline remains strong up both year-over-year and sequentially.
We have seen a strong start to deal activity in the fourth quarter and board room engagement and dialogue remains high.
Turning to underwriting.
Our underwriting business slowed significantly as the typical pick up in September deal activity was delayed due to uncertain markets.
We had a significant number of deals delayed in September.
For the market equity underwriting volume was down 55% IPO underwriting volume was down 72% and debt underwriting volume was down 23% versus last quarter.
Underwriting revenues were $624 million this quarter down 39% versus last quarter.
Equity underwriting revenues were $250 million down 49% versus second quarter primarily reflecting declines across all products particularly for IPOs and follow-ons.
Fixed income underwriting revenues were down 29% versus the second quarter driven by decreases in both investment grade and non-investment grade loan and bond underwriting.
Notable underwriting transactions in the quarter includes in equity Morgan Stanley acted as joint underwriter and joint lead manager on a $3.6 billion rights offering for Commonwealth Bank of Australia.
We also acted as a joint global coordinator lead left book writer and stabilization agent for Citizens Financial Group in their $2.6 billion follow-on offering.
In capital markets we see a strong pipeline building for future quarters as clients await a more stable market.
As volatility abates we would expect to see a pickup in activity.
In the first 12 days of the quarter we have begun to see many of the delayed deals from September's price.
However the sustainability of this activity will be predicated on the market backdrop.
Coming off of two strong quarters equity sales and trading again was solid against a backdrop of significantly more volatility.
The business remained number one in the US and we believe we continue to be number one globally driven by our focus on clients and execution which has led us to our leadership position.
Ex-DVA revenues of $1.8 billion in the quarter were down 22% sequentially but essentially flat year-over-year as clients remained active and engaged.
Cash equity revenues were down versus the second quarter and year-over-year driven by a more challenging environment including a lighter primary calendar and periods of risk aversion.
Prime brokerage revenues remained solid although down from a very strong second quarter which is seasonally high related to European dividend activities.
Revenues were up year-over-year due to increased client engagement.
Derivative revenues were down quarter-over-quarter driven by lower corporate derivative activity but remained strong and were up year-over-year.
Year-to-date we have delivered strong performance in equities with revenues excluding DVA up 19% year over year.
Despite very different market backdrops we have been able to serve our clients' needs while prudently managing risk.
In fixed income and commodities we saw a very challenging market environment.
We were particularly impacted by spread widening in credit and mortgages and lower levels of client activity and rates throughout the quarter.
For the quarter fixed income and commodity sales and trading revenue were $583 million excluding DVA down 54% versus the second quarter.
Revenues and credit and securitized products were hardest hit and were down significantly quarter-over-quarter due to difficult market conditions.
Rates revenues in the quarter were down sequentially driven by significant policy uncertainty that led to sporadic client activity and engagement.
FX results were up modestly versus second quarter as increased volatility led to continued client engagement.
Over time FX has been a much smaller relative business for us.
Commodities results were up modestly quarter-over-quarter and our risk-weighted assets X lending ended the quarter at $158 billion essentially flat to second quarter.
The fourth quarter end sales and trading is typically seasonally weakest.
So far in the quarter some of the key drivers that will likely drive client activity are mixed.
Drivers of near-term uncertainty including the Fed China commodities and global growth have not diminished.
However we have seen a modest rebound in global markets and reduction in some volatility indices including the VIX.
Investment revenues were up quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year driven by gains on business-related investments.
Other revenues were down versus last quarter driven primarily by markdowns on our relationship and event books.
Lastly average trading VAR for the second quarter was $53 million stable versus last quarter.
Although we saw increases in volatility it was offset by a reduction in risk.
Turning to wealth management our wealth management business provided stability in the quarter even in a turbulent and declining global market.
While revenues were down 6% for the quarter largely driven by lower marks in our deferred compensation plans we maintained a 23% margin.
Our bank strategy continued to play out as we had previously discussed.
Over the past few years our daily revenues are a good indication of the stability and consistency of our wealth management business and they have consistently been between $50 million and $70 million with no day year-to-date below this range.
Asset management revenues were flat from last quarter with higher revenues from fee-based accounts partially offset by lower mutual fund activity.
Global fee-based asset inflows were $7.7 billion in the quarter continuing the trend we see toward client demand for managed accounts.
Total fee-based client assets were $770 billion at quarter end representing 40% of client assets.
The assets are down quarter-over-quarter reflecting the market decline of the third quarter.
We saw continued softness in transactional revenues which were down 25% compared to the last quarter.
This was primarily driven by lower marks in our deferred compensation plans as well as lower new issue activity consistent with a slower equity underwriting calendar which impacted ISG.
Transactional revenues were also impacted by subdued levels of retail investor activity driven by ongoing uncertainty and global volatility.
Our deposit deployment strategy continues to yield results.
Net interest income revenue increased 2% quarter-over-quarter driven by steady prudent growth in lending consistent with the continued execution of our US bank strategy.
Funded lending balances in wealth management grew approximately $3 billion during the quarter and $12 billion year-over-year.
In the mortgage business average FICO scores continue to be greater than 750 with weighted average LTVs of less than 65%.
And securities-based lending remains highly over collateralized and continued to perform well despite the quarter's volatility.
Non-interest expenses were $2.8 billion down 6% quarter-over-quarter showing continued expense discipline in this business.
Compensation expenses was $2 billion down 8% quarter-over-quarter driven by lower marks on deferred compensation plans and lower FA compensation as a result of lower compensable revenues.
Non-compensation expense was flat sequentially.
Deposits in our bank deposit program were $139 billion up $7 billion versus the second quarter as clients moved into cash and a volatile market.
This is another indicator of subdued retail activity.
But we would expect clients to redeploy this cash over time.
Wealth management representatives were up slightly versus the second quarter on lower attrition.
This business not only provides stability and consistency but also growth.
PBT for the first nine months of 2015 is up 14% over the same period in 2014.
In investment management the quarter was difficult for Asia valuations in particular in China and monetization events which resulted in revenues of $274 million down 64% sequentially.
The vast majority of the sequential declines in revenue could be attributed to the reversal of previously-accrued carried interest in our Asia private equity business and no material gains in our other funds versus last quarter.
We have a strong history in Asia private equity and in particular China.
This quarter however we had to reverse more than two-thirds of the carry that our Asia private equity funds had accrued.
This reversal accounted for virtually all of the loss reported on the investments line in the investment management segment.
The ultimate realization of carry in these funds will be based on investment performance over the next several years.
In traditional asset management revenues for the quarter were $389 million down 10% quarter-over-quarter.
The focus in this business continues to be on product innovation distribution and growth.
For example this quarter we transferred certain portfolio managers and their portfolios from wealth management to investment management to better align our capabilities with client demand.
This move allows the portfolio management teams to distribute their strategies in multiple vehicles across a broader and fully integrated distribution channel while also enhancing the product mix available to our investment management clients.
Non-interest expenses were $312 million down 41% driven primarily by a reduction in compensation expense versus last quarter due to a decrease in deferred compensation associated with carried interest.
Total assets under management ended the quarter at approximately $404 billion.
Turning to the balance sheet and capital total assets were $834 billion at September 30 up from $826 billion at the end of the second quarter.
However average balance sheet for the quarter was $828 billion down from $848 billion in the second quarter.
Our global liquidity reserve at the end of the quarter was $191 billion compared with $188 billion at the end of the second quarter.
Now onto capital reflecting our best estimate of the final Federal Reserve rules our pro forma common equity Tier 1 ratio base using the Basel III fully phased-in advanced approach was 12.4% at September 30.
Pro forma fully phased-in Basel III advanced RWAs are expected to be approximately $434 billion up from $427 billion in the second quarter.
We estimate our pro forma supplementary leverage ratio under the US final rule to be approximately 5.5% at September 30 up from 5.3% at the end of the second quarter.
All of these estimates are preliminary and subject to revisions.
During the third quarter we repurchased $625 million of common stock or approximately 17 million shares and our Board declared a $0.15 dividend per share.
With that we will open up the line to questions.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Guy Moszkowski with Autonomous.
Please go ahead.
Good morning.
First a question on equities.
It is as you pointed out flat year-over-year and industry leading.
But your peers were all up mostly double-digits or very high single digits year-over-year.
I guess the question is we know that some of the strength year-to-date especially for firms with a strong prime brokerage franchise has been from repricing of some of the more scarce resources down feed driven activities.
I guess the question is for you has some of that pricing benefit lapsed or anniversaried or are what we actually seeing is that underlying all of that maybe you had more significant weakness in cash equities like because of blocks or something? So Guy I guess there were a couple different questions in there.
I think in terms of our equities performance as we said we continued to maintain our leadership position and we are number one.
Quarter-over-quarter all of the products were down.
We obviously had a very strong first half.
PB was down due to some lack of the dividend seasonality that we see third quarter versus second quarter but as you said up year-over-year derivatives were lower quarter over quarter on less corporate derivative activity but was up year-over-year.
So the weakness year-over-year was really in the cash products where we saw obviously a much more challenging market environment sporadic bouts of risk aversion as well as slower – excuse me primary calendar.
The other point I would make is that the third quarter of '14 for us in equities was a very strong quarter driven really by a very strong primary calendar.
So it was a tough comp from that perspective but again essentially flat year-over-year.
And then lastly I think on the repricing question I would answer by saying that we've been focused on the returns to the prime brokerage business and we've done that in partnership with our clients and looking at the relationship holistically across the nine boxes that we've discussed before.
We've done this through a combination of better business mix optimization and wider pricing and we've seen the revenue per balance sheet usage increase over the last year.
So the prime brokerage business has been and will continue to be a strong business for us and it's been really a business that the client engagement has led to good results.
I guess just to hone in on that last part a little bit were a lot of the pricing changes that you were able to put through in the third quarter a year ago and therefore are we beginning to see kind of an anniversary effect of the benefit that you get from that pricing? I wouldn't necessarily describe it like that.
We've been continually trying to optimize the return we get on our assets.
And I would say it's been an evolutionary process and we will continue to work with our clients to deliver good products and a good relationship.
Okay.
Thanks.
And then moving on to asset management the decline in the additional [ph] revenues away from the merchant banking and real estate issues that we were talking about the decline in revenue there is about I think 17% year-over-year and yet your assets under management our flat.
Do we attribute that decline to a lack of performance fees relative to a year ago? I'm sorry in the traditional asset management business? If you look at the traditional line that you break out the revenue in the third quarter is down 17% year-over-year.
but the assets under management look like they are unchanged.
And so I'm just wondering what's driving that decline in the revenue.
Is it performance fees that were not present in the current quarter or is there something else? No I mean I think it's more driven by mix.
As you know in that business we have a narrow product set in our equity businesses.
We also are only in active products so - and we've seen as you can see from that chart an increase in our liquidity product where we've also seen decreases in certain of our equity products.
As you see from the disclosure we have an emerging market fund that saw significant outflows this quarter.
The other point that I would make is that it's related somewhat to the markdowns on the deferred compensation plans that we've talked about in the past and that was also a driver to that decline.
Got it.
And just a broad question on fixed.
Given the results that you saw in the quarter and I'm conscious of the mix difference that you talk about between yourselves and many of your peers.
But does the sharp decline and the magnitude of the revenue at this point spark any incremental thinking as to size and structure that's appropriate for the unit or the risk management that's appropriate for the unit? Listen as we discussed in both James' and my comments this was a very different market that we saw in the first quarter.
I think the volatility the lack of conviction the policy uncertainty coupled with really no macro themes or events that investors embrace.
So it was a very difficult market.
It was not particularly conducive for our relative business mix as you mentioned.
But keep in mind that we've reshaped and resized this business based on the market opportunity that we think exists.
We brought down our RWAs in this business by over $200 billion.
We've brought down our balance sheet.
We've brought down our non-comp expenses.
We've brought down our headcount.
We've sold several commodities businesses and we closed another one and we've also revamped our distribution strategy.
We've resized this business while maintaining a presence across products and geographies.
And we continue to optimize this business in the face of challenges both for the industry and the business.
We've seen cyclical secular structural and regulatory changes in this business and many of these have led to announcements particularly out of Europe of people rethinking their overall strategies and we do think that this market dislocation can create opportunity for us.
But we're focused on what we can control to drive improved performance.
We've done a lot of work in this business and we will continue to try to drive performance.
I'll just add a couple of things to what Jon said Guy.
Firstly if you look at the performance of fixed this year you've seen three very different quarters.
First quarter being $4 billion revenues second quarter being $1 billion obviously this quarter a little under $600 million very different macro environments very different performance.
This one the least favorable environment to the particular business we have obviously.
As Jon said this has been a multi-year journey.
We have dramatically reduced RWAs in this business and restructured it.
I think combining the fixed income business with equities under the leadership of Mr.
Pick here will prevent opportunities for further synergies with those businesses which I would expect.
And we continue to watch this space very carefully.
We're by no means complacent about this and but at the same time there are elements of our fixed income business which are essential to everything else that we do in investment banking with our wealth management and so on.
So it's a continuing focus of us but I'm not taking everything from one single quarter.
On the other hand we want to make sure that if this isn't a long-term trend than clearly we'll take whatever steps we need to take.
Okay.
That's all very helpful.
Thank you so much.
Sure.
Your next question comes from the line of Glenn Schorr with Evercore ISI.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks.
Just one follow-up on the FICC conversation.
Because I agree with you Jon that all the stuff that you've done have been an improvement in terms of reshaping and resizing.
But the results are the results and I don't want to focus on any one given quarter.
Let's look year-to-date let's look at the last five years it doesn't matter.
FICC is still having a hard time becoming I guess a fully functioning business such that in any given quarter if credit is bad you're overweight credit.
So I guess back to the same question you moved it under Ted's supervision for a reason.
What are you hoping that he can bring.
Because he obviously did a great job in equities but what are the things that transfer what are the synergies that can come out of there because I'm assuming the moves happened for a reason? Well Glenn let me deal with that.
Firstly I think let's give Ted a little time in the saddle here to come back to you and I'm not going to speak for him right now.
We'll give him a little time to get his arms around the business with the management team there which they will do and I'm sure in the New Year we'll be saying a lot more about it.
But you have to see our fixed income business in the context of everything else we have at Morgan Stanley.
It is obviously a significantly smaller business for us than equities or wealth management.
And frankly has been smaller than investment banking over the last couple of years.
So that's sort of the size of it relative to what we are doing as an institution is an important factor here.
The idiosyncratic aspect of credit for this quarter is obviously important.
Clearly if foreign exchange was a weak quarter then that would affect the Universal Banks differently from the way it would affect us.
So I'm not going to get too caught up in one quarter's performance.
We understand the issues with fixed income.
We are not alone in understanding those.
I don't think there is a day that you don't read in the newspaper about one of the large banks thinking through the new fixed income market.
What it means in this very low rate environment and what the outlook is and given the regulatory changes how much balance sheet and what sort of risk weighted assets you can hold in the business.
As Jon said we've made frankly very aggressive moves over three years bringing the RWAs down from $390 billion-plus to $150 billion-plus today.
We think bringing it together with equities and having one sales and trading business is the most efficient and effective way to serve our clients and we'll come back over time with whatever changes that might imply.
Okay.
We'll move on.
Just one other in Asia private equity I wondered it was helpful you said over two-thirds of the accrued performance fees were reversed out.
I don't know if you want to share what's the dollar amount that's left just so people could see the downside.
But the reality is I just want to make sure the Asian markets are up already in October.
So does it swing as quickly on the other way if markets hold the year? Would we see a turnaround in the investment line and maybe you could size the amount of funds in the Asian private equity business? So I think you picked up on one important point.
I did say it's about two-thirds of the carry from Asia private equity.
I also mentioned that virtually all of the investment line in the IM segment would be driven by that reversal.
So hopefully that can give you a rough size.
I'm not going to comment on where that carry will go going forward.
It's obviously going to be based on the investment performance and the valuations in the market.
As James said we have a long history in Asia.
We have a strong team.
That's been a good business for us.
We're on Asia PE Fund Four so we've had four separate funds in that market.
The first two are effectively finished and delivered strong returns to investors.
Fund three even after the reversal of carry and the performance this quarter is above its preferred return hurdle and fund four is really in the investment period but that is also above book value.
So this has been a strong business for us historically just had a tough quarter.
And again carry going forward is going to be a function of investments and valuation.
Okay.
Thanks.
Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
I just want to try on that last question again.
So what was your write-down on Asia private equity this quarter since it's so large compared to other quarters? It would be helpful to have that number? What I would say Mike is if you look at that line in our supplement there in terms of the investment it was negative $235 million this quarter versus a positive $232 million in the second quarter.
The two drivers of that is one virtually all of that negative number can be attributed to the reversal of carry from our Asia PE business and two in the second quarter we saw significant monetization events across the entire fund complex and we didn't see any material monetization events in this quarter.
So that's how I would try to size that for you.
As it relates to FICC your RWAs are close to $150 billion.
They are down a lot over the last few years.
But I thought you said that might start to increase.
And there was also a late June Wall Street Journal article that said that Morgan Stanley would weigh more of a comeback in fixed income.
So the bigger picture question is what does Morgan Stanley want to be in FICC? On the one hand you have the strategy of UBS which really has retreated and built the franchise around their wealth management business and that's really paying off.
And I know a lot of investor’s kind of wanted Morgan Stanley to go the route of UBS.
On the other hand you have some large US banks that still want to be the dominant fixed income players.
So which is it because we're seeing some press reports some RWA forecasts that imply that you're getting big.
And at the same time we see these articles we have I think it's the worst core FICC quarter since the financial crisis.
So if you could provide some more color that would be helpful? Well you're right about the last thing I think it probably is the worst core FICC since the financial crisis Mike.
And secondly I think what we said was if we saw opportunity as some of the non-core assets rolled off I think there was about $20 billion if memory serves me that we would be open to utilizing those.
But we certainly weren't expanding from where we are now.
So it's more replacement cost or replacement opportunity if you will and we're obviously not seeing that opportunity right now.
So don't fret too much about that.
On the newspaper article again if memory serves me that was something which I found a little bizarre.
Actually related to the expansion of the mortgage business that we are doing in wealth management which has been a phenomenal business as we take relatively affluent people who have money with us and we re-lend them the money back because they don't want to create a liquidity event in their portfolio.
And that has been a business with FICO scores I think about 750.
Loan to values less than 65% thereabouts and almost zero I think we've had one credit loss out of over 20 000 individual loans.
So a pretty spectacular business.
For some reason the journalists wrote that headline that expanding retail mortgage is somehow implied we're expanding mortgage trading in fixed income and it did not.
We corrected it and they said they understood but the press had written a story.
So don't worry about that.
That was completely separate from what we're trying to do.
So the story remains as is.
Listen we have radically restructured our fixed income business from what it was.
Clearly this quarter it did not perform anywhere near where we want and expect and need it to.
The first quarter was very different.
The second quarter was about halfway between the two.
And watch this space we're not complacent but on the other hand we don't have a knee-jerk reaction based upon a 13 week period and a very unusual 13 week period at that.
But on the other hand we're focused on driving up returns to Morgan Stanley.
We've been focused on that for many years.
We are seeing the results of it on the Wealth Management side.
We had clearly an unusual hiccup in the merchant bank this quarter which is highly unlikely to repeat itself.
And the core banking and equities businesses continued doing what they were doing.
So not sure I can add a whole lot more to it.
How much do you have in the non-core assets left in FICC? I don't think we've broken down the total amount.
Jon? Yes.
I think listen.
As we said I think in the beginning of the year that we had through passive mitigation some level about $25 billion of assets that would run off over time.
As James said we never committed one way or another what we would do with that passive roll off.
We look at our balance sheet and our businesses holistically.
If there are return opportunities across the platform whether that be equities fixed income wealth we will put those assets to work.
But those are basically the sizing of that number Mike.
And I can promise you one thing.
If we do not see opportunity we will not keep those assets in-house.
We will not keep the balance sheet in the position it is.
And last question James or just a comment.
You said a goal for Morgan Stanley is to show better consistency and this quarter did not show that consistency.
So how should investors think about this quarter in the context of your goal? I hope that they would think it in the context of 23 quarters that this management team has presided over.
It was a very unusual macro environment.
The volatility in China was almost historic.
July was we're still dealing with will Greece won't Greece.
September was will she won't she which was Yellen and in the middle was China which went up and down in a six month period at an extraordinary rate with artificial intervention by the CSRC and other things that really threw the markets sideways.
So I'd like to think that investors would see those things for what they were and focus on the core business strategy for what it is.
We delivered 23% margin on lower revenues in wealth management which is exactly what we said we would do in strategy.
We had over $500 million in fees in M&amp;A which is exactly in our wheelhouse of strategy.
And we will have I think when all fully report the number one equities franchise on the globe which is exactly what we said we would do in our strategy.
So I'm not making excuses from it.
We said right at the outset this was a difficult environment but a disappointing quarter and it was.
And we hold ourselves accountable for that and we will drive performance as a result of that.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Michael Carrier with Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.
Please go ahead.
Hi thanks a lot.
Jonathan just on the wealth management business if we look at the transaction revenues not just for the quarter but even year-to-date looks like they've been weaker.
And I don't know if that's a transition of certain accounts into sort of the fee side or if it's just environmental But I also just wanted to understand like how significant - you mentioned the deferred comp component how significant is that for that line item? For that line item specifically if you look quarter-over-quarter I think the revenues were down 6%.
If you back at the deferred comp impact in both quarters it would be low single digits.
So stable pretty stable revenues.
The mix as we've talked about in the past is continuation of growth in the NII line continued year-over-year growth in the managed account line and then some softness in the transactional revenues.
We've seen the volatility in markets and one of the description of the third quarter James left out in August we saw a 1 000 point drop in the Dow one day.
That was not really constructive for our retail engagement numbers.
So there's been a lot of volatility.
It's been a softer calendar and as you said there's been a shift into some of these managed accounts as well.
So all of those are factors.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And then just one follow-up on the merchant banking business I mean not really on the Asia fund.
But when we look at that business and maybe the overall portfolio I just want to get a sense on the mix of the assets that are in there.
And then it sounds like on the Asia fund you didn't go under the high watermark or the hurdle.
So it was just a negative environment.
And so you take the hit and you get the negative carry.
But going forward if the investments are positive there's nothing that we should be thinking about differently meaning if it's positive we'll see the positive carry return.
But really want to understand the mix of that business because when we're in more volatile environments we can see some quarters where some weird things happen.
So any color you could provide there? Sure.
So a couple of things.
In terms of - I think in the supplement we break out where the assets under management are.
We have a broad private equity and merchant banking real estate investment business.
So you can see the different strategies and the different dollars of assets under management.
In terms of your comment about reversal of carry or then I guess the restatement of carry going forward there is - these funds are structured like traditional private equity funds and there is a phase where you accrue and carry where there is a catch-up phase that accelerates the accrual of carry when you go above the preferred return hurdle.
You then - when the carry reverses itself you have the inverse of that.
We saw that in a second half of 2013 where we had the just sort of breaking through that preferred return hurdle where we had the acceleration and this was the inverse of that.
And specifically to your last question we are on fund three we are still above our preferred return.
So there is still some carry that has been accrued in that fund.
Okay.
All right.
Thanks a lot.
Your next question comes from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Jon quick follow-up on that question on wealth management from Mike with the deferred comp.
Can you give us what your margin would be if we backed out the deferred comp noise in the wealth management business? I don't have that number.
But it would probably be a little bit lower than what you reported right because it's going to lower your comp by a similar amount as your revenue? Well it's clearly neutral to the bottom line and this is a line item that sort of has been running through quarter-to-quarter.
So I don't know what the margin would be without it.
But it's definitely neutral to the bottom line.
Okay.
But it is right just in thinking about it that it's going to move expenses by the same amount its right? Yes.
Yes neutral to the bottom line.
Got it.
Okay.
Thanks for that.
And then tax rates have been kind of volatile this year.
I know it's tricky but is there any way we should think about the full year here this year on taxes? Yes.
The tax rate has been volatile.
We've said in the past it's a function of the geographic mix of earnings.
I think we steered you towards 32% last quarter.
For the full year right there is an adjustment period as the geographic mix there is the actual mix of earnings based on legal entity versus a managed business as well as sort of a look forward of what we think that mix is going to look like.
So it is a volatile number but I would say 32% effective tax rate for the entire year is still what we would say plus or minus.
Okay.
Thank you.
And then lastly on wealth management you guys saw deposits grow this quarter was there anything specific driving that? And then when we think about the loan to deposit ratio as you guys continue to show nice growth in the loan book.
How should we frame loan growth and where the loan book can get to based on that? So two questions I think on the bank deposit program.
I did highlight that we saw an increase in $7 billion and that was really based on the volatility in the markets and we saw that investors either stayed or moved into cash relative to those volatile markets.
And as I said we would expect over time as that volatility abates and their confidence returns that will be reinvested in the market.
In terms of the loan growth we have seen good progress against our deposit deployment plan.
We still have excess liquidity to deploy.
We see a healthy and diversified pipeline.
And we continue to expect to grow the loans in the bank.
It's primarily going to be driven by wealth management.
It's going to be primarily driven by the mortgage product and the SBL product.
And as I said quarter-over-quarter we were up $3 billion and year-over-year up $12 billion.
So we still see a healthy pipeline.
I would say the penetration rates in terms of FAs engaging with their clients on these products are still high and we would expect the growth to continue.
Okay.
And then thinking about wealth management and the potential new rule on the Department of Labor's fiduciary proposal.
How much of your wealth management client assets are in retirement accounts and what percentage of those are advisory? So we don't break that out and obviously the fiduciary duty standard has gotten a lot of attention and there's been a lot of industry dialogue around it.
I think the comment period was extended and we saw that there were over 300 000 comment letters on this proposal.
We like to provide our clients with choice.
We're hoping that the final rules allow us to do that and we'll wait for those final rules to come out.
Okay.
But not anything that you can size for us? Again we will wait for the final rules to come out and then we'll come back to you.
Okay.
Last one just on FICC sorry to sort of beat this a little bit here.
But as – sort of has been alluded to equities and wealth management has seemed to have gone well and this is the one business that has continued to draw attention.
And James I think there's a quote in the press release for you about addressing areas of underperformance.
That seems clearly tied to FICC.
Is that the right inference? And then does the timing of Ted getting in charge of the FICC business now to tie into this weak quarter and does it also circle back to previous comments that you all have made as being 2015 a really important year for FICC to prove that they can generate good enough results? A lot of questions in there Brennan.
I think we've probably said all we want to say about FICC.
It was one quarter it was a disappointing quarter.
The timing of the organization announcement was not related to this quarter.
The timing of the organization announcement is related to our desire to bring ourselves and trading businesses together make them as efficient and effective as we can.
We're all working very hard on that.
Ted Collum myself Michael Heaney and Rob Rooney in fixed income and all of their team.
Listen I think we've said what we've wanted to say about this quarter.
It is what it is and we move forward.
We're not here asleep at the wheel.
Fair enough.
Thank you very much.
Your next question comes from the line of Devin Ryan with JMP Securities.
Please go ahead.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
We talked quite a bit about margin targets in GWM.
But looking at ISG it seems to be some pretty big margin tailwinds just from the bank growth and optimization there and then lower funding costs.
Just taking a step back from the challenges of this quarter how should we think about incremental margin potential in ISG particularly as you benefit from some of these revenue tailwinds.
I'm trying to think through how much of that benefit will flow to the bottom line versus being reinvested back into other parts of ISG? So on the ISG side we are clearly focused on expenses and trying to be disciplined there.
As I mentioned the comp ratio at 38% is below our stated target from the beginning of the year.
On the non-comp side we obviously have the increase in the litigation reserve this quarter.
We've also highlighted for you last quarter called out some professional fees related to the regulatory agenda.
Our hope is that today when we look back that we're sort of - we have accomplished more of the regulatory agenda behind us than we have in front of us.
But we still have a large regulatory agenda and trying to figure out went those costs abate is really challenging.
We are very focused on expenses.
We're trying to control those expenses that we can control and we will continue to do that going forward.
Okay.
And then just within ISG additionally lending exposure to energy.
Can you quantify that and then any other counterparty exposures related to energy would be helpful? In terms of energy exposure we do have an institutional lending business which includes exposure to energy.
I would say that our energy exposure quarter-to-quarter hasn't changed materially.
Most of the energy lending is to large multinational corporations and about two thirds of that lending exposure is to investment grade counterparties.
E&amp;P which is been a big focus of the market that exposure for us is a much smaller portion of our overall exposure.
And approximately half of that - of our E&amp;P exposure is secured excuse me by reserves.
Like others we have seen some deterioration in credit in that portfolio but we haven't taken any significant losses there.
As with all our exposures we are managing them very tightly.
And when appropriate we are also hedging those exposures.
I would say given that environment we would expect continued pressure in this area.
But we are focused on it and we are managing it tightly.
Okay.
Great.
Thank you.
Your next question comes from the line of Fiona Swaffield with RBC.
Please go ahead.
Hi.
Good morning.
I have two questions.
One was on the wealth management net interest income where in the previous couple of quarters certainly Q2 you mentioned the realization of the forward curve and your investment securities proposal has been a factor.
I don't know if you could talk us through Q3 Q2 in that respect within the wealth management net interest income.
And the second area was on the supplementary leverage exposure the SLR and the total exposure number.
It seems to have gone down.
I mean is there some - have you been successful on reducing add-ons or I think in the past you talked about securities financing.
I just wonder if you could talk a bit about that strategy? Thank you.
I'll take the second one first.
In terms of the SLR that's an average calculation and as I said we saw average assets decline over the quarter.
And we continue to make progress on the balance sheet add-ons.
So I would say it's a combination of a reduction in average assets as well as some good work around compression and other things on the add-ons.
The first question around the forward curve I think what we've said historically is that the growth in NII is primarily driven off of our deposit deployment strategy and taking our excess liquidity out of available for sale securities and putting them into the loan products.
That will be primary driver going forward.
Clearly the forward curve is helpful as we reinvest our available for sale securities portfolio.
I think since we talked last time I think we probably in an environment of lower longer - and lower and longer.
So that will have an impact.
But again our NII growth has been primarily driven by the loan growth.
Can I just follow-up so if I look to Q3 Q2 there wouldn't have been a negative from AFS or anything like that it just may have been less positive than in the past couple of quarters? That's probably a reasonable characterization.
Okay.
Thanks very much.
Your final question comes from the line of Christian Bolu with Credit Suisse.
Please go ahead.
Good morning Jon.
Good morning James.
Morning.
Morning.
On the relationship lending losses can you give some more color on what drove that? Was it mostly energy related or more broad-based? And then just any comments you have how you feel in terms of your credit metrics of the book would be helpful also? As I did highlight we did have markdowns on our held for sale relationship and event loans as a result of the market environment.
I wouldn't call out any individual or specific sector or event.
However I would also highlight that the bottom line impact was minimal as we hedge many of our fair value loans as appropriate.
Okay.
Thanks.
That's helpful.
And then just on wealth management quick question.
FA count ticked up this quarter.
Curious if that's just trainees or are you start to see a better environment for advisor recruitment? I would say it's a little bit of lower attrition and a little bit on the trainee side.
Okay.
Thank you.
Okay.
And with that I'll bring the call to a close.
I thank you all for dialing in.
And we look forward to speaking to you again in 13 weeks.
Thank you.
[Operator Instructions] Your first question comes from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.
Please go ahead.
Good morning thanks for taking the questions.
[Indiscernible] Just a quick one on the reduction it’s actually not a quick one.
On [indiscernible] RWA and FIC that you laid out in the deck.
So what should we think about as far as timing obviously you laid out the year-end 2017? But is there a way to think about the curve over the next two years as we progress.
And how should we think about the revenue that would be tied to that capital and how it might be recycled throughout the organization if not returned to shareholders.
Good opener Brennan.
Let me start by saying first we’ve laid out RWA targets so there – for I think the last three years and going back I still remember a number like $392 billion or there about in around the third quarter of 2011 in FIC.
So we are light years from that.
And last year we thought we had achieved $180 billion and as you can see we ended materially lower than that.
On the exact timing of year-end and the trajectory year-end 2017 I can’t really help you.
We’re going to do it opportunistically.
We’ll do with sort of minimum damage.
We don’t want to get rid of assets on a distressed basis.
We have some natural roll off.
So we feel very comfortable with these targets.
And it’s fair to say we haven’t disappointed in the last few years.
That hasn’t been an issue in FIC.
As it relates to the capital with just arithmetically if you run these numbers through the models it does actually free up that much capital.
It just means the business doesn’t need that capital.
Our view is that we were overcapitalized that our balance sheet was too big in the business given the revenue and business opportunity.
We now – and we were over expensed frankly by taking out 25% of the head count and with that the expenses on compensation the project streamline that would now work on some of the infrastructure pieces by now reducing the RWAs and the SLR Exposure.
We will reduce the amount of capital tied up in that business.
How that is redeployed is a really good question.
Obviously overtime we expect we’ll deliver that back to shareholder.
That’s the current plan.
We don’t control all of the pieces of that plan.
We are a regulated institution.
We have been through CCAR or SCAR I think five times.
And every time we’ve asked for a buyback or dividend.
Our request has been met.
It’s fair to say that we’ll continue to ask for buybacks and dividends.
And where we can’t use that capital if it’s sort of track capital for some period of time which some of it maybe.
There are clearly other businesses that can use the capital sensibly.
We have very high return businesses in both Investment Management and Wealth Management.
Clearly we can use the capital to support our growth in those businesses.
As indeed we have had very high returns in our equity franchise.
So I don’t know is that helpful? But it’s hard to lay out a more specific timeline for the balance sheet now that be already runoff than what we’ve given here with the instate and with the year-end 2017.
That’s fair that’s fair.
Thanks James.
I guess is there any way that we could think about revenue or you could maybe help us to frame how to think about revenue because obviously if you are going to take that much capital out right.
You are going to have a very different business.
You talked about focusing on some of the strengths a few business lines maybe you could help us think about which businesses you are going to be deemphasizing and how much revenue you think realistically could come out as a result of that.
And then finally how that translates into margin for the business overall.
Well I don’t think I can give you the margin translation at this point.
And let me address some of the other issues and then I’m sure Jon may want to add to it and you’ll be hearing a lot more from Ted on the leadership team probably in the first quarter one of the investment conferences.
I think the basic position we are in was we had more balance sheet and more capital in the business than we were generating revenues on.
So we don’t think there’s going to be great revenue diminution from this point given where we finished 2015 which frankly as we said we are very candid that was disappointing.
What we’re doing is reducing the path of fixed income where frankly we didn’t see the revenue opportunity over the last 12 and 24 months.
We’ve always said as we said on the call we’ve always had a good micro business a good credit business that remains good.
We’ve been very good in the more sophisticated structure rates.
We’re reducing obviously our exposure and liquid rates.
We’ve never been a major FX trader and we’ve focused on the major currencies there not the not the non-G10 currencies.
And then regionally we sort of picked our shots through distressed and high yield in various other places around the globe where we think we need to be overemphasized relative to under.
The net of it will be more of a U.S.-focused business a slimmer business when it comes to some of the macro products.
I don’t know John if you want to add at this point anymore details on that.
Yes the one thing I would add is just to give you a better sense of some of the things we are getting out of as James mentioned most of that is not in the U.S.
Things like sovereign CDS some of the non-core European currencies Asia distressed trading some of the bespoke [ph] correlation products as well as all of the work we’ve done on our commodities business in terms of the oil merchanting businesses as well as the announcement regarding our European power and gas last year.
So a smaller footprint less capital less expenses and better margin.
Okay great.
And on a personal note Brennan have to apologize I’ve called you Brendan I think three earnings calls in a row so my apologies.
No worries James that’s all right I’ve been called worse.
And then finally another one here real quick.
When we think about your ROE goal right ultimately which you referenced early on in the deck many times as 10% and then we think about 2017 showing the 9% to 11% can you maybe square how that’s a little bit different just is it that the transition may not be complete by 2017.
How is it we should think about that? You know our goal remains to achieve returns above our cost of capital.
Clearly whether our cost of capital is actually 10% right now but let’s take that for granted for the moment.
Our goal is to achieve returns above that.
Clearly we can’t be that precise I mean this is a highly variable set of revenues that we have in these businesses as we are seeing in the markets today versus Friday for example.
So that’s why we’re expressing it as a range but you’ll note the mid point of that range is indeed 10%.
We aren’t backing off of the goals in fact for the first time we’ve put a timeline against it and as we laid out what the key drivers of that.
Obviously it’s with the appropriate caveat which you would expect if we have a major outsized litigation expense or penalties that are unforeseen if the markets completely collapse here if we have no revenue growth if the Fed responded very differently to our capital plans than what we intended it gets harder.
On the other side if we have stronger revenue growth we meet our expense targets we do our capital plan we’re confident about certainly about the range and our target is the mid point of that range.
That’s fair enough.
Thanks a lot for taking my questions.
Sure.
Hi thanks very much.
I guess the follow-up on FICC.
Just curious what you think the net of all of the moves might be in terms of how you think about your G-SIB buffer and then how it might factor in just in general to your ability to return that excess capital.
I heard your comments about redeploying if you aren’t allowed but it seems like your RWA reduction and then the costs that go along with it is kind of what builds the buffer but just curious to get some detail on that.
In thinking about capital I mean problem number one is having enough capital.
At 4.2 supplemental leverage ratio which was just I think the beginning of 2014.
I’m looking John is nodding 2014 clearly we weren’t there.
So problem number one has been solved we’ve clearly got enough capital on any metric that you measure.
Problem number two is then if you continue to accrete capital what is the sensible buyback dividend and total payout ratio that you’ve put against that.
And then opportunity number three is as you reshape the business mix and move to a less capital intensive parts of the business you by definition are throwing off more capital than you’ve had the day before you did that what are you able to do with that capital? As to refer to Brennan’s question this isn’t going to happen tomorrow Glenn it’s going to happen over as we said a couple of years so it’s not like we’re going to have a pool of capital to give back tomorrow.
But we’re setting ourselves up for increasing returns over the next several years at the same time let’s make investments across the rest of the business.
So I don’t know if that helps you but where it relates to G-SIB buffer we know what our buffer is.
What we don’t know is how the Federal Reserve through the CCAR process is adjusting its models once they put the CCAR buffer in my understanding is there will be adjustments to the models which will tamper that buffer to create a net number which is lower than the buffer for all of the banks.
That’s my current understanding.
Obviously we have to see that play out.
My understanding is the Federal Reserve had models which were by definition harder than they probably would have had in normal circumstance but that was driven by not having the G-SIB buffer put in place.
Now that it’s in place the models will be refined and the net impact is what we will be looking at.
So the combined net impact of the G-SIB buffer with these capital reductions from the balance sheet with the amount of capital we are a accreting we still accrete capital last year gives us a reasonably high degree of confidence that we’re going to be seeing increasing capital returns in the years ahead.
From your lips all right just a follow-up on a quickie one on the corporate loan commitments if you could give any color about the total or the funded loan book how much of its energy reserves against that? How are you feeling about that book in general.
In general on the corporate loan book I think the focus areas have really been around energy and probably event particularly in the single-B market.
We have seen on the energy complex we have seen credit migration in that portfolio and as a result Glenn we’ve increased our allowances.
We seen an increase in some negative marks that we take through our – income statement as well as increasing our hedges.
And we would expect that pressure on that portfolio to persist for awhile.
In terms of the total size of the portfolio it’s about $16 billion of both funded and unfunded this is energy now.
That’s down from $17 billion in the third quarter.
Of that $16 billion I would say 60% is investment grade or excuse me it’s to investment grade counter parties and only about 30% of that $16 billion is funded.
Another focus area within the energy portfolio has really been around E&amp;P.
In terms of our statistics that portfolio is about $4.4 billion broken down $1.7 of that is funded to non-investment grade borrowers and about $2.7 billion is still unfunded.
That unfunded piece is about two-thirds to investment grade borrowers.
In terms of the reserves and the allowances remember of the $16 billion total energy book approximately 60% of that is held for investment while 40% is fair value or held for sale.
That other portion is mark-to-market and primarily flows through our other revenue line in the ISG in terms of the income statement and has been marked to the current environment.
We will continue to monitor that portfolio very closely.
We regularly stress test it.
We’re watching for signs of contagion and we’re hedging accordingly and adjusting our hedges accordingly.
So I think that’s the color on the energy exposures.
On the event again it’s been we’ve seen disruption in that marketplace since August.
It’s primarily been focused in the single B part of the market.
We have had a handful of loans that got caught in that dislocation and downdraft but again it is only a handful of loans a few of which we distributed in the fourth quarter and a few of which we still hold.
The losses related to both the syndicated loans as well as the ones that we still hold are also reflected in our fourth quarter results.
The double-B and investment grade markets held in pretty well although the pricing has widened.
We see investors wanting to put capital to work in that market but they are being more selective.
They are looking at higher quality names and extracting larger new issue concessions but in terms of outlook we continue to under write new commitments predominantly in the double-B space and the investment grade space and that reflects the current environment.
So again those two areas of energy and event we’ve been highly focused on and containing and managing that position as best we can.
Outside of that we haven’t really seen much contagion.
Wealth management book still stays and looks pretty good.
It remains stable strong credit quality no real changes in those metrics commercial real estate portfolio also haven’t seen real signs of weakness.
Okay.
Thanks for that a lot of detail.
Good.
Good morning.
Just to follow-up and stay on the topic of corporate credit.
And more broadly then the sort of energy E&amp;P type stuff that you talked about where you gave good color.
In your experience what are the leading indicators of credit deterioration that you drilled down on broadly away from energy and the commodities [indiscernible] how are they looking right now and is there any reason that you can think of as to why this would be different this time? It’s a good question in terms of relative and historical performance.
I think we’ve obviously been in a very benign credit environment for awhile.
We are starting to see some pressure in the energy complex as I said across the other metrics particularly for us given the health of our customer base.
In the retail side we haven’t seen much stress in those areas.
We are increasing the allowance for loan losses this quarter it’s up to about $70 million clearly a portion which is energy.
So we are seeing a churn in the credit cycle.
But again from our book in the way that we look at it it’s really been focused in on the on the energy complex right now.
Okay that’s helpful.
And then just a follow-up question on wealth management.
Looking at your Slide 16 the net interest income growth in a range of 75 basis points to 175 basis points of margin contribution if – I think you’ll remember that you’ve baked in the forward curve to those assumptions.
So where would we be in terms of that range if short-term interest rates stay where they are currently as opposed to actually incorporating the forward curve? I think the right way to think about that those numbers I would say do not require any incremental rise in rates from where we are today.
If the forward curve is realized we will get some incremental benefit but those margin targets don’t require incremental rate movements.
They do require growth in loans that we laid out on the prior page and we’ve had very good momentum in that lending book but it doesn’t require the forward curve to hit those margin targets.
Okay that’s really helpful.
Thank you so much.
Good morning.
Good morning.
So my first question is on the $1 billion cost saves.
I’m just trying to gauge what’s incremental versus just rule off one-time as in 2015.
So I guess the first question is how much litigation and severance costs did you incur in 2015? And then two of that $1 billion in cost saves how much of that is roll off of the 2015 litigation and severance cost versus incremental business rationalization? Again of that $1 billion as James mentioned that assumes no individual one time significant charges.
There’s obviously an element of litigation that’s part of our business.
We were happy to see the litigation expense go down in the fourth quarter but in terms of breaking out those individual numbers we have historically not done that but again it’s – it does require no major single individual event.
Okay just so I’m clear because I think you put out the numbers in your Qs of just about $500 million of litigation costs through the third quarter and about $150 million in severance so that’s close to $700 million in cost… I’m sorry I didn’t understand the question.
I apologize so again the $550 million number you’re referencing was in the third quarter year-to-date as I said our litigation came down materially in the fourth quarter and the severance of the $150 million was across the firm in the fourth quarter presumably we won’t have the same level of severance so part of that severance would be embedded in that billion dollars.
Okay so what about the litigation are you assuming it’s roughly the same going forward or you assume it comes down from that at least $555 million we had as of the third quarter.
Yes I think we believe that the most significant items related to the credit crisis are largely behind us.
This quarter it was good to see litigation come down and so I think there is an embedded assumption along those lines but again it’s a lumpy and unpredictable line item.
Okay.
And then my follow-up just on the lending – on balances I’m just trying to reconcile the current target versus the prior target so you had – you expected $180 billion in total U.S.
Bank assets by the end of 2016.
Does that still stand and then how do we think of 2017? In terms of the – what I would say is the slide in the deck is only in the wealth management segment so it’s not a total lends on the bank.
We’ll be coming back to you with more detail throughout the year but in terms of the 2016 number that loan growth that you see out of wealth management would be consistent with those targets.
Okay great.
Thank you very much.
Hi good morning.
Good morning.
So I appreciate the detailed guidance certainly as part of the broader strategic review.
It’s always quite helpful to us but some of the early feedback that I just wanted to relay suggests that there’s investors are struggling and quite candidly we’re struggling to reconcile the [indiscernible] to 9% to 11% ROE versus some of the different guidance components.
And if we think about a backdrop where there’s 4% annual revenue growth a 74% efficiency ratio 32% tax rate and flat preferreds and non-controlling interest it gets to you about $6 billion of net income to common and if I even take just the low end of that 9% to 11% ROE range the implied common equity is about $66 billion which suggests payouts in excess of 100% over the next two years.
So I just wanted to get an understanding as to of what elements or components of that analysis might be flawed or needs to be tweaked and how should we – and what capital return assumptions are embedded in that 9% to 11% ROE target range that you highlighted for 2017? Let me try to take a swing at this one.
So as we laid out on the page first of all the compensation the billion dollars plus of compensation and non-comp savings are assuming a flat revenue environment so if we get out two years and we’re flat to today our ratio will be 74%.
As James mentioned we do expect revenue growth throughout this period and therefore the efficiency ratio should be lower than the 74% because we do have operating leverage in the business.
First and foremost and so I think that is probably the biggest disconnect in your math.
You can see in the revenue bucket or the modest revenue growth bucket we do have improvements in different business segments.
And then in terms of the capital base ideally we believe we have sufficient capital we had been accreting capital over the course of the last several years.
We would expect to probably accrete a little bit more capital over the coming period.
But we would like to try to slow – clearly slowdown the accretion of capital since we have – we believe we have the appropriate amount of capital for our current plan.
Okay thanks.
And Jonathan I think you spend a lot of time talking about capital and obviously it’s going to be contingent on the feedback you get from regulators and presumably they would be inclined or incentivized to reward actions to reduce your systemic risk footprint or exposure system with more risk intensive activities based on your discussions have you been given any indication that they would be perceptive to higher payouts for those that are willing to shrink more aggressively in those areas.
I don’t want to get ahead of predicting how regulators are going to think about this.
We did what we think is right for our business.
Our job is to generate returns to our business; however arithmetically if you have met all of the capital targets by definition if you change the structure of your business and throw off additional capital that you know by definition don’t need that all will be available for returns.
Do I think that there is going to be one-time major dividend in the next 12 18 months.
No I don’t think that’s possible but do I believe that we’re going to be in a position where we increase our returns absolutely.
And you’ve seen banks that have generated payouts above 100% for this reason for that they are accreting more capital than they need for their business.
That’s before you get to banks that have actually restructured their business in the phase of the new business reality.
So again I don’t want to get ahead of them – that would not be a smart thing to do but I do think our strategy is pretty clear and it’s certainly consistent with where the regulatory push has been.
Right that’s very helpful.
I appreciate you taking my questions.
Sure.
Hi your 9% to 11% ROE target you have a timeframe on that for the first time ever I appreciate it.
But what is that on a tangible ROE basis? Mike we’ve got about little over $9.5 billion of goodwill and intangibles so on our capital base somewhere around 125 basis points above those numbers just math.
All right so the target on a tangible basis is 10% to 12%? We have an ROE target of 9% to 11%.
Okay.
For all of our common equity.
And what’s the need behind this target I mean is it just a target that sits there or is management paid off this? What’s the follow through from this target to the organization? Not totally sure I understand your question.
All of our employees are bonus eligible paid in stock.
The stock is generally performed somewhere in line with ROE and price to book so everybody is affected by that.
The most senior management team I receive as part of their compensation performance units which are directly affected too by ROE and total shareholder return so that’s very specific for the senior team.
But we are not doing this to frankly drive up our personal comp.
We’re doing it because we think these businesses should be run with returns at or above 10% and nobody in this world predicted the last four or five years of what’s gone in the markets and the amount of capital that would be required to support these businesses when I took this job our capital base was $40 billion today it’s $69 billion.
We’re in a tremendous E position and the challenge has been to get the R moving consistent with that rate of growth of the E.
And what we’ve done here is to frame it for investors because understandably they want to know what is a realistic timeframe just to Steven’s question before what is a realistic timeframe how do the pieces add up mathematically to get you there.
Are they believable are they plausible and we thought it might going to be smart to layout what we think is a realistic timeframe that kind of range 9% to 11% 2017 the pieces are we are definitely taking out expenses some of them are in the bag if you will.
And some of them are going to be driven by management processes that we put in place.
We believe there is revenue growth across many parts of our business over a two year period and we believe we are sufficiently capitalized given the world that we operate in so if you add all those pieces together putting it in terms of a target to help investors have a framework rather than open ended seem to be the right transition point for Morgan Stanley.
In the last several years we couldn’t have done that because we couldn’t address some of the issues on the right hand side of that slide.
As a follow-up Slide 13 you addressed compensation by each of the three main business areas but you didn’t give any meat on the non-comp expenses.
Can you just elaborate on any specifics there? I’m sorry.
Say that again.
We addressed the compensation we didn’t give meat on what? On the non-comp Slide 13 location strategy leverage technology consolidated processes outsourcing.
What sort of expense savings could you get from the non-comp areas? Well I think what we wanted to frame was the total comp ratio.
I’m sorry the total efficiency ratio of 74% and embedded in that was $1 billion of expense savings which will be function of comp and non-comp.
We’re not going to break those out in detail on this call we are very confident about that as we’re referencing with Steve and there a number of these things which obviously just go away through reality like the severance costs.
There is the elevated legal expenses we’ve carried in the last several years which we think is unlikely to be carried forward.
There is the restructuring we did which frankly just changes the run rate of your salaries benefits medical and the bonus pool for those individuals and we’ve already initiated a major effort under this project streamline and some of those pieces begin this week.
We started with changing our so-called contingent employees or our consultants in far away markets where we’ve achieved the objective of what that would be put to work.
We’ve now reduced some of those numbers.
And all of those efforts are coming together.
So you’ll see a mix of – and over the next several quarters we’ll give you much more details on the non-comp.
So we’re not going to break it out now.
And then lastly any big restructuring or repositioning charge related to project streamline.
No.
No.
All right.
Thank you.
Certainly not that’s visible at this point not that’s planned.
Thanks.
Sure.
Thanks guys.
James just on the FIC side of the business post restructuring I know it’s tough to gauge but when you mentioned and you look at the revenue environment and kind of where your run rate now you wouldn’t expect much of a drop-off.
Just wanted to understand is that relative to like the second half of 2015 like total 2015 or is there any way to gauge it from like a return on asset like what you expect in FIC going forward? No I think of that in terms of the full year obviously the second half but our revenue run rates of $500 million were incredibly low.
But we look what the total market size is what our share is and what our expected share is and expected market size in the next couple of years and that’s why we say we believe we’re right-sized for revenue rate equivalent to 2015.
We obviously – we’ll be trying to do a lot better than that but we think that’s a plausible outlook.
Okay all right.
That’s helpful.
And then Jon just on the – I guess you mentioned like with the weak markets some of the impact that you can see in investment management.
So I guess just two things on that.
Last quarter we saw that kind of negative accrual I think on the Asia private equity your Merchant Banking fund [ph] just what type of exposure unit in the investment management business have – those types of products so we can see those swings.
And then in wealth management I feel like the transaction revenues have been pretty weak for a while and that’s more of an industry trend but just wanted to figure out are we stabilizing here meaning are there pressures there somewhat coming to a slowdown? Sure a couple of questions.
I think on the investment management question the way I would try to think about it is there basically two major components of how we make business in that – how we make money in that business one is just our fee revenues from managing money.
And obviously that’s going to be a rate – that’s a rate times volume equation.
So if the amount of money we’re managing goes down that will be impacted by the markets that we’re seeing but that outline is pretty stable.
The second line as you said is the investment line.
When I refer to the investment line I’m talking about the segment reporting we do in our supplement that number was negative $235 million last quarter we said that was predominately driven by our reversal of carry in our Asia PE fund or funds.
This quarter it was $100 million that return to a positive number was driven by all of our – most of our investing businesses both private equity infrastructure and real estate that was more balanced.
We said in the third quarter when we took the reversal of carry that that eliminated the vast majority – excuse me the majority of the carry that we have accrued in our Asia PE businesses we obviously have a carry accrued in other businesses.
And that’s disclosed in the queue but the exposure at certainly in Asia has been reduced and the fund that was under stress in the third quarter had no material changes had no material changes this quarter.
That was the first part of your question.
I think the second on transactional revenues.
Those numbers have been subdued.
Clients are cautious whether that’s a floor or not is hard to tell given the volatility but we think that those numbers hopefully have stabilized.
Okay thanks a lot.
Good morning thanks for taking my question.
First of all maybe for you Jon on page 3 of the supplement you break out the regional revenues looks like if we don’t adjust for DVA the revenues are basically flat in the Americas up double-digit in EMEA and up high single-digit in Asia.
How are you thinking about those – that revenue mix heading into 2016 given all your comments about some of the challenges emanating out of China and some of the growth challenges in Europe? I’m sorry I’m just turning to page 3.
Before getting that page in front of me I think the results this quarter we did see Asia was down but it continues to be a strong and important part of our business.
We did see weakness in the fourth quarter relative to the third quarter in Europe given the concerns and uncertainty around Brexit and some of the immigration issues we still think that Europe although showing some signs of growth in certain areas is going to be a fragile economy and the drivers of our business will be the U.S.
and Asia.
In terms of the third – page 3 again don’t have in front of me.
Just this minute but that you should also know is managed the way we look at the business is on a managed basis and so those revenues don’t necessarily tied back to the tax rate that I talked about earlier regarding the geographic mix of earnings.
Okay thank you and then a little closer to home how are you thinking it seems that you’re assuming that lending both in the corporate side of things as well as Within Wealth Management is going to continue at what appears to be roughly similar growth rate as you saw this year.
But I guess I’m curious how you’re thinking about what appears to be a greater level of regulatory scrutiny both in areas like leverage lending but also in commercial real estate which seem – which where you’ve grown quite visibly over the last two years to three years as you’ve pushed on your bank growth program.
So Matt I’m not sure I wouldn’t agree with that statement I think historically over the last couple of years we’ve seen good growth in both the ISG lending product as well as the Wealth Management lending product and those have been the key drivers along with deploying our deposits away from securities into these loans.
Those have been the key drivers of the NII growth historically.
I think going forward I would tell you that the primary driver of the lending growth is going to be Wealth Management.
The growth assumptions in the ISG part of the business are much lower than they had been over the last couple of years as we built those portfolios up.
So the key driver is going to be Wealth Management area.
Okay.
And then just ripping on that theme James you mentioned less than 2% of your Wealth Management clients have a mortgage with Morgan Stanley.
What’s your target over the next two years to get that ratio to? I don’t have a target here.
We could break out sort of mathematically how it separates and get back to but I don’t have a target off the top of my head.
Obviously it’s very low single-digit it’s not – it’s not in the – about 10%.
You can see the numbers on the chart which just show mathematically what the total residential lending is $21 billion up from $16 billion.
So I guess that would imply we did about 2.4%.
Okay thanks for taking my questions.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
Thanks for squeezing me in here.
When we think about the 3% to 5% revenue growth with ROE target yes some items like NII should increase without the backdrop changing and hopefully will be above that.
So on the other hand investment banking has been operating at a high level as you highlighted a choppy market could impact those businesses.
So just thinking about what type of investment banking revenues or environment during that 3% to 5% revenue growth and sounds like you guys are a little more cautious on the near-term there.
So is that fair? And then and how do you think about those businesses broadly relative to their cycle? Sure I think first I’d highlighted that 2017 over the target I think.
As you say the Wealth Management is being really driven by the lending growth and some of the other initiatives we have there.
In terms of both equities and investment banking listen we think that we can continue to gain some share there.
We have good shares in those businesses but the backdrop is a constructive one where the revenue pools are up modestly if we’re in a situation where revenue pools for these products decline precipitously these are – that’s not just the backdrop that we set these assumptions.
So a little bit of share gain and a little bit of revenue or pie growth.
Okay great helpful.
And then just within the Wealth Management comp target that improvement to less than 56% is that and entirely driven by leverage off of higher margin revenues like NII or are there other core comp expense reductions that they can occur within GWN the GWN that we should be thinking about? Yes I think it’s a mix.
I mean clearly more a non-compensable revenues is helpful for that target.
But as we’ve said from a – for the totality of the firm we are very focused on expenses and comp and there are some other levers that we can use here other than just the growing non-compensable line item.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
Sure.
Hi yes good morning.
You’ve mentioned how much you’ve bought the fixed income RWAs down from $390 million to like $188 million at the end of last year and down to $136 million now.
And I know you can’t comment about this year’s CCAR but I guess it just strikes me that given the huge progress you’ve made on bringing down the fixed RWAs it doesn’t seem like the CCAR process got – was mitigated somehow.
And I wonder if you can talk in a general way again not about this year’s submission but to what extent is – are the adverse CCAR results driven by the fixed income businesses or is it throughout the business.
And in a – if the CCAR process this year were static with last year would the reduction in RWAs that we’ve seen this year have a positive impact on CCAR? Well I can take out and Jon may want to add something.
CCAR is a function there are five different ratios under the normal scenario and then the severely adverse scenario where we had an issue to the extent we did was on the total leverage ratio which we addressed with the top preferred securities.
So I think was – CCAR was submitted last November December I think.
January.
The cycle got moved down this year an extra three months to April.
So the world we’re in 15 months ago our RWAs were significantly higher.
They weren’t where we finished the year at.
So it’s sort of an apples and oranges back then we presented the firm as it was then.
This April we’ll be presenting a different firm although there are various cutoff dates when balance sheet are set and so on.
So I don’t really want to get into and I know you didn’t ask for a specific prediction on CCAR but all we can do is put ourselves in a position where it’s clear we have sufficient capital and any incremental changes we make to the business or any incremental earnings that we accrete by definition become excess capital whether that flows on a dollar-for-dollar basis.
Obviously it’s something to be considered when we submit our thing in here from our regulators.
Okay.
Thank you.
Hi.
Just had two areas.
One was you talked about funding benefits I think it’s $0.4 at the beginning tailwind from now funding cost.
I just wondered if you could talk a bit more about how much that was for 2015 and also where we would see it because I didn’t notice the net interest income in IS was very strong in Q4.
I didn’t know if that’s related so if you could talk about that.
And then the last area was really on Slide 16 on the deposit assumptions.
I have thought that there was a big strategy to increase the deposits.
I think I had a number in my head of $200 billion.
Has that changed or is it that – just that you’re not putting that or you’re assuming there’s a length within your 2017 kind of roll forward? Thanks.
Okay.
so the – Fiona the two parts of the question I think on the funding question there’s obviously a lot of components that go into those lines including the size of our balance sheet secured versus unsecured.
What we said just to give you some – to try to cuff it we did about $21 billion of new unsecured last year and those came in at rates that were significantly below where the historical debt had been issued our average maturity or WAM on our unsecured stack now is about six years.
So we were sort of retiring five year debt and putting on slightly longer but we saw our credit spreads were easily 100 tighter than where they were before.
That process went out through – that process went on throughout the year.
We obviously didn’t refinance all of the debt on day one.
So we will continue to get the benefit from those funding savings as we annualize.
And so that I think addresses question number one.
And question number two on the deposits we will continue to grow our deposit base.
I think what we would like to try to do this year and 2016 is try to optimize the deposits.
We have different deposits that have different liquidity values.
We think we can support the lending growth that we’ve highlighted in the strategy – excuse me in the strategy deck without growing our deposit base but clearly that is a goal and in 2017 that will be requirement to support our future lending growth.
We’ve talked about some of the digital strategy and cash management product that are – we’re growing out and that will support – that will hopefully drive the deposit growth in 2017 and beyond.
Thanks.
Can I just go back to the first thing and what the explanation of net internet income in IS? Is quarter-on-quarter? I’m sorry… Institutional Securities? Again I’ll come back to you on that one Fiona.
Okay.
Thanks so much.
Now I think we have – this is probably our longest call.
I’m glad we got everybody’s questions in and we look forward to talking to you again at the end of the first quarter.
Thank you.
we view them as an important resource for bloggers and journalists THE INFORMATION CONTAINED HERE IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL CONFERENCE PRESENTATION OR OTHER AUDIO PRESENTATION AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS OMISSIONS OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE AUDIO PRESENTATIONS.
IN NO WAY DOES SEEKING ALPHA ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY TRANSCRIPT.
USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S AUDIO PRESENTATION ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.
If you have any additional questions about our online transcripts please contact us at: <a href="mailto:transcripts@seekingalpha.com" rel="nofollow"><u>transcripts@seekingalpha.com</u></a>.
Thank you!