Good day everyone and welcome to this Manitowoc Co.
Inc.
First Quarter 2011 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over the Mr.
Khail.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Manitowoc's first quarter earnings conference call.
Participating in today's call will be Glen Tellock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carl Laurino Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Eric Etchart President of Manitowoc Cranes.
Glen will open today's call by providing an overview of our quarterly results and business outlook.
Carl will then discuss our financial results for the first quarter in greater detail.
He will be followed by Eric Etchart who will offer insight into the market conditions for our Crane segment and will also discuss the recent ConExpo trade show in Las Vegas.
Following our prepared remarks we will be joined by Mike Kachmer President of Manitowoc Foodservice for our question and answer session.
For anyone who is not able to listen to today's entire call an archived version of this call will be available later this morning.
Please visit the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com to access the replay.
Before Glen begins his commentary I would like to review our Safe Harbor statement.
This call is taking place on April 29 2011.
During the course of today's call forward looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 will be made during each speaker's remarks and during our question and answer session.
Such statements are based on the company's current assessment of its markets and other factors that affect its business.
However actual results could differ materially from any implied projections due to 1 or more of the factors explained in Manitowoc's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are also available on our website.
The company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or other circumstances.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Glen.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
The first quarter 2011 results were in line with our expectations as year-over-year sales growth in our Crane and Foodservice segments reflect signs of continuing improvement in several end markets across both of our businesses.
During the quarter each of our segments participated in major industry trade shows which were highly successful in support of our increasing confidence in our full year outlook and long-term positioning.
For several years we have frequently discussed the 7 company-wide strategic imperatives that have played a vital role in strengthening our business segments and better positioning them for long-term growth.
Two of these initiatives are focused on innovation and aftermarket product support our key ingredients in our success.
And such during the downturn we intensified our focus on these initiatives and we are starting to see those bear fruit as the markets strengthened.
At the ConExpo and NAFEM trade shows our interaction and engagement with customers centered on these key strategic strengths and I would like to highlight a few examples that illustrate the results of our investments and efforts in these initiatives.
At NAFEM we demonstrated our continued focus and push towards increasingly user friendly products that consume less energy and water cook foods faster while improving flavor and offer multiple cooking platforms within 1 piece of equipment.
Two of the products that we exhibited the new Indigo ice machine and The Mini 2in1 combi oven will be receiving a 2011 kitchen Innovations award at the National Restaurant Association trade show in May.
In addition Manitowoc Foodservice was also recently named an ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for the second consecutive year reflecting our commitment to sustainability and energy efficiency.
Similarly our Crane segment continues to be on the forefront of product innovation.
At ConExpo we launched several new products as well as various enhancements to existing products which Eric will tell you more about later.
We also took the opportunity to highlight our quality initiatives and new encore program within Crane CARE which are competitive advantages as customers focus on the total cost of ownership an area where Manitowoc excels.
In addition to our investments in new product development we continue to improve and streamline our operations through LEAN initiatives technology enhancements and facility consolidations that will drive enhanced long-term profitability.
However we know that these operational improvements are only effective if we continue to build industry leading products that our customers want.
Therefore we will continue to drive improvements in both the product offering that we present to our customers as well as the way we build deliver and service those products.
Turning to our segment performance for the first quarter Foodservice performed in line with our expectations once again posting sales growth and healthy operating margins in a seasonally soft quarter.
We also continued to see increasing demand in most regions including Asia North America and select countries in Europe.
This includes a quick service chain that is planning to open 475 new stores in China this year another quick service chain that expects to have 2 000 restaurants open in China by 2013 and a quick service franchisee based in India that is investing over $111 million to double its restaurant footprint in that country over the next 3 to 4 years.
Since attending the last NAFEM show in 2009 our Foodservice segment has undergone significant change with the integration of Enodis.
Just 2 years later it was exciting to see the remarkable changes at NAFEM 2011 as Manitowoc Foodservice is now a cohesive industry leading enterprise.
During the show we also spent considerable time with several current and prospective customers.
And the feedback we received in Orlando in the subsequent weeks following NAFEM 2011 has been extremely positive.
It's very clear that our strategy is resonating with customers who are beginning to understand the value and benefits of our full product offering and the power of presenting multiple products with 1 face.
Moving to our Crane segment our first quarter results represented a continuation of the improving demand environment that we experienced in the fourth quarter of 2010 highlighted by strong growth in the Americas and the successful ConExpo show in March.
year-over-year sales growth and margin improvement coupled with a backlog of $800 million a 40% increase are early signs of the actions taken during the past 2 years to strengthen this segment and position it for growth and enhanced long-term profitability.
With the first quarter behind us we're happy on how both of our segments performed and have increased confidence in our full year outlook.
However we continue to believe that 2011 will be a year of transition and we're mindful of the challenges ahead.
In addition to managing our business through uneven demand levels we are also taking proactive steps to counteract the increasing commodity cost faced by the entire industry.
Despite these challenges we're comfortable where we stand today and believe that we are in an excellent position to drive year-over-year growth in 2011 and accelerated that growth as we move into 2012.
I will now turn the call over to Carl to discuss our detailed first quarter financial results.
Carl? Thanks Glen and good morning everyone.
We reported net sales for the first quarter of $732 million which is an increase of $48 million or 7% from the first quarter of 2010.
On a sequential quarter basis net sales decreased $99 million or 12% due primarily to delayed shipments of mobile hydraulic units due to Tier IV engine challenges that have now been resolved.
First quarter of 2011 consolidated operating margin before amortizations and onetime items was 5.5% versus 6.1% in the first quarter of 2010.
The year-over-year margin decline was driven by challenging comparables associated with the new product launch for Foodservice in the prior year quarter the reimplementation of some employee benefits and other costs that was suspended during 2009 and 2010 as well as rising commodity costs.
The GAAP net loss for the first quarter was $52 million or $0.40 per share versus a net loss of $23 million or $0.18 per share in the first quarter of 2010.
First quarter 2011 special items were primarily comprised of the impact from discontinued operations driven by the tax expense from the sale of Kysor/Warren of over $33 million.
Excluding these and other unusual items in both quarters the first quarter of 2011 net loss was $0.10 per share equivalent to the first quarter of 2010.
During the first quarter we also experienced an unusual tax provision with the recognition of approximately $1 million of income tax expense against a pretax loss of $16 million.
This was the result of first quarter losses experienced in certain foreign jurisdictions primarily in France which are fully impaired for GAAP reporting purposes.
The results that the impairments with these net operating losses had on the first quarter tax provision totaled about $6 million or $0.04 of diluted EPS.
Moving on to the balance sheet debt was relatively flat at the end of the first quarter compared to year end 2010.
This was the net result of the term loan pay down from the proceeds of the Kysor/Warren sale offset by a use of cash for the seasonal working capital build.
Additionally we recently announced we are taking action to further improve the strength and flexibility of our capital structure by refinancing our senior secured credit facilities.
The proposed changes should result in a 200 plus basis point reduction in interest rates and extend our current maturities.
These amendments should become effective within the next few weeks.
During the first quarter cash flow used for continuing operations was $137 million driven mostly by the seasonal increases in accounts receivable and inventory that were only partially offset by an increase in accounts payable.
Moving on to our segment results Foodservice sales in the first quarter of 2011 totaled $339 million which increased 7% from the first quarter of 2010.
First quarter 2011 operating earnings in Foodservice were $41 million versus $47 million in the same quarter last year.
The year-over-year comparison was negatively impacted by first quarter 2010 earnings strength resulting from the launch of our smoothie machine in North America for a major customer as well as first quarter 2011 investments in various emerging market opportunities and expenses for the biannual NAFEM trade show.
Moving to the Crane segment first quarter sales totaled $393 million up 7% from $366 million in the first quarter of 2010.
First quarter results were favorably impacted by a sustained increase in orders from the fourth quarter as well as an improved backlog.
Crane segment operating earnings in the first quarter were $13 million versus $5 million in the same quarter last year.
This resulted in first quarter Crane segment operating margins of 3.2% compared to 1.2% in the first quarter of 2010.
Crane backlog at the end of the first quarter was $800 million an increase of $228 million from December 31 2010.
The increase in backlog was due to solid order levels throughout the quarter that were enhanced by orders placed at the ConExpo trade show.
The backlog build was also enhanced by the temporary delay in product shipments resulting from the previously mentioned supply issue with Tier IV engines.
Our book to bill ratio of 1.6 is the highest level for this metric since the third quarter of 2007.
As noted in yesterday's press release we are reaffirming our guidance for 2011 and updating certain items for the impact of our pending refinancing of our senior credit facilities.
Based on the order levels we have seen during the first quarter we have increased confidence about our ability to reach our goals of low double digit year-over-year percentage growth in Crane segment revenue as well as improved margins building off 2010 trough levels despite a rising commodity price environment.
For the Foodservice segment we expect high single digit percentage revenue growth and improving mid teen margins versus 2010.
Other expectations for 2011 include capital expenditures of approximately $70 million depreciation and amortization of roughly $125 million approximately $150 million in interest expense and approximately $10 million in amortization of deferred financing fees.
In addition during the second quarter of 2011 as a result of our credit facility's refinancing we expect to incur a noncash write off of approximately $25 million in deferred financing fees from the existing facility.
Let me now turn the call over to Eric Etchart to discuss recent events in our Crane segment and to share some feedback on the 2010 ConExpo trade show.
Eric? Thank you Carl.
In the months since I last spoke to you on the fourth quarter conference call we've seen sustained improvement in demand for cranes driving increased confidence that we have emerged from the trough of the cycle and are on track to reach both our full year and long-term targets.
In the first quarter of 2011 we experienced sustained order intake levels compared with the fourth quarter driving year-over-year sales growth and the sequential increase in backlog.
First quarter sales benefited from strong demand in North America driven primarily by energy projects as well as continuing strength in Asia the Middle East and Latin America.
While parts of Northern Europe are showing modest signs of recovery Southern and Eastern Europe continue to show very little activity.
During the quarter we saw additional positive signs such as improved rental utilizations and an inventory decrease in distribution channels which drove some restocking in rental fee to replacement orders.
Our first quarter order intake also benefited from the ConExpo show which included over 120 000 attendees from across the globe.
The event not only enabled us to showcase our industry leading product lines but allowed customers the sustained opportunity to witness the results of our investments in innovation and new product development.
As Glen noted we launched several new products at ConExpo including the world's highest capacity rough terrain crane.
We also featured various upgrades for current models including the wind attachment for the Manitowoc 16000 which puts the crane's capacity by up to 49% and makes it increasingly powerful and an essential piece of equipment for this industry.
Additionally Crane CARE highlighted its new anchor program which is the latest example of Manitowoc's commitment to helping its crane customers reduce the rising cost of crane ownerships and operation.
This program reflects the longevity and quality of our products as we are able to fully remanufacture older Manitowoc cranes to standards that can even exceed their original date of manufacture a capability that is unmatched in the industry.
Our dedication to delivering superior products and providing best in class support is a key differentiator that sets us apart from the competition.
And it is clear that customers care about these capabilities.
While we are pleased with the quarter and growing signs of improvements we are also focused on managing operational challenges associated with fluctuating demand levels and external factors such as rising input costs which impact our margins.
We will continue to diligently manage our supply chain and we have already taken action to offset increasing costs through strategic pricing adjustments productivity initiatives and greater efficiency.
And we will continue to proactively manage these issues as they evolve throughout the year.
In closing I am proud of the progress we have made over the last year and I am excited about what the future holds for us.
We are very pleased with the demand levels in emerging markets such as China and India coupled with our recent announcement to build a 25 000 square meter manufacturing facility in Brazil.
The new plant which will begin producing mobile cranes in 2012 not only gives us the first mobile advantage in the Latin American market but continues the tradition of Manitowoc being a pioneer in emerging markets.
And as the global economy continues to improve Manitowoc is ideally positioned to compete for and win high profile projects given our broad global footprints which brings us closer to our customers and their needs.
With that I will return the call to Glen for his closing comments.
Thanks Eric.
In conclusion we are pleased with our first quarter results and are equally encouraged by the positive signs of recovery across both of our segments which also validates the strategy and investments that we've made in expanding and globalizing our Crane and Foodservice operations.
As I noted before we expect 2011 to be a transition year for Manitowoc in terms of challenges and opportunities.
Furthermore we continue to expect year-over-year growth in both of our operating segments and we remain focused on making the right investments and taking the appropriate actions that should drive significant top line growth and bottom line profitability in 2012 and beyond.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Nicole we will now begin our question and answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Robert Wertheimer from Morgan Stanley.
So my first question is just to the extent you're able could you elaborate on what the Tier IV issues were and help us understand how they are in the past? Well the amount of that is around $50 million Rob.
And the issues were trying to get a lot of the software synchronized with the rest of the engine and everything else with the trucks basically and the chassis.
So that is behind us from that set of factors in the current models that we have.
And so those did begin shipping in the second quarter.
Okay so it wasn't anything physical with the engine or the way you've designed it to fit it was just your software? It was just getting it to match up with all the software and the capabilities of the rest of the truck and the chassis.
Okay.
And then the second question I guess would be that you and 1 of your competitors over at Terax have now posted 2 quarters of very good crane orders each of you.
Internally did it feel to you like there's a solid bottom and robust recovery? Or does it feel like the orders are still coming in patchy and spotty? I would imagine a lot of your customers are still not making much money given where rental rates are so I just wanted to see if you feel like it’s on a gradual upswing from here or are you still thinking it's uncertain? I don't like    I wouldn't call it robust.
I like the patchy and spotty.
I mean we've mentioned that before that's kind of an uneven demand.
And I think if you look at the first quarter I mean ConExpo was good for North America and it gave you the confidence in what's happening in North America.
But what I would say is where it is robust it stays robust it's maintained its robustness I guess is the best phrase in the emerging markets.
That's where we continue to see good levels of activity.
And are you seeing any impact from the emerging Chinese competitors in emerging markets on your demand or pricing ability? And I'll stop there thanks.
We are.
I'll let Eric elaborate a little bit more on the Chinese competition.
Well Rob I think the Chinese continue to dominate obviously in China even if we are and other first tier manufacturers are competing in China.
Obviously and honestly there is a lot of smoke but not a lot of fire.
I think you wouldn't have time for the Chinese competition to build up their brand distributions and raise their value and the best in class reliability that they need to crack the domestic market.
So overall yes.
Chinese competition that's outside of China is only a long term threat.
But again we don't see immediate threat short term.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our next question from Nicole DeBlase from Deutsche Bank.
So the first question that I have is if you could provide the FX impact to the Crane backlog this quarter? Nominal.
Okay.
And that's on a Q on Q basis that was a nominal impact? Q on Q and year-over-year.
Okay.
Got it.
And then just a modeling question what are you guys expecting for the tax rate for the full year or the remaining 3 quarters? That's a very good question.
Obviously we've had the unusual circumstances and I think it probably is something that we revisits us if we get the normal seasonal pattern and softness in the fourth quarter this year probably have a very unusual effective tax rate in the fourth quarter.
The remaining quarters in total you're still looking at probably a high effective tax rate because of those 2 quarters.
And if you take them all together you're probably close to a 50% effective tax rate because of the ineffectiveness of the losses in some of the foreign jurisdictions.
And if you take out that issue that obviously we expect to get through once we get into a little bit better times in the cycle.
We're worried about our 25% effective tax rate but since we expect that to linger and be most pronounced in the fourth quarter it's probably about 50% effective tax rate for the balance of the year.
And our next question comes from Charlie Brady from BMO Capital Markets.
Can you    on the Quick Service opportunity you guys talked about in Foodservice with the China and India can you quantify what that opportunity might be over the next few years? And given the size of what I imagined those orders might be is there a margin differential on there that might impact the Foodservice business over that time period? Well I'm going to take the first part of that and then I'm going to let Mike give you a little better flavor just overall on the emerging markets with Foodservice.
But yes to quantify it Charlie is very difficult.
I mean I think what we're trying to get across is to say the emerging markets are more and more a bigger part of the Foodservice strategy that we put in place to get a lot capture a lot more of that market and show that there is growth in that market outside of North America.
So it's the normal opportunities we have anytime anybody expands in any market given the product breadth that we have and the global footprint that we have.
Now when it comes to the margins I mean it's going to be on a normalized basis.
Again it goes    it's a mix issue.
It depends if they're using 1 product versus another and so that just depends on what they're ruling out at a given time.
I'm going to let Mike step in and give you a little more flavor on some of the opportunities in emerging markets.
Yes Glen let me extend your comments there on margin.
If you look at the categories right now that we're focused on with the targeted chains we believe that our cost position is extremely competitive first of all due to the operations that we have in the APAC region to begin with but also with our continued focus on reducing our cost structure going forward.
So we believe that again for the categories that we're focused on our margin situation is good.
The other thing that I would say is depending on your time horizon on this Charlie is that yes obviously a key driver for us in Foodservice is the replacement.
And it takes a while for you to get to that critical mass to have that driver be as relevant in the emerging markets but certainly helpful to us in the near term on some of the new store activity.
And is it fair to say that a product sold into emerging market doesn't have a meaningful lead lower margin than something sold into say the North American market? Yes.
And our next question comes from Ann Duignan from JP Morgan.
Could you just first address the $800 million backlog crane backlog? How are those products priced? Are those priced at old prices and therefore will carry lower margins as we go through that backlog? Or when do price increases take effect and when will they hit the P&amp;L? Well Ann I would say yes I think much of the activity that's ongoing today would be at pricing arrangements that obviously go back depending on the type of product sometimes even several months.
But Ann our overall message as it relates to price versus commodities in cranes is that it's a difficult story for us this year.
We're just coming off the trough and there's still despite some of the recent order activities still capacity available in the industry for the pricing environment is not as robust as we would expect it to be when you get a little bit longer into recovery.
And by virtue of that and we think that it's going to be difficult for us to get the requisite type of pricing and maybe even some other product on take out to be able to overcome some of the steep increases that we're seeing on the commodity cost side.
Obviously we'll get other benefits from the expected volume growth and overall our message is that we'll see year-over-year margin enhancement and margin growth in cranes.
But price versus commodity costs is pretty tough in '11.
But what I would add to that though Ann historically we've been a price leader and we're going to continue to be that in the future.
And we're going to do that.
And if people don't follow that's a challenge for us and then to everything that what Carl said.
But I can tell you that we aren't going to sit back and wait.
I mean we will continue to do what we've done in the past.
So I'm a little confused have you raised prices yet or not? We have.
Yes we had Ann and we had to because with the  Tier IV we had additional costs associated with Tier IV engines and we had already passed some pricings.
But given what we see on the material costs coming in front of us we need to be more aggressive in testing pricing.
But I think to answer your other question Ann what you said is what does it do to the near term versus long term.
Yes some of the near term things that are going out are based on pricing that was in the fourth quarter of last year.
And as you know historically again we have not changed the prices in our backlogs.
And we don't intend to change that policy either so it's what we have to get around and that's where it comes to the LEAN manufacturing initiatives comes to additional pricing that we'll do and some of the benefits we have to get out of our manufacturing environment.
Okay.
So when would you expect to be price cost neutral? We don't expect to be able to achieve that in all likelihood until probably next year.
Okay that's what I was trying to get at.
And then just my follow up question on Foodservice.
Should we be concerned that that segment is already past peak operating margins? And just given your commentary that you say it's very tough comparables based on last year's product launches are we looking at 2010 as having been peaked for Foodservice margins? No I don't think you should infer that Ann.
Obviously the first quarter is    typically as I mentioned in my comments it's a soft seasonal quarter.
Typically the second and third quarters are best but I wouldn't make that assumption.
Sorry I do need to make sure that we do 1 follow up because we do have a I think a pretty big queue of questions.
And we'll take our next question from Jerry Revich from Goldman Sachs.
Eric can you talk about the inquiries you're seeing rank order for us which regions do you expect to drive order growth over the next 6 to 12 months? You mentioned Americas were a big driver on the past couple of quarters.
Is that continuing or any other markets that are looking more or less interesting? Well obviously the activity has been as we anticipate in the emerging markets very very strong especially Latin America I would say.
Asia typically the Q1 is not the best quarter in terms of order activity because you have a Chinese New Year.
This year you had the waterflood in Australia so Asia has been over what we have seen last year but slightly obviously down compared to the last quarter.
Now I must tell you that in Europe we see the towers picking up a little bit of steam.
And we're coming from the low base but that's quite encouraging.
And the Middle East has not been impacted at least where we do business.
We have the recent geopolitics even so the business in Saudi Arabia as an example has continued to be fairly strong.
So overall I mean it's a good outlook.
We've got to be careful now to see if we can confirm all these order activity in North America.
Definitely there have been some refuting activities there have been some restocking activity.
We need to see how this retail.
Obviously the customer are more positive and optimistic but I think we have to be a little bit cautious in North America.
And can you talk about the timing of customer delivery requirements for the past few quarters? Even adding back the interim Tier IV issue you still would have underproduced versus the order transfer for the past 2 quarters.
Is that a function of customers want a big chunk of the deliveries in 2Q or 3Q? And how should we think about production rates from here? Most of it's in for delivery in the next 6 to 9 months.
I mean a lot of it doesn't stretch out to next year but there is some.
So we should think of a pretty meaningful production pickup as early as 2Q? Yes.
We've been in that mode already yes.
And our next question comes from Chris Weltzer from Robert W.
Baird.
Still a little bit of a clarification on the answer to the last question.
Do you expect to recognize sort of your catch up with that $50 million of revenue in the second quarter? Or should we still expect sort of a normal 2Q is good 3Q might be a little bit better and a big 4Q in Crane for this year? We should get most of that delay in the second quarter.
Okay.
Thank you that's helpful.
And are you guys seeing any impact or can you parse what you're seeing as far as any impact from the Japanese disasters? I know you guys have a relationship with Kobelco for some small crawlers.
Just a little bit of color what you're seeing there? Well overall I wouldn't call it significant Chris.
There are some things we have    you mentioned the Kobelco relationship there are the timing of some shipments on that.
But there also is a steel supplier that we have in Japan which again that's one of those core supplier issues that we talk about.
And then on the Foodservice side it's not as    we haven't seen the big significant impact on that.
So we're not looking at it as a great impact and certainly in the month of tragedy we don't want to talk about opportunities yet but I think that's a much longer term.
Eric do you have anything to add on that? No.
You mentioned Kobelco which is the unknown because where's there's still unfolding issues in Japan is the Tier 2 and Tier 3 suppliers of our overall our own suppliers.
This is still very unknown.
So we have to see some questions remarks.
But to be clear I mean we have to look at suppliers as generally because they are ramping up and probably some electronic conference going from there but that's all we can stay at this point of time.
Okay that's very helpful.
Then one real quick one.
Any idea how much ConExpo expenses might have been in the quarter? And what line items they'll show up in? Well it's going to show up in SG&amp;A.
It's    go ahead.
It's about $2 million yes.
Okay.
In unallocated or up with the segments? It's only in Cranes.
I should add that we also had probably about $1.5 million in NAFEM in the quarter on the Foodservice side.
And that's not a year-over-year recurrence because that's every 2 years or so.
And our next question comes from David Wells from Thompson Research Group.
First off I was wondering if you could quantify a little bit of your verbiage about the investments that you made in the emerging markets in the quarter.
And I guess I'm trying to get a sense of is that headcount additions and kind of the drivers behind the choice to make those investments right now? I think you're talking about the Foodservice business  Foodservice business.
Have you mentioned about the Foodservice? Go ahead Mike.
Okay.
I think there are a couple of great examples that highlight what we're talking about.
If you think of the blended ice movie category that is a very important new market for us Southeast Asia is a market that 1 of our largest customers is pursuing their next rollout.
And so while we believe that the steady state margins will be fine we do put resources in place in advance of the rollout to support it.
It will come in the form of product managers sales resources service resources et cetera.
So we will have headcount and some associated costs like that.
Separately for a different large global chain in China we have put people into the region to develop products conducive for the region and again those resources are placed in advance of the revenue occurring.
Long term it's going to be great.
In a quarter like the first there'll be expenses not linked to direct revenue.
Two examples.
That's helpful thanks.
And then I guess as a follow up on I'm just trying to get a sense of looking back over the last couple of years there was a fair amount of discussion on these calls about the cost takeout that you've have done on a broader basis.
Given what you're seeing now I guess as orders begin to return on the Crane side of things and certainly some of the opportunities on Foodservice as you look at the cost takeout that you've done over the business and look at the kind of permanency and kind of a fixed versus variable side of the equation has you're thinking on that changed appreciably? And any thoughts about that would be helpful as we think about the business heading into '12 and beyond.
One thing I would mention is yes that's definitely the case.
I think part of the benefit that we saw from some of the actions that we took in building capacity in the last peak they certainly are not realizable as you go through the trough years as we saw.
The other thing that comes into play as far as having an ability to leverage as we are in growth mode is some of the re institution of some of the austerity measures that are taking that that have to flow back into place.
So we do    as we look at getting through to a profitable margin growth in 2011 despite the commodity challenges that's a big part of the way that we get there is through some of those operational excellence initiatives.
But I would say on that David when you look at some of the infrastructure things that took cost out whether it was in Foodservice or in the integration over the last 2 years for Cranes for instance the Slovakia thing investments that we made in Italy or what we're doing now in India or China or different things or the consolidations in France you take those together what we're going to be bringing back are people.
And so if we've made a lot of investments in machinery technology that kind of thing as we ramp up we should start seeing the impact of those investments from an efficiency standpoint.
And so instead of bringing back as many people as we did in the last upturn we're not going to need that same headcount on a lower capacity base of manufacturing.
So those are the opportunities we have.
We're just too early in the upturn to see the benefits of those right now.
And we'll take a question from Ted Grace from Susquehanna.
LLLP</strong> On the Crane orders I'm just wondering if you can give us a little more color on the 1Q order book itself total order book of 51% year-over-year.
Could you just help us understand how North America performed versus Europe and Latin America? 80% would be helpful or just the broader EM just so we understand what drove it regionally? Well North America had a very strong order intake in Q4 already and that order rate sustained very well in Q1 as well.
So that has been impressive in terms of growth.
And comparing with Q1 last year basically America's backlog orders basically has doubled just to give you the magnitude of what it is.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
So it's doubled year-over-year? Yes.
LLLP</strong> That's great.
And then Europe and    it would be helpful to understand that.
Well Europe again is definitely growing as well in terms of order intake and backlog.
It's primarily driven by the GMK product range and towers again as I said earlier picking up really steam in Europe as well.
So again year-over-year you see an improvement in Europe as well.
Of course if you take that total backlog the Americas became a heavyweight compared to Europe which traditionally was not the case.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
And so is it fair to assume what you're saying is Europe probably punched below the 51% average for the segment year-over-year? In Europe or...
LLLP</strong> Yes the European orders were I'm guessing up but not as great as the 51% we saw for the whole Crane business.
Yes.
LLLP</strong> And for Latin America could you give us just a little more color there? No.
I think when we get down to the specifics when we get that granular we would rather keep it on a higher level.
But what I would say is the order intake it certainly didn't double like it did in the Americas but it was certainly impressive.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
So fair to assume that's above the 51%? Sure.
LLLP</strong> Is it fair to say Glen? Reasonable expectation.
LLLP</strong> Okay great.
And then just the second kind of follow on question is can you just remind us what your mix was in 2010 for Crane revenues between I know you    before with the Americas EAME (sic) [EMEA] and then all other? Or if you could just give us a sense for how big each region is that would be helpful.
Both I mean in the quarter you mean? LLLP</strong> No for 2010.
I would be more curious to kind of benchmark it against last year.
We only give the regional split Ted.
So you've got Europe Middle East Africa bunched together that's south of 40%.
The Americas is more of kind of mid 40% range and then you got Asia Pacific that's in the mid teen level.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
Yes I was just wondering if you might be able to give us the country so.
And then this will be the last thing but can you just talk on the split between new crane orders and attachment orders? And help us understand if there was a material difference between attachments and new cranes and I'll leave it there.
No there's    the interesting thing is some of the attachments cost more than what some of the    some of it's on product mix some of the smaller products that we have.
So when we say attachments it still can be a significant part of the business and it is.
So I mean it's not a big breakout.
There's not normally wild swing between the whole goods and the attachments.
And our next question comes from Paul Bodnar from Longbow.
Just a follow up on pricing.
I mean you guys have obviously    sounds like you've taken some actions.
How did the competition reacted? Is there anyone kind of lagging out there? Or being a bit more aggressive? Well yes I think there are some that are lagging.
And I think we made comments about it late last year people that had inventory.
I think 1 of our competitors announced some things that they saw from a common competitor we all had in southern Germany a big construction equipment company in southern Germany.
And it's in various publications if you look at what other people have for pricing in that market.
And so I don't think it's    I think it's improving in all honesty because as Carl mentioned the inventories and I think the capacities are getting back to normal.
You're seeing pricing stabilize on used equipment.
I think that's a positive.
And then in Mike's industry or the Foodservice industry again it's    I liked Mike's comments where he said "Hey look our position is very competitive." When you have made your change that are going out and you're competing for certain pieces of business around the world it's competitive.
But the beauty that we have is we have a very good cost position.
So I mean you can get it through to the customers that pricing through when you can verify that hey it's specifically this it's commodities that's rising this rising that but that still doesn't mean that all competition is rational.
But we've been dealing with that forever so that's where we play in the positions in the markets that we're in.
Okay.
And then I guess along those lines I mean are you concerned or have you any kind of commentary? I mean if some customers come in ahead of these price increases at all or are they kind of saying hey it hasn't moved up that much and maybe the price power is not going to be that strong so they're still taking the wait and see approach in terms of buying?  It's probably more Crane than Foodservice.
I mean I think it's    I can't speak for anybody else.
I think it's on a case by case basis.
But the buying decision on that type of equipment is going to be much more predicated on what is the need and what is the availability of that type of lift equipment.
The idea of deferring because there's a price or accelerating because there's a price increase coming is I don't think a real driver.
And we have a question from Henry Kirn from UBS.
Could you chat a little bit about where the supply chain in cranes stands today outside of Japan? Well obviously Henry tires is becoming the problems and everything relating to hydraulics pumps is becoming something that you have to watch carefully.
And also your outsourcing they have to ramp up and then it's tough for them.
So that's the overall supply chain that is stretched right now.
That's helpful.
And is it possible to quantify the ConExpo order intake in the quarter? It is possible to quantify it but we're not going to disclose it.
I mean it was good.
It was a good order intake show for us.
As we mentioned we had some good products that were new.
We talked about the new RT some of the encore products.
You had the tower cranes the wind detachment the GMKs the 6300 and the 6400.
I mean I would characterize it as good as other ConExpos so I mean there was no decrease or anything like that.
But it was good for us.
And we'll take a question from Seth Weber from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Just a quick follow up on Henry's question.
I mean do you feel like ConExpo pulled orders forward from the second quarter? Or can you comment on how trends in North America   the order book has trended in North America thus far into April? I don't think it pulled anything forward Seth.
I think a lot of times people know   our sales people and other people know what's going to happen there.
And people just want to touch it.
They want to see it and our people have been talking to customers and prospective customers for a long time about these things.
And so the orders are there.
I mean again the price of some of this stuff is not where they just buy it haphazardly especially in today's environment.
So I don't think it pulled it forward.
I think it's because for instance the 6300 and the 6400 some of that will ship later this year.
If the 6400 doesn't ship it will start shipping until next year so it's not pulling anything forward.
I think it's just the normal position that people have.
Sometimes it's just the number of quantities and how far they stretch out.
So again it's a normal show for us and it doesn't change the dynamics any.
LLC</strong> But is it safe to say that trends have continued into April then? Well certainly with ConExpo you're not going to have the same number of units you're going to have in April.
But yes I think it continues to tell us that the worst is behind us.
What I just want to add up on his comments that we see also the increase of the Parts business which again it's a sign that 2010 was a trough.
And we have repeatedly say that Parts is a good indicator of what's moving forward.
So we continue to see Parts business increasing.
LLC</strong> Right.
Okay thank you.
And then I'd like to drill down a little bit on the Foodservice margin guidance.
I mean you're talking about up year-over-year for 2011 which would suggest something like a 15% margin.
But the first quarter was down year-over-year about 250 basis points.
I'm just trying to understand and I appreciate some of the commentary that you gave earlier about some improvements and enhancements but I mean I would suggest the second third fourth quarters have to be up pretty strongly over the balance of the year year-over-year.
So I'm just trying to understand what you're seeing there that gives you confidence that those margins will be up versus last year.
Well it's really    the biggest part is the unusually high margin that we had in Foodservice in the first quarter last year given the success of a rollout that we didn't have this year.
And the normal seasonal pattern is that you do have some pretty solid quarters in the second and third quarters and then more of a muted type of margin performance in the first and the fourth just because of the normal seasonal pattern there.
LLC</strong> Okay.
So you're not assuming there's any kind of   you're going to get a benefit from new product introductions or anything like that through the balance of this year that would juice your margins this year versus last year then? It's just kind of volumes getting better and...
Those will always factor into every year.
It's just the matter of calendarization and what is the order of magnitude of that type of activity comparing any 2 quarters.
But it's not anything that we could foresee that would be as significant as what we saw in the Q1 comparison.
LLC</strong> Okay.
I mean just from a quarterly comparison perspective do you expect I mean were there any quarters last year that were weak that the comps would be easier this year? Or is it just going to be strength across the board going forward year-over-year? Yes I would say...
LLC</strong> Does that make sense? Yes.
LLC</strong> Just kind of business getting better better leverage? Getting better...
And we'll take our next question from Charlie Rentschler from Boenning and Scattergood.
Inc.</strong> I wanted to ask another question about the Fukushima disaster but not your possible role in reconstruction.
But Eric what the consequences on the industry as people look at the or re look at nuclear power versus alternatives what can you tell us? What's going on short term long term in people's thinking in the industry? Well Charlie I think that's   you can debate back a long time.
But what I would say when this happened and we had a lot of conversations internally about it is does it get people to look at more of the renewable energies is it wind? Is it solar? Is it water hydro? All that kind of thing.
And I think a very good response that we had internally is look if  we build nuclear we're going to use a lot of cranes.
If we don't build nuclear and we have to build something else that is in the renewable side we're going to use probably even more cranes because you're not going to get the same effective efficient energy that you get out of nuclear from some of the renewables.
So it's still    no matter what they do the thirst for energy worldwide is still going to use a lot of cranes.
Inc.</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I wanted to ask Mike a question about his product portfolio.
Do you see anything you'd like to prune out of what you've got Mike? Or anything that you really long to have other products? Can you talk about that a little bit? Well first let's talk about the pruning side.
I think what's taking place since the acquisition of '08 was some forced pruning and then some selective pruning ending without the Kysor/Warren divestiture that occurred at the very start of this year.
Right now we believe that we're greatly positioned with long standing brands that are either 1 and 2 in their marketplaces.
And where we have 2s we're working on strengthening them.
But buying large we like the lineup that we have today.
There are categories that as we look forward and we have more flexibility and more stable environments that we'd like to add to our current portfolio.
In most cases probably be geographical plays that support our emerging market growth or some categories that would be new to us.
At this point I will turn the call back over to Mr.
Khail for any closing remarks.
Before we conclude today's call I'd like to remind everyone that a replay of our first quarter conference call will be available later this morning.
You can access the replay by visiting the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in the Manitowoc Company.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our second quarter conference call in July.
Have a good day.
And once again ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation today.
Good day everyone and welcome to this Manitowoc Company Inc.
Q2 2011 Manitowoc Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Khail.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Manitowoc's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Participating in today's call will be Glen Tellock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carl Laurino Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Mike Kachmer President of Manitowoc Foodservice.
Glen will open today's call by providing an overview of our quarterly results and business outlook.
Carl will then discuss our financial results for the second quarter in greater detail and will be followed by Mike Kachmer who will offer insight into the market conditions and recent events in our Foodservice segment.
Following our prepared remarks we will be joined by Eric Etchart President of Manitowoc Cranes for our question-and-answer session.
For anyone who's not able to stay online for today's entire call an archived version of this call will be available later this morning.
Please visit the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com to access the replay.
Before Glen begins his commentary I would like to review our Safe Harbor statement.
This call is taking place on July 27 2011.
During the course of today's call forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 will be made during each speaker's remarks and during our question-and-answer session.
Such statements are based on the company's current assessment of its markets and other factors that effect its business.
However actual results could differ materially from any implied projections due to one or more of the factors explained in Manitowoc's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are also available on our website.
The Manitowoc company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or other circumstances.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Glen.
Thanks Steven.
Good morning everyone.
The first half of 2011 has laid out largely as we had expected.
Our second quarter results underscored the firming demand we are seeing for our products across multiple geographies.
In Cranes and Foodservice we are witnessing pockets of increased confidence across our customer base while some cautiousness remains.
We're also pleased with the balanced sales performance across both segments.
While we continue to expect growth through the  remainder of 2011 the continuing uncertainty in the global economic picture is creating ongoing end market volatility.
Let's me start with a discussion on our segment performance.
For the second quarter Foodservice posted solid results that tracked above the overall industry growth rates.
With improved operating efficiencies driving margin expansions we continued to extend our global leadership position in this business.
Specifically during the quarter demand in North America and the emerging markets continued to increase while the marketplace in Europe showed  signs of further stabilization.
Our sustained focus on innovation and the breadth of product offering makes us a valued partner in our customers' long-term success.
During the quarter we completed the successful launch of our Indigo ice machine platform which received a Kitchen Innovation Award at the recent NRA tradeshow and a Dealer Design Award from the newest HVAC publication.
We also introduced a variety of technological enhancements for our Merrychef ovens and blended beverage product categories.
The combination of our product offerings existing relationships and global footprint has afforded us significant opportunities to drive continued growth as we move into the second half of 2011.
Moving to our Crane segment.
Our second quarter results were solid as we experienced sustained order intake levels which drove year-over-year sales growth and another sequential increase in backlog.
We are experiencing improved quoting activity across multiple geographies and product lines with demand in North America picking up particularly with large rough terrain cranes and blue trucks.
We're also experiencing increased activity in Europe notably in Germany France and Switzerland for our tower cranes and altering cranes.
And in emerging markets energy and infrastructure projects remain the key sales drivers.
Over the last several years we have frequently discussed the 7 company-wide strategic imperatives that have played a vital role in strengthening Manitowoc's business segments and better position us for long term.
Last quarter we discussed our focus on innovation and aftermarket product support.
Today I would like to focus on our growth imperative and in particular our strategy of continued investments in emerging markets.
We firmly believe the strategic initiative is a source of long-term expansion for our business.
During the quarter Brazil performed exceptionally well and continues to have a favorable impact on our business.
With leading positions in each of our product lines Brazil is our #1 emerging market within the Crane segment.
We continued to deliver strong results in this region as our market position and brand strength paid dividends.
The explosive growth in Brazil has been primarily driven by energy and infrastructure projects as well as various natural resource industries which we expect to grow for the foreseeable future.
To capitalize on the potential of Brazil we're building a 270 000 square foot crane plant near Paso Fundo which will initially build mobile telescopic cranes.
The project remains on time and on budget for an expected completion in the first half of 2012.
Turning to India.
There is significant ongoing development in this market and we are very well positioned to capture that growth in both in our Cranes and Foodservice businesses.
Specifically in the Crane segment we are replicating the success we have seen in markets such as China with Potain tower crane as being the pioneer in establishing a leadership position.
In addition our manufacturing presence in this region is reaping benefits as we continue to further expand our market position.
We continued to see meaningful opportunities for growth through infrastructure projects in the greater Asia Pacific region including Singapore Indonesia the Philippines and Australia.
In addition growth in new restaurant construction by regional and global chains remained strong which further positions us for continued success.
Our global distributions focused on innovation and industry-leading aftermarket product support positions us extremely well especially in an environment of increased competition.
In addition with continued higher crane utilization rates and some improvement in rental rates coupled with early signs of dealer restocking we believe the year is not only shaping up as we expected but we believe these trends suggest stronger growth opportunities as we look into 2012.
As I mentioned earlier and with any transition year our customer base across both segments remains cautious but increasingly more confident.
In addition to managing our business through uneven demand levels we have taken proactive steps to counteract increasing commodity costs evidenced by our recent price increases in the Crane segment and the third quarter price increase in Foodservice.
Despite general market challenges we are encouraged by end market demand as we maintain our first half growth trajectory for the remainder of 2011 and position our 2 world class businesses for accelerated growth in 2012.
I will now turn the call over to Carl to discuss our detailed second quarter financial results.
Carl? Thanks Glen and good morning everyone.
We reported net sales for the second quarter of $950 million which is an increase of $130 million or 16% from the second quarter of 2010.
The year-over-year increase in net sales during the second quarter was driven primarily by a 23% increase in Crane segment sales coupled with a 7% increase in Foodservice.
While revenue met our expectations during the quarter we continue to experience broader base supply chain constraints in the Crane segment.
Despite the solid progress we have made over the last several months we are still experiencing some limitations with Tier IV engines that we discussed during last quarter's call as well as select issues with supply chain deliveries.
Second quarter 2011 consolidated operating margin before amortization was 8.3% versus 10% in the second quarter of 2010.
The year-over-year margin decline was primarily driven by general market pricing pressure a shift in product mix and commodity cost increases.
In addition challenging comparables associated with the second quarter 2010 collection are fully reserved accounts receivables in the Crane segment enhanced margins in this segment by over 100 basis points a year ago.
GAAP net income for the second quarter was $2.7 million or $0.02 per share versus net income of $14.1 million or $0.11 per share in the second quarter of 2010.
Second quarter 2011 EPS excluding special items was $0.16 per share versus $0.11 for the prior-year quarter.
The second quarter 2011 earnings included costs of $0.12 per share related to our senior credit facility debt refinancing and a $0.01 per share related to European restructuring charges.
Moving to the balance sheet.
We continue to focus on working capital management to ensure we maintain an appropriate balance between our ability to meet growing customer demand and our debt reduction goal.
While we continue to target $200 million in debt reduction for 2011 we will not compromise our ability to meet an anticipated increase in demand as we move into 2012.
During the second quarter cash flow used for operations was $34 million.
This was primarily driven by increased inventory for second half 2011 deliveries and accounts receivable levels from higher sequential quarterly sales volumes.
Consistent with our seasonal pattern year-to-date cash usage was on track and we anticipate strong second half cash generation.
Moving on to our segment results.
Foodservice sales in the second quarter of 2011 totaled $395 million which increased 7% from a year ago.
Second quarter 2011 operating earnings in Foodservice were up 13% $62 million versus $55 million in the same quarter last year.
Operating margin of 15.7% for the quarter rose 70 basis point from those in the second quarter of 2010.
The year-over-year comparison was favorably impacted by new products including the ongoing rollout of our Indigo ice machine series.
Moving to the Crane segment.
Second quarter sales totaled $555 million up 23% from $451 million in the second quarter of 2010.
The quarter's results reflected continued growth in the Americas region strong demand in the emerging markets as well as a strengthening backlog.
Crane segment operating earnings in the second quarter were $30 million versus $39 million in the same quarter last year.
This resulted in second quarter Crane segment operating margins of 5.3% compared to 8.5% a year ago.
The year-over-year comparison was negatively impacted by commodity cost increases and the previously mentioned bad debt recovery in the second quarter of 2010.
Crane backlog at quarter end was $840 million an increase of $40 million or 5% from $800 million at March 31 2011 and an impressive increase of $309 million or 58% from the prior-year period.
The increase in backlog was primarily due to our third consecutive quarter of strong order intake.
Based on the order levels we have seen during the second quarter and our end market opportunities we have increased confidence about our ability to reach our goals of double-digit year-over-year percentage growth in Crane segment revenue.
We also expect improved margins building off 2010 trough levels despite the difficult second quarter comparison and a challenging commodity price environment.
As noted in yesterday's press release we are reaffirming our guidance for 2011.
Let me now turn the call over to Mike Kachmer to discuss market conditions and recent events in our Foodservice segment.
Mike? Thank you Carl.
Our Foodservice segment continues to maintain a very strong position in the marketplace as a leading player in the global Foodservice equipment industry.
As Glen stated we experienced increased demand in North America and the emerging markets during the quarter while we also made a positive strides in Europe as that market begins to stabilize.
Our chain customers continued to drive the largest amount of growth in North America and various emerging markets.
During the quarter we attended the National Restaurant Association Show in Chicago.
Our conversations throughout the event with both new and existing customers confirmed the growing level of increased confidence in the industry further validating our strong position in the Foodservice Equipment industry.
According to a recent NRA survey reported CapEx spending by restaurant operators during the second quarter and future CapEx plans for spending by the same group are now at their highest levels than any prior quarter in the past 2 years.
Moving on let me share with you how one of our recent product launches has been tracking in the market.
The Indigo ice machine platform recently launched at several events including NAFEM NOA and several international shows has been very well received in the marketplace.
As a reminder our Indigo ice machines offer industry-leading serviceability and food safety enhancements all geared towards creating a more reliable and efficient ice maker.
We also continue to focus our efforts on accelerated cooking and blended beverages as growing disciplines and categories.
We will continue to capitalize on growth opportunities within each of these areas.
Our Merrychef ovens continue to evolve and we have recently integrated new technology enhancements into this product line that will be launched to several large chain customers.
In addition our blended beverage line continues to gain positive traction.
One of the world's leading quick-service restaurant chains continues to roll out our blended beverage products into additional markets.
As a key partner in helping our customers achieve menu distinction we are the only company that offers blend-in-cup and blend-in-pitcher products.
We're continuing development of our full line of blended beverage equipment and demonstrating to a growing list of prospects the wide array of smoothie blended ice and dessert-type beverages that can produced in this flexible product line.
We continue to enjoy high interest in these products from large customers.
Our customers include many of the fastest-growing chains and most technologically advanced companies in the world not only appreciate the flexibility of our equipment but rely on us for innovations that allow them to enhance their menus streamline their operations expand their geographic footprint and reduce their overall costs.
For example our recent introduction of the oil conserving fire by FryMaster is enjoying strong interest from leading chains which realized substantial cost savings from reduced oil and energy use.
And our expanded line of Merrychef's accelerated cooking ovens featuring our smart control system continues to gain more placements in sandwich convenience store and supermarket chains.
As we look to the remainder of 2011 and beyond the Foodservice segment is in a strong position to continue to drive growth by gaining additional market share embracing growth areas as customers make new investments in their businesses and leveraging multiple global opportunities as the market expands.
In addition we are diligently focused on increasing our own operating efficiencies throughout the business as we continue to grow on the top line.
We are confident that we remain on track with our full year expectations and we continue to see meaningful opportunities for further improvements as we build an industry-leading business for the long-term.
With that I'll return the call to Glen for his closing comments.
Thanks Mike.
As evidenced by Mike's comments we continue to see significant opportunities for growth in our Foodservice segment through increasing global demand for our products as well as opportunities for driving enhanced operational efficiencies.
To conclude the performance results we have showed with you today in the Crane and Foodservice segments are indicative of the significant investments and strategic initiatives we have made positioning us well for long-term success.
In addition we continue to invest in new product development and technologies to drive performance in the future.
While we continue to believe 2011 is a transition year from a risk and opportunities perspective we clearly have momentum and anticipate that we will continue to build on our strong foundation in 2012 and beyond evidenced by the further stabilization across our geographies and increasing demand in emerging markets.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Danielle we will now open -- now begin our question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question will come from Charlie Brady with BMO Capital Markets.
With regard to commodity cost pressure can you give us a sense of what kind of headwind that was on Crane and Foodservice in the quarter? And given that the price increases that you put through are we going to be covering the raw material commodity cost increases in the back half of this year? Well the magnitude was certainly significant Charlie for us in the Crane segment in the quarter.
It was over $12 million in total for the quarter.
The full year expectation for us on that front is probably fully $30 million.
So being the transition year obviously we will get some relief with the pricing increases that we have announced.
And it's a greater or lesser degree depending on the product line and region but it will certainly help in the back half of the year.
And I think the wildcard as always will be the direction on the cost side.
In Foodservice the impact for us is probably about $5 million in the quarter roughly.
And I think it's probably a little bit easier for us in the last 6 months of the year in Foodservice.
All right.
Then still a follow-up on your Crane revenue guidance of low double-digit growth for the full year.
The first half Crane revenue was up 16% orders were up 56%.
It would seem that to get into a low double-digit revenue rate for the year back half would have to come in 9% 10% or so.
Is that -- is your guidance the concern of guidance? Or are you expecting a kind of a drop off in the second half? Well I think the guidance reflects a transition year.
It's obviously -- we never had an expectation that this was going to be some reshape recovery.
A lot of issues around the world as we all know and that creates overall caution on the side of the customer base and as we think about the outlook.
But we still need to see some pretty good growth in order to achieve that guidance.
And again given the very strong quarter that we had over 20% growth that does provide us with increased confidence that we will definitely be able to achieve that guidance level whereas earlier in the year it's a little bit more of a wildcard.
Charlie I think to Carl's point I think when you look at the first quarter when you look at the second quarter just those 2 alone were 2 different types of quarters from just a confidence standpoint in the end markets.
And so changing the guidance given where we sit here today with North America being a big part of that so far right now what's going to continue to happen in North America when you have all the political things going on you have some of the things that are happening in Europe so I think it's a matter of -- I think there's some cautiousness as we've used that word in there.
Is there an opportunity for some upside? Perhaps.
But I think it's kind of silly for us to go and create a different expectation right now for the full year given where we sit and looking at where we're at now 6 months into the year and wondering what's going to happen in certain markets for the rest of the 6 months.
Next in queue we have Seth Weber with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC</strong> Is it possible to quantify what the price increase that you put through for both the Crane business and Foodservice recently? Low single-digit percentage increase.
LLC</strong> For both categories? Yes.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And I guess can you help us understand what's in the Crane backlog at this point? How would you characterize the pricing of the orders that are in backlog? I mean are the orders that have been in there for a quarter or 2 relatively at lower price and then the orders you took this quarter have new pricing? Or how should we think about that? Yes Seth as you know we don't reprice backlog.
We've not done that historically and we are not doing that in this instance.
So there's -- part of the reason for my answer to Charlie's question was that there's a lingering impact from a margin standpoint that comes from that price commodity equation that will continue to affect us in the back half of the year.
But the duration of the backlog in aggregate is probably 5 months or so at this stage of the game.
So I don't have -- we'll get that burned off.
And obviously there's some activity that's ordering shift within the quarter and certainly within the 6 months that are left in the year.
Seth the price increases were effective July 1 for Cranes and August 1 for Foodservice.
LLC</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And I know you don't reprice the backlog but are there escalators with any of those contracts? Or are they basically just done at the time you signed the deal it is where it is? Generally just at the time of the deal.
There is very very select type of orders where we would have an ability to revisit price if it goes beyond an index level.
And then obviously the customers can step away from the order as well.
But by and large that vast majority is a fixed price.
And our next question will come from Robert McCarthy with Robert W.
Baird.
I wonder if we could gain a little more visibility from you on the supply chain issues on the Crane business.
You mentioned lingering issues with Tier IV engines.
My memory was that or is that your issues have been really software associated with the engines and less availability.
Are you talking about availability now? And how much did this constrained Crane revenue in the quarter? All right.
I'll speak towards the actual issues Rob.
And you're right it is on some of the software.
As you marry up the engine with the rest of the components that operate the cranes so there's the complexity there.
What I would give our team a lot of credit for is with some of the new reliability and quality initiatives that we've put in place.
Typically I would say in the past we have made the fix and we put the crane out in the field and we would have found a different problem.
Now every time we make an engineering fixed we put it through a number of different tests including a number of hours that they have to spend in test.
And so you can -- you're trying get all the bugs out within the factory as opposed to get them in the field.
So some of it is our own internal processes to make that happen.
And I wouldn't locate it to -- some of that with the Tier IV.
It's not the engine itself.
But there are some other constraints whether you get in to Europe or you stay here in North America when it comes to whether it's electrical components or certain motors or some chassis.
It's getting to be just a few things but it's kind of a nemesis in certain areas.
So we're working through that.
The impact is on the quarter.
I'll let Carl mention -- speak to that.
Yes.
As it relates to that issue you recall Rob that we did talk about Tier IV as a constraint to the Q1 revenue and we framed that about the $50 million constraint in Q1.
We saw that and we got those shipments out.
And they did benefit Q2.
So as we talk about other supply chain issues here now it did now strip that $50 million calendarization benefit we had.
So depending how you look at it there really wasn't a benefit if you look at the supply chain overall in the second quarter by itself.
You're saying that you basically offset any issues you have in the quarter by catching up on the first and it was net sort of neutral is that right? Exactly.
Okay.
My other question had to do with the second half outlook in Foodservice Mike.
You have a price increase coming through.
You have the Indigo launch complete.
I would think that that would involve a little bit of backlog that would have been built up that you're working off.
You've invested to build your presence in Asia in the advance of some new business launching I believe.
And so I mean if I add all that up in fact during end market uncertainties that kind of thing Glen is talking about shouldn't we still be expecting to see stronger year-on-year growth comparisons from Foodservice in the second half of the year? Rob the general momentum overall including all those factors that you cited remains positive.
In some cases all we're seeing is pausing not stopping the new initiatives that we're rolling out.
But the general momentum remains positive in all geographies and across most categories at this time.
And our next question comes from Ted Grace with Susquehanna.
LLLP</strong> I was hoping to come back to the Crane margin question.
In Glen's kind of prepared remarks it seemed like you said pricing isn't challenging mix is an issue and then commodity.
I didn't know if those were intended to be kind of forced ranked.
Carl obviously led with commodity -- focused on commodity talked about a $12 million hit.
But if we back out the onetime item last year operating profits down $1 million on $103 million of incremental sales could you bridge the rest of it and help us understand kind of the dynamics A what happened to the pricing in the quarter and also mix? Because I guess we are under the impression that the strength in backlog over the last 2 or 3 quarters has been in RTs and boom trucks which would be above average products and some of the higher margin products like tower haven't really done much so we would have anticipated better mix.
But if you can help us kind of reconcile those issues that would be great.
I would Ted.
I'll speak to the pricing side of it and then let Carl get into some of the other details.
But on the pricing side it is competitive.
You have people still working off a lot of production inventory and things as we come out of the what we believe 2010 being the trough.
And so those there are deals.
I mean you can look at other comparisons to competitors we have in this industry and I think you're hearing the same thing.
And so I would say probably from a margin standpoint it's probably 100 basis of pricing in the second quarter.
And so there are certain things we'll do.
There are certain things we won't do.
But I would say that's the competitive pressures that everybody has as we're out of the downturn.
That's why looking at what do we have from an aftermarket standpoint what are the efficiencies in the lien and in the operations side we're trying to bring through again some of these things that we're doing are benefits that you will see just like we do in every other upturn.
But sometimes the cross obviously can get ahead of the initiatives that you have on the savings side.
And with that I'll let Carl bridge some of the others.
Yes I guess the really only other key one that I would point out other than the pricing and commodity issue that we've already talked about and the receivable issue that we've already talked is engineering expenses probably about 50 basis points for us driven by some innovation initiatives that we have.
LLLP</strong> Okay.
So just as we do think about mix product mix should we think about that being a neutral impact modest tailwind modest headwind? In the year-over-year? LLLP</strong> Yes.
Not a significant impact.
Well I want to add something Ted.
We've seen our order intake for altering cranes improving very significantly since Q4 last year.
And that trends continue.
We had a very strong order intake actually in Q2 for our altering cranes.
So that is going skew a little bit in the extend well as we start shipping all those cranes.
And next in queue we have Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
I just wanted to focus on the new orders for a second.
While seasonally we would anticipate new orders being down Q2 to Q1 I'm just curious about your opening comments that you mentioned that there's a lot of volatility out there in your customer base and then we looked and then we've seen new orders done.
Would you have expected new orders to have a been a bit stronger? Are customers quoting or asking for pricing but not committing? Is there any hesitancy like that going on in the marketplace either in Cranes or Foodservice? Ann I think there's -- well sort of the last comment in both Cranes and Foodservice I think it's very robust.
The quoting activity that we have worldwide is very good.
But I think that uncertainty that we watch for is just a simple people don't know where the economy is going.
Whether -- I know Mike and Eric myself talk to a lot of different customers.
People have wants and they have needs.
And they have the cash to buy some things but they are sitting on their hands and they're watching whether it's in Foodservice or Cranes.
But I would think -- I don't think it's so much that the businesses in there I think people are just delaying some of their decisions.
And so to be down seasonally the way it is I don't think is a real concern for us.
But I think that's something we watch on a weekly basis.
And I think we're comfortable by getting continuity with some of the guidance that we have for the year.
I think it gives you the indication that we're okay with what we have.
But I don't think it's so much that the work isn't out there.
I think a lot of it just as people delaying their decisions whether it's in Europe or whether it's in the United States.
What we are seeing though in a lot of the new products both on Foodservice and Cranes those are creating a lot of interest.
And that gets a little bit to the mix issue that we just talked about with Ted.
You'll start to see some changes there because the new products are -- you see more on the Crane side it's more capacity driven it's the larger cranes and so you have fewer of them.
But typically the margins are better.
And then some of the new products in Foodservice obviously expanded margins there.
So I don't think that we're all concerned about what happened in the second quarter but we certainly want to watch with eyes wide open what's going to happen in the third and fourth quarter.
Okay.
That's good color.
I appreciate that.
Just one follow-up question.
$12 million Q2 crane headwind from input costs $30 million for the full year.
What was it Q1 please? Or what will be in half 2? Is it the full $18 million in half 2? Or was there a headwind in Q1 also? There were some headwinds in Q1 as well but it was not as pronounced as it was in the second quarter.
Can you quantify it? Or can you give us the back half headwind? I don't have that in front of me Ann I'm sorry.
But I will get back with you on that.
And next we'll hear from Henry Kirn with UBS.
With all the concern about growth slowing in China what can you tell us about what you saw there as you went through the second quarter? And maybe how did your Crane sales in emerging markets compared to last year overall? Well I'll speak to that market Seth and let Eric talk a little bit about that if he wants.
But I think what you've seen is mostly in some of the line construction equipment for us.
It's more of the truck cranes.
The slowdown in China a lot of it is directed towards the commercial and residential type of construction.
The energy and infrastructure power is still very active.
So what we did is we did see a slowdown in the truck crane the joint venture we have not pronounced but certainly slowing as opposed to growing what it did last year.
But the comparisons year-over-year from a revenue standpoint I think it's marginal from what we saw at the same time last year in the second quarter.
Eric do you have any comments on China's market? No that's the second -- or really the second in a row that we see that slowdown.
I think every manufacturing construction equipment has seen the slowdown.
It's probably healthy to see that kind of slowdown from what it is.
I think some other emerging markets like Vietnam has taken the same type of measures to put inflation under control.
I think that's also a healthy mix.
But overall the gain in the emerging markets outlook is still pretty good.
And I think what we'll continue to overall foresee an increase in our sales in emerging markets versus last year.
I think I mentioned in my comments if you look at the greater Asia Pacific with Singapore and Australia and Indonesia I mean that's had some significant growth year-over-year from last year.
Yes with India continuing to grow for us especially our towers as Glen mentioned in his earlier comments I mean we're already reaping the benefits of India.
The first manufacturer is really producing towers in India and now extending distributions.
Really we see very good results.
So we're pleased with that.
That's helpful.
And on the Foodservice side if the CapEx plans are improving can you talk how much of that is new investment because of the customers having increased confidence and how much of that is the return of pushed-off replacement demand that was delayed during the downturn? It's difficult to put a precise percentage on it because in some cases it's going through multiple layers of distribution.
But I think it is a first split between the pent up demand that's resulting in replacement sales coupled with very strong interest in new rollouts associated with either a new store or a new category.
So very balanced.
And I think fairly balanced across the geographies that we serve as well.
Yes Henry I think if you go back to what we have shown in many of our presentations over 55% 60% of the business in the Foodservice side is replacement business.
And I think those trends continue to hold the water.
And our next version will come from David Wells with Thompson Research Group.
LLC.</strong> I guess first off just looking at the free cash flow generation year-to-date use of cash of close to $200 million and given your debt reduction targets for the full year I mean it applies some pretty hearty acceleration in free cash flow generation the second half of the year.
Just looking at the balance sheet can you walk us through some of the opportunities there especially given your commentary about wanting to maintain the right amount of inventories to have in place for likely continued acceleration and revenue growth next year? I guess I'm not just not seeing a lot of leverage to pull to generate that kind of cash flow.
Well I think David if you're around last year the same time it's the same thing.
We had pretty aggressive growth last year and we said we're in the same position again today.
But I'll let Carl give us the specifics.
But the biggest one is just some of the timing that we had versus what we thought and mostly from an AR standpoint.
When you look at the way we set our targets initially and you look at how some of the revenues were generated during the quarter I think it's just a matter of the AR collections that that's an easy lever to pull and that's one that's just a normal activity.
So I mean you can't see it by just looking at one piece of paper but that's the simple one for us and there are big opportunities there.
There aren't bad receivables.
It's not bad.
It's just that that's what it is at the end of June.
So Carl I don't know if you have any different comments there.
No I think that states it well.
It does -- the firming of the business the expectations for 2012 and the calendarization of all that certainly does put pressure on the target that we still have in front of us the $200 million we recognize but that is a lot of cash generation in order to get there.
That's been our normal seasonal pattern for cash generation.
It's to generate a lot in the second half of the year.
We expect to be able to do that this year but to some extent it does -- to the extent that we might not be able to achieve that target it will be for a good reason that the business was actually stronger than we expect.
The levers itself really are a function of what we can do from a churn perspective in both the AR and the inventory working capital that we have.
And we think that opportunity certainly does exist.
LLC.</strong> That's helpful.
And then if I look at consensus expectations for 2012 we're seeing implied incrementals in the 25% to 26% range which would certainly be a pick-up from this year.
I guess as you think about the business model are we reaching an inflection point where we should see an acceleration in the incrementals? Or if we look -- if 2012 ends up being similar to 2011 where it's kind of a tepid growth environment here in the developed markets certainly maybe some upsides in the developing markets I mean do the incrementals look more of the same? Or is that the right way to be thinking about the future of the business? Well it's a good question.
I certainly haven't provided any 2012 guidance at this point in time.
But as we looked at 2011 I think it is pointing out as we expected it to given the condition of macroeconomies that we're dealing with and the late cycle nature of our Crane business almost exactly as we expected pretty significant pressure on margins in Cranes in 2011 in particular.
And there's some pretty good performance on the Foodservice side given that 2010 was already a growth year for us in Foodservice.
It's playing out in exactly that manner.
The commodity cost pressures can be a double-edged sword for us because when we've got a lot of cost pressure on us on the commodity side it probably bodes well for the opportunities for us on the Crane side and that hopefully will play out to your point.
We'll have a return to normalcy from an incremental margin standpoint in 2012 but a lot of it will depend upon the shape and the firming of the demand levels in order to be able to perform at the historic incrementals that we've been able to achieve.
And the next question will come from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Mike can you talk about the margin structure of the Indigo product line relative to the prior ice machine products that you're replacing particularly once when you're at a full production rate there? No Jerry we don't provide specific product line financial information.
But I think if you look at the track record of Manitowoc over a period of time given our engineering initiatives and the innovation that we put into the product we tend to do pretty well from a margin perspective on any new product that we introduce.
Okay.
And Carl on the Crane side in the prepared remarks you highlighted strong orders across the Crane markets.
I'm wondering if can rank orders for us which regions saw the strongest year-over-year order improvement and also touch on whether you expect the same regions to drive growth in bookings in the back half of the year based on inquiries that you're seeing? Well we'll let -- I mean again to your point we are seeing strength.
And there are many areas that we've talked about the emerging markets and then Eric just talked mentioned that.
But I'll let him talk about specifically with the orders and what his feel is for where they're coming in the back half.
Right.
We expect definitely continued strength in North America.
And we've seen a lot of strength in rough terrain cranes.
You had that before.
Boom trucks is also a product line that we see significant strength.
It's not coming from housing obviously because housing is still in a dozing mode.
But we've seen a lot coming from the oil and gas explorations utility and maintenance railroads and then also large rental houses obviously renewing and repeating because there are too many.
So North America and Canada seems to be good.
We have to watch obviously this inventory.
But the retailing activity from what we've seen has been fairly good until now.
So North America and Canada is kind of a wild card because if you look at what's happening in the market the E&amp;C backlog is very strong and you need to be strong on one hand.
you also have the unemployment.
Obviously the construction is declining which is kind of a good sign.
On the other hand you have somewhat in the repeating index which is down so it's a mix picture.
But overall we think that we should continue to track well in North America.
Emerging market should continue to be a good story and we see Europe -- again in the commentary we say that Germany France and Switzerland are doing great.
And we've seen some kind of recovery in the tower cranes albeit from a very low level.
So...
Okay.
I appreciate the color.
And I'm wondering if you can talk about how the order shape out over the course of the quarter.
And in response to the prior question you mentioned there's some anxiety around sovereign credit risk.
I'm wondering if you could just help us understand the way that shaped up in terms of booking levels in the past couple of months.
I mean you see what the order rates are that we disclosed.
But I would say with respect to the sovereign credit risk I mean Spain Italy they've been down and they're still down.
So there's not a lot of risk to what we've seen.
Really as Eric just mentioned whether it's tower cranes or ATs or RTs in those areas it's coming from such a low level that it's more upside than anything.
So there's really -- I mean that risk is based in everything that we've already talked about.
And next we'll hear from Joel Tiss with Buckingham Research Group.
Inc.</strong> I just wanted to go a little further on that.
Can you just sort of -- instead of talking about which end markets are good can you give us a little sense of under the covers there? Is the equipment wearing out? Or did the fleets cut their cranes too far? Or are we seeing capacity expansion? Can you just sort of give us a sense of what's driving it? What's driving crane demand? Again we've talked about the transition to some of the larger-type capacities.
And that's what's driving some of this and its new products.
I mean if you look at the AT on AT side the 6300 you look at some of the towers that we've introduced.
I think you have a lot of that.
And at the same time there were a lot of fleets that were -- the aging of it a lot of the crane rental fleets in North America they sold off during the downturn.
And so you see a little bit of replenishing there with the results we've talked about the destocking.
So I think it's a broad spectrum of where this is coming from.
But an example would be -- another example I will give as Eric mentioned on the boom trucks 50-ton boom truck.
That wasn't around 2 years ago.
There weren't 50-ton boom trucks.
And those are going in the mining or the oil and gas and that kind of thing.
Eric I don't know if you have any other further detail on that or comments.
No.
I would say one logic has been down in the U.S.
over the last 2 years was wind and natural factors.
The first quarter you've seen more than 1 000 megawatts of wind power spread across 12 states.
And that's an end market that right now as an OEM we do not benefit right now in terms of the issue itself because you have a lot of machines being either of the 16 000 which was really what that type of markets now has improved.
We see really a positive trends in the wind and the focus will be 6 000 to 7 000 megawatts and it's going to be the same in 2012.
So that part of the market should obviously see some demands definitely from the rental houses first.
But later we should benefit from that.
Okay.
Yes I'm just trying to get a sense of how the demand flows even if we stay in this kind of slow grinding recovery.
And then can you just talk a little bit more about the pricing that's been put in place? And is that the way things looked today? Is that enough to offset a potential negative price cost in 2012 in the Crane business also? If you look at where we're at today and you go out in the next 6 months and you take the first 6 months if you go out 12 months yes we feel that's adequate.
But I think it's again some of the things -- if you go back to prior recoveries the cost side typically gets ahead of this.
And I think with the increase that gets out of the revenue side and where you try to get ahead of it and there was some opportunity in prior upturns you have some different competition now that is keeping things a little -- I think the pricing a little less advantageous.
And so that's why we come out with a new products.
And I think when you look at whether it's Foodservice or Cranes as Carl mentioned we're coming out with new products you do cannibalize a little bit of what the former product was.
But once you get through that inventory you get with the new product obviously we're bringing out things with higher margins than what we've had in the past.
Whether it's a simpler machine or whether it's more efficient easier to produce I mean it goes from the whole supply chain through the end markets.
So I think the pricing we have is adequate.
And again just like we said before we're not the cheapest and we will be -- we will try to be leaders in this area.
So what competitors do is their own decision but I think we've made some pretty good decisions.
We look at the markets.
Again one thing I would like to say about Foodservice it wasn't an across the board in average.
Mike and his team has done a really good job to stay in some place where that might be a 2% or nothing but in other places there might be 7% or 8%.
So we gave you what the average number is but they really took a hard look at some areas that we had opportunities.
And we next have a question from Ben Alias with Sterne Agee.
A couple of questions couple of months ago you mentioned that even with a higher run rate on the Crane side your margins will be a little lower because of the investments that you're undertaking.
Could you just quantify the dollar amount of the investment and what the margin impact is? And when that rolls off would we see margin benefit in 2012 and on? I think unless there's other investments that maybe Carl talked about investments we're talking about are in the emerging markets.
It's Brazil it's India the things we've done in China Slovakia Italy.
I mean those things don't roll off.
Some of those are permanent investments.
If you look at the innovation it's bringing some of the people back.
It's some of the austerity measures that we bought back in.
I mean they don't roll off then.
They will stay there.
So it's our -- it's up to us to one whether it's pricing or taking cost out in other areas but those certainly are not going to roll off and so it's a matter of volumes and taking cost out and bringing new products to market.
So that's the same things you've seen forever.
On the Foodservice side I guess the smoothie machine exclusivity deal with McDonald's have ended.
And I think they're looking to rollout the concept outside the U.S.
by the fourth quarter.
I think you are in talks with a lot of the other quick-serving casual dining competitors.
Could you just elaborate.
Wendy's rollouts and the size of the market? What can we expect in the latter half of the year next year with this one particular product that you have? Well first of all we're not quantifying the forward opportunity.
We're talking about it in a qualitative sense and it's a very positive situation.
And we are having multiple conversations with large chain customers around the world.
And really about those machines we're the only supplier of this type of product category with 2 variations.
We have the blend-in-pitcher concept which was rolled out in North America.
We also have the blend-in-cup version that's really getting a lot of interest from all customers including the one that rolled out the blend-in-pitcher machine last year.
So we think the market potential is very large.
It's still gaining momentum.
We think it has multiple years of duration and we're capitalizing on that momentum.
The other thing to remember about rollout Ben is that you're always going to have varying degrees that occurred in any given quarter that creates a noise from a year-over-year comparison standpoint.
And it's really difficult for us to just draw out a number there about an opportunity because you have to remember that there might have been things that occurred historically that were driven by a single product rollout that creates a lot of unit volume in a short period of time.
And ladies and gentlemen that is all the time we have for questions today.
I would like to turn the call back to Mr.
Steve Khail for any additional or closing remarks.
Thank you Danielle.
Before we conclude today's call I'd like to remind everyone that a replay of our second quarter conference call will be available later this morning.
You can access the replay by visiting the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in the Manitowoc Company.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our third quarter conference call in October.
Have a good day.
And again ladies and gentlemen that is the end of today's teleconference.
Thank you for participation.
You may now disconnect.
Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to this Manitowoc Company Inc.
Third Quarter 2011 Manitowoc Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions it is my pleasure to turn the call over to your host Mr.
Khail.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Manitowoc's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Participating in today's call will be Glen Tellock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carl Laurino Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Glen will open today's call by providing an overview of our quarterly results and business outlook.
Carl will then discuss our financial results for the third quarter in greater detail.
Following our prepared remarks we will be joined by Eric Etchart President of Manitowoc Cranes; and Mike Kachmer President of Manitowoc Foodservice for our question-and-answer session.
For anyone who is not able to listen to today's entire call an archived version of this call will be available later this morning.
Please visit the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com to access the replay.
Before Glen begins his commentary I would like to review our Safe Harbor statement.
This call is taking place on October 26 2011.
During the course of today's call forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 will be made during each speaker’s remarks and during our question-and-answer session.
Such statements are based on the company's current assessment of its markets and other factors that affect its business.
However actual results could differ materially from any implied projections due to one or more of the factors explained in Manitowoc filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are also available on our website.
The Manitowoc Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or other circumstances.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Glen.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
Our third quarter 2011 results were driven by solid year-over-year sales growth in both our Crane and Foodservice segments.
We witnessed sustained success in emerging markets particularly those geographies where we moved our advantage.
While persistent pressure in the broader economic landscape has tempered a growing recovery we are well positioned for the long term as we continue to be driven by large [Audio Gap] and energy projects in Cranes and momentum from new product launches in Foodservice.
We continue to be focused on executing on our initiatives to drive increased operational efficiency and new product developments which should drive margin expansion over the long term as pricing and commodity cost pressures remain.
Additionally we continue to benefit from the expanded diversification of our Foodservice business which moderates the impact of the cyclicality of our Crane segment.
For the third quarter Foodservice showed positive momentum as the success of recent product launches increased operational efficiency and improvements across geographic markets drove another year-over-year quarterly sales gain.
More specifically our recently launched Indigo ice machines and Merrychef ovens continue to track well in the market.
From a geographic perspective we have seen notable improvement in Europe which is historically one of our toughest markets in Foodservice.
This further validates that the restructuring and consolidation we implemented in that region following the Enodis acquisition is paying dividends.
In addition Asia-Pacific had a strong quarter in Foodservice which reinforces the fact that emerging markets are an important element of our success.
We continue to deploy resources into that region as customers seek international growth primarily through new store expansion as well as new menu initiatives.
We continue to solidify our position as a trusted and valued partner for our customers particularly as the revolving needs demand new and innovative products.
In addition the breath of our product offerings supports our customers' initiatives as they expand their menus streamline their operations expand their geographic footprint and reduce their overall cost.
Moving to our Crane segment our third quarter results were encouraging.
Consistent with recent trends we experienced higher demand in select emerging markets particularly in parts of Asia Latin America India and the Middle East.
In addition third quarter sales benefited from growth in certain regions within the Americas.
As we have seen over the past few quarters demand is being driven by energy and infrastructure projects which is a clear difference from the last recovery and should continue for the foreseeable future.
Demand in the Middle East more specifically Saudi Arabia and Turkey further increased during the recent quarter and we expect the high level of activity to continue in these countries in the near term.
As anticipated Europe was negatively impacted by seasonality and overall activity remains [Audio Gap] particularly in southern Europe.
The Asia-Pacific region were stronger in the quarter with ongoing strength in Indonesia Singapore and Australia.
In addition India continued to be a strong market for Manitowoc as we continue to enhance our market share and leadership in that region.
As expected we saw comparable reduction in activity in China as the government slowed overall economic growth.
With respect to our product lines large rough terrain cranes and boom trucks were positive contributors during the quarter while demand for crawlers continues to lag.
In addition our tower crane product line experienced good demand in emerging markets but softer demand in both the European and North American regions.
Expansion in emerging markets remain a key component of our long-term goals.
As such we continue to make strategic investments to capitalize on the long-term growth opportunities in these regions.
Over the past decade we have built a state-of-the-art tower crane facility in China made an important acquisition in India and built out our crane care network around the world.
More recently we announced plans to build a 250 000-square-foot manufacturing facility in Brazil to support the energy and infrastructure opportunities in Latin America.
Located near Passo Fundo I'm pleased to report that construction of the new facility is tracking on schedule.
And we plan to start production at Passo Fundo in the second quarter of 2012.
Specifically we will begin with production of Grove mobile telescopic cranes powered by Potain tower cranes shortly thereafter.
Over the last few years we've repeatedly discussed the 7 company-wide strategic imperatives which have played a vital role in strengthening our business segments and positioning Manitowoc for long-term growth amid global economic recovery.
In the previous 2 quarters we discussed our focus on innovation aftermarket product support and our growth initiatives.
Today I would like to focus on our operational excellence initiatives as we continue to drive world-class performance in our manufacturing and business practices.
Across the entire Manitowoc enterprise our focus on LEAN initiatives helps us identify specific opportunities to reduce manufacturing costs improve inventory turns and drive productivity gains.
For example we applied a variety of LEAN techniques to consolidate 2 French tower crane facilities into a singular center of excellence earlier this year.
By optimizing the flow of our redesign plan we not only integrated the necessary operations but can now produce self-erecting cranes large weldments and hoist drums all under one roof.
In particular this initiative enabled us to reduce the process distance the manufacturer of hoist drum by more than 90% and increased our hoist manufacturing productivity by 50% on a per-person basis.
In addition we recently completed an equally successful LEAN project for boom support straps at Manitowoc Cranes which not only reduced inventory by $1.5 million but cut manufacturing times for this key component by over 100 days while also generating significant ergonomic and safety improvements.
Turning to Foodservice we've had dozens of LEAN events across our global footprint following the 2008 acquisition of Enodis.
This has including the closure or sale of 5 facilities in Europe plus the consolidation of 3 facilities in North America and 1 in Asia.
Going forward we will continue to pursue widespread LEAN initiatives including state-of-the-art manufacturing processes.
To conclude our third quarter results reflect our ongoing focus to drive increased financial strength and flexibility through the successful execution of our long-term strategy.
We continue to manage through the operational challenges that come with a transitional year.
In particular this include fluctuating demand levels rising commodity costs and other pricing pressures.
We have taken proactive steps to mitigate these pressures through pricing increases productivity initiatives and increased operational efficiencies.
While we see many areas for continued improvement the year-over-year top line growth we reported yesterday exemplifies Manitowoc's ability to maximize our opportunities during these challenging economic times.
Looking ahead into 2012 several factors will contribute to our success as we aim to enhance our global leadership position.
In addition to the operational excellence imperative I discussed innovation technological improvements as well as our market-leading aftermarket product support business will continue to be key components of our strategic emphasis.
Regardless of the economic cycle we will optimize our cost structure pursue greater operational efficiency and enhance the quality of our products and processes.
I will now turn the call over to Carl to discuss our detailed third quarter financial results.
Carl? Thanks Glen and good morning everyone.
We reported net sales for the third quarter of $935 million which is an increase of $128 million or 16% from the third quarter of 2010.
The year-over-year increase in net sales during the third quarter was driven primarily by a 21% increase in Crane segment sales coupled with a 10% increase in Foodservice.
While the revenue increases were significant we continue to experience broader-based supply chain constraints in the Crane segment.
More specifically we are still encountering some limitations with Tier IV engines as well as certain issues with supply chain deliveries that we discussed in our second quarter earnings call.
Third quarter 2011 consolidated operating margin before amortization was 8.6% versus 8.3% in the third quarter of 2010.
The year-over-year margin increase was primarily driven by favorable product volume and mix partially offset by market pricing pressures commodity cost increases and increases in general and administrative expenses.
GAAP net income for the third quarter was $23.7 million or $0.18 per share versus net income of $1.4 million or $0.01 per share in the third quarter of 2010.
Earnings in both quarters included special items but adjusted EPS was equal to GAAP in both periods.
Moving to the balance sheet.
We continue to manage working capital to ensure we maintain an appropriate balance between our ability to meet growing customer demand and our debt reduction goals.
As we previously stated our targeted $200 million in debt reduction for 2011 may be difficult to achieve given anticipated increases in production.
Therefore we now anticipate 2011 debt reduction to be in the range between $150 million and $200 million.
During the third quarter we posted cash flow from operations of $4.5 million versus $42 million in the prior-year quarter.
Our cash flow from operations was impacted by higher working capital needs to support increased crane activity.
However consistent with our historic and seasonal patterns we anticipate strong cash generation in the last quarter of 2011 to reach our targeted level of debt reduction.
Turning to our segment results.
Food service sales in the third quarter of 2011 totaled $406 million which increased 10% from a year ago.
Third quarter 2011 operating earnings in Food service were $68 million up from $61 million in the same quarter last year.
Operating margins of 16.7% were equal to those in the third quarter of 2010.
Improved operating efficiencies were offset by commodity cost pressures.
Moving to the Crane segment.
Third quarter sales totaled $529 million up 21% from $439 million in the third quarter of 2010.
This quarter's results reflect continued growth in the Americas region and greater demand in most emerging markets.
Crane segment operating earnings in the third quarter were $25 million versus $16 million in the same quarter last year.
This resulted in third quarter Crane segment operating margins of 4.8% compared to 3.7% a year ago.
The year-over-year comparison was positively impacted by the higher sales volume but tempered by commodity cost and pricing pressure.
The third quarter tends to be a seasonally soft quarter for order activity.
Crane backlog at quarter end was $775 million an 8% decrease from the June 30 2011.
Third quarter backlog grew year-over-year by $327 million or 73%.
This was driven by higher order activity throughout 2011 including a 35% increase in third quarter orders versus the third quarter of 2010.
Before I review our guidance I want to spend a few minutes discussing the current operating environment given uncertainty in the global markets.
The challenges we face today are significantly less dramatic than during the economic downturn in 2008 and 2009.
We have a stronger balance sheet today as we have reduced our debt by nearly $1 billion following the Enodis acquisition.
In addition the improved credit and lending environment enabled us to secure a comfortable covenant package and lower interest rates while extending maturities.
This has significantly improved the strength and flexibility of our capital structure.
Specific to our Crane segment we maintained profitability in the 2010 trough and continue to do so today.
Customers had successfully rationalized their inventory levels and they are experiencing improved utilization rates.
And as Glen already noted we continue to benefit from the added stability and diversification of our Foodservice business which moderates the impact of the cyclicality of our Crane segment.
As noted in yesterday's press release we are updating our full year guidance for 2011.
We expect a 20% to 25% growth in Crane segment revenue compared to 2010 with mid-single-digit percentage operating margins.
For the Foodservice segment we expect high-single-digit percentage revenue growth with flat mid-teen percentage operating margins versus 2010.
Other expectations for 2011 include capital expenditures of approximately $70 million depreciation and amortization of roughly $125 million approximately $150 million in interest expense and approximately $15 million in amortization of deferred financing fees.
Let me now turn the call back over to Glen for some concluding remarks.
Glen? Thanks Carl.
To conclude our positive third quarter results are further validation that our dedication to delivering innovative and superior products and providing best in class support continues to resonate in the marketplace.
While growing global markets will positively impact our business over the long term current market pressures resulting from sovereign debt issues and government fiscal policies have created significant uncertainty for our customers in terms of capital spending.
This translates into a very challenging operating environment for us.
That said we believe we have the right strategy in place to drive continued growth.
As I mentioned earlier we believe 2011 is a transition year and will further build upon our strong foundation as we move into 2012 and beyond.
Significant opportunities remain to increase operational efficiencies across our 2 businesses while at the same time positioning Manitowoc to benefit from improving end market demand.
As such we are conscientiously managing the balance -- the business to support our ongoing strategic initiatives while also maintaining our focus on our financial position and flexibility.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
Leah we will now open the -- we will now begin our question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Our first question comes from Robert McCarthy with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> My first question goes to the current -- or maybe I should prospective state of crane demand.
You had a solid quarter for bookings but as we move into the fourth quarter in comparison with last year I believe last year you had particular strength in the fourth quarter in terms of some dealer orders in North America for mobile product and I believe at the time you described it as a surprisingly positive response to early order program for tower cranes in Europe.
And so in terms of setting expectations for order activity in the fourth quarter do you have concern about being able to attain the same level of grain orders that you achieved in last year's fourth quarter? Well Rob I think it was a good fourth quarter and the challenge would be to get to that same number.
But if we don't reach that same number I don't get that concerned about it.
I think it's more of what's the outlook as we move forward into 2012 and where the opportunities for the entire year of 2012.
So I mean it's a positive sign for us.
Obviously we said the third quarter and you've seen it again traditionally as a lowest quarter because you have month off in Europe.
But I think as we look forward we're forecasting probably sluggish growth for 2012 and I think you've heard us talk about a lot of the focus being on some of the operational opportunities when it comes to the gross margin line and the debt pay down.
So...
Research Division</strong> So can I infer from that Glen that as you've been having conversations with your largest global customers in the Crane business that they're supporting expectations for some expansion in CapEx next year? Yes I think that's true.
I think that holds.
Obviously especially in emerging markets I mean we have -- the facility we have in Brazil that will give us a boost.
And I can let Eric speak to more specific markets but I think when you look at what's happening in the Middle East when you look at what's happening in parts of Russia right now you look at what's happening in again South America other than China I think our expectation for China and I think it's the same with everybody that we've seen mentioned.
I think everybody wants to jump in and it all happens after the Chinese New Year.
But there are still industrial projects and infrastructure and energy products happening in China that are -- despite the -- I would say the residential and commercial activity in China.
So I think that the support we have for that is reasonable.
Research Division</strong> Can I follow-up with a little detailed question about the guidance? Carl your guidance is $150 million of interest expense for the year and $15 million of amortization of deferred financing fees; total of $165 million.
You're only at $120 million through 9 months.
So the implication would be a fairly large surge in the fourth quarter.
Is that coming in deferred financing fees I guess? Or is that number may be in the guidance a little bit high? I think it's probably a little bit high it's conservative.
I would say that obviously we do get the bulk of our pay down in the latter part of the quarter just because of the shipping schedule that we tend to see that would impact that somewhat but I would say it's a conservative number and wouldn't necessarily look for core interest to rise in the fourth quarter.
Our next question comes from Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk maybe more specifically about Latin America and Brazil in particular? Is it fair to say that it is one of your biggest contributors to orders in the quarter? And do you see that momentum continuing? Go ahead Eric.
Why don't you...
Yes definitely Andy Latin America is very very good story for Manitowoc.
We see continued growth within the -- since 2007 and now it comes to be really the first emerging markets that we have.
A lot of win in energy and infrastructures.
Our product lines and our cranes are very well positioned.
I mean Grove is definitely a very strong brand in that region the Manitowoc power cranes as well.
And then the Potain towers have made a real breakthrough I would say in the last 5 years.
So heading up the Brazil facility give us definitely a real boost because we will be again the first crane manufacturer to produce rough terrains and towers in this part of the world.
And yes we expect continued growth and certainly very strong market share in this part of the world.
And Andy I think you have to expand when we talk about that whole region it's not just Brazil even when we talk about that facility.
I mean you look at Chile you look at Argentina you look at Columbia Peru.
I mean those areas are contributing to the success that we have down there.
So I just want to throw that in that's not just Brazil.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
Just shifting gears looking at the crane margins for the quarter.
They were down a little bit sequentially.
You mentioned some Tier IV engine delays and supplier issues.
How much of it is that versus price cost versus just mix maybe getting a little bit more of the rough terrain cranes and boom trucks versus the tower cranes? I guess you'd say it's all of the above but is any one sort of out-ruling the other? I think it's a combination of all of them.
But I think some -- you look a lot of those areas that some of them we can control.
The one that you have little less control are some of the pricing pressures.
And that's where -- we look at it as -- I wouldn't call it the new norm that everybody wants to talk about but I just think people are trying to get through these times and still have some things in their inventory and we watch deals pretty closely.
But I think it's a combination of all of them that just kind of hit you all at once.
But I think when you look at any of the pricing actions that we've taken and we said that I think in the second quarter call really we weren't going to get benefit from the pricing actions until late in the fourth quarter or definitely in the first quarter of next year.
Research Division</strong> And with steel coming off a little bit do you see any added benefit? Or is it kind of just flat and not too much of a benefit? Yes I think it's more flat.
Eric unless you have a specific comment towards that.
In terms of pricing I would say that we started seeing some positive results on some of the product lines.
The most challenging one is the GMK the all-terrain cranes where we continue to see a lot of pricing pressure.
But on the other initiative we really see some results moving forward.
Our next question comes from Matt Vittorioso from Barclays Capital.
Just trying to get a little more specific on the cash flow guidance or the debt reduction guidance for the fourth quarter.
I guess firstly how much cash do you need to keep on your balance sheet sort of at year end to run the business? And I guess the rest of the debt reduction would come from free cash flow generated in the fourth quarter and a lot of that would be inventory reduction.
Can you comment at all on the magnitude of where you think inventory can go from end of Q3 to end of Q4? Yes.
Well the answer obviously is that we need to have a lot of success in shipping a lot of inventory and converting it into cash.
We -- in addition are expecting the benefits from the cash and profitability that would be represented by that type of growth as well but it's really an inventory story for us to get to that level.
And in terms of the core level of cash we tend to run a little less than $100 million would be kind of a normal level of cash throughout the system.
Okay.
So if you maintain sort of your current cash balance which is a little less than $100 million that would imply that all of the debt reduction in the fourth quarter is going to come from new cash generated in the quarter which implies that you're targeting at least $150 million of free cash flow for the fourth quarter is that fair to say at this point? Yes that's correct.
And there's probably ability to lower the cash levels somewhat maybe down to $80 million level.
Our next question comes from Charlie Brady with BMO Capital Market.
Can we just -- when we look at the Crane business can you give us a sense -- and I know you don't like to break it out but given that you've seen a lot of uptick in the RT and the truck crane and that mix is probably impacting some of the margin on crane a bit.
Can you give us a sense if we look at the backlog today what the mix looks like in terms of RT or crawlers or towers? I think it is definitely going to be skewed more to the RT and the boom truck side than on the crawler’s side.
And towers as you know are a little bit more exposed to the nonresidential construction and some of the other product lines that we have.
Obviously they can be used in infrastructure and are -- but given where we are in that end market we don't have -- would certainly bounce off the bottom in tower cranes but not anywhere near the kind of the midpoint of the cycle or normalized level that we would tend to see in towers and that's a good margin performer for us as well.
Okay.
And I just want to go back to the comment you made about when you said you would forecast sluggish growth for crane in '12 and kind dovetail that with some of the commentary about you seeing still large infrastructure and energy jobs going forward in that particularly going on in the Middle East and Turkey and things like that.
I'm trying to square that up those 2 comments sluggish growth but yet still a lot of end market demand on energy infrastructure and developing markets.
Can you square that up for us and try to -- what's the correct answer I guess? Well I mean you're exactly right.
Timing is a big part of it.
It's a matter of when are these projects going to be permitted when are they going to be approved when are they going to pull the trigger on them.
I think for instance you see things in the United States that are going through the permitting process and it gets delayed from say October to November then to December.
You have people that are waiting to see what is going to happen in Europe whether it's a European project or Middle East everybody is kind of watching what's happening in the greater economic environment and they're making their decisions based on their comfort levels of where it goes.
So I think we're taking a pretty cautious approach.
I think -- let's go back to what happened at the beginning of the year.
We did a little bit of the opposite this year on the Crane side and said we thought the beginning of the year was going to be a little bit better.
We took a bet and we started putting things in place and we were right for quite a while and we brought a lot of the crawlers up to a higher inventory level than expecting at the back end of this year to take off and it didn't happen.
But I think -- so if we look at it this year from a perspective of going forward we put a lot of the initiatives in place.
And I think it's probably a better perspective for us to look at it as an ongoing piece of the business because I think where last year we're coming off the bottom and everybody was a little bit -- got some enthusiasm early in the year.
I think people are taking a more cautious or restricted approach to what's happening.
But I think when you add those projects together Charlie you look at what's needed for some of these projects we talk to the customers.
We like the inventory levels where they are at right now the North America distribution base I think it's -- it kind of ties itself well together.
Our next question comes from Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk about -- just a continuation of what you were just talking about there.
You ended the quarter with about 105 days of inventory.
Should we be concerned that a lot of that inventory is finished product with no buyer? Or is it inventory that needs an engine? Can you just dig a little deeper into the inventory at the end of the quarter? Ann you shouldn't be concerned that there's a lot of finished goods without a buyer.
We did allude to some production challenges that did leave us with some inventory.
But it's not that the inventory is not going to be shipped out and much of the inventory build would be in pre-reproduction or raw material work in process level for us that is anticipation of the deliveries that we expect in the next couple of quarters.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then can you comment a little bit about the competitive environment.
I know you had guided earlier in the year to pricing pressures.
But can you talk a little bit about -- we see things in the price like Zoomlion introducing a large capacity crane into the North America market.
Can you just give us a sense of what the competitive environment is like in the different regions? I'll let Eric answer that.
He'll be more eloquent.
Well Ann we continue obviously to see a very competitive environment.
But to your point about the Chinese competitors again they maintain huge pricing competition in the domestic market.
They are again very aggressive in emerging market.
However their penetrations again in Europe or in North America has been very sporadic.
And again the competitive pressure we see that is impacting a little bit our business.
It's primarily due to the premium manufacturers not really the Chinese.
We know where they operate.
We know where they are.
But again outside of China the brands and our presence is able -- has enabled us to sell the cranes.
So I -- again will we see the Chinese as a real threat long term absolutely no doubt but what we've seen in terms of pricing pressure is not coming from really the Chinese at this point outside of China.
Research Division</strong> Are you seeing them at all to any larger extent in places like Saudi Arabia or Turkey or any of the developing countries? Because I think that's where they're really focused.
Yes they do Ann.
Just only but it's more on the smaller capacity crane that they really had impact.
You see a lot of customers pull their critical leads today.
They would not yet at least trust these very large crawlers or mobile cranes that the Chinese has just developed.
So they still rely upon the premium manufacturers.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just as a quick follow-up.
Since the competition the pricing competition is really coming from the premium players what gives you the confidence that you will be able to push through price increases in the near term? Well because I believe the rationale of material cost is playing out.
I mean I think competition has to increase their prices as we do just because we are facing these commodity price increases.
And secondly I believe that we have made significant efforts in improving our product quality.
We are also introducing some new products that already saw a very good impact in the marketplace and that is -- these are also some pricing response.
Our next question comes from Seth Weber with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I guess I'm just trying to get a sense for the source for some of this fourth quarter crane revenue strength.
Is some of that related do you think to bonus depreciation orders that were -- that are expected to ship by the end of the year? I guess that's the first part.
And then did some orders or some deliveries slip from the third quarter because of the supply chain issues? Yes Seth I wouldn't pull a lot of temper in the bonus depreciation.
We actually think that could be a positive upside to any inventory that we would have for that.
But I don't -- that's going to be one of those things that's going to be late November early December when people are going to start looking at that opportunity.
I think there have been spotty sales during year as people they've had a 930 year end or 630 year end but that's certainly not the significant part.
What it is -- I mean what's within the backlog is good backlog and some of it has in fact gone from probably should've shipped in the third quarter and now it's being deferred to the fourth quarter.
I think somebody asked earlier what's -- what are some of the delays.
It is things like you have product coming down the line in the factory and all of a sudden you don't have one certain component that was short shipped from the supplier.
Those things are moved to the side and everything else goes on and that's the majority of any of the delays that we're having.
But it's a solid backlog for the fourth quarter.
Eric? Yes.
Some of the delays also Seth could be coming from the lack of flexibility we have now because of Tier III and Tier IV.
In the past we -- if you have a financing issue with one customers or dealing on another project you have the ability to swap the same cranes and ship it to that preferred customer.
Now you cannot do that anymore because it's a Tier IV built machines.
It has to be a Tier IV and ship in the Tier IV countries.
So we lack a little that flexibility.
That impacted a little bit.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I guess going back to -- I think it was Rob's question.
I mean do you have a rough guess for what you think your year-end backlog is going to look like? No.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Separate question I think a couple of months back you announced some temporary employee reductions at the Manitowoc facility.
Have those workers come back? Yes.
We brought a good portion of them back.
I would say there's probably Eric 25 to 30 welders maybe that we haven't called back? But I mean that's a small portion of what was all let go and then subsequently brought back.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess just lastly for Carl.
Is there a tax rate we should be using for the fourth quarter? Yes you can see that we're doing a little bit better than we have guided earlier in the year.
I would say a better effective tax rate for the fourth quarter than that previous guidance would be in the 30% range.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Because I think previously it was something like 50% to 60% right? Yes we were saying -- I think what we have previously said in the first quarter call is 50% for the balance of the year and we did get some benefit in the second quarter as you know from the change in legislation in Wisconsin.
And then some other things that made us a little bit more efficient on the tax line for the balance of the year than we expected.
So we're still going to be probably in the 40% full year because what happened in the first quarter but only about 30% in the fourth.
Our next question comes from Brian Rayle with Northcoast Research.
Most of my questions have been answered.
One other question as we look at the debt pay down of $150 million to $200 million for this year as we look at the portfolio of the businesses that you have obviously you sold off the Marine business couple of years ago.
Is there any portfolio management that you guys are looking at to sort of quicken the pace of that debt reduction given the fact that you're expecting 2012 albeit to grow but not as strongly as you once originally thought? Obviously you're always looking at your portfolio.
There isn't anything that we would be looking at this point that would be motivated by a need to accelerate or our desire to accelerate debt reduction.
It would be more decisions related to return on investment and strategic criteria.
Well I guess with the thought process even if it's operational are there areas of the business that you would kind of look at as non-core regardless of whether you're trying to accelerate that debt reduction? I think when you look at the portfolio of businesses we have whether it's Cranes or Foodservice I mean we've done a pretty good job of pairing those back.
So I think we're pretty happy with the portfolio we have and I think it's to Carl's comments what's the trade-off between anything that we look from an EVA standpoint as return of capital as cost of capital.
I mean we look at all of that but as you've seen we even mentioned in my comments consolidating facilities small wares after the Enodis acquisition.
I mean just different levels of things that we've done.
I mean we're pretty happy with the portfolios we have.
But as Carl said we look at it every time because -- we look at it all of time.
That's part of our strategic planning session every year.
Our next question comes from Henry Kirn with UBS.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you could talk about when you expect some of the supply headwinds to abate? Maybe specifically how much visibility do you have to the Tier IV engine availability? Well I think we initially thought probably in the early part of the year on the Tier IV items that some of that would abate by year end.
But I think what's happening Henry at first -- first part of the year was just the Tier IV issues then it got into the supplier issues because -- and this is why I talked about the challenge of managing in this environment when you have the backlog and you have that and your suppliers are doing the same thing.
They don't know if they should be reinvesting in a third shift they don't know if they should be investing in additional product lines.
They -- we work with these people on a regular basis.
They knew what our forecast were for the year and they just couldn't ramp up.
So I think those issues we look at abating themselves in the early part of 2012.
I think you get a more normalized run rate but I think when it comes to the Tier IV while you think those should all be behind us you got to remember we are changing out a lot of different models with Tier IV.
So while we get better at it our suppliers are better at it you still have to marry up the new engine with the computer of the crane and everything else and then we do our normalized testing.
So I think we should be better at it the suppliers better at it but you still have a lot of models to change out for the Tier IV.
And so do we expect to get better at it do we expect for those delays to be less and less? Absolutely.
But I think each unit has to go through its testing.
And unfortunately each model that comes out is almost a prototype because it's a new crane.
And so if we have that opportunity we're also adding features and benefits to it as we redesign it for the engine.
So it's not just an engine change.
I think that's where we think we're better at it but as I said each one is new to us because of different issues and capacities.
So we hope that those delays don't come through and we were scheduling it better than we did because we've learned a lot but don't think that Tier IV just goes away because it's 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on Passo Fundo how much of a headwind was the construction and setting up that facility the headwind to margins in the quarter? Not much Henry.
On the expense line there really is not a whole lot.
There's obviously ramp up and bringing on some of the expertise that would be reflective of having a manufacturing facility down there that we haven't had but it's not a lot of dollars at this point.
Our next question comes from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Eric can you talk about where utilization rates for your customers stand by region and particularly comment on Europe just give us the trends there? Well typically utilization rate is -- has been prudent.
I would say a fair comment would be in the range of low 80s now.
Overall of course it varies by product line.
Obviously given the environment I think customers typically or end-users would rely upon rental more versus really buying cranes given some uncertainties.
So that's helping.
I believe the rental housing are seeing some pricing.
The rental rates are improving certainly not to the level that they would like to see to trigger really huge investments.
But they have seen some improvements especially against on the products and demands large RTs and then large boom trucks.
In Europe the situation in terms of utilization is not bad.
It is again around the 80s the 80% 85% but the problem is the rental rates are extremely competitive in Europe.
And we haven't seen any improvement in the rates in Europe.
So that's really one of the headwinds for them to significantly renew their fleet at this period of time.
So that's the situation.
Research Division</strong> And Eric can you comment on financing conditions in Europe for new cranes? Is that being impacted for the larger rental houses? Or is it only the smaller companies that are seeing the effect? I think the smaller companies are seeing effects but I think the fact that the rental rates are not very attractive at the moment is kind of slowing down the appetite for rental houses to purchase new equipment.
So they have done some -- definitely some refleeting but not to the level that the Crane industry I should -- would deserve.
And certainly the shift that you can see worldwide storage larger capacity obviously there is a need for the rental houses to again reposition their fleet.
But the credit is only an issue but it's not the main issue I would say.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And Glen just a clarification on your prior comment.
You mentioned that pricing may improve early next year.
Did you mean that in terms of orders coming in early next year? Or does that mean you're seeing some improved discipline on quoting activity today? And also if you just touch on if there's any difference in regions in terms of the pricing trends.
Yes.
I think that's what you're seeing.
The pricing actions that we're taken either in the early third quarter or I think later here in the third quarter early fourth quarter those just don't -- it's 4 things that are being delivered after the first of the year.
That's what I said that you see the benefits of the pricing actions in 2012.
Regionally I would say probably the EMEA region mainly the traditional mature markets of Europe are probably the toughest pricing markets.
That's probably the toughest one.
Ladies and gentlemen we'll hear next from Joel Tiss with Buckingham Research.
Inc.</strong> I'm scratching my head to remember but I think you guys made some food equipment or something like that? Yes I just wrote a note to Carl that somebody's got to ask Mike a question.
Inc.</strong> Yes so I don't want to make him feel bad but I just wonder if there's any big customer upgrades coming in the next 12 months.
And also can you talk about any product breakthroughs and what are you guys working on here to really expand the competition? Go ahead Mike.
Well Joel let me first thank you for the question.
Anyway to answer your question we have a lot of initiatives on multiple categories with a number of customers around the world.
And I would highlight 5 categories.
There's major initiatives around ice.
Blended ice continues to get a lot of attention.
Glen mentioned earlier on his comments about our Merrychef ovens gaining a lot of traction particularly in the C-store segment.
Our mini combi ovens are getting adopted into chains for the first time 2 years ago and that seems to be accelerated.
And then the low-oil-volume fryers that we have out of our Frymaster business continue to take hold at a broader set of customers.
So it really is a continuum and it's happening across many categories with many customers.
Inc.</strong> And anything -- any big chains that are thinking about upgrading I heard Chili's or some of those guys are thinking about upgrading their kitchens? I'm just asking because this is 3 years into a downturn and usually we don't have more than one year in a row of reduced capital spending.
So I'm trying to get a sense of where the pressure points are on the guys who haven't spent any money in a long time.
First of all it's still tempered.
I think it's fair to say it's still tempered but investment is starting to curve because if they don't the menus are going to start to deteriorate and they're just not going to get the foot traffic that they need.
So they have to continue to invest and I think it's important to say that while it's been different in previous years we've continued to have success on a reduced scale on the categories that I talked about earlier.
There have been some major renovations or new product introductions that have occurred over the past 12 months.
Inc.</strong> Okay.
And just last on cranes on the price cost side I don't know if you really gave us a sense that in 2012 if we see an improvement in margins would it be more likely to be driven by price increases or by productivity improvements? No I think it's a combination of everything.
I think some of it Joel obviously is going to be the pricing just negating some of the commodity and cost increases we had in 2011.
But there is a heck of a lot of opportunities we have on the -- in the manufacturing line of the cost side of our business.
And as Eric has talked about in the past I've talked about it today if you look at the LEAN initiatives that we've started the benefits you get from any absorption through the factories after we've made some of these changes.
There's a lot of things we can do operationally and that's why I said the focus if we believe that the pricing pressures are going to continue to be challenging we are going forward 100 miles an hour with all our operational initiatives.
At the same time and Eric mentioned it earlier again I think some of things that we've done from a quality standpoint and some of these products that we're bringing out whether it's in Foodservice or Cranes much more reliable and sometimes you're looking at product class take outside of these to simplify some of these machines.
So I think all that together it's not just going to be from pricing.
That's a tough one to make that assumption and then hope on that.
We'll take our next question from Ben Elias with Sterne Agee.
Research Division</strong> Ben Elias with Sterne Agee.
Couple of questions.
One is your debt reduction target $150 million to $200 million.
Will that be the senior 2013 notes? Or is that going to be a mix of term loan A and B? We haven't really indicated.
We are certainly able to pay starting next month the 2013 notes at par.
But we haven't indicated whether or not our debt reduction will go towards those or on the senior side yet.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just a follow-up on Brazil.
Now that you have of facility in there I guess you're not going to -- you're going to get a benefit because you don't have -- there's no import duty either.
You're not importing stuff into Brazil and I think customers don't have to pay an import duty.
How do we think about margin from some of these Latin American sales? Yes I wouldn't get real aggressive on thinking there's huge margin improvement there.
And when you get away from the duties Ben it's after you have -- what is it Eric 60%? Yes 60%.
60% local content.
So to start out with they're going to be kits coming from Shady Grove and then we'll do some manufacturing down there.
We'll buy some components locally.
But that's a whole process that we're embarking on to get the local suppliers down there and that's why we located in Passo Fundo because there is a good supply base but it's a matter of getting the assembly down there getting those products out getting the factory up and running and then working on the localized content.
So I'd be careful to think there's a big jump in 2012.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And one last question.
You talked about price and how you've gone to some of new products you're introducing.
What's your NPVI right now? What percentage of your cranes have you introduced in the last 2 or 3 years? Well I think when you look at -- it hasn't been a real robust new product cycle only because we aren't considering some of these repowerings as new product.
If we put it on there it's quite a few but I would say it’s certainly less than 50% over the last couple of years.
I mean if you take over a 5-year period it's a higher percentage.
But I would say from the last couple of years it certainly -- that percentage decreases because so much of our engineering time has been spent on regulations as opposed to new product introductions.
That does conclude the question-and-answer session and I'll now turn the call back over to Mr.
Khail for any additional or closing remarks.
Before we conclude today's call I'd like to remind everyone that a replay of our third quarter conference call will be available later this morning.
You can access the replay by visiting the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in the Manitowoc Company.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our fourth quarter conference call in February.
Have a good day.
Again thank you ladies and gentlemen.
That will conclude today's program.
We do appreciate your patience.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to this Manitowoc Company Inc.
Fourth Quarter and Year-end Earnings Conference Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Khail.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone.
Thank you for joining us today as we discuss Manitowoc's fourth quarter earnings and our outlook for 2012.
Participating in today's call will be Glen Tellock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carl Laurino Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Mike Kachmer President of Manitowoc Foodservice; and Eric Etchart President of Manitowoc Cranes who is joining us from our offices in Paris.
Glen will open today's call by reviewing our 2011 accomplishments Carl will then discuss our financial results for the fourth quarter and provide our initial guidance for 2012 then our segment presidents will offer insights into the market conditions and outlooks for their businesses in 2012.
For anyone who is not able to listen to today's entire call an archived version of this call will be available later this morning.
Please visit the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com to access the replay.
Before Glen gives his commentary I would like to review our Safe Harbor statement.
This call is taking place on February 1 2012.
During the course of today's call forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 will be made during each speaker’s remarks and during our question-and-answer session.
Such statements are based on the company's current assessment of its markets and other factors that affect its business.
However actual results could differ materially from any implied projections due to one or more of the factors explained in Manitowoc's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are also available on our website.
The Manitowoc Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or other circumstances.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Glen.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report strong fourth quarter results that marked an end to what was truly a transitional year for Manitowoc in 2011 culminating with impressive year-over-year sales growth of 25% in the fourth quarter.
Despite some unexpected turbulence during the year our focus on execution coupled with continued progress against our strategic initiatives helped us reach most of our full year 2011 expectations.
In fact both of our industry-leading businesses delivered higher year-over-year sales and operating earnings a testament to our ability to navigate an increasingly uncertain global economic environment and fluctuating demand levels that lingered across our markets for a large portion of the year.
Looking at our segment performance.
Foodservice continued on its stable and consistent trajectory during the fourth quarter posting year-over-year sales growth while maintaining healthy margins.
Contributing to the positive performance was the market success of our Merrychef ovens and Indigo ice machines which were launched earlier in the year.
The combination of our product offerings within Foodservice leveraging existing customer relationships and a diverse global footprint has afforded us significant opportunities to drive continued growth in this segment as we move into 2012.
In our Crane segment the fourth quarter represented the highest year-over-year sales growth since 2007.
We also experienced strong order intake levels in the quarter which will further contribute to our growth as we look ahead.
In terms of geographic demand levels the fourth quarter was similar to previous quarters with the largest increase in demand occurring in the Americas region complemented by stronger activity in select emerging markets and the Greater Asia Pacific region.
We are encouraged by the activity levels in the fourth quarter which underscore our belief that we will see continued growth in 2012.
Turning to the new year our 7 company-wide strategic imperatives remain unchanged.
Over the last 12 months we have spent a fair amount of time providing detail on these initiatives specifically around innovation growth after-market support and operational excellence.
As we close out 2011 I want to quickly touch on our customer focus imperative which remains critical to our positioning in the market and as a key ingredient for our long-term success.
For example project one remains a key initiative in Cranes.
While we had curtailed this ERP initiative during the recent recession this vital project ramps back up to full speed in 2012 with a team of seasoned individuals that will launch implementations for our Crane facilities in Brazil and France complimented by a global launch spend in our Crane Care operations.
In Foodservice we will open new test kitchens in India and Singapore to support our customer growth aspirations in these key emerging regions.
In support of our strategic imperatives I want to highlight a few additional initiatives as we move into the new year.
First our new 225 000-square foot manufacturing facility in Brazil which is expected to begin production by midyear will position us well to support the broad-based opportunities throughout Latin America.
Consistent with our first mover advantage with tower cranes in China and India Manitowoc will be the first global crane manufacturer to produce rough-terrain cranes in this part of the world.
Innovation continues to be a primary focus across the enterprise as evidenced by the 12 new Crane products and 50 new Foodservice products in 2011.
That said we continue to work diligently to offset select competitive pressures in areas such as product cost take outs and factory efficiencies.
For example we recently introduced a new crane design with 1 400 fewer parts than its predecessor.
These aspects of the business coupled with our technological improvements quality initiatives productivity enhancements and aftermarket product support will continue to be competitive drivers and key components of our strategic emphasis.
Lastly we remain focused on improving the strength of our capital structure.
We have a much stronger balance sheet today as we repaid over $1 billion of debt since the Enodis acquisition.
As a result our debt to EBITDA ratio has improved by more than one turn of leverage.
This coupled with the refinance of our bank credit agreement in May provides us with the flexibility to make the necessary investments in our business and pay down debt as we sustain --  as we drive sustainable long-term growth.
In conclusion 2011 paved the way for continued success in 2012 as we look to capitalize on activity driven by large infrastructure and energy projects in Crane and momentum from new product launches in Foodservice.
Our proven history to manage the company through all business cycles positions us extremely well as we move into an expected growth environment in 2012.
I will now turn the call over to Carl to discuss our detailed fourth quarter financial results and to share our thoughts on initial guidance for 2012.
Carl? Thanks Glen and good morning everyone.
Yesterday we reported net sales for the fourth quarter of $1 billion which is an increase of over $204 million or 25% from the fourth quarter of 2010.
The year-over-year increase in net sales during the fourth quarter was driven primarily by a 40% increase in Crane segment sales coupled with a 2% increase in Foodservice.
Fourth quarter 2011 consolidated operating margin before amortization was 6.4% versus 7.3% in the fourth quarter of 2010.
The year-over-year margin decrease resulted from market pricing issues material cost increases equity compensation costs and a challenging comparable in Cranes partially offset by favorable product volume benefits.
GAAP net income for the fourth quarter was $15.3 million or $0.12 per share versus a net loss of $66 million or $0.50 per share in the fourth quarter of 2010.
Fourth quarter of 2011 EPS excluding special items was $0.14 per share versus $0.10 for the prior year quarter.
During the fourth quarter we posted cash flow from operations of $196 million versus $157 million in the prior year quarter.
Our cash flow from operations was impacted by higher working capital needs to support increased Crane activity.
Looking into 2012 we will remain focused on meeting our cash flow targets as we continue to prioritize debt repayment while also funding strategic growth opportunities.
Moving to the balance sheet.
We reduced our debt by $212 million during the quarter bringing our full year debt reduction total to $140 million.
We continue to manage working capital to ensure we maintain an appropriate balance between our ability to meet growing customer demand and our debt reduction goals.
Turning to our segment results.
Foodservice sales in the fourth quarter of 2011 totaled $347 million a 2% increase from a year ago.
Fourth quarter 2011 operating earnings in Foodservice were $45 million up 13% from $40 million in the same quarter last year.
Operating margins of 12.9% were 120 basis points higher than fourth quarter 2010 driven by LEAN initiatives product mix and scale economies.
Moving to the Crane segment.
Fourth quarter sales totaled $688 million up 40% from $491 million in the fourth quarter of 2010.
This quarter's results reflect the continued growth in the Americas region and stronger demand in most emerging markets.
Despite the positive momentum experienced in the fourth quarter we continue to experience broader-based supply chain constraints in the Crane segment.
As we announced in December our quality assurance program identified an issue with a specific hydraulic component which in turn delayed the shipment of some Crane products into the first quarter of 2012.
Our fourth quarter results were in line with our expectations to remediate this issue and we expect all pent-up shipments to be made this quarter.
Overall Crane segment operating earnings in the fourth quarter were $40 million versus $31 million in the same quarter last year.
This resulted in fourth quarter Crane segment operating margins of 5.7% down 50 basis points from fourth quarter of 2010 margins.
The year-over-year comparison was positively impacted by the higher sales volume but fully offset by material cost and production inefficiencies due to the previously mentioned supply issue.
Also fourth quarter 2010 Crane margins benefited from an approximate $5 million inventory revaluation.
Crane backlog at quarter end was $761 million which grew $189 million or 33% compared to a year ago.
This was driven by higher order activity throughout 2011 including new orders of $676 million during the fourth quarter our highest level since the third quarter of 2008.
Before concluding my remarks let me discuss our 2012 outlook.
For the full year we expect Foodservice revenues will grow in the high-single digit range and year-over-year operating earnings will increase 10% to 15%.
In Cranes we expect a 10% to 15% year-over-year revenue growth.
We anticipate a benefit from our dealer network in North America in the first half of the year as they prepare for year-end market recovery as the year progresses.
As a result our full year Crane operating earnings are anticipated to grow 30% to 40% over the prior year while also exhibiting more normal seasonal characteristics.
Our 2012 financial expectations include capital expenditures of approximately $80 million depreciation and amortization of approximately $120 million and interest expense reduction between $25 million and $30 million plus a debt reduction target range of $150 million to $200 million which should reduce our debt to EBITDA by approximately one additional turn.
Let me now turn the call over to our next speaker Mike Kachmer who will share his thoughts concerning our Foodservice segment.
Mike? Thank you Carl.
2011 was a promising year for our Foodservice segment driven by our diverse customer base that includes many of the fastest-growing and most innovative companies in the world.
Our customers who operate in more than 100 countries come to us for solutions that allow them to improve their menus enhance their operations and reduce their cost.
Our long-term vision and strategy continue to take shape enabling our teams to execute on our most critical priorities.
From a financial standpoint our fourth quarter results were solid.
Our sales growth was balanced across all markets and geographies and was coupled with year-over-year margin expansion.
From a geographic perspective North American demand rose during the fourth quarter primarily driven by our large U.S.
chain customers.
In addition demand in the emerging markets notably China continued to increase at the end of 2011.
We will further deploy resources into that region as domestic customers seek international growth primarily through new store expansion as well as new menu initiatives.
In fact one key initiative for 2012 is the creation of subregions in our emerging markets that will result in greater focus and accelerating growth.
Specifically we carved out Southeast Asia from North Asia while also investing additional resources in Africa the Middle East India and Latin America.
Overall we believe creating these subregions fits our strategy supports our continued investment in the business and enhances our trajectory for growth and improved profitability.
In 2011 our investments in new product development and innovation yielded approximately 50 new products including our Indigo ice machine platform which received the Kitchen Innovation Award at the NRA tradeshow and a Dealer Design Award from the News HVAC publication.
We also introduced a variety of technological enhancements for our Merrychef ovens and blended beverage product categories.
In addition our oil-conserving fryer by Frymaster continues to gain market share from our leading chains which realized substantial cost savings from reduced oil and energy use.
Looking into 2012 our product launch initiatives remain compelling as we continue to invest in all categories and brands with specific focus on ice machines beverage oil-efficient fryers and accelerated cooking products.
The combination of our product offerings customer channel relationships plus an unrivaled global footprint provides significant opportunities to drive additional growth.
This year we will also continue implementing LEAN disciplines to enhance operating efficiencies and create state-of-the-art manufacturing processes.
Our actions on this initiative have been a catalyst behind our results since acquiring Enodis which has included the closure or sale of 5 facilities in Europe the consolidation of 3 facilities in North America and 1 in Asia.
While market pressures remain we expect moderate growth entering 2012 which will be achieved by gaining market share from our competition with our best-in-class brands embracing key growth areas as customers make new investments in their businesses enhancing our great sustainability initiatives and leveraging multiple global opportunities as the market expands.
With that I'll now hand the call off to Eric Etchart for his views and outlook on the Crane segment.
Thank you Mike.
Although we classified 2011 as a transition year we made significant progress in the fourth quarter with strong order intake and impressive year-over-year and sequential revenue growth.
As Glen highlighted earlier into this call we experienced strong activity in the Americas region as well as higher demand in emerging markets and the Greater Asia Pacific regions.
As we have seen over the past few quarters demand is being driven by energy and infrastructure projects which should continue for the foreseeable future.
We also continued to experience weakness in much of Europe and slowing growth in China.
From a product line perspective large rough-terrain cranes and all-terrain cranes were up [indiscernible] in the quarter.
In addition boom trucks in North America were strong which was driven by new product introductions.
Tower crane activity remained high in emerging markets and parts of the Greater Asia Pacific region and consistent with other views crawler cranes activity continued to remain relatively soft during the fourth quarter.
During 2011 we introduced 12 new Crane products including the Igo T-130 tower crane the Grove RT9150 rough-terrain crane and the National NBT 55 boom truck.
We expect to see the benefits of these new products throughout 2012.
In addition we will announce even more products more new products in the coming year to maintain our innovation initiative and to enhance our competitive position globally.
We firmly believe these new products will be a great investment for the company in terms of quality reliability and technical features.
On that note during 2011 customers started to recognize the quality initiative we started roughly 3 years ago as our Lean Six Sigma principle drove improved quality and product reliability as well as greater operational efficiency to help reduce waste improve lead times and become a more efficient and profitable business.
As a result of these initiatives our market share for rough-terrain cranes continues to improve and is now at record levels most notably in the Americas region.
Building on that success we have recently opened a product verification center in Shady Grove.
This new facility not only accelerate our speed-to-market for new products but will improve our product quality metrics and provide quicker validation of new electrical hydraulic and mechanical systems while also reducing our warranty expense and creating greater customer satisfaction.
Moving on I want to briefly touch on our Crane Care business our aftermarket strategic imperative as we firmly believe that Crane Care is and will remain a key differentiator for Manitowoc.
To enhance our current platform I am proud to say that we recently opened a new call center in India in Pune which now brings our call center network to 6 locations.
Each call center is staffed and equipped to provide a full range of service and support solutions for all model of Manitowoc [indiscernible] cranes.
Crane Care's success was even more evident in the fourth quarter as our solid year-over-year improvements were driven by more cranes going back to work and customer ordering more spare parts.
We believe 2012 will be another year of growth driven by new product introductions solid growth in various emerging markets notably South America and Greater Asia Pacific coupled with good activity throughout areas of North America.
Despite some general market weakness particularly in Europe our sound and strategic focus through all stages of the economic cycle will continue to drive performance and profitability for the Crane business.
With that I return the call to Glen for his closing comments.
Glen? Thanks Eric.
To conclude when you look at our strategic accomplishments through what was a transitional year it is clear that we have the right strategy the right infrastructure and the right people in place to drive long-term growth and success and we will continue to do so throughout 2012.
We have proven our ability to manage through the cycle.
Even with the momentum gained at the end of 2011 a challenging operating environment still remains.
However our actions and strategies implemented over the last several years have set the foundation for balanced growth in 2012 as we continue to deliver on our initiatives throughout our business that will expand our leadership position drive shareholder value and enhance our improving financial position.
This concludes our prepared remarks.
James we will now begin our question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Seth Weber with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> It's Adam on for Seth.
Question on the cadence through the quarter of Crane bookings it's quite strong.
And as you indicated in your December update it looked like you were going to do about 570 for the quarter so just wanted to get your thoughts on December's potential pull forward on getting ahead of pricing and what January looks like so far? I'll kick that one off and if Eric has got any additional comments.
I would say yes I think the cadence was relatively strong throughout the quarter.
Obviously we don't tend to forward project what our order flow is going to be and obviously with 3 weeks left in the year we didn't want to miss that one.
So we obviously continue to see some pretty good strength through the balance of the quarter as well.
Don't have a sense if there was a lot of forward ordering but we have tended to see stronger orders from a seasonal standpoint stronger order flow in both the fourth and first quarters of the year has been our history.
Our next question will come from Robert McCarthy with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask you to talk a little bit more about what you're seeing in the crawler market specifically? And I think it'd be useful if you could contrast the U.S.
with abroad.
I mean what I'm fishing for is what you're seeing in terms of order prospects.
Do you expect orders to actually increase this year? Do you have any -- what are your expectations for revenue? Because it obviously affects mix and profit margin.
Yes we'll touch on that Rob.
I would say when you look at the crawler market the -- it's the one that -- it's the lag when the market's rather down and it's also the lag when the markets are going up.
So we talk about the mobile hydraulics and I think you saw that in the fourth quarter and in all of 2011 the crawlers are still the one -- even in the U.S.
still lags some of the peaks that we've seen in the past.
So we haven't seen that order trend upward that significantly.
And so as we've mentioned the mobile hydraulics being the more robust product line towers are okay but not great.
I know that you talk about the U.S.
market and that's where you're concerned.
I don't think 2012 is a lot different than 2011 when it comes to the crawler market.
And towers I think what is nice for us to see is I think the rental utilization of towers is up as are the cranes.
I think it's just a matter of now the business picking up before the actual -- our -- the rental companies have to pick up a bit in their utilization for longer term and then our business will pick up.
But I see it a lot consistent in 2012 with 2011.
Research Division</strong> So I take from that Glen that even globally you haven't seen an uptick yet? Well you're seeing it in -- again it's the emerging markets.
I think you still see it in those areas whether it's in India whether it's in South America whether it's in [indiscernible] Southeast Asia.
I mean you are seeing upticks in other areas.
It's just some of the mature markets is where you're not getting as much pickup.
Eric do you have any comment on that? No I concur what you say.
I think the crawler cranes overall [indiscernible] rather shy versus the other product lines in general.
We've seen a lot of activity on the wind side which could be good in the U.S.
as well but we've seen activity in India and Australia as well for very specific LNG projects.
But overall that's a product line which lag the recovery of the other product lines.
I think Rob one of the things I would point out -- and I mentioned the rental utilizations.
I mean we were with a large rental company last week that -- I mean their utilization on the crawler cranes is in the mid-90s.
So it's a matter of -- now the rates are still down a bit but I think once that comes back -- I mean it's hard sometimes for those guys to make the numbers work right now but that's really the critical thing for us to watch is utilization in the rental rates which are improving.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I'd also like to ask about Foodservice business.
It was interesting comments by Mike about planned consolidation activity that's occurred there.
And as you know Glen we've talked about -- previously talked about the potential for Manitowoc to squeeze more efficiency out of its Foodservice platform and have even talked about some fairly heady potential savings numbers.
And so I wonder if you could help reconcile all of that.
I mean is the message that you've been doing that under the covers? Or do you see a substantial incremental opportunity at some point? Or can we get some update there Glen? Let me -- I'll let Mike give some more color on it.
But I think the things that -- when you look at what Mike talked about a lot of those it goes into 2 buckets.
When we acquired Enodis we looked at things as integration items then they become strategy items.
The integration obviously is behind us.
So now it's what are the strategies.
And as we've gotten through some of the low-hanging fruit you're exactly right.
Now we look at our global footprint.
We look at where our customers are going where are the growth areas.
And there are opportunities to consolidate areas of our manufacturing operations on a global basis.
So I mean that's -- I would say we're not trying to do it any under the radar screen.
It's just some of them as I would call them low-hanging fruits now they're always difficult but I mean again they're not the grand items.
I think the bigger ones that you'll see are ones that we certainly consider and look at and I think that at the right time that's when we'll have conversations about those.
But a lot of it is looking and managing our global footprint right now.
Mike if you want to add to that? Yes I think -- Glen just cascading off your comments.
I mean we have a multiyear vision that gets refined every quarter and it will be a continuum of implementation.
That won't be a perfectly straight line but it will be making sure that we've got plants in the right locations to serve our customer base.
It will make sure that our plants are of a proper scale so that we have a cost structure and an efficiency structure that is very competitive.
And we will deploy LEAN initiatives and state-of-the-art manufacturing processes everywhere.
So what you should expect is a continued focus on this very important aspect of our business.
Next we'll hear from Charlie Brady with BMO Capital Markets.
This is Andrew filling in for Charlie.
I was -- Carl your comment with the hydraulic supplier issue pent-up demand shipping in first quarter.
We're kind of wondering like how much of the Crane revenues slipped into the first quarter? Yes most of what we disclosed in December was the supplier issue.
We talked about impact from the work stoppage and the supply issue and most of the revenue -- I think we said $30 million.
That was almost all the supply issue.
Okay.
And what kind of headwind are you guys seeing with like material costs on Cranes kind of by how much on operating margins? And are you seeing any effects with material costs on Foodservice? Well I think Andrew you constantly have that.
I think you saw earlier today with the U.S.
Steel came out and announced their fourth quarter yesterday I forget what it was and them talking about price increases in the first quarter because of their losses in the fourth quarter.
I mean it's a normal process for the steel industry not that we buy a lot from them but it's part of that industry.
So as we look at what are our pricing tactics what are our cost take-out initiatives I think when you look at normal commodity costs over the course of the year I mean I think there are general items that we put in there whether it's looking at the aluminum commodities or copper.
I mean you can track those.
But at the same time many of the things that we can hedge we already have hedged.
And Carl can give you the specifics but a good portion of some of the costs -- I mean I wouldn't say -- it's certainly not 100% but a lot of those commodities we have hedged to protect our cost as we go into 2012 so there's some insulation there.
But at the same time as we go into the year I think we feel pretty good about where we have positioned our businesses what we have and some of the benefits we can have over some of the whether it’s factory efficiencies product cost take-outs all those things over and above some of the commodity costs.
So I think we feel pretty good about that as we sit here today.
Carl if you have a comment on that? Yes.
I think as it relates -- it's less of an issue for us in Foodservice because of the hedging programs that we can do in some of the key materials there copper and aluminum.
We have some of that in Cranes but to a much lesser extent.
We also have more of a lag effect in Cranes typically and we saw a much greater impact from if you want to call it the price cost equation in Cranes than Foodservice about $30 million in total there for the full year.
We mentioned on the third quarter call that there'd probably be some spillover in that equation in Cranes in the first quarter but that we would get on the right side of the equation in the balance of the year as we look at some of the initiatives that Glen talked about and our expectations about where these costs are going.
Our next question will come from Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays Capital.
Research Division</strong> It's Vlad on for Andy.
Can you talk a little bit on what's the status of your -- the Tier IV engine integration into Cranes whether those have fully been integrated now or whether you're still seeing some headwinds as you integrate the Tier IV engines? No.
It's certainly not fully integrated.
I mean we have models that will continue to go out through 2013 and '14.
What happens is you go into the Tier IV interim and then the rules go into 2013 and '14 in the Tier IV final.
I think what we feel better about is last year as we sat there in the first quarter those were the first Tier IV engines.
It was a lot of how long does it take to get through a new model how long does it take to introduce a new model? I think we feel much better about the process.
So no there's still a good portion of our engineering time and Eric can give you the specific portion of engineering hours that are required for that but it is not behind us yet.
But I think the headaches and the headwinds that we had we probably won't see the delays and those kinds of things that we saw in the early part of 2011.
Eric do you want to talk about the engineering side? Yes.
Obviously we're certainly not done as you said Glen.
We have many new products that needs to -- or products that needs to have a Tier IV interim engines.
But in terms of engineering to give you a clue we have about 30% of our engineering resources just allocated to the Tier IV.
And every basically new machine with a Tier IV engine is considered as a prototype.
So that's a very considerable effort that we need to put into it.
For now we've been through so many -- some learning curves so we feel much more confident as we enter into 2012 to integrate those new type of engines.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's very helpful.
And then just a follow-up on the supply chain.
I know you said that the issues in Q4 have largely been resolved.
Can you talk about any other areas of tightness that you're seeing in your supply chain or any other major areas of concern that are outstanding today? No I don't think there's any glaring issues as we sit here today.
I think the challenge is always -- you look at how the -- to take advantage -- and hopefully this would be the case -- is to take advantage if the markets improve.
I mean we've given our forecast.
That's what we've gone to our suppliers with and that's where we're at.
I think the challenge we always have with our supply base or anybody in the crane market because of the lower volumes versus a lot of the other construction equipment that's a struggle we have is we're always pretty good at getting what we ask for it's that change to get the incremental sometimes that's the bigger challenge.
And so I don't think we as we sit here today we have any glaring issues.
But who knows if we sit there in July and August if markets are improving and you look towards 2013 that's the forecast that we’re more concerned about.
Next we'll hear from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the Foodservice business can you put the 50 new product introductions you had last year into context? How does that compare to the past couple of years and what you have on tap for 2012? And maybe give us a sense for new product sales contribution you're expecting in your forecast this year.
Well I think when you look at -- we talked about the 50 products.
I mean in all honesty that 50 breaks down into if you take it by models I mean it goes -- it's a much greater number so we look at it and tried us some bigger buckets.
But it's a constant for us and it's one of the things that we talk about all the time.
In Foodservice you have menu changes you have innovation that's supporting those menu changes you have the productivity and efficiencies within the restaurants.
And then at the same time you have the food quality and the food health safety.
So those all go into that and I think last year was probably a little above average in the number of new products but I think it's more to come in 2012.
Now on the specifics maybe Mike if there's something you want to add in certain areas.
Yes I would say this.
I think last year showed an acceleration from the previous 2 years because you need to keep in mind that for the previous periods we were to a great degree focused on the integration of the acquisition.
While we continued to spend in those periods it did pick up last year.
And while we are always investing in all of our categories and brands each year brings some additional focus.
So last year there was significant focus around ice machines fryers the Merrychef speed ovens and some other select categories.
So we're really in a good rhythm now where each year there'll be an increased focus of human capital and financial capital on a couple of select brands.
Research Division</strong> Then on the Crane business I'm wondering if you gentlemen can rank order for us which regions you expect to drive order growth over the next 6 to 12 months? And specifically can you touch more on Europe and next kind of softness that you're seeing there considering we're already coming off pretty low levels? Just some more color there would be great.
Obviously as we mentioned in the prepared remarks we're seeing some nice strength coming out of the Americas that's not just Latin America which has been robust really through the financial crisis but also contributed by North America as well.
I think the comment that you made in your question about Europe is well founded.
That was the region that was earliest and hardest hit by the financial crisis and we see progress from the bottom driven by more probably Eastern Europe a little bit of Scandinavia.
But Western Europe continues to be with the exception of Germany pretty difficult environment and outlook.
Eric -- I don't know if Eric...
Eric do you want to comment on any of that? Well Europe is slow as you said.
We had our winter campaign for towers.
It was slightly above last year but from a very low level.
So outside of maybe Germany that we've seen a good level of activity the rest is pretty sluggish.
And it may stay like this for some months moving forward.
Now the rest we expect generally strong activity as we said earlier in North America and the rest of the emerging markets.
Next we'll hear from Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> Can you talk a little bit about the pricing environment in Cranes particularly in North America? We met with Sany last week at World of Concrete and they talked about now having about 10% market share of the U.S.
crawler crane market and they're aggressively adding distributors.
Can you talk about whether there is new competition out there if that's a headwind for pricing or whether you are indeed giving pricing particularly in the U.S.? No Ann.
We've announced the price increases that we had July of last year and in the third quarter -- actually it started late third quarter early fourth quarter this year.
So I think it's just a matter of what we talked about in the fourth quarter they weren’t taking hold until the beginning of this year.
So I mean the orders that we have in the backlog some of them have that pricing some of them don't.
And -- but I wouldn't say that it's being given away.
10% your number not ours.
So I'm comfortable with where our pricing has been comfortable with the value proposition that we offer in the Americas and comfortable with our market shares primarily in the United States especially with crawlers and the mobile hydraulics.
So I mean really the competition that we see from Sany or Zoomlion or anybody else is primarily in the emerging markets.
It's still not that significant in the U.S.
or in the domestic markets of -- the more mature markets of Europe.
But like we said for the past 3 years I mean they'll be here they'll be a competitor and we'll deal with it accordingly.
Research Division</strong> Well apparently they are here.
And the 10% price decrease that's not my number.
How much was your price increase? Eric I mean do you want to comment on the price increases for North America last year? Yes.
It was between 3% to 5% depending on the product lines.
Research Division</strong> And that included Tier IV interim engines? Yes.
Yes.
Research Division</strong> Does that cover the cost of the Tier IV interim engines? Well the Tier IV is more of a pass-through than it's just a cost -- than it is a price increase.
That's part of the battle Ann is do you want to get something that's Tier IV and is the customer going to pay for it or are you going to give it away? I mean that's a business model challenge that every manufacturer makes on an independent basis.
We feel it's a value-add and if you give something away that has value you basically tell somebody it has no value.
So I mean that's the choice we make on every different sale that we have.
The difference is going to be is at the end of the day when you look at what we have from a Crane Care perspective -- you said they've been aggressively adding distributors that there are other competitors that have been longer-term competitors that also have distributors so you have to ask yourself what kind of distributors are they're getting? You have the aftermarket support.
You have the residual values.
You have the financing market.
It's the entire package.
It's the whole cost of ownership that -- we still have a significant advantage as do some of our other competitors over some of the new competitors.
So I mean yes -- I mean again I'll go back to the example.
It's no different than several years ago Yongmao coming into the United States with tower cranes.
It's no different than Tadano coming into the United States with boom trucks.
I mean there's different competitors in every different year.
It's a matter of there's only so much business that's going to go around and people are very aggressive to get into the markets.
I mean it's competition.
Research Division</strong> Yes it's the power of competitors.
Just real quick I don't mean to hog the call but just on the Brazil start-up you'll be starting production mid-2012 but when will you actually report kind of meaningful sales from the Brazil operation? The production actually will start early in the second quarter.
The real products coming off the line will be in the midyear so it will be back half of this year.
Vance Edelson with Morgan Stanley has our next question.
Research Division</strong> When you think about the growth outlook for Cranes over the coming year could you take a stab at sizing the replacement component of that growth versus new orders? Is there any region in particular where you see replacement demand as a major driver in 2012? I don't know that it's any different.
Probably less obviously in the emerging markets than it is in the domestic like let's say Western Europe or the United States.
But I would say you do hear some comments from customers within the United States that during the last few years whether it's '08 '09 '10 '11 a lot of product did go to different places so there is less equipment in the United States as a lot of the used equipment went out.
So whether it's because of new projects or it’s replacement of fleets some for people that had just -- they age their fleet over a certain period of time and then they flip it every so many years some of them have let those fleets get a little bit older and so it's a normal replacement cycle.
But I don't think it's anything unusual.
I don't think that's driving much of it.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Makes sense.
And I'll ask my follow-up on the Foodservice side in particular the aftermarket or replacement business for Foodservice.
Is there any reason to think that the higher-margin replacement work could become a larger part of the mix in regions like China and so forth as we look into the new year? I think when you -- I mean the whole thing we have on the Foodservice side is the service strategy.
And so when you compare some of the things we do in Cranes versus some of the things we do in Foodservice there is opportunity there.
And those are all part of -- again it goes from integration strategy.
And I know Mike's team is diligently working on that one aspect of our -- and our strategic imperative is the aftermarket piece.
Mike do you want to add anything on that? I think the thing to keep in mind is as new stores are built and we get a larger base of stores and associated equipment in these emerging markets eventually the part sales are going to pick up.
So it follows our historical strategy and it's going to play out there as well.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I'll get back in the queue after I ask one more real quick question.
Just following the strike how would you characterize the worker relations right now? Are they worse than normal because of the strike or better than ever because of what was decided? Or is it somewhere in between? I think it's somewhere in between.
I mean it depends who you are.
Everybody has got their own attitude or opinion.
But what I would say is it was very professionally done.
It wasn't some of the things you typically hear in Midwestern strike force.
I mean both sides handled it very professionally and I give a lot of credit to everybody that was involved.
Speaking of it obviously it was -- came to a culmination in the middle of January.
I mean everybody's -- it was voted by a 2:1 margin.
We have 2% increases over the length of the contract.
It goes out to the next 4 years.
And there is language in there.
So you -- we feel good about what it was.
I think given the fact that the vote was 2:1 I think supports that people were satisfied with it.
And I think the unfortunate part is what gets lost in this a little bit is it's 200 people of our 14 000 members of the Manitowoc Company.
So let's not lose sight of that.
I mean we certainly respect what that group does for us and it's a large piece of the cog in our business but again it's trying to -- we've got to take care of the other 13 800 people and make sure everyone is on board with our strategies with our commitments to the stakeholders that we have and make sure we keep people engaged.
So yes I think some people are happy some people aren't so happy.
I mean again I think it depends where you sit today and -- but we'll get that back.
And again what I would say is these are very professional people.
They have a big passion in what they do they know they build great cranes and they'll go back to doing it.
And we've been through this before.
Many of these employees have been here a long time.
They've been through it before.
And again I don't see a big disruption from it.
Next we'll hear from Ted Grace with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I was hoping to begin on the margins and specifically the incrementals that are embedded in your guidance.
If my numbers are right it's kind of looking at 14% incremental margins for the Crane business in 2012.
So I was hoping if we could just walk through -- you've talked about the difficulty in pricing and the price increases you've put through.
You've talked about the efforts to improve efficiency and costs.
You talked a bit about the direct materials.
But I was wondering if you could walk through kind of the other elements that underlie that 14% incremental what the drag from Brazil may be in the first half and just maybe start at that point? Yes.
The other elements that would be headwind we also mentioned the ERP the project one implementation that has been ongoing although obviously slowed down post recession.
And with the ramp-up and the goal lines that we expect to put in place this year that's going to create between the combination of that the incremental cost on Brazil some of the engineering expense that we're going to have because of Tier IV that Glen and Eric talked about you're talking about roughly $0.10 of EPS impact to the overall company.
So circa $15 million from those issues.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And could you just give us a perspective how much of that could be Brazil in isolation? Well the -- obviously we've had a presence in Brazil and it's a matter of just ramping up.
From an expense perspective it's really the add that go into having a manufacturing presence there.
It's probably on the order of $3 million $4 million the incremental expense.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
So we'll have $3 million to $4 million on annualized basis or quarter of drag in 1Q and 2Q? That's a full year.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful.
And then in terms of just thinking through the same issues I know the 23% incremental for Foodservices is respectable.
Are there any key elements we should also think about that you might not have previously mentioned? Certainly plenty of variables that would go into whether or not we would be able to achieve that.
As we're looking at the year right now it appears as though the opportunities that we have for new business rollout as I call them seem to be about equivalent to the things that won't recur that we know benefited us this year and that our ability to drive margin in Foodservice is really going to come from the things that we can do from a pricing product cost take-out standpoint that are really the key drivers to the expectation to drive that margin.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just finally on the Crane pricing side I know you talked about the difficult market conditions.
Can you talk about what the pricing carryover into 2012 would be if you look at what -- if you were to annualize your benefits exiting 2011 what that would look like for 2012? Well in total I would say that the benefit that we would get from the existing and anticipated pricing action and based upon our expectations of the cost for 2012 in total is 50 basis points.
And again it's a headwind in the first quarter and then that benefit comes in the last 3 quarters of the year.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got it.
And the last thing I'll ask is how would you encourage us to think about FX impact for 2012? Well it was headwind in the fourth quarter driven by the U.S.
dollar-euro probably by about $0.05 on the EPS line in the quarter.
That probably is relevant for the first half of 2012.
And then we're pretty flat from currency as we're looking at it today.
Paul Bodnar with Longbow Research has our next question.
I wonder if you could give a little bit more detail on the growth in Foodservice.
I mean what kind of -- you're seeing from the overall market? And then obviously you're benefiting from I assume your new product introductions and I'm also guessing from some expansion in new markets.
I wonder if you could kind of give us a little more detail on those latter 2 and how those are benefiting you in '12? Or should benefit you? So your comment was on the emerging markets? Yes.
How much of this growth is driven by market expansion versus new product growth? Well I mean you go to just a general -- I'm going to let Mike talk about some of the specific markets but when you look at the general industry of what we have in Foodservice remember that 50% 55% of all of the Foodservice business is replacement business.
So the expansion of footprint is the majority of growth in the emerging markets.
When it comes to the mature markets again that's going to be the things where you're talking menu changes productivity efficiency within the Foodservice location and getting more product through the footprint that you have.
So keep that in mind as you go through that new store construction is not the majority of what we have.
So with that I'll let Mike talk about the emerging markets and new products.
Sure.
I think referencing quickly Carl's comment about complexity and the number of variables across the Foodservice space it really does hold true.
There's no single silver bullet.
But on those 2 dimensions I mentioned earlier in my prepared comments creating subregions within our organization.
And it really is serving to help.
By having dedicated sales and service regions focused on smaller geographies like Southeast Asia India and Latin America we're putting cost and resources in advance of the growth but we're seeing the dividends already.
So think of resource-focus by emerging markets that have to be coupled with great products.
And we again touched earlier on the investments that we've made even through the integration years with an acceleration occurring in 2011.
All of the categories that we choose to participate in are getting more than ample investment so our products will remain best in class the brands resonate everywhere and when you link that to the resources that we're putting in these regions our growth will continue to accelerate.
Okay.
And just a quick housekeeping question.
What should we expect in 2012 for corporate expense in terms of the run rate versus '11? I don't know if you can just give us some quarterly ranges to think about.
Yes.
There was obviously quite a ramp in the fourth quarter that was driven by some of the equity compensations the metrics that needed to be true up as well as some other benefit expenses that drove it.
But as we look at the full year 2011 and 2012 barring something unusual it should be roughly flat year-over-year full year.
Our final question will come from Robert McCarthy with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I didn't hear anybody ask about your $150 million to $200 million target for debt reduction for the year.
So my first question is how much of that do we expect to meet from free cash flow? All of it.
Research Division</strong> All of it.
And can you give us some help on tax rate expectations for 2012? We're probably looking a little bit better than full year 2011.
Full year probably roughly 40%.
We expect a very high effective tax rate in the first quarter because of some of the jurisdictional aspects of the profit and loss probably well above 50% in the first quarter but then that normalizes throughout the balance of the year.
Full year effective tax rate of roughly 40%.
That will conclude our question-and-answer session.
I'll turn the conference over to Mr.
Khail for any additional closing comments.
Before we conclude today's call I'd like to remind everyone that a replay of our fourth quarter conference call will be available later this morning.
You can access the replay by visiting the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in the Manitowoc Company.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our first quarter conference call in May.
Have a good day.
That does conclude today's conference call.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone.
And welcome to this Manitowoc Company Inc.
First Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Khail.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Manitowoc's first quarter earnings conference call.
Participating in today's call will be Glen Tellock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carl Laurino Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Glen will open today's call by providing an overview of our quarterly results and business outlook.
Carl will then discuss our financial results for the first quarter in greater detail.
Following our prepared remarks we will be joined by Eric Etchart President of Manitowoc Cranes; and Mike Kachmer President of Manitowoc Foodservice for our question-and-answer session.
For anyone who is not able to listen to today's entire call an archived version of this call will be available later this morning.
Please visit the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com to access the replay.
Before Glen begins his commentary I would like to review our Safe Harbor statement.
This call is taking place on May 4 2012.
During the course of today's call forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 will be made during each speaker's remarks and during our question-and-answer session.
Such statements are based on the company's current assessment of its markets and other factors that affect its business.
However actual results could differ materially from any implied projections due to one or more of the factors explained in Manitowoc's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are also available on our website.
The Manitowoc Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or other circumstances.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Glen.
Thanks Steve.
And good morning everyone.
During the first quarter we saw positive year-over-year sales growth in both Cranes and Foodservice.
Our performance creates a strong foundation for Manitowoc going forward as both segments combined to deliver 18% top line growth and 150 basis point improvement in operating margins.
In one of the typically and seasonally soft quarters the first quarter sales momentum and margin expansion underscore the improving operating environment in several of our end markets the strength of our product offerings and the results from a variety of ongoing lean process improvement initiatives to streamline our business and improve our operational efficiency.
Both market-leading businesses have worked diligently to leverage their competitive advantages and continue to benefit from the significant investments we have made to upgrade and rationalize our global manufacturing network focused on process improvements and drive continuous product innovation.
Turning to our segment performance momentum in Foodservice continued with solid first quarter results as newer product successes and solid demand in select end markets drove our eighth consecutive year-over-year quarterly sales increase.
Looking at our Foodservice products across the globe the Refrigeration Solutions business which includes our award-winning Indigo ice machines was the strongest-performing product category during the quarter.
Our relationships with global and regional chain customers are continuing to drive sales growth in both mature and emerging markets.
And our beverage category notably the Carbonated Dispense business is beginning to benefit from increased activity across the industry.
From a geographic perspective we saw increased activity in North America during the first quarter with strength from many of our market-leading brands.
Europe historically one of the toughest markets in Foodservice grew substantially during the quarter primarily driven by our Merrychef and Convotherm ovens business.
In the Asia-Pacific region we have seen a slowdown in the hotel sector in China which somewhat muted our performance during the quarter.
However we continue to participate in growth from restaurant chains in this region and our outlook for China remains positive.
We will continue to deploy resources into China and other emerging markets as our customers seek international growth primarily through new store expansion as well as new menu initiatives.
In addition we recently opened a new test kitchen in India which complements our similar set facilities in Singapore Shanghai and Guangzhou to support our customers' growth strategy in these key emerging markets.
Our introduction of new technologies in Foodservice equipment recently resulted in 3 of our newest products receiving the NRA National Restaurant Association's 2012 Kitchen Innovation Award.
This award which recognizes cutting-edge kitchen equipment in the foodservice industry was given to: one Frymaster's new Large Vat Fryers designed to maintain high-production capability while also using significantly less oil and reducing energy consumption; second Garland's induction grill that enables real-time temperature sensing and a unique power management system; and third Merrychef's Planar Plume Technology which delivers quicker heat transfer less microwave destruction enhances reliability and increases energy efficiency.
Manitowoc Foodservice brands have captured more than twice as many Kitchen Innovation Awards as any competitor in the industry.
In addition we were recently recognized by McDonald's for the sustainability performance of our Indigo ice machines and our unique Blend-in-Cup product offerings which are 2 excellent examples of our market-leading innovation in Foodservice.
We believe we are solidly positioned as a trusted and valued partner in the foodservice industry particularly as we assist customers to improve their profitability at existing and new locations around the globe.
Moving on to our Crane segment the first quarter results reflect another quarter of strong order intake levels and also marks our highest backlog level since before the recession.
Our performance was driven by robust demand in the Americas region as well as increasing activity in select emerging markets and the greater Asia-Pacific regions.
Improving landscape continues to be primarily driven by energy and infrastructure projects across these regions and we expect this trend to continue for the remainder of 2012 on increased confidence levels.
Within Europe and China the sluggish demand environment continued compared to the other geographies.
From a product line perspective large rough-terrain cranes all-terrain cranes and boom trucks led our improved first quarter performance.
Tower crane activity was brisk in most of the emerging markets and parts of the greater Asia-Pacific region but this product line experienced some softness in the Middle East coupled with ongoing weakness in Europe.
And as the case with the previous quarter Tower crane activity remains soft across all our geographic segments.
Overall we are very pleased with our Crane segment performance in the first quarter.
The recent architectural billing index for March of 50.4% marks the fifth consecutive month this index surpassed the 50% threshold which is a positive indicator for the North American construction markets providing us with increased confidence that our sound strategic focus through all stages of the economic cycle will continue to drive performance and profitability for our Crane business.
Moving on let me now highlight some key strategic initiatives that have begun to bear fruit and will help drive growth for the foreseeable future in the Crane segment.
First many of you already know about our new manufacturing facility in Brazil to support the energy and infrastructure opportunities in Latin America.
As we highlighted in yesterday's press release I am pleased to announced the factory's recent opening which began manufacturing in April with its first deliveries expected in midyear.
The Passo Fundo facility gives us a competitive advantage as the first global crane manufacturer to produce rough-terrain cranes in this part of the world.
Second we started to benefit from several innovative crane products we introduced in 2011 as these products demonstrate our continued focus on quality reliability and technology.
For example the Grove RT9150 is the world's largest rough-terrain crane and has become the category leader for construction and maintenance applications in the energy and infrastructure end markets; the National NBT 55 has gained similar recognition and acceptance in oilfield service applications particularly natural gas and frac-ing because of its reach capacity and routability capabilities; while the Grove GMK6300L has carved a strong niche in the heavy construction and crane rental industry thanks to its 300-pound capacity long-range boom and job site versatility.
These new products are a testament to Manitowoc's market-leading innovation that continues to be a competitive advantage in the marketplace and we plan on announcing additional new products as 2012 progresses.
And third our ERP initiative remains a key focus in Cranes and represents one of the largest capital projects we have undertaken.
More recently a team of seasoned individuals launched SAP [ph] in Brazil in April and will launch implementations for our Cranes facilities in France and our global Crane Care operations later this year.
In conclusion we continue to make solid progress on our strategic imperative during the first quarter which helps position Manitowoc for sustainable long-term growth.
Looking ahead we will remain focused on the strategies that have contributed to our success.
Through this robust strategy and our specific focus on EVA Manitowoc continues to emerge as a stronger and more efficient company that delivers increasing value through our innovative products unmatched aftermarket support operational excellence imperatives and our dedicated workforce.
Now I'll turn the call over the Carl to discuss our detailed first quarter financial results.
Carl? Thanks Glen.
And good morning everyone.
We reported net sales for the first quarter of $860 million which is an increase of over $127 million or 18% from the first quarter of 2011.
The year-over-year increase in net sales during the quarter was driven primarily by a 29% increase in Crane segment sales coupled with a 4% increase in Foodservice.
First quarter 2011 consolidated operating margin before amortization was 6.7% versus 5.4% in the first quarter of 2011.
The year-over-year margin increase resulted from favorable product volume manufacturing efficiencies and certain price increases which were partially offset by material cost pressures.
GAAP net income for the first quarter was $100 000 or breakeven on a per share basis versus a net loss of $52 million or $0.40 per share in the first quarter of 2011.
First quarter 2012 EPS excluding special items was $0.01 per share versus a loss of $0.10 per share for the prior year quarter.
First quarter 2012 earnings were muted by the extremely high effective tax rate which occurred due to a combination of low seasonal earnings and nondeductible losses in certain countries.
We expect the full year 2012 effective tax rate to be in the high 30% range.
During the first quarter cash flow used for operations was $130 million versus $154 million in the prior year quarter driven mostly by the seasonal increases in accounts receivable and inventory.
For the remainder of 2012 we remain focused on meeting our cash flow targets as we continue to prioritize debt repayment while also funding our growth and process improvement opportunities.
EVA improved in the first quarter of 2012 by 27% versus the first quarter of 2011.
Based on our latest projections the Crane segment is on pace to return to positive EVA generation this year for the first time since the second quarter of 2009 while Foodservice is expected to improve its full year EVA by 35%.
Moving to the balance sheet we remain on target to deliver $150 million to $200 million in full year debt reduction.
We continue to manage working capital to ensure we maintain an appropriate balance between our ability to meet growing customer demand and our debt reduction goals.
Turning to our segment results Foodservice sales in the first quarter of 2012 totaled $352 million a 4% increase from a year ago.
First quarter 2012 operating earnings in Foodservice were $51 million up 24% from $41 million in the same quarter last year.
Operating margins of 14.6% were 240 basis points higher than first quarter 2011 driven by higher sales volumes improved operating efficiencies certain price increases product mix benefits and a $2 million income benefit due to a favorable resolution of a pension matter.
Moving to the Crane segment first quarter sales totaled $508 million up 29% from $393 million in the first quarter of 2011.
First quarter results were favorably impacted by a strong year-end backlog and sustained strength in orders resulting from continued growth in the Americas region and solid levels of demand in most emerging markets.
As a reminder we announced back in December that our quality assurance program identified an issue with a specific hydraulic component which in turn delayed the shipment of some cranes until the first quarter.
That matter has now been fully resolved.
Overall Crane segment operating earnings in the first quarter were $23 million versus $12 million in the same quarter last year.
This resulted in first quarter Crane segment operating margins of 4.4% up 120 basis points from the first quarter 2011 margins.
The year-over-year comparison was positively impacted by the higher sales volume and price increases partially offset by commodity costs and product sales mix.
Crane backlog at quarter end was $931 million which grew $131 million or 16% compared to a year ago.
On a sequential basis our Crane backlog was up an impressive 22% from year end marking the highest level for this metric since before the recession and representing a book-to-bill ratio of 1.3x.
For the first quarter new orders totaled $675 million.
This is particularly noteworthy given that there wasn't a major trade show spurring order activity during the quarter as we enjoyed last year at ConExpo.
And as a reminder crane order intake is typically seasonally stronger in the fourth and first quarters.
Before concluding my remarks let me discuss our 2012 outlook.
As noted in yesterday's press release we are reaffirming our guidance for 2012.
For the full year we expect Foodservice revenues will grow in the high single-digit percentage range and year-over-year operating earnings will increase by 10% to 15%.
In Cranes we expect a 10% to 15% year-over-year revenue growth.
We anticipate a benefit from our dealer network in North America in the first half of the year as they prepare for end-market recovery as the year progresses.
As a result our full year Crane operating earnings are anticipated to grow 30% to 40% over the prior year while also exhibiting more normal seasonal characteristics.
Other 2012 financial expectations include: capital expenditures of approximately $80 million; depreciation and amortization of approximately $120 million; and interest expense reduction of $25 million to $30 million versus last year; plus a debt reduction target range of $150 million to $200 million which when combined with our earnings improvement should reduce our debt-to-EBITDA by more than one turn.
With that I'll turn the call to Glen for his closing comments.
Glen? Thanks Carl.
To conclude the performance from both of our segments created a solid start to 2012.
While we are mindful that uneven demand levels exist within our businesses our results from the first quarter coupled with improving activity across our end markets reaffirms our confidence in our full year 2012 outlook despite a slower growth scenario in China and continuing softness in much of Europe.
The core tenets of our strategy: superior products and aftermarket support capitalizing on global growth opportunities and driving operational efficiencies continue to differentiate us in the marketplace and solidify our position as a leading manufacturer of cranes and foodservice equipment.
This concludes our prepared remarks for today.
Dana we will now begin our question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We'll go first to Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Glen and Carl could you help us with the cost side of the equation in 1Q in Cranes? What I'm wondering is you're starting up this Brazilian factory you've got -- you had the strike end in mid-January and price cost has been an issue for you.
I would assume all these things obviously improved but how much of a drag were they in 1Q if at all? Go ahead Carl.
Yes definitely a drag Andy.
That's essentially in line with what we had said in the fourth quarter call.
I think we indicated that we would have somewhere in the mid-teen millions of dollars of total headwind from a cost standpoint from ERP from the Brazilian facility.
And we did indicate that we would see the same from a cost-price standpoint that we would see some overhang this quarter.
We actually were able to have a beneficial price cost in the quarter in total but obviously it was muted.
And we indicated full year that we would see about a 50 basis point price cost benefit to the operating earnings line.
That will be more pronounced in the second third and fourth quarter than obviously -- it was pretty modest in the first quarter.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful guys.
If I focus on crane orders for a second obviously a very good result in 1Q.
What's your visibility for continued book-to-bill over one for the rest of the year? And then you've been in this range sort of since the end of 2010 of between $500 million and $675 million.
I know you're not going to want to tell me that you're going to book what you did in late '06 and 2008.
But is there a chance that we could break out of this range if we continue to get improving confidence from customers? Well I think the first thing I would say to that Andy is keep in mind as Carl said in his prepared remarks that the fourth quarter and the first quarter are typically the best when it comes to the order rates.
Where the confidence lies further I'm going to let Eric give you some of that.
Well there's some of the greater improved confidence within the dealer channel in North America.
And we've seen also the rental houses being ready to upgrade their fleet and signed to upgrade their fleets so that reflects an increase of overconfidence.
Beyond there they continue to be very stronger and brisk in the emerging markets most of them.
Brazil continues to be very strong.
India has been a little bit lumpy but continues to be strong.
And the greater Asia-Pacific is obviously a very good region for us including Australia where large projects are driving demands and consequently orders.
So there is a good level of confidence.
However Europe is very challenging as we said on the call.
And this is particularly affecting our entire crane business where we are typically very very strong.
So it's kind of a mixed bag.
There is a much better and improved confidence overall given the weight of the Americas business in our overall footprint and portfolio.
Does it help? We'll go next to Charlie Brady with BMO Capital Markets.
With respect to the Crane business did the shipment delay -- those that went out this quarter did that have any impact on the Crane margin this quarter or is it all just last quarter? I don't think there was much of an impact from that specific item per se.
But overall I think the biggest issue seasonally for us obviously other than the volume in the first quarter all things equal tends to be seasonally lower from a top line standpoint so the absorption and the effect on margin in the first quarter is typically an issue for us.
And then I mentioned the price cost which is -- was modestly beneficial in the first quarter and we expect it to be better in the last 3 quarters of the year.
Right.
And are there -- I guess I'm going to move to the Foodservice side are there additional price increases anticipated this year? Well I think when you look at some of the things we've chatted about in the past Charlie we've -- I think we've been very aggressive in leading and in price in many of our product lines.
And I think if you remember last year Mike said in one call anywhere from like 0% to 10% it was product line specific.
So again what we would say is I mean there's always that -- you look at the product by category but you also have to be competitive.
So I think there's certainly always opportunity but we have to be mindful of what we have.
But I would say overall for the year there's going to be benefit from the price increases that we had that will outpace what we believe some of the cost increases for the year.
So Mike I don't know if you have any further...
I would just take off on those comments.
We have realized the benefit for the carryover effective price increases realized last year.
We have implemented select price increases in the first quarter at certain key accounts and certain product lines.
And every month we are reassessing the commodity trends to determine whether or not we should be pursuing additional price increases.
All right.
I just have one question I guess really for Eric.
I mean what do you think -- on the crawler side what does it take to get the crawler demand really kind of going back again? Do we need an improvement just in Europe broadly speaking? Or what's going to drive that pickup? And when do you think that might happen? Well typically crawler cranes always lag the other -- the recovery of the other product lines as you know.
Europe is not particularly impacting us because that's not a market where we have been traditionally very strong.
But it's true that overall we don't see a lot of demand for new cranes coming to us.
However we see more activity within the rental houses and the utilizations on large crawlers is getting much better.
But that doesn't translate yet into really many purchases for new cranes especially in the large category.
And there isn't -- if you take the wind business for example you have pockets of winds which are very good in North America.
We probably would be back to the 2008 and '09 level.
However because of the uncertainty about the subsidy at the end of the year people are not ready to commit to larger cranes.
So it might take a while before we could see a really -- a stronger demand for crawlers but I think 2013 should be much better in that respect.
We'll go next to Rob McCarthy with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> This is Mig Dobre for Rob McCarthy.
I had a quick question on the recently announced defense contract for Grove as we read it a $327 million 5-year deal.
And I guess I'm wondering how should we expect to start seeing this contract impact revenues and backlog and so on? Is this evenly distributed or is there any lumpiness? What are your expectations at this point? Yes I think Mig you're referencing a announcement that came out of the Department of Defense.
And what that is you have to be approved to be able to bid on equipment that from the Department of Defense says "Hey here's what I need " and you have to be an approved supplier.
But it just means that we have been approved to bid on that equipment.
And in all honesty there's a couple other competitors that we would expect would also be approved to bid on that equipment.
So really what it is it's saying here is the pile of money that we've set aside and there'll be a few of us that get a chance to bid on it as it comes about it.
It doesn't mean that it's all or nothing.
It just means that they -- if they have 5 or 10 cranes at that time we bid on it the others bid on it.
And so it's really -- it's not anything we got specifically at Manitowoc.
It's just that I'm saying they've approved us and we would expect some others to get approved under that program also.
Research Division</strong> I see.
Then a little -- perhaps a little more color as far as the impact of ConExpo from last year on the comp.
I guess I'm wondering is there any way you can sort of provide us with an apples-to-apples adjusted for that event as to what the order growth in Crane would have been in the quarter? I don't even know if we can sort of separate that event out.
We haven't disclosed specifically what the actual orders placed at the show were.
But it is a show where -- as you know a tri-annual trade show.
And when the end-market conditions warrant there's some pretty significant order activity so it's definitely meaningful.
Eric I don't think there's a big issue if you want to -- if you have a number you want to throw out there.
No I don't have any further comment on this.
But it is -- I think it's notable that we were able to sustain the same relative order level without having that type of a strong order show.
Research Division</strong> So let's put it this way.
Is it fair to characterize the environment as having perhaps accelerated from the prior quarter on a net basis considering this performance here? That is fair.
We'll go next to Rob Wertheimer with Vertical Research Partners.
I really just had one sort of big-picture question.
Your crane orders have been very solid and -- well actually maybe 2.
One is we can't really tell within it if you're gaining share or if there's geographic and product mix that just make it hard and I don't know whether you have a view on whether the innovation and service just paid off in share gains this down cycle.
And second is just whether you can get back to double-digit profit if you sort of keep at this recovered but not incredibly robust order level for a while.
I mean you've done better profit levels at similar revenue levels so I just wanted to see if you see a continued up-trend or you really need new orders to get the profit back.
Well Rob I would generally say to your comments -- and I'll let Eric talk about specifics.
Yes when you look at the market shares around the world I think we certainly feel very comfortable with the positions that we have are gaining in some specific areas of the world and others you try to maintain.
But I would say what I do appreciate out of the group this year is that the discipline that they've taken on focusing on margins and the price increases.
I think as the business benefits you can see some of the other competitors in our industry as they've announced their earnings certainly much lower than Manitowoc's.
So I think you pick and choose your battles there.
When it comes to where we can get long term and we've said publicly that it doesn't even have to be the peak of the cycle but we can get back to the mid-teens.
And I think it's a lot of the improvements that are being made -- or the investments that we even made in 2007 2008 when it comes to machining centers when it comes to the lean improvements and that type of thing.
So we like the direction where we're headed with the margins.
I wouldn't get all excited about the first quarter.
I mean it's typically one of the slower quarters and the second and third are typically the top 2 quarters of the year for us.
So I like the direction we're headed there.
Eric if you want to talk about certain market shares in certain geographies feel free.
Yes Rob I think definitely in the Americas regions we continue to have very strong market share and thanks I think for the first-class distribution network that we have in North America.
And also the regained confidence in the order intake that we have seen.
For example the midsized distribution that we have in North America has quite the largest order ever even before we go back before the financial crisis.
So that give you a little bit of flavor on that confidence level.
But also in Latin America traditionally and still very very strong for us.
Again our Grove and Potain and Manitowoc product lines have a very strong market share traditionally.
And I would say that the new products that we launched in 2011 and we're going to launch this year give me a lot of confidence that we should see that continuing trend.
This being said on the pricing side what I can tell you is that we are very diligent and we walk away from deals that we believe doesn't add value to our shareholders and to our backlog.
So we continue to have a lot of pricing discipline throughout the whole regions.
We'll go next to Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you quantify for us the impact of improved operating efficiencies versus mix in the quarter and just talk about how you see mix shaping up over the next couple of quarters based on the backlog? I had to take the -- I did reference that one particular issue that was a little bit of a windfall for the quarter when everything else on the operational side was obviously very strong performance as you would normalize for that benefit.
From a mix versus manufacturing efficiency standpoint maybe the majority on the mix side.
Well pretty significant contributions on both fronts.
Research Division</strong> And Carl the mix over next couple of quarters based on the backlog? Are you talking about Cranes now? Research Division</strong> No still on Foodservice.
So you have positive mix this quarter.
Does that continue? Yes.
We would expect to see -- I think the real strength that has been driving that for us is the success that we've had with the new generation ice machine that we introduced last year.
That's the biggest component of that.
It's not necessarily expected to change.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the Crane side Eric can you talk about what was -- whether the order growth was stronger in North or South America in the North America market specifically? Have you seen any impact of slower gas drilling activity on rough-terrain crane inquiries and what are the areas that you're monitoring there? Well we've seen a very strong order rates in both North America and Latin America.
In North America what's encouraging is we -- our dealers are obviously preparing for probably more activity again.
So they are ordering.
But what's interesting to see their inventory level is still I would say I would qualify in the low tide despite the fact that we ship cranes to them.
So it's a result of gains on some direct size [ph] and the retaining activity but it's also the result that the demand for the rental is pretty strong right now and they are now rebuilding also their own rental fleets.
So that's really drove the demands.
We've seen a strong demand for rough-terrain cranes especially the large ones.
And we saw also very strong demand for truck cranes in North America especially year-over-year.
And our all-terrain cranes demand throughout I would say the Americas is fairly strong.
So we've clearly no inventory in the channel.
This is driven by various infrastructure projects in the oil and the rigs and various maintenance projects.
You have a different feature basically of course getting in the different regions in North America or Latin America.
But that's what really driving -- plus boom truck activity especially for the large ones which remain very strong.
And this is utilities and this is the old patch I mean the same driver that we gave you in the previous conference calls.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
So no change in demand from oil patch as of yet either in inquiries or in bookings in the second quarter? No.
We'll go next to Ted Grace with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So I was hoping to focus on Foodservices.
And the first question I was hoping to run by Mike is on the outlook.
And if we were to look at the capital spending guidance by U.S.
restaurants and it doesn't matter if it's QSR fast-casual or casual they've all actually done really well in the last few months or actually up meaningfully call it on a sequential incremental basis and yet your guidance is unchanged.
And so I'm just curious if you could speak to kind of the sentiment you're seeing out of your clients and your sentiment within the range of the revenue guidance on your business in particular is the first question.
Okay.
Well Ted I would say that it's important to think about it in pieces around the world.
And I would start with the Americas which for us is primarily North America.
We do see increased confidence and increased capital spend most notably in the chain category.
We don't see the same strengthening occurring in the institutional segment of our business which would be areas like schools and municipalities and so forth.
So we do see that strengthening.
There's a bit of a lag between what they forecast and when the spending actually occurs.
But the Americas are okay.
Europe we see tough forces.
It remains a difficult market for us much like Eric described for Cranes.
And in Asia as was noted earlier by Glen there was a softening of the market the past 8 to 12 months particularly in the hotel sector that ends up being a leading segment for us.
But that's starting to recover as well.
So overall positive trends challenges in Europe the restaurant segment and chain segment in North America strengthening.
LLLP Research Division</strong> But just if we could tie it back to kind of the guidance for your business on a sequential basis just comparing to how the world felt in January could you just give us some framework for how to think about in particular the U.S.
given how important that is from a geographic mix standpoint? Yes we've incorporated that into a blended forecast the guidance that we've provided with the recognition of some offsets in other regions.
I think some of it as Carl just got done explaining some of it is mix some of it is what's the product that is in fact you're getting the capital expenditure from some of the chains or the people that are looking at it.
But the one thing I would say that we have noticed and I think if you read some of the forecast in different places around North America there was probably some concern about what happens when you hear in the midsummer what the price of gas is going to be and that kind of thing.
Things you read recently is is people are putting that into -- are putting into play that it really hasn't changed some of the forecast and mentality.
And I think that's still yet to come.
But I think to Mike's point it's all blended in whether it's North America but across Europe and across Asia.
So I mean you have to take it as a whole.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Absolutely understood.
And then the second part I was hoping to run through this again with Mike.
And Mike you've talked to some degree about the reorganization plans you have in your business and the potential to meaningfully kind of strip costs out over the next 2 years.
Just wondering relative to the last update we had the call 3 months ago where that process stands how you're feeling about it and what kind of goals we might still expect? Well I'm going to break it into 2 pieces Ted.
And the first is a major part of the reorganization has been focused on further segmenting and subdividing our international marketplaces.
So instead of having one big impact region managed by one management team we've actually divided that one up into 3 subregions.
In so doing we've actually added cost.
We've added sales resources we've added service resources and we're adding product experts in those markets as a prelude to the growth that we think that's going to be substantial.
So -- and we're seeing great focus as a result of that.
So we're highly confident that those changes are going to drive quicker growth but with cost adds to start with.
On the flip side we've always communicated that our pursuit of scale economies is very significant.
And whether it's the consolidation of some of our operating companies or the consolidation of some of our factories we believe that that remains an enormous margin opportunity -- margin expansion opportunity moving forward.
And it's a continuum for us.
So again our view's the same.
The momentum continues to build.
And we're sticking to those 3 key elements of our strategy.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And just as a reminder order of magnitude cost savings over multiyear I think publicly you said $40 million to $50 million? No I don't think -- one thing that we have stated without putting a specific timeframe on it is that we think we can get the targeted margins for -- up into the high teens level.
We'll go next to Henry Kirn with UBS.
Research Division</strong> Could you talk about how much impact the Americas Crane dealer inventory rebuild would have on the year? I think that's a tough question to answer Henry because of the -- taking in the parts that Eric mentioned we watch the inventory levels that the dealers have.
And as he said it's still at a pretty low tide as you look at the confidence that they have in the markets.
So there's still a fine line between when the dealers are ordering and when they need the equipment.
And so there's -- what you see is as the utilization's going up a lot of the equipment that went out of this region during the downturn and so some of it is replacement.
But as we watch the inventory levels it's also going out to the end users.
So the impact I mean if you wanted to say it's going to get to the levels it did in 2008 that could be substantial.
But I don't think the dealers want to get to those levels because I don't think we forecast commercial construction or residential construction could get back to those levels until I mean shoot 2015 2016.
So it could have a great impact but I wouldn't forecast it because I -- we just don't see that happening.
And we have dealer counsels we get together we talk about where we think the markets are at.
So I mean yes while it can have a great impact to get back to those levels I mean I think our guidance that we have for Crane revenues takes all of that into account.
Research Division</strong> That's fair.
And as you look at it is there a risk of losing market share because your dealers aren't willing to step up and take enough inventory? No I mean -- no Eric let's go to what his other comment.
We have a dealer that he's a very good dealer put in a substantial stocking order based on his confidence on what he sees over the next 12 to 18 months.
So I -- and plus the fact of the matter is the inventory we have out there we share not only Manitowoc's inventory but the dealer inventory around the globe from a parts perspective I mean things that we can trade off out of other dealer's inventory.
Our dealer network is very highly sought after and that's one of our strategic benefits.
So it -- that doesn't cause us a problem at all.
And we'll go next to Joel Tiss with Buckingham Research Group.
Just 2 things.
One I wonder if you can talk a little bit about the value of what's in backlog.
Is that going to help the mix a little bit more as we go through the year? And you didn't say anything about mining.
I think that's been an area that's been driving the Crane business for the last couple of quarters.
You didn't mention it.
I don't know if you just omitted it or if there's some change there.
Well I'll let Eric speak to the backlog and what's in there for Carl.
But when we -- I guess not saying it's specifically doable you get into the mining yes let's go to South America whether it's Chile or whether it's Brazil.
That is driving a lot of business.
There's a big -- there was a trade show in Chile the Expomin which very very well attended.
This coming up at the end of May is M&amp;T Expo in Brazil.
That will -- I mean that will show the strength of the mining business.
You get into Australia continues to be very strong.
So yes okay probably shame on us for not making more of a deal about it.
But the mining business is still very good when you look at that.
Eric you want to talk about the backlog? I mean obviously some of the new products we have is some of the bigger products.
We've -- taking away other product and improve -- in terms of getting to improve margins with the newer product as we roll it out.
But I mean if you want to speak specifically to it.
I think if you look at the backlog quarter-over-quarter -- comparing to year-over-year sorry of course we -- I think we have a much better backlog probably with the exceptions of towers that again we don't see a rebound in Europe in the very short term.
But overall I think we have a healthy backlog well positioned with the expected pricing that we were shooting for.
So again I think it's  a good indication.
I don't know if you need a more color of it.
I guess just one comment Joel from Carl here.
The towers and the crawlers are obviously areas where we're still seeing the weakness.
On the crawlers side that's nothing unusual.
From a cycle standpoint Eric made a comment that they lag the rest of the product lines typically and this cycle seems to be no exception to that.
But at some point in time we would expect -- probably expect that to come back.
If it's the normal type of lag probably late this year.
In the towers side I think it's more of a structural issue that all things equal if you look at it cycle-over-cycle would be a negative when you look at those -- the margin performance of the business overall the mix that you get out of the towers is probably not going to be a big contributor until you see that non-res and residential construction come back a little bit stronger than our outlook.
It's probably good to say -- to give you more color maybe on the tower crane activity.
I mean in the emerging markets the tower crane activity has been very brisk.
I mean we see a lot of demand for big towers in Singapore supported by the HDB the housing program.
Hong Kong is fairly rebounding.
So the greater Asia-Pacific region is very strong.
India as you know we have our own plant there.
And we keep growing in terms of both market share and capacity there.
And Latin America demand is very good.
I would say that the Middle East -- we didn't speak a lot about the Middle East but Middle East had slowdown for towers as well.
Saudi Arabia we've got very fairly large contracts in the last 2 years with our cranes for a megaproject that we don't see happening.
So really the activity for towers has not been as good as it has obviously been.
But really the issue for towers -- and that's reflected in the backlog but also in the factory that serve those markets I mean our Chinese factory of course sort of the Chinese market but also a lot of the emerging markets.
And there these factories are very busy.
Now the European factories of course we serve the traditional European markets are the ones that suffers.
Okay.
Well great.
And just a quick for Mike.
It seems we've never really had a downturn in foodservice equipment like a sort of a cyclical downturn in a long time.
Can you just give us a sense of pent-up demand? I don't mean next quarter but over the next couple of years doesn't it seem like there ought to be more of an explosion in earnings and maybe is it confidence that's holding that back? Or where are we in the cycle basically? I think first off Joel I mean you've seen some of the charts that we put out before in our investor presentation that goes across North America on the businesses.
And 2009 was a pretty substantial hit to the foodservice industry.
I mean probably a hit that it hadn't seen in -- well for many people ever.
So and then that started the first trend of -- actually it was 3 years in a row that the North America restaurant equipment sales was down 3 years in a row.
It never -- it's unprecedented.
So your point is well made.
But again it's a matter of -- as you see us talk about over 1/2 of our business in the Foodservice side is replacement business.
So you have the existing facilities you have in the mature markets a good install base so we do get that benefit.
I think what Michael probably talked about is that there's going to be the explosion it's going to be the capital expenditures in the emerging markets.
And where he said you can tell just by where we're putting in costs and he's building a presence in some of these areas that's where you have the explosion.
So Mike? Right.
And I think that percentage of gains that we see from a revenue standpoint over the last couple of years is far larger in these emerging markets.
But as we all know it's off of a much smaller base today.
So as we build that those higher growth rates are going to have a bigger impact on our overall business.
With the Americas being roughly 70% of our business even a mid single-digit growth rate has a bigger impact on our overall growth and the earnings associated with it.
And with regard to your question around explosive growth on the earnings side we've done a whole lot so far since the business was submerged but there's certainly more in front of us.
And it's occurring on all those fronts that I touched on earlier.
It will be around innovation it will be around the growth by investing in these emerging markets it will result from scale economies related to operating company consolidation and plant consolidation.
And it will also be associated with what I would attribute to the world-class designs that not only give great performance but that will also take costs out of our product lines most notably from a design standpoint.
So -- and then I guess I would finish up by saying -- Carl offered earlier the guidance towards high teens margins and the pathway to there won't be linear but it's going to be solid.
We'll go next to Seth Weber with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I was wondering if -- can you comment on pace of orders through the quarter whether you saw any acceleration or deceleration through March? And then I guess we had a big trade show in April in Europe.
I don't know if you guys were at Intermap.
But any color on that trade show for the Crane business? Well I'll speak to the trade show.
We did not have a presence -- a significant presence at the trade show.
I think we're starting to believe there's too many of them.
And we think our money is better spent other ways in getting customers to a crane days event or a quality initiative event or a new product launch.
So I think it's taking the same marketing dollars we have and splitting it up worldwide.
And Intermap really has become a regional show.
So we had a very good dealer that had a good presence there.
We supported him and had customer dinners went to the industry trade event dinner that they had on a Thursday night.
But Europe as we said is a little bit weak right now -- not a little bit weak it is weak.
So in hindsight good for us.
So with that it really wasn't a significant pop from anything at the trade show.
With respect to the orders through the quarter you just never know.
I mean sometimes they come late in the quarter sometimes they come early.
I mean it's no different than any other quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Did the price increase go into effect in January? Is that the way we should think about it? We had a couple last year.
We had one in July July 1 I think and then there was one that was right at the end of the year.
November.
Yes November.
We had some price increases last year.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then I guess separately your Grove facility are you thinking about adding any additional shifts or capacity there? It sounds like that facility should be getting fairly busy at this point.
Yes we are fairly busy indeed.
We hired many people in this facility.
Now we -- yes we will work with 2 or 3 shifts.
But you have to remember as well that we have these lean manufacturing initiatives that are very helpful definitely in terms of the whole product cycle and that's also is giving some results as well in Shady Grove in that respect.
But yes we're fairly busy in Shady Grove indeed.
We're probably back to the level we had in 2007 in terms of hourly employees and the capacity we have.
LLC Research Division</strong> Sorry Eric so you're running 2 shifts now? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
I mean that may go to 3? A third shift is always a tough one Seth.
I mean that's where you can and we do and we'll run it as a -- what Eric would you call the -- a scaled-down shift.
It would be more on a bottleneck areas than would it be anything else.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I guess Eric can you just comment on what you're seeing on used crane pricing or availability? Well they're existing very well.
I think the used crane activity has been fairly good and the used crane price -- and again from a premium brand because this is where you see a big difference between the premium brands and the other brand and the emerging brand.
But I would say for the premium brand the activity is fairly strong and the pricing are fairly good.
So that's a good indicator.
We'll go next to Vance Edelson with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> Could you expand a little on China in particular on the Crane side not a huge part of the operations but just based on what you're seeing on the front lines how do you think the economic strength there plays out for the remainder of the year and into 2013? Do you have a feel for that? Well I think I'll start and then maybe Eric can add.
But the product lines that we do best in are the tower cranes obviously and then we have the truck crane manufacturing.
And obviously the slowdown impacts both of those.
But the beauty is on the tower crane side we can -- what we manufacture in China we can export to a lot of the other emerging markets.
So our business there is fairly good.
On the truck crane side with the downturn I would say you see the Chinese composers get very aggressive.
And so basically we can pick and choose where we want to go because we don't have the same market shares there that we do everywhere else.
Well you can watch the Chinese in their own country get very aggressive against each other.
So I think you're seeing a transition of what's happening in China.
I think it will stay slow.
Our forecast is for it to remain like this pretty much most of the year.
But obviously as Eric has said a bunch of times picking and choose where we want to play in that market and being relevant as opposed to trying to win in it.
And -- so I think China -- that said let's go to the Foodservice side of the business.
There's a lot of opportunities.
There's a lot of restaurants that continue to open whether it's in China or the rest of Asia.
You're hearing a lot of the changes to opening a store a day in certain areas.
So it's a good piece of our business but I think we're making up for it elsewhere throughout the rest of greater Asia-Pacific.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And could you comment on the capital deployment priorities? How should we think about capital needs for Cranes versus Foodservice over the next year or so? And maybe just provide some insight into how you think about balancing those needs against improving the balance sheet.
Well this is Carl.
Obviously EVA is the key criteria that we utilize.
We had some big -- we had 8 big projects that's ongoing in the Crane segment that we talked about a little bit earlier with the ERP implementation that will continue to create investing for the next couple of years.
And beyond that I think it's more a matter of where the opportunities lie what we want to do from a globalization of both the businesses and where we think we need to add infrastructure that we don't have.
But the good news is I think overall we've got some great infrastructure as a platform around the world.
And there are enormous additional investments that are going to be necessary for us to exploit what we expect to be a pretty good market over the next few years.
I think when you look at it Vance if you look at where each of the segments are in there where they've been and we've rationalized a lot of things in the Crane segment so it's really picking and choosing where you would make those additional investments.
Foodservice the opportunity is still there in many of the emerging markets.
They can either leverage what the Cranes has done in some of these areas or as Mike said make investments in places like India or the test kitchens in Singapore and Guangzhou.
So it's a matter of where the growth opportunities and to Carl's point -- but again Mike has probably a more robust active plan when it comes to the globalization of his footprint than what the Crane segment does.
So I mean that gives you a little bit of a flavor.
And that does conclude our question-and-answer session.
At this time I'd like to turn the call back to Mr.
Khail for any additional or closing remarks.
Before we conclude today's call I'd like to remind everyone that a replay of our first quarter conference call will be available later this morning.
You can access the replay by visiting the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in the Manitowoc Company.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our second quarter conference call in August.
Have a good day.
Again that does conclude today's presentation.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Manitowoc Company Second Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Khail.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining Manitowoc second quarter earnings conference call.
Participating in today's call will be Glen Tellock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Carl Laurino Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Glen will open today's call by providing an overview of our quarterly results and business outlook.
Carl will then discuss our financial results for the second quarter in greater detail.
Following our prepared remarks we will be joined by Eric Etchart President of Manitowoc Cranes and Mike Kachmer President of Manitowoc Foodservice for our question-and-answer session.
For anyone who is not able to listen to today’s entire call an archived version of this call will be available later this morning.
Please visit the investor relations section of our corporate website at www.Manitowoc.com to access the replay.
Before Glenn begins his commentary I would like to review our Safe Harbor statement.
This call is taking place on August 7 2012.
During the course of today's call forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 will be made during each speakers' remarks and during our question-and-answer session.
Such statements are based on the Company's current assessment of its markets and other factors that affect its business.
However actual results could differ materially from any implied projections due to one or more of the factors explained in Manitowoc's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are also available on our website.
The Manitowoc Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or other circumstances.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Glen.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report solid performance for the second quarter driven in large part by our unwavering focus on innovation operational efficiency and execution of our long-term strategies.
Top line growth of 6% underscores our ability to navigate an uncertain global economic environment and fluctuating demand levels while 120 basis points improvement in operating margins further validates many of the initiatives we had put in place to improve and enhance our operations globally.
Specific to each segment Foodservice experienced another quarter of improved margins driven by a favorable product mix and improved operating efficiencies.
While Cranes posted a significant improvement in margins complemented by continued strong order intake that resulted in the highest backlog level since 2009.
While a challenging environment persists across the globe we are well positioned for our long-term as we leverage growth opportunities from new and existing products in Foodservice as we benefit from increasing Crane activity in the Americas and as we capitalize on emerging market opportunities in both segments.
Turning to our segment performance our Foodservice offering continues to enjoy a very strong position in the global food service equipment industry.
Looking at our products across the globe the cold side of our business which includes our award winning Indigo ice machines and market leading beverage products was the strongest performing category during the second quarter.
In addition our chain customers continue to drive the largest amount of growth across our geographic markets in this segment.
For example a leading quick service chain has implemented programs centered on Manitowoc's blended ice product category for the London Olympics.
Other core categories also continue to enjoy success with chain customers.
One prime example of is our Frymaster oil conserving fryer which has been approved by one of the world’s largest quick service chains and is now replacing its large install base of legacy fryers with our equipment throughout their North American operations.
Looking at other product categories we continue to see considerable interest in our portfolio of advanced cooking technology products which include our Convotherm combi ovens Merrychef rapid cook ovens Garland induction products and others.
Of particular note we expanded our test sites and enjoyed increased orders from the convenience store segment for our Merrychef ovens which featured our patented planar plume technology.
We are experiencing similar interest in growth in the chain restaurant market for these oven products especially in the sandwich and snack segments.
Similarly our investment in induction technology for our Garland cooking line is gaining traction as we received formal notice that these products are now the prime specification for a boutique hotel brand of one of the world's largest hotel chains providing further opportunities within our high end hotels around the world.
During the quarter we attended the National Restaurant Association Show in Chicago.
Throughout the event we experienced strong booth traffic which was up 10% from last year.
Let me also remind you of the three Kitchen Innovation Awards we received from the NRA which recognize cutting edge kitchen equipment in the food service industry.
These awards are given to Frymaster's new large vat fryers Garland's induction griddle and Merrychef's planar plume technology.
Also during the quarter we received three awards from the McDonald's from McDonald's at their worldwide convention.
Manitowoc ice was recognized for the sustainability capabilities of our Indigo ice machine.
Multiplex received an innovation award based on our rapid introduction of alternate refrigerants in Europe.
In addition Garland and our Manitowoc China team were recognized for their contributions to McDonald's growth in the Asia-Pacific region.
From a geographic standpoint diversifying our Foodservice business by increasing our penetration of various emerging markets in Asia continues to be an important growth strategy.
As many other companies have reported we are also witnessing a slower growth environment in China.
However growth by the major chain restaurants in Asia generally and China in particular gives us confidence in the long-term growth profile of the region.
As a result we will continue to invest in China and other emerging markets around the world as our customers pursue international growth primarily through new store construction and new menu initiatives.
This quarter we also saw continued progress on our evolving manufacturing strategy on multiple fronts.
First we have announced our plan to build a multipurpose facility in Monterrey Mexico that will initially focus on a new ice machine line targeted at a new market segment along with certain Indigo products being positioned to serve customers in Latin America.
Second we have begun transitioning beverage equipment production from a plant in Southern California to our existing facility in Tijuana Mexico.
Finally we have launched a project that will result in a new line of reach-in refrigeration products being produced at our Hangzhou China factory and targeted at various Asia-Pacific markets.
As we've mentioned on previous calls our manufacturing strategy is focused on many elements of operational excellence including lean and a factory footprint that will be implemented over multiple years.
While our results outperformed the overall industry growth rates during the second quarter in most product categories we did experience continued softness in Europe given the economic turmoil prevalent in that region as well as slower growth in the hot side segment of our business in North America.
In addition sales rollouts in the second quarter of 2011were more than double those in this year's second quarter.
As we look to the remainder of 2012 and beyond our Foodservice segment can leverage multiple global opportunities as customers continue to make new investments in their businesses.
Furthermore we remain focused on increasing our operating efficiency as we grow the top line and strive to enhance margins by building industry-leading businesses for the long-term.
We will accomplish this by focusing on our chain customers to boost their efficiency and profitability by creating unique solutions that combine the industry's best brands products and services in driving scale economies to reduce cost across our growing global footprint.
Moving to our Cranes segment our second quarter results were encouraging as we grew revenues by 16% excluding the impact of foreign exchange rates.
Driven by focused execution across all levels of the business we experienced sizable margin expansion primarily due to increased sales volume on mobile cranes price discipline and improving operational efficiencies.
Geographically and similar to the previous quarter the Americas and many emerging markets demonstrated positive momentum while demand in China and Europe remained weak.
During the quarter we saw varied demand levels across our product categories in Cranes with large rough terrain cranes all-terrain cranes and boom trucks making strong contributions.
The demand in these product lines continue to be driven by energy and infrastructure projects which should continue for the foreseeable future.
As with previous quarters crawler crane activity remained soft across all geographies.
Tower crane activity also experienced continuing sluggishness during the quarter in most markets.
As a leader in tower cranes and Europe being our largest market for this product line we view this as a headwind going forward.
Moving on let me provide an update on several key strategic initiatives in the Crane segment.
Our Project One ERP initiative remains a key focus in Cranes and represents the largest capital project we have undertaken.
As we previously announced our team successfully launched Project One in Brazil in April.
More recently our ERP initiative went live across all of our French factories as well as our Crane Care operations located nearly owned and our spare parts network that serves all of [EMEA].
Also contributing to our operational efficiency initiative is our recently opened product verification center in Shady Grove Pennsylvania which marks the beginning of an exciting phase in Crane design and testing.
With increased activity in boom trucks and rough terrain cranes in the Americas this new facility not only accelerates our speed to market for new products but improves our product quality metrics and provides quicker validation of new electrical hydraulic and mechanical systems.
I'm also pleased to announce that assembly of shipments from our new manufacturing facility in Passo Fundo Brazil have begun.
With this initiative in such an important emerging region the Passo Fundo facility gives us a competitive advantage as the first dedicated and flexible crane manufacturing facility to produce rough terrain cranes in this part of the world.
In conclusion the level of activity we have experienced in the first half of this year supports our assertion that 2012 will be a year of sustained growth.
Our strong order intake and growing backlog gives us a solid level of confidence as we build on our second quarter results.
Looking ahead our unwavering commitment to our strategic imperatives Company values and dedicated workforce position us well to leverage the recovering economy.
Regardless of the economic cycle we will also strive to optimize our cost structure as we seek to enhance Manitowoc's long-term value.
I will now turn the call over to Carl to discuss our detailed second quarter financial results.
Carl?  Thanks Glen and good morning everyone.
We reported net sales for the second quarter of $1 billion which is an increase of over $56 million or 6% from the second quarter of 2011.
The year-over-year sales increase was driven primarily by a 10% increase in Crane segment sales coupled with a slight increase in Foodservice.
Both segments were negatively impacted by currency as currency neutral sales were 16% and 1.3% in Cranes and Foodservice respectively.
Second quarter 2011 consolidated operating margin before amortization was 9.8% versus 8.4% in the second quarter of 2011.
The year-over-year margin increase was driven by a favorable operating efficiencies higher volumes improved absorption and pricing actions.
GAAP net income for the second quarter was $42.5 million or $0.32 per share versus net income of $3 million or $0.02 in the second quarter of 2011.
Second quarter 2012 EPS excluding special items was $0.32 per share versus $0.15 for the prior year quarter.
During the second quarter cash flow provided from operating activities of continuing operations was $8.3 million versus cash flow versus cash flow used of $33 million in the prior year quarter driven primarily by improved earnings and working capital efficiency.
We also continue to target $150 million to $200 million in full year debt reduction.
Our current year debt reduction target is driven solely by cash from operating activities versus our 2011 debt reduction which resulted from the sale of the Kysor/Warren business.
We continue to manage working capital to ensure an appropriate balance between our ability to meet customer demand as well as our debt reduction goals.
Turning to our segment results Foodservice sales in the second quarter totaled $395 million essentially equal to a year ago.
Second quarter 2012 operating earnings in Foodservice were $67 million up 7% from $63 million in the same quarter last year.
Operating margins of 17% were 120 basis points higher than second quarter 2011 driven by favorable product sales mix scale economies and improved operating efficiencies.
Moving to the Crane segment second quarter sales totaled $611 million up 10% from $555 million in the second quarter of 2011.
Second quarter results were favorably impacted by sustained strength in orders resulting from continued growth in the Americas region and solid levels of demand in select emerging markets.
Overall Crane segment operating earnings in the second quarter were $48 million versus $33 million in the same quarter last year.
This resulted in second quarter Crane segment operating margins of 7.9% up 200 basis points from the second quarter 2011 margins.
The year-over-year comparison was positively impacted by leverage of the higher sales volume pricing and operational efficiencies partially offset by commodity costs and product sales mix.
Crane backlog at quarter end was $944 million which grew $105 million or 13% compared to a year ago.
For the second quarter new orders totaled $629 million which also resulted in a book-to-bill ratio of one-time.
EVA improved in the second quarter of 2012 by 46% versus the second quarter of 2011.
EVA in the Crane segment improved 216% its first positive quarter for this metric since the second quarter of 2009.
Based on our projections the Crane segment should return to positive full year EVA for the first time since 2008.
During the quarter Foodservice also posted EVA growth with an improvement of 28% compared to the second quarter of 2011.
Before concluding my remarks let me discuss our 2012 outlook.
As noted in yesterday’s press release we expect full year Foodservice revenues will grow in the mid-single digit range and year-over-year operating earnings will increase by 10% to 15%.
In Cranes we expect year-over-year revenue growth of 10% to 15%.
We anticipate continued demand strength from our North American dealer network particularly those with customers serving the energy and infrastructure markets.
As a result our full year Crane operating earnings are anticipated to grow 30% to 40% from 2011 while also exhibiting more normal seasonal characteristics.
Other 2012 financial expectations include capital expenditures of approximately $## million depreciation and amortization of approximately $120 million interest expense of approximately $130 million plus a debt reduction target range of $150 million to $200 million which when combined with our earnings improvement should reduce our debt-to-EBITDA ratio by more than one turn.
With that I'll return the call to Glen for his closing comments.
Glen? Thanks Carl.
The broader global growth environment has clearly created headwinds for our business.
We have however proven our ability to navigate through tough environments and we believe the strategies and initiatives that we have put in place will further enhance our operational effectiveness and drive long-term growth.
Year-over-year we have witnessed substantial improvement in our EVA performance.
This improvement coupled with our second quarter financial results demonstrates the value of Manitowoc's industry leadership as we expand our footprint in areas that offer significant growth prospects while at the same time prudently managing the business for long-term profitability.
While the global economic uncertainty is likely to persist through the remainder of 2012 we remain confident in our full year outlook and will continue to emphasize the strategic initiatives that position our business for value creation and competitive success.
This concludes our prepared remarks for today.
Jennifer we will now begin our question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions) And we’ll go ahead and take our first question from Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Good morning guys.
This is Vlad Bystricky on for Andy.
How are you? Good.
I was wondering on your Crane margins the implied guidance looks like margins will be down versus Q2 but I felt price costs getting better and other factors that margins should be getting better.
Are you seeing anything that would make margins lower in the second half? Well I think the biggest impact at least from the run rate in the second quarter would be the seasonal aspect that would be referenced.
We definitely see a stronger margin performance really in both segments in the second and third quarters and then a drop-off in the fourth quarter.
And that's probably the biggest depending upon which periods that you're looking at the biggest reason for that.
Okay.
And then following up on Crane can you talk about what you’ve seen in Crane demand since the quarter and the prospect for your ability to keep book-to-bill at or above 1Q at or above 1 in 3Q again given the seasonality that you talked about? I think we certainly have said several times that the order intake you look at the fourth and the first quarters as being typically the higher quarters of the order intake.
So as Carl mentioned in his remarks the seasonal characteristics we would tend to continue that way.
And obviously we only report orders on a quarterly basis but sequentially the fourth and first are the best.
So that as you look at what happens in second and third obviously if it declines it's not going to be unexpected from our standpoint.
Okay.
Thank you.
And I’d like to take our next question from Seth Weber with RBC Capital.
Hello? Hi Seth.
Hi Seth.
Hey I guess just revisiting that first question I mean typically I think isn't your fourth quarter a better revenue quarter in the Crane business in the third quarter? So I mean typically I would think the third quarter margin would be a little bit softer but then the fourth quarter comes back isn't that or is that not the right way to think about it.
I think a couple of things if you look at the normal seasonality Seth that are at play obviously you've got Ramadan in the Middle East you've got the holiday in Europe that can affect the third quarter.
Right.
And but the other if you go back to it’s hard to find a period that’s the normal seasonal pattern but we would tend to see just because of delivery schedules all things equal greater sales activity in the looking at it from a semester standpoint the second and third quarter then those first and fourth quarters and that's what we are anticipating this year is that you will see a drop-off as opposed to some of the stronger fourth quarter we’ve had in the last couple of years coming off the trough.
Okay.
So that I guess my questions then are can you give us little bit more color on where we are in the price cost equation? I think last year you ended up absorbing something like $30 million of extra costs.
I would expect that that should be kind of moving back in your favor here and the Brazil startup costs I guess should be getting diminished here going forward with that factory now adding production.
And presumably I guess your pricing should be getting better as we work through the year.
So I'm just trying to understand if there's some conservatism in your second half margin targets.
Well I think we got a lot of what's occurred and the pricing was really from actions that were taken last year.
We certainly had some additional actions that had been taken this year but a big part of what we saw in price/cost benefit was experienced in the second quarter and barring the seasonal issue that I talked about earlier I think it's going to be consistent with that benefit for the balance of the year.
What I stated I think in the fourth quarter call last year was we expected to see about 50 basis points benefit full year from price cost.
And I think we’re while we were pretty close to even slight benefit in the first quarter the balance of that 50 basis points really comes in the last year three quarters of the year.
Okay.
And then can you characterize what your current bookings look like from a pricing perspective versus what's in the backlog versus what you are shipping today I mean as your pricing of new orders better than it was better than the stuff that you are shipping.
No I think it’s because of what I stated before that a lot of the benefit that we're seeing this year came from actions last year.
There is not any kind of significant sequential benefit that we would see rolling forward this year.
And we’ll take our next question from Rob McCarthy with Robert W.
Baird.
Hello? This is Mig Dobre in for Rob McCarthy.
Good morning.
Hi Mig.
I'd like to focus a little bit on the Foodservice side and you mentioned different levels of performance I guess on the hot side versus the cold side.
So I guess anymore color any more color as to what the difference in growth or performance there in the quarter was? And I guess any perspective on what drove the hot side slowdown in North America? Is it a particular vertical or a particular product line that was more problematic? Sure.
And I wouldn’t use the word problematic I would just say circumstantial.
I would say that there's two elements to it Mig.
First it would be the customer segment that our hot side products are sold to.
While we've had projections that same store sales in most restaurant categories have been increasing we have not seen the same type of pattern with CapEx spending across those same customer segments.
We also sell our hot side products primarily through different distribution channel than our cold side products.
And our cold side products also have more direct relationships with some of the customer bases as well.
So it's a mixture of customer segment and channel dynamics but not a long-term trend.
We saw a pause in the second quarter across a couple of those segments but don't feel that it's any reflection of the long-term positive trends that we're realizing.
I see.
And that kind of goes to my next question because the guidance for the segment for mid single digit growth in place that there’s going to be some acceleration of growth from what we've seen in the second quarter.
And comps especially on the third quarter are perhaps a little bit tougher on a sequential basis and we still have continued currency headwinds.
I'm wondering here what sort of gives you your confidence that growth is going to be able to re-accelerate from here?  We’ve seen order patterns change in the latter part of the second quarter.
Some of the rollout opportunities that were being formulated earlier in the year are now coming to fruition.
And we're also seeing some of the geographical softness stabilize a bit across our markets.
Any specific geographies that you'd call out?  That I would call up? Call out rather.
Yeah I would say that North America we would feel positive trend there versus looking back over the second quarter.
Thank you.
I will jump back in the queue.
We'll take our next question from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Hi good morning.
Hi Jerry.
In Cranes you gentlemen gave some very helpful color on order trends in the quarter by product I am wondering if you could talk about which product lines and regions you expect to drive growth over the next 6 to 12 months and just talk about where some of the utilization trends are tracking on the crawler side in particular? Thank you.
I'll let Eric talk a little bit about the utilization rates and some of the others but I would say we expect I think the same the same pattern to continue on the product lines the one that we typically see in the back half of the year that picks up a little bit for us would in fact be the crawler product line.
So I think that will contribute I think the back half of the year.
The one that we don’t expect to change much would probably be tower cranes.
So I think everything we said previous with the last quarter this quarter and then a little bit of a pickup on the crawler crane side in the back half of the year.
I think that's where the increases come from.
Eric do you want to talk about utilization rates? Yeah typically during the utilization rates are pretty good.
I would qualify then between the 75% or 80% and that varies of course by product line and by geography but this is what I would qualify.
And in the Americas for the large RTs we see the improved also rental rates starting to key in and obviously this is very encouraging of course.
In terms of tower cranes this is really our headwinds right now.
Europe is extremely slow.
As you know and notwithstanding the fact that the utilization rate of tower cranes are again in the 80% and we see the large rental houses they still have this.
Although they have not and they are not going to invest until the situation clears out.
So it's the only bright spot for tower cranes would continue to be some emerging markets.
India has continued to be a good story for our growth in tower cranes.
And again we are the first ones to produce tower cranes in India.
We were the first ones to enter that market and that's really paying off.
And we see a lot of new construction company embarking in crawlers in towers sorry.
Singapore and Philippines and some countries are very puckish but overall I would say the tower crane business is really a headwind for us right now.
Although utilization rates are still very high on tower cranes.
That's great color.
And just a clarification the crawler pickup is that primarily the U.S.
or other regions as well.
It could be global.
I mean what we've seen as Glen mentioned earlier that our tower crawler cranes intake is typically stronger the second half of the year.
Of course we are the only producer of crawler cranes in America so we have headwinds in terms of currency right now compared to what we've seen in previous years but we expect some activities obviously coming from the Americas and some of other exports markets.
Okay.
A question on the margin side can you talk about how we should expect the cost structure in Brazil to progress over the next couple of quarters that we see the maximum impact of the ramp-up cost this quarter and it will get better from here? And also should we expect material costs to be more favorable over the next couple of quarters? Thanks.
Yeah I would say on the Brazil side the headwind from the lack of production versus the ramp-up is primarily driven by the first half of the year as we are in production and going to get deliveries going forward.
So we will definitely subside.
Was your other half of the question price cost expectation? Yes you address the price.
What about material costs? We've seen fuel costs come down.
Yeah.
I think where we saw the material cost ramp year-over-year affect us a little bit in the first half of the year.
We probably will get some benefit out of that price cost equation to a little bit greater extent in the second half of the year but remember that there's some pretty limited suppliers on some of the categories that while steel as a general category has come down and not so much on the crane side is the type of steel that we're utilizing on the high tensiles Okay.
Thank you very much.
We will take our next question from Charlie Brady with BMO Capital Markets.
Hi good morning guys.
Hi Charlie.
Hi Charlie.
I don't mean to beat a dead horse on the Crane margin outlook but what I'm hearing is Brazil is going to be better in terms of a cost impact in the second half.
Material costs are going to be maybe a bit better in the second half volumes better in the second half.
Crawlers look to be better.
That just doesn’t square up with some of the margin guidance you are giving for Crane.
Is it just some conservatism built in there or is there something else? And can you quantify kind of what the ERP impact was in the first half and what you see in the second half.
Yeah.
I think as you know if you look at ERP Brazil and some incremental engineering expense we had indicated that would be probably in the mid-teens million in aggregate full year the cost doesn’t go away on the Brazil side.
It's just that we it's not affecting us as you look at the margin as you look at the second half of the year.
But the balance of those are continuing costs that we expect to affect the full year across the board in the business.
The other big one from a margin standpoint is obviously we are indicating 30% to 40% increase in total operating income.
We got off to a little bit of a slower start in the first quarter.
We expect to be able to make that up in the last three.
So the that seasonal component I think is at play when you look at the second and third being stronger than the first and fourth that I think is people are thinking about the strong margins that we generated this quarter with past quarter you don’t necessarily see that following through in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
But your full year Crane margin guidance looks to be roughly about 6% kind of implied for the full year which would given that you get a little bit better volume in the second half I am just trying to figure out what I am missing here.
One thing that did you reference in your question Charley was crawlers and I think that Eric's response really related to a little bit more to the order side than necessarily on the sales side late in the year.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And can you quantify I don't know if I missed it on the Foodservice side how much was Europe down in Q2.
Go ahead Mike.
High single digits.
Great thanks very much.
We’ll take our next question from Rob Wertheimer with Vertical Research Partners.
Hi good morning gentlemen.
Hey Rob.
Hi Rob.
Hello Rob.
So you guys gave a lot helpful examples of the innovation that you have in the Foodservice business.
Is there any more sort of quantification you put around it on I don't know the underlying innovation growth rate maybe being sort of masked by the soft economy or an innovation index and can you comment on whether that really helped your margins were great in both segments I'm just curious if the innovation or the mix of new products was higher in the Foodservice segment therefore helped drift up margins? Well.
Rob I don’t think its necessarily a change from what we’ve had in the past I think as you heard Carl talk and Mike talk about the rollouts that we have it’s when are some of these items introduced in previous years so it impacts the comparisons year-over-year but I think we gave pretty good color on the Foodservice side on the Crane side there is a lot of new products that have come out you have the RT150 you have the 6300L on the AT side those of all positively impacted our business.
Now I'll let Eric give a little more color on those but I think you go back to what we've always done and previous to the acquisition of Enodis we always focused on 80% of our sales coming from new products generated within last five years.
As we went through 2009 and '10 we kind of tempered that a bit because it was more of an integration than anything else but that's back to where we want to be.
That's the strategic imperative we have for innovation.
So it's something that we'll continue to invest in.
So it's just a pipeline instead of us giving you that full number of what's in each segment I can assure that new products continue to be the lifeblood of what we're going to do.
But to speak specific to the Crane side I know he Eric has a couple of examples that he can give.
Well Rob it’s a new products and the 9150s is our 150 ton capacity rough terrain cranes that we have introduced last year and this year it was a 6300L our GMK out of Germany which has the longest boom in the industry.
Those two products as an example has been through our quality initiatives that is much more structural with more processes and a lot testing prior to put these machines out on the streets resulting in very high customer acceptance typically very high market shares and very low warranty costs.
So we are very excited at continuing that momentum with the new products in the fourth quarter.
We would launch our 6400 GMK out of Germany the foreign return the crane that we have very high expectations in the product I just mentioned are really leaders in their categories.
So we are very excited to continue the momentum.
We have new products and our new quality initiative what I call the new process that we've been using now since the last three years.
Rob this is Carl.
I know Mike wants to comment on some of the Foodservice innovation as well but just to give you some quantification on the roll-on and roll-off aspect as you look at 2012 versus 2011 there wasn't anything that was singularly huge on that front in either quarter but as you look at it in aggregate we actually had about twice as much magnitude $15 million of rollout activity that occurred in the second quarter last year versus about half of that in the second quarter this year.
So it went down.
Okay.
Rob I'll wrap it up with just a few other comments about Foodservice that we're extremely positive about.
If you reflect back on the multi-million dollars investment we made in our Manitowoc ice line with the new Indigo line our margins have expanded and our share continues to expand in all markets that were participating in.
So the investment is clearly paying off.
If you move to beverage and you think of the evolving blended ice category the fact that we innovated around two type of products in that it is putting us in a position to garner most of the market share with the largest user in Europe today.
And then fast forward to the fryer category and the investment we're making on oil efficiency and energy efficiency it's allowing us to regain and establish ourselves as a preeminent supplier of high end fryers to the marketplace.
So our investments have been logical we believe they've been leading in the industry.
And they're paying dividends on many fronts.
Thanks guys.
Thanks Rob.
We'll take our next question from Vance Edelson with Morgan Stanley.
Hi this is Vikram in for Vance.
Thanks for taking the question.
Could you just talk about maybe share gains that you saw during the quarter and maybe what you expect going forward you had strong backlog numbers with some of your peers probably not as strong.
So just trying to get a sense of maybe where you are gaining share.
We typically won’t talk about shares by product line.
Obviously some of our competitors don't have to do that same thing so we kind of shy away from that.
But I can’t tell you just what Eric just said on the new product introductions and what Mike just talked about on the innovation.
Mike just said on the Indigo ice machine line we're taking share Eric just talked about the RT150 there is nobody else in the globally that has 150 ton rough terrain cranes so that’s all of our share and then the 6300L has been very very well accepted in the industry so that’s really the model of what we are trying to do and I think as you go forward it’s simply not just competing on price.
It’s competing on features and benefits and lower cost of ownership and we talk about the manufacturing strategy.
We have a new line that will manufacture in Monterrey Mexico.
That’s to take advantage of an entirely different product line that we don’t competing today.
So that will be all market share gain.
So I mean we continue to do that and again I think some places yeah we probably are maintaining or competitors may have taken some share but I think globally around the world when you look at it in aggregate we are doing pretty well.
Okay great.
And then could you just maybe talk a bit about cash flow drivers going forward maybe and touch a bit on inventory where you think we are currently?  Go ahead Carl.
So on cash flow obviously it's the enhanced profitability that we’re experiencing this year cash from profitability will be significantly better.
And then I think some of the working capital efficiencies is the story there that will be able to despite the growth – so be able to generate the $150 million plus in debt reductions.
Okay great.
Thank you.
We’ll take our next question from Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Hi good morning guys.
Hi Ann.
Good morning.
Hi can we talk a little bit more about what developments you’ve seen in your Foodservice side during the quarter and also in China.
In which end market was the driver up your lowered outlook.
And just within Europe where are you seeing the incremental weakness? Go ahead Mike.
Yeah as I commented earlier Europe has been our softest market and that’s been a recurring thing for the last few quarters.
And we don’t see it bouncing back quickly but the decline versus same period last year was high single digit and we’re just being very thoughtful about how we’re investing in SG&amp;A and other programs.
Asia continues to grow well albeit less than expected.
It still met the high teens growth across most of the region and most of our product categories and our expectations for future relatively remain high.
We had a bit of a plus in Asia in the general market which is generally a reflection of slowed or delayed projects that are not starting to kick in again.
Yeah I guess what I was getting at in Europe is geographically you know which countries slowed the most and what gives the most exposure? Well Spain has been difficult for us Italy a bit trying Germany continues to do well for us but the majority of the pressure has been UK Spain and Italy.
Okay that’s good.
And then just a point of clarification on the opening remarks and you mentioned that now that you have opened your facility in Brazil that will give you a competitive advantage as the first dedicated manufacturing facility for crane.
But Eric was very proud to show a third crane when we were done at the crane show that is also manufactured in Brazil.
So I wasn’t quite sure I understood why you’d have that competitive advantage because you have a dedicated facility.
Well I think Ann what we talked about is it’s dedicated and flexible.
I think there was a point of differentiation there versus what’s the majority of products that’s going to be there.
I think when you look at what we have well it’s dedicated.
We will have the benefits of the local content in the cranes that are produced down there.
The infrastructure we have for the crane side of the business so it’s not going to be a cranes and something else business it’s dedicated to the crane.
And we can – there are teams we’ve talked about moving into tower cranes at later date.
So I mean that’s why we said it’s – and say we had the first crane come out in Brazil.
I feel we have the first crane facility dedicated to that production.
So go ahead Eric if you want to add anything.
No Ann I think we are replicating things that we have done in the past.
I mean the rough terrains we have done the same localization process in Italy to produce rough terrains in Italy.
And you’ve either got the tow point that we’re trying to produce in Brazil.
This is exactly the same business model that we have done in China than replicating in India.
I am going to replicate this two or three models in Brazil.
So I think we are being through the learning curve.
I think we have high efficiency in what we do.
And again that the brains are very strong in Brazil whether it’s growth or potential.
I think the efforts to localize I think we should be in a pretty good shape.
Okay so it’s more about brand recognition and now you’re localized as apposed to – you’re the first dedicated facility?  We are the first dedicated facility.
We didn’t build the first crane but we have the first dedicated facility just for cranes.
Okay I’ll leave it there because I’ll maybe take it offline.
Thanks.
We’ll take our next question from Schon Williams with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hi good morning.
Hi Schon.
How are you?  Why don’t you just talk a little bit road and highway was let’s say somewhere around 15% 20% of the crane business.
Have you seen any yeah pickup among the U.S.
– in the U.S.
market related to the highway deal it’s not – when would we start to see some of that?  Well I think Schon when you look at the highway bill I think there was a couple of things that are in play.
Lot of that truck you’re actually going to get that in the second and third quarter but I think this is a good point of entry for what happens in November from the license standpoint in the U.S.
I think while people like what happened and they get excited about it and more I would say that we’ll pave in that kind of business.
I think long-term people are waiting I think hesitant a little bit through the rest of the summer and in through the early fall and then 2013 will be – I think you have a better indication of where things are going at that point of time for the long-term on the transportation bill.
Okay.
And then just a follow up on your comments about -- you thought that the crawlers maybe picking up in the back half.
I mean what end markets would that be what geographies would that be I think a little bit of it is that.
I certainly have spoke to lot of customers in that area that is a wait and see mentality but it’s still in the infrastructure.
I think you’re exactly right I think the roads and bridges have lot of opportunities in 2013 and in the Americas.
But when you get outside the Americas it's still the oil and gas is the infrastructure and when you look at still happen in India recently in the power grid.
I think all that comes into play.
So obviously on the crawler side the Americas is our biggest market but we do have opportunities throughout the rest of the world in other markets.
But again driven mainly by the oil and gas infrastructure and then here in North America it would be roads and bridges.
All right thanks guys.
We’ll take our next question from Henry Kirn with UBS.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
You touched on the currency headwinds in crane but could you flush that out how do currency changes impact both the competitive dynamics and then also the reported results at the segment?  The reported results impact for primarily a Crane issues as you could tell by the comments that we made.
There was about $32 million in top line and pretty minor when you flow through to the operating earnings line pretty insignificant.
From a market standpoint…  From a market standpoint we’re the only crawler crane manufacturer in North America.
So yeah we’re going to compete most of competitors either going to be in Europe or some in Asia and with what’s happened to the dollar I mean there’s a pricing competition distrust.
I mean so it’s a little different than the benefit we had several years ago and for last several years.
So that’s the dynamic I mean that’s all the changes there.
That’s helpful and on credit availability have you seen any changes in credit for potential buyers especially in the Crane segment but also for Global Foodservice?  We’d really not seen constraints on getting deals on that have been driven by inability to get finance in any general sense at all.
Obviously things were pretty dysfunctional when we were in the dark days and have incrementally improved overtime.
I think one of the things that is a little bit of constraint around non-residential construction is some of the availability in that end market with a lot of these institutions de-emphasizing that sector; that I think is something that has an effect on us that’s a negative from a financing standpoint.
But as far as customer’s ability to finance we haven’t seen huge bottlenecks on that front.
It certainly in some of the emerging markets where the ease of getting financed is a little bit more challenging that does have an effect but overall as a general comment it hasn’t been a huge bottleneck for us.
Thank you very much.
We’ll take our next question from Charlie Rentschler with [Fortegra Financial].
Charlie Rentschler thank you.
Two question and they’re kind of related so I’ll ride on both of those.
First are we two to three years into a crane cycle that’s more or less like we saw in the last couple of cycles? And second do you see significant deleveraging of your balance sheet in 2013 and 2014 and how all those be achieved?  Well Charlie I would say to your first point you have to run in this cycle similar to what we’ve seen in the past and I would say I don’t think so.
I don’t think we see it the same way I will use Carl's phrase that he has told me it's more of a bathtub recovery where I think the bottom goes a little bit longer than what you saw in 2004 2005 2006 and 2007.
So that’s why we see that playing out and that’s the way we’ll anticipate it.
With respect to the deleveraging I think – again I’ll paraphrase what somebody else said to me as we were talking about this and the comment was as we pay down our debt through the cash flows and I think you can see that from an earnings standpoint.
We can earn our way – we can earn our way out of this and that’s paying down the debt plus getting the earnings up.
And when you do that as Carl mentioned in his comments if we pay down the debt and get the earnings that we say we’re going to get this year and you reduce your leverage by one full turn.
So I mean yeah we see substantial deleveraging when you go on to 2013 or 2014.
Thank you.
And we’ll take our next question from Eli Lustgarten with Longbow Securities.
Good morning everyone.
Hey good morning.
Hi good morning.
Just a quick peripheral question have you seen a change in mix of your customer base buying a crane this year particularly what percentage of your business is going you say are going to rental companies now versus let’s say in normal times?  No we haven’t seen any real change.
The rental channels continue to be a highly predominant in the chasing activities.
I would say that we see probably the customer continue all over to wait the last minute to confirm their orders.
It’s probably due to the lack of confidence or the projects making sure that it’s well financed before they take that commitment debt.
It’s probably more acute in this quarter than what we have seen just recently.
But in terms of segmentations the rented channels continue to be the first one by far.
What percentage of your end market sales are rental channels?  I would say probably around Eli it goes anywhere from 70% 75% it’s a pretty high percentage which is consistent with is consistent with five six seven years.
So I don’t think there’s been a real change in that.
It's been relatively constant as opposed to going up in the last six months.
No doubt.
It’s the same yeah we haven’t seen a change in that.
And one smaller question the cost of meeting all the emission standards here and then going around the world have you been able to pass the world across at this point or are still a little bit behind them on the emission costs?  I am not sure you make that up Eli.
I think we can – the hardened cost of what a new engine is.
I think you try to do your best to pass that on and show the benefits of what’s happening.
I think when you look at from an engineering standpoint and the SG&amp;A that’s involved in doing that I mean you couldn’t pass that on.
It’s substantial it’s taken out 50% of our engineering time and I don’t think that’s any different than other competitors that are having to produce machines for North America.
So it’s a significant investment but that comes to an end in 2014 and then we can continue to focus on newer products.
2013 expenditures will be the same as you go to meet final Teir 4? I think that will be consistent.
Thank you very much.
And we’ll take our last question and a follow-up question from Charlie Brady with BMO Capital Markets.
Hey thanks.
Just quickly on the corporate expense line it looks like that’s ticked up a little bit should we expect kind of run rate second half similar to first half or does it move up or down?  Yeah.
I think your run rate would be – maybe a little bit less – one of the things that is – a driver there is the equity compensation which the corporate expense line picks it up for the entire enterprise so that there could be an ebb and flow to that.
Great thanks.
And with no further questions in queue I would like to turn it back over to Mr.
Khail for any additional and closing remarks.
Before we conclude today’s call I would remind everyone that a replay of our second quarter conference call will be available later this morning.
You can access the replay by visiting the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at <a href="http://www.manitowoc.com" rel="nofollow"><u>www.manitowoc.com</u></a>.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in the Manitowoc Company.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our third quarter conference call in November.
Have a good day.
And this does conclude today’s presentation.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Manitowoc Company Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Khail.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Manitowoc's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Participating in today's call will be Glen Tellock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carl Laurino Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Glen will open today's call by providing an overview of our quarterly results and business outlook.
Carl will then discuss our financial results for the third quarter in greater detail.
Following our prepared remarks we will be joined by Eric Etchart President of Manitowoc Cranes; and Mike Kachmer President of Manitowoc Foodservice for our question-and-answer session.
For anyone who is not able to listen to today’s entire call an archived version of this call will be available later this morning.
Please visit the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com to access the replay.
Before Glen begins his commentary I would like to review our Safe Harbor statement.
This call is taking place on November 5 2012.
During the course of today's call forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 will be made during each speakers' remarks and during our question-and-answer session.
Such statements are based on the company's current assessment of its markets and other factors that affect its business.
However actual results could differ materially from any implied projections due to one or more of the factors explained in Manitowoc's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are also available on our website.
The Manitowoc Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or other circumstances.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Glen.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
While our third quarter results fell short of our expectations in some key areas we also had several notable positives despite lingering uncertainty and continued pressure in the global macroeconomic environment.
For the quarter we reported top line growth of 2% which reflects the constraints of the global business environment as well as certain supply chain disruptions.
We have worked diligently to leverage the competitive advantages of our business segments and are benefiting from the significant investments we have made to upgrade and rationalize our global manufacturing network implement process improvements and drive continuous product innovation.
I think it's important to offer a balanced perspective on both our successes and challenges in the quarter because we feel good about our results and more importantly about the underlying health of our business.
Turning to our performance.
There are clearly a number of factors impacting the current operating environment that we are not immune to: uncertainty around elections and changing government powers both domestically and abroad; the ongoing pressure in the euro zone coupled with slower growth in China and select emerging markets all of which have impacted spending by customers in both of our segments.
Foodservice posted a slight decline in year-over-year sales.
The segment however continues to maintain healthy and growing margins which is a testament to our ability to improve operational efficiency and diligently manage our cost structure.
Positive sales performance during the quarter was driven by our success in various product categories including Manitowoc Frymaster and Delfield.
The combination of our diverse product offerings within Foodservice our ability to leverage existing customer relationships and our global footprint affords us with the opportunities to drive long-term growth in this segment.
From a geographic standpoint we experienced positive growth in select emerging markets during the third quarter.
In the greater Asia Pacific region we saw continued growth in the travel and lodging segments as well as ongoing expansion by chain restaurants.
This created continuing opportunities for many of our products most notably for our Frymaster and Manitowoc brands.
In our developed markets we continued to experience softness in Europe given the economic pressures prevalent in that region.
However our large chain customers continued to drive the largest amount of growth across our primary geographies.
For example following extensive regional testing we received a new rollout order for our Multiplex Blend-in-Cup units in the U.K.
and other European markets.
Shipments of this innovative technology will begin in the fourth quarter.
Similarly we are enjoying continued demand for our Frymaster oil-conserving friers in the U.S.
hamburger chain segment supported by our Manitowoc finance program.
In addition our Merrychef rapid cook ovens are witnessing solid demand in the convenience store and food core segments globally.
Looking at our Crane segment our third quarter sales grew by 5% due to solid demand across multiple product categories with rough terrain cranes all-terrain cranes and small-capacity crawler cranes all making positive contributions.
Demand in these product lines was driven by energy and infrastructure projects which continue to demonstrate sustained strength.
In addition we also saw improved quoting activity for high-capacity crawler cranes during the quarter.
Geographically and similar to the previous quarter the Americas and certain emerging markets in Africa spurred most of our year-over-year sales growth.
This growth was dampened by the previously mentioned pressures in Europe and China.
Tower crane activity however continued at a lackluster pace during the quarter across most markets except certain regions in Asia.
Given the concentration of this product line in residential and nonresidential construction applications tower crane sales have continued to be well below mid-cycle levels.
Lower tower crane sales resulted in an unfavorable product mix for the Crane segment.
As we have said in the past we continue to make investments for our long-term growth even when the global macroeconomic environment remains challenging.
Let me give you a quick update on some of the key strategic initiatives and investments.
First we made significant progress on multiple fronts in executing our manufacturing strategy.
As we've previously discussed we are transitioning certain beverage equipment production from plants in Southern California to an existing facility in Tijuana Mexico.
Additionally we announced plans to build a multipurpose facility in Monterrey Mexico that will focus on a new low-feature ice machine line along with certain Indigo products that are being positioned to serve the Latin America market.
In addition we invested in expanded manufacturing and a new operational headquarters for our ovens production in the Americas region.
This consolidation coupled with our ongoing investments in Cleveland has positioned Manitowoc to improve the service we provide to our customers with consolidated business operations and greater reinvestment in product development.
Second we continue to maintain our investments in Brazil as the quality of Brazil's overall infrastructure is significantly underdeveloped for a country of this economic size.
This presents a tremendous opportunity for Manitowoc and our new crane manufacturing facility in Passo Fundo.
Third we recently completed a demand flow project in Shady Grove to streamline our boom truck manufacturing.
Building on the experience we gained from similar initiatives at our crawler crane and tower crane facilities this latest project will boost product quality and reduce manufacturing cycle times by implementing lean strategies through all phases of assembly for this product line all under one roof.
In addition to this high-profile lean project let me mention how we are improving our efficiencies in customer support.
At our new product verification center located in Shady Grove this multi-million dollar investment enhances our crane design and product reliability metrics.
During the quarter the PVC proved its value by identifying a componentry issue and isolating the root cause.
As a result we were able to improve our internal processes and supply chain relationships to ensure that future products are delivered to the high-quality standards that our customers expect.
We anticipate that the delayed shipments will enhance fourth quarter crane sales.
And lastly we continue to make excellent progress with our Project One initiative.
During the third quarter we accelerated the deployment of this high-profile ERP project which represents the largest capital investment in Manitowoc's history.
Our Project One team in France is currently at all locations to provide local support following the July go-live.
This includes all of our French factories as well as our Crane Care operations located near Lyon and our spare parts network that serves all of EMEA.
As a reminder our team also successfully launched SAP in Brazil earlier this year.
Before I conclude I want to highlight some well-deserved industry recognition.
During the quarter 5 Manitowoc Foodservice brands won prestigious 2012 Overall Best-in-class Awards from Foodservice Equipment and Supplies magazine.
The winning brands included products from Cleveland Delfield Lincoln Frymaster and Manitowoc.
As a group Manitowoc Foodservice has outpaced the competition by winning the most categories in heavy-duty equipment as each brand continues to demonstrate the reliability and versatility of our products in the foodservice marketplace.
In conclusion our performance across the Manitowoc enterprise provides us with an opportunity to build on our third quarter results.
Despite continued headwinds from the global macroeconomic environment we will strive to optimize our cost structure across both of our businesses as we seek to enhance Manitowoc's long-term value.
Looking ahead we expect to finish the year on a strong note as we reap the benefits of the strategic initiatives that we have implemented over the course of 2012.
I'll now turn the call over to Carl to discuss our detailed third quarter financial results.
Carl? Thanks Glen and good morning everyone.
We reported net sales for the third quarter of $956 million which is an increase of 2% from the third quarter of 2011.
The year-over-year sales increase was driven primarily by a 5% increase in Crane segment sales which was offset by a slight decrease in Foodservice.
Both segments were negatively impacted by currency as currency neutral revenue growth was 10% in Cranes with flat sales in Foodservice for the quarter.
GAAP net income for the third quarter was $22.2 million or $0.17 per share versus net income of $23.7 million or $0.18 per share in the third quarter of 2011.
EPS excluding special items was the same as GAAP EPS in both quarters.
During the third quarter cash flow provided from operations was $50.9 million versus cash flow from operations of $5 million in the prior year quarter driven primarily by cash from profitability and reduced working capital needs.
We reduced total debt in the third quarter by $39.2 million.
We also continue to target at least $150 million in full year debt reduction which represents debt reduction of approximately $275 million in the fourth quarter.
Let me remind you that the fourth quarter is consistently our strongest for cash generation.
We expect to reach our full year debt reduction target through cash from profitability as well as a reduction in working capital.
We were pleased with the results of our recently completed $300-million bond offering that was used to pay off our 2013 notes as well as to further reduce our senior credit facility.
This offering coupled with our debt reduction efforts enhanced the strength of our balance sheet to support our ongoing strategic initiatives.
Turning to our segment results.
Foodservice sales in the third quarter of 2012 totaled $401 million down slightly from $406 million in the third quarter of 2011 but flat excluding foreign currency impact.
Third quarter 2012 operating earnings in Foodservice were $72 million up 7% from the same quarter last year.
Operating margins of 18% were 140 basis points higher than third quarter 2011 driven by favorable product sales mix particularly in our Manitowoc and Frymaster brands coupled with improved operating efficiencies across the segment.
It's also important to note that we achieved these margin results while maintaining our investments in our key brands and product categories across our global platform a strategy we will continue to pursue as we help customers with their evolving needs that call for new and innovative products.
Moving to the Crane segment.
Third quarter sales totaled $555 million up 5% from the third quarter of 2011 but up 10% excluding the foreign currency impact.
Third quarter sales results were driven primarily by continued growth in the Americas region which was offset by lower demand in Europe and select Asia Pacific regions including China.
Overall Crane segment operating earnings in the third quarter were $27 million versus $26 million in the same quarter last year.
This resulted in third quarter Crane segment operating margins of 4.8% down 10 basis points from the third quarter 2011 margins.
This year-over-year comparison resulted from our pricing and operational efficiencies being diluted by commodity costs product sales mix and new product engineering expense.
Other items impacting margins in the quarter include Asia Pacific customer account receivable reserves Brazil ramp-up costs and accelerating ERP expense totaling $7.8 million.
Excluding these items Crane operating earnings for the third quarter of 2012 would have increased 32% versus 2011.
Crane backlog at quarter end was $976 million which grew 26% compared to last year.
For the third quarter new orders totaled $582 million a 22% increase from the prior year period resulting in a book-to-bill ratio of just over 1x.
Year-to-date EVA improved through the third quarter of 2012 by 27% versus the third quarter of 2011.
In the Crane segment EVA improved 85%.
Based on our projections the Crane segment should return to positive full year EVA for the first time since 2008.
During the quarter Foodservice also posted EVA growth with an improvement of 25% compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Before concluding my remarks let me discuss our 2012 outlook.
As noted in this morning's press release we are narrowing our Foodservice and Crane revenue expectations and tightening our debt reduction guidance for 2012 while affirming our earnings metrics and all other guidance measures.
For the full year we now expect Foodservice revenues will grow in the low-single-digit range with year-over-year operating earnings still expected to increase by 10% to 15%.
In Cranes we expect 2012 full year revenue growth of 10% to 12% driven by demand from our North American customers serving the energy and infrastructure markets.
Despite this guidance we find that we continue to expect full year Crane operating earnings to grow 30% to 40% from 2011.
As stated in our press release we are reaffirming other 2012 financial expectations that include capital expenditures depreciation and amortization and interest expense.
In addition we are tightening our debt reduction target to at least $150 million which when combined with our earnings improvement should reduce our debt-to-EBITDA ratio by more than a full turn.
With that I'll return the call to Glen for his closing comments.
Glen? Thanks Carl.
As we look forward to the last quarter of 2012 we expect to see a sequential improvement over the third quarter.
We remain confident in our ability to navigate through this increasingly uncertain economic environment and believe we will emerge as an even stronger company when the economy improves.
Even in the face of modest growth we remain focused on positioning the company for improved profitability.
As we look into 2013 we'll begin to realize the benefits of the strategic initiatives that we have implemented over the past several years to drive additional margin expansion going forward.
This concludes our prepared remarks for today.
Tim we will now begin our question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Rob Wertheimer with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> Just 2 quick clarification questions.
You mentioned the issue in Asia with customer financing.
I didn't -- I wanted to ask what kind of business that is and what was the nature of the issue you had.
I didn't think you we're doing a lot so I just wanted to make sure that wasn't something you've expanded.
Right.
So Rob that was essentially the Crane accounts receivable exposure as we look at it and look at the portfolio based upon some of the challenges going on in-country.
We decided to reserve -- in that case from the reconciliation that went through that was about $4 million of the $7.8 million that I referenced.
We've obviously been pleased with our portfolio over all over a great number of years.
But as we look at some of the specific circumstances we're taking a view of taking the reserve which impacted the quarter.
LLC</strong> That's great.
That's all in China I assume? And did you actually have slowdowns from customers? I mean I know that other OEMs had real issues and I wouldn't expect that from you but I'm just curious if your customers were just having cash flow issues themselves or turned stuff back in or what? Yes.
It's just -- it's essentially driven by China.
There was just a little bit in one other Asia Pacific country but almost all of it was completely China.
LLC</strong> Okay great.
And I hate to focus on Cranes because Foodservice had a great quarter but I just wanted to ask about the 4Q revenue guide.
It looks fairly aggressive.
You did mention some supply chain issues.
I don't know how much of that hung up revenues in 3Q that'll flow through into 4Q.
I don't know if you can quantify the revenue impact in 3Q from supply chain.
Will it be fixed in 4Q? And how confident you feel on the Crane's 4Q revenue guide? Well the amount that we didn't get out the door that we expect to benefit the fourth quarter that Glen alluded to in his prepared remarks was roughly $120 million.
So that obviously will enhance fourth quarter.
And obviously you saw some of the order activity that -- that also gives us some of the optimism about our results for Cranes in the fourth quarter.
We'll take our next question from Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> So if you focus on Crane margins clearly we know that you had some unusual circumstances in the quarter with the sales moving and with the customer financing issues.
But if you strip out the customer financing you're still talking about a little over 5% margins.
And it kind of feels like you get better then you kind of step back a little bit again in margins.
So I guess my question is -- I mean you've had decent price increases you've had increasing backlog.
Are we just stuck sort of in this mediocre type of margin environment? Or can we actually sort of get better from here given stronger revenue going forward and price increases? You see what I'm getting at? Yes.
I mean that's certainly a good question Andy and I mean obviously things we talk about internally also.
But based just on my comments in closing saying that even in a modest growth environment we think there's a lot of room to move the margins in Cranes and it comes from things like this product verification center comes from some of the things you're doing in the manufacturing side of the equation.
And we have a couple of things in the headwinds this year that are impacting the year-over-year margins and it's not just the customer finances things like Project One which is the ERP implementation.
We'll continue to bring new products online.
So from an innovation standpoint we have that.
So I think the message we have is yes I think you get a little bit frustrated with the quarterly margin but I think when you look at the full year you look at some of the things -- the second quarter you go to what we look at in 2013.
Yes we should expect improvements and I think you will see improvements in those margins.
Research Division</strong> So Glen you feel pretty confident though that next year with all the things that you're going through this year can be better? We're not going to have these -- as many fits and starts assuming the economy is the same as today? I think you'd have a lot of the uncertainty out of it.
I think that's what -- it started in the -- right after the first quarter I mean.
You had -- this is 2 years in a row where you have Europe kind of rear its issues in the middle of the summer.
We had to -- this almost feels just like last year where the first quarter we started out okay people got a little confident and then the -- you saw what happened in the middle of the summer.
And so I think what we like about our quarter or the way the year is shaping up -- look we weren't exactly on track after the first quarter in comparison to what some people expected but we had a good second quarter.
So after 6 months we're all in line and I think that's what's happening here again is -- yes we didn't get where we thought we would get for the third quarter I'll grant you that but we still are affirming the earnings guidance for the year on lesser revenues.
So I think that's the positives we're taking away from this and all of the things that we're doing some of the investments that I talked about making whether it's in Foodservice in Cranes those are all going to benefit us in 2013.
Now are there unexpected things that always pop up? Yes of course.
We're going to continue to manage the things that we can control and make sure we're flexible enough to adjust to the things we can't control.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful Glen.
Just one other question.
Maybe it's for Eric I don't know.
Like some of the E&amp;Cs we follow have been talking about some delays in their larger energy prospects especially in LNG and obviously we've seen some weakening in the global mining market.
So in the crane markets are you seeing any weakening in some of these major markets? And maybe to the contrary U.S.
housing is obviously picking up and some of the infrastructure projects in the U.S.
that have been stalled for a while look like they could go forward.
So maybe any improvement at all there? Well I think in -- your question relates specifically on the larger E&amp;C companies and the activity that they have.
I think it's still fairly good.
I mean the U.S.
market -- the order intake in Q3 has been flat to last year given the elections obviously.
But I can tell you that the quoting activity that we have seen in the dealership has been extremely high and the closing activity has not been typically as high as we would see given the quoting activity.
And so it revolves around again the elections coming up.
But I think the opportunities and pent-up demand coming out of this is fairly strong.
So I would say for the Americas I think the outlook is pretty pretty good.
And when you look at utilization rates and -- even the rental rates have picked up.
And again a lot of demand from end users is geared towards rental versus purchases just because of the uncertainty that we have here in Q3 the elections.
And we'll take our next question from Charlie Brady with BMO Capital Markets.
As we look in the Foodservice segment and we look at the margin performance in there it was pretty good in the quarter 18%.
How much of that -- I mean can you kind of tease out how much of that really was from the mix in the quarter? And how much are you capturing on a permanent basis that continues to carry quarter-after-quarter? I was going to say Charlie to some extent I think the mix benefit is reflective of the strength of the brands.
When you look at where the strong performers are they also happen to be good margin performers with good market share.
So that's I think reflective of some of that opportunity that -- just because it's favorable mix doesn't mean that it's not going to have some legs to it.
The other thing to point out is you look at the expansion of the margins by 140 basis points product cost takeout and lean initiatives will probably fully -- $5.25 million roughly in combination.
But I don't know Mike you want to...
Well I think Charlie it goes even to the question here that Andy had whether you want to talk about Cranes or Foodservice margins.
It's the things that -- you're seeing the benefits of the initiatives that we're putting in place.
And whether it's in the strong brands or the ones that you would consider the lesser-margin-type items I mean it's improving all the margins.
And so again a lot of initiatives.
Some quarters it's one product that we have a lot of the initiatives in place and this is what happens.
But it's continued and Mike and his team continue to look at the product portfolio across all of them.
So it's not just one single area.
All right.
And just in terms of the order you received that's going to start rolling out in Q4 could you quantify that or give some more detail around that? Mike? The blended ice roll out? Yes yes.
The blended ice rollout is associated with the European markets solely at this time with a large chain customer.
And we're looking at roughly 300 units that will be impacting the fourth quarter.
So it's a portion of the overall market opportunity but certainly not even near to 1/2 the overall opportunity within that sector.
And how long does that rollout occur? Is it just Q4 and it's done or does it carry into '13? No carries into '13.
And there's a chance that it goes beyond '13 into '14 depending on the pace of adoption across the various countries.
And we'll take our next question from Vance Edelson with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> On the topic of maintaining the profitability guidance despite the revenue guide you mentioned how some of the margin issues that are hitting you on a year-over-year basis -- we got a look at the big picture in that regard.
How many of these issues that impacted third quarter Crane margins are expected to continue or not into the fourth quarter? It sounds like the investments in new product engineering and some of the other items are likely to continue while maybe the financing -- the reserves in Asia and some of the other items could be alleviated.
So specifically kind of third quarter to fourth quarter what might improve? The things that I would point out Vance would be the -- Brazil becomes less of a earnings issue as we get into greater and greater levels of production.
The ramp-up certainly affected the first 3 quarters of this year.
But as we get that factory rolling it diminishes over time definitely.
To your point the APAC issue is another one in that category.
That should be essentially a one-time issue.
Engineering expense I think from a year-over-year ramp it probably becomes less over time.
And Project One I think is in that same category where it's still there obviously.
It'll -- it won't be fully deployed until we get through 2014.
But I think the year-over-year incremental expense becomes less given that we're in the full ramp up of the project right now.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And since you have both Crane and the Food presence in China you've probably got some insight into how the industrial versus the consumer side of the economy is behaving.
Could you provide your latest view on when China might improve if you see any inflection ahead and just your relative sense of optimism for both sides of the business? Well I think it's -- I think this year is a good example of what happens.
I think if you sat around here and went back to the first quarter a lot of people thought after the Chinese New Year business picks back up.
And I think that was an expectation that -- an assumption that didn't come to fruition and you see it still lingering in China.
I think as they get through their government transition in 2013 I think it improves.
I don't think it's a bellwether that's really going to -- our expectations are great things happen.
I just think it's a little bit more of the same that we'll see and will forecast for 2013 but -- I think it improves but I don't think there's great leaps and bounds that we're going to have in -- certainly in the industrial space.
On the foodservice space I mean a lot of it comes from just consumer confidence just like it does anywhere else.
What are people spending their money on in China and what's the level of "feel good" attitude from the consumer there? And as Mike said in -- or I've said in my remarks with respect to Asia it's the lodging and the part of the industry that is driving some of that growth.
And we'll take our next question from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> On the Foodservice business in the press release you mentioned that there's pressure in Europe outside of the contract win that you were able to deliver.
Can you just talk about if there's an opportunity to look at the manufacturing footprint in Europe for that business earlier than probably what you were thinking about call it 3 to 6 months ago? How significant is that opportunity? I'll let Mike give you a little bit more on the specifics.
But I think if you went back since the acquisition of Enodis I think maybe we just don't talk enough about it but I think you'd be surprised at the number of initiatives that we have gone through already in Europe with that business.
So we likely have -- and I think there's certainly other things we have on the docket.
But Mike why don't you address that? Yes just to follow up on Glen's comment.
We have done a lot since the acquisition of Enodis.
It's been a combination of operating companies the consolidation of some of the factories and some of the consolidation of distribution centers that were historically company-owned.
With regard to accelerating footprint changes in Europe there's not a big opportunity in the near term.
We've hunkered down we're lean over there right now.
We don't have many factories in Europe compared to North America.
So our efforts right now are on the various lean initiatives that are trying to offset some of the market forces that you described.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the Crane business I'm wondering if you could just could just frame for us whether the ERP issues are 100% behind you in the facility you mentioned earlier? Is that the biggest area that gives you confidence in the $120 million in sales that didn't go out the door in 3Q coming in 4Q? Well it's not -- I don't want you to think that those issues are because of the ERP.
Not at all.
The ERP implementation that -- we've done it in segments.
We started with Portugal.
We did it in Brazil.
Now we were just pointing it out it's just really the cost Jerry that's impacting the quarter.
It's not that driving any of the supply issues.
Those were more in the Americas for the most part.
And so what we have next in the ERP is -- the go-live has been a very good success.
A couple of hiccups but I think those are behind us and now the next will be in the Americas.
But the supply issues aren't ERP-driven.
Research Division</strong> And can you say a bit more so -- feel like call it 6 to 12 months ago you got through the engineering changes on Tier IV.
Can you just provide more color on what's driving the supply issues you saw in the third quarter? Well with Tier IV again I'll let Eric speak to the supply disruption but I think when you look at Tier IV you have to remember that's not over.
If we look at probably 2013 I think you're still going to see 40% or 50% of our our engineering hours are still driven to Tier IV.
As you implement at different horsepowers and all the other items into the engines that we have in the timeframe that we were supposed to do it.
So again that is not behind us and will continue to be a challenge as we go into 2013.
Supply disruption Eric if you want to talk to it? Yes Jerry.
On the Tier IV clearly we have 37 new projects scheduled for 2013.
So really it's a big toll on our engineering efforts.
It's not only the new engines it's all the ramification it has on the overall cranes the weight per axle.
So it takes a big toll on our engineering efforts.
That supply issue it's clearly penalizing Shady Grove.
I think we should be able to ship most of our products in [indiscernible] in Q3 into Q4.
And that should obviously boost our sales in Q4.
And we'll take our next question from Seth Weber with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> There's a lot of puts and takes here with the margin discussion.
Can you just talk about what you think would be a good pull-through margin or incremental margin what you guys would be happy with next year in 2013 in the Crane business? Or how you think about that? I'd be happy with something a little bit smoother than we've seen this year given the issues.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well back at the last cycle inflection I think you guys were somewhere in the mid-20% range.
Is that a fair number to think about or still not quite there? I think that's reasonable at this point.
The other thing that's a constraining factor for our margin performance overall as you know is the tower crane business being as low as it is not having the crawlers really come back.
But it appears that there's some good things going on to Eric's point on some of the high-profile projects.
But to this point we really haven't seen for that favorable part of the product mix in Cranes a lot of benefit to date.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
But you think that could help 2013? Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then I guess a follow-up question.
Fourth quarter is typically a pretty good order quarter for the Crane business.
Is there any reason why you wouldn't think typical seasonality wouldn't happen this year? No.
I mean you're exactly right.
Typically you see it in Q4 and the first quarter and I think that would be our expectation again especially -- certainly in North America you have a lot of the -- we watch the dealer inventory and they're putting some of their forecasts for 2013 and around the rest of the world.
So I mean our understanding or our forecast would be just exactly that same seasonality.
I don't know why it would be any different.
Seth I want to add up on the order intake.
I feel good about our order intake in Q3.
I think we are sequentially down from the third quarter which we -- typically it's a soft quarter.
But if you compare with last year last year we were down 19% in the third quarter versus the second quarter.
So I feel very good about the order intake we have seen in Q3.
Now getting into Q4 of course America tends to be flat year-over-year because of the elections.
I really hope that the pent-up demand after the elections -- and maybe some of the volume depreciation should help in our -- in us I think a good order intake.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
Well you had a strong fourth quarter 2011 order intake.
I mean do you think you could meet or exceed that number? Well I don't know.
I mean it's -- again who knows? I mean I think -- I don't think -- whether it's up or down a little bit from what it was last year isn't really going to change some of the reflection of what we look at in 2013.
Our initiatives are going to be the same.
The focus on margin improvement and the focus on debt reduction are I mean they're the 2 main initiatives we have as we focus on 2013.
And we're not expecting great revenue bumps for 2013.
I think there's going to be certain things like Mike talked about in Foodservice where it comes to rollouts you know that Foodservice typically is -- many of the markets that we serve are GDP-type businesses and we've always said our goal is to be 2x the GDP of any given country.
And then on Cranes I think we have to go in with the assumption that markets aren't going to give us a big bellwether benefit.
So that's what we're focused on.
What are we going to do with the cost side of the business? How are you going to improve margins in a fairly -- I would say unflattering increases in the top line? But I think Seth what we move the needle in terms of the order intake for the fourth quarter will revolve around the Americas and our dealers and how they will see the retail activity and how confident they see 2013.
And it probably will be driven by again strong activity in the all-terrains rough terrains.
And we've seen better activity on the small crawlers and the start of better activity on the large crawlers.
That -- these are the product lines that will move the needle.
I do not expect tower cranes to be really strong in the fourth quarter given what we've seen in the marketplace.
And we'll take our next question from Robert McCarthy with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> You've been clear in your commentary about the crawler crane business that you've seen improved demand for small crawlers improved quoting for large.
First off can you just explain where is that dividing line? What are we talking about? We're talking about small crawlers? Small crawlers would be anywhere -- maybe to the order of 250-ton and below.
Research Division</strong> And this is all product you're making internally? Right? Yes.
For the most part.
Research Division</strong> All right.
And how do you think about the timeline for the improved large crawler quoting activity to turn into actual orders? I mean are we doing early-stage project assessment? Or are you being presented with quotations for orders to be placed in the near term? I think it's a little of both Rob.
I would say you have that increased quoting activity.
But at the same time you have a lot of discussions taking place on projects that are being bid for 2013 looking at the availability of what types of crawlers.
I can let Eric speak towards more of it but it is both of what you just asked about and described.
Eric do you have anything to add? Now the only add up that I would is people do not -- they wait until the last minute to place their orders Rob.
So...
Research Division</strong> Right.
But you have some optimism that we might actually start to see the leading edge of that order activity in the fourth quarter? Yes.
I mean the quoting activity for large crawlers have been fairly fairly low in the first part of a year.
And it's only late in -- really late in Q3 that we've seen that order activity or I think the quotations moving in the right direction.
So yes I think we should see some order intake in Q4.
Now is that going to be -- it's only now back to previous levels.
We're still very far from previous level and I don't see that we should see that even in 2013 because you still have a lot of crawlers anyway available in the marketplace although utilizations of the large crawlers have improved overall.
But the headwinds we're going to have in 2013 is on the wind side because you won't have again these subsidized.
So that kind of activity is going to slow down.
I mean the maintenance will remain but order activity for new wind farm is unlikely to take place.
I think the combination of what you have Rob is you look at the utilization on the large crawlers has been -- I mean very good given the economic environment for the most part over the last 2 years.
As Eric mentioned while the utilizations have been -- the rental rates have been lower and the rental rates are starting to firm up a bit.
So when that happens you have some demand that's been there that people haven't replaced some of this equipment over the last 2 years with our crawlers business being down as we've talked about the towers and the crawlers.
So I think there is a slight expectation that we could have some benefits from there.
But I think again some of it's going to be is what is the sentiment coming out of the end of this year and into 2013.
As we talked about what are some of the E&amp;C companies going to do with the projects they have on plan? Research Division</strong> Sure.
If I could follow up I have a question about -- I mean really more of a modeling detail I guess unallocated corporate expenses.
We're running well ahead of last year's level.
I believe a quarter ago there was some talk about the absolute level of spending being lower in the second half than the first half.
Don't seem to see that trend in the third quarter numbers.
What kind of numbers should we be working with for the full year? And would you characterize it as a somewhat above-trend level of expenses? Or is it the appropriate base to work off for 2013? Well I think one of the things that drives the observation that you made Rob was the lumpiness that you get from essentially truing up the equity compensation element which can depend a little bit -- And I think the normalization of that throughout the year drove the expectation that it should be reasonably flat from a corporate expense.
And that's -- I think we're sticking with that characterization.
And we'll take our next question from Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> It's Ann Duignan.
Can you speak a little bit about the fundamentals in Foodservice? When we think about the impact of higher food costs that most other customers are going to face particularly going into 2013 what gives you the confidence that this business will perform at 2x GDP just given the very dire fundamentals that your customers are going to face going forward? Well Ann I think you have the same dynamics that are in place that have been there for a long time.
It's the trends that we watch and the number of meals that are prepared outside the homes.
You watch the markets where you have expansion from some of the global or international or regional chains as they continue to invest in markets outside the mature markets that you see.
It's the new products.
It's technology.
It's how do you get things done quicker? How do you get the same quality in less time? It's all the same things that we show over the course of the last 20 or 25 years in the Foodservice business that give us that confidence that this business continues to perform from a top line the way we've seen it happen historically.
So I think when you go into 2013 I think you have a lot of things that are behind you which includes things like the elections in the United States some of the -- watching what's happened in Europe.
Yes we don't expect great things out of Europe next year but we do expect in Asia not just China but the rest of Asia there's continued expansion in the regional chains and in the consumer side of the business.
But I think all those together give us some confidence.
It will perform as it has historically.
So Mike I don't know if you want to add anything to that.
Right.
I would say there's 3 additional points Glen to build off of what you've just said.
I think number one there is still a lot of activity with our customers in helping them improve existing menu items or develop new ones to get people in the stores.
Number two people are absolutely turning to us more than they ever had before because of the pressures that you cite to improve their operating costs.
And it occurs around energy and labor primarily.
I think the third thing to keep in mind is despite the overall flat revenue that we depict as an entire Foodservice entity there's good news behind there.
Certain categories have done well.
There are areas where we continue to invest in and we hold hope that those categories we have -- we hold expectations that those categories will continue to flourish in the years ahead.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's useful color.
I do appreciate it.
And then on the Crane incrementals around 25% I mean is that really achievable next year given all of the changes on the Tier IV front and lower-than-normal volumes? I mean is that really a stretch goal? Or is that confident achievable? Well we certainly believe it should be in the 20s with some of the efficiencies we have in the business embedded in the business and the expectation that we're not going to have some of the unusuals that we have today.
I mean we've been ramping up on Tier IV for quite a while.
I think there are some other things Ann when you look at just some operational metrics that we watch.
You look at the warranty from the new products.
You look at some of the inefficiencies we have had in the factories as we've had the starts and stops in some of these products.
I think many of the improvements that are being made at facility-by-facility.
You can see the impact of a lot of the operational improvements that are being made.
So yes I think you look towards the impact of some of the changes or the fits and starts that we've had earlier this year the second quarter alone we talked about supplier disruptions.
I think we're better at those.
The product verification center I think we're ahead of the game on that and some of the new products coming out.
I think you have the benefit of some of the new products.
So all of that together leads us to the confidence that we have in those incremental margins that Carl just talked about.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And just then finally one quick one.
You noted in the press release that third quarter results fell short of expectations.
Where was the biggest disappointment? I'm not sure that you really articulated where the specific disappointments were.
Yes.
It's the top line.
I...
Research Division</strong> So the inability to get crane product out the door? Was that the...? Yes.
I -- yes.
And we'll take our next question from Eli Lustgarten with Longbow Securities.
Here's one clarification.
With the $120 million shipment delay in the third quarter that you sort of articulated was all that due to supply chain issues? Or were some of it due to -- were there any postponements or delays or deferrals of orders in the quarter? No there weren't -- it wasn't based on customer delays.
I would say when we gave that number it really was a supply number.
Now there -- at the end of any quarter there's always shipments that are -- go from one quarter to the next and that's because the customer either is still on the midst of getting their financing or the customer has -- a lot -- you've got to remember Eli a lot of our customers have their own trucking companies.
They bring their own trucks in it's the availability of their trucks.
So there's always a little bit of that.
And so I think quarter-over-quarter that's typically a wash for the most part.
But this is what we talked about earlier was simply we weren't happy with the quality of some of the components that we had.
So it was really setting those products aside until we got that figured out.
Okay.
And looking -- you talk a lot about Tier IV and you have 37 projects next year and a lot of engineering.
We have we're doing interim Tier IV stuff we have another emissions in 2014 which affects everyone anyways because we continue to tighten up.
The question is one what's your pricing for the new products versus the old products because of the emissions? How much are your prices up? And two do we continue this in '14 because you have to roll out further tightening of the emissions issues? Yes definitely we continue into the '14.
The 37 projects I mentioned are including the final Q4.
And in terms of pricing obviously we -- value is reflected in our pricing obviously plus additional price increase that we will have to pass to the market in 2013.
Yes.
But I mean in the interim -- I mean typically what we're seeing is double-digit price increases caused by the new emissions schedules no matter how you implement it.
So are we looking at your new prices come out at having 7% to 10% pricing which is normal? Of course you...
No I don't think you're seeing that Eli.
I think what's happening is you're having to come out -- as you make many of these engine changes because they're so dramatic and the impact of weight the impact of size especially on the cranes that we're talking about you do other engineering improvements at the same time because some of the customers aren't real fired up about paying for these emission changes.
And at the same time it's only in certain countries.
So then you still have the Tier III issue -- Tier III engines that are going to the emerging markets and some other areas so it's not a broad brush increase in the prices.
We're trying to pass on some of that but it's not -- I wouldn't say it's -- I wouldn't say that pricing sticks 100%.
But we consider this more as a surcharge than a price increase.
But you're basically sort of somewhat behind the curve trying to get these prices because of the current market? Is that the best way to describe it? No.
I don't know than we would be behind the curve.
I mean we talked about the price increases that we've had earlier in the year.
You got to remember where we were behind the curve was 2011.
That's where we didn't -- I mean that was a competitive environment where we didn't -- I mean there were no price increases in the industry.
And so at some point in time it becomes a competitive issue too.
And I think when you look at some of the results of some of our competitors outside of the United States I mean some significant losses out of those companies and I think that's an impact on some of the pricing.
Right.
And can we just quickly shift to the food issues? I mean most of the food equipment symposiums I've been to or have been part of have talked about low-single-digit gains in 2013.
And most people are talking -- I think the average forecast for the food equipment industry is 4% next year.
Can you maintain or even fully improve profitability from current levels with that kind of top line industry-wide? Or is the goal basically just to be able to hold profitability in this slow-growth environment? Yes we can improve.
We're attacking it on multiple fronts.
It's margins that are realized through increases in addition that are coupled with the investments we continue to make.
And a key part of our strategy is to still pursue scale economies across the business where they're logical whether it's a manufacturing footprint opportunity leveraging our strategic material purchases.
Again the short answer is yes we have opportunities in front of us even with those growth projections.
And we'll take our next question from Schon Williams with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Just wanted to maybe follow up on that last question.
Can you talk a little bit -- I mean it sounds like there's a lot of moving pieces within Foodservice especially within -- in terms of North American restructuring.
Can you maybe talk about what the timeline of -- when some of these initiatives are going through? Are we working on them now? I know you announced the closure of the Fort Wayne facility.
What timeline are we working with and when should we expect that activity to really hit the bottom line? Are we -- are you talking about the fourth quarter we should start to see incremental gains? Is it first half of next year second half of next year? Just help me with the timing a little bit? Let me -- I'm going to let Mike talk about the specifics what he wants to say on the timeline.
But you've got to remember Schon this -- the acquisition of Enodis happened at the end of 2008.
And first of all you have the integration and then you have the strategic-type items that we implement.
And we're going through the list as we saw the opportunities that we could make from an operational standpoint and that's why we like the acquisition so much.
And I think if you go back and historically look at what the margins were at Enodis you look at them today significant improvement has been made on that front and to get to where we're at today.
But the things Mike was talking about we're going to continue to knock these out one at a time in a very logical manner.
And you just -- some of it you're just -- you're constrained by resources and time.
But there are a lot of things that are going on.
As we talked about -- you mentioned the Fort Wayne but there's also the new ice machine line on the low-featured ice machine line that I talked about.
You have the opportunities in Latin America.
Those all come in over 2013 in addition to the things that we talked about the beverage plant being consolidated to Tijuana.
So other than that I can -- Mike can probably allude on those a little bit more.
Yes.
So I'll touch on the 3 that we've publicized that Glen briefly mentioned.
On the Fort Wayne consolidation will be completed mostly through the first quarter but with final shutdown operations occurring in Q2 next year.
A lot of activity between now and then very heavy in Q4 of this year but all complete by the second quarter of next year.
The beverage operations that are being consolidated into an existing Tijuana Mexico facility will be done by the first quarter of next year.
And the Monterrey facility we expect to have product off late Q2 next year but that is more of a growth opportunity when we talk about a new ice machine line that's targeted at a market segment that we haven't focused on historically coupled with the pursuit of Latin American markets that are right now hindered by not having South American operations.
Research Division</strong> That was helpful guys.
And then maybe just drilling in a little bit more on the Foodservice in the quarter.
Can you talk about cold versus hot side of the kitchen? I know -- I think the hot side was particularly weak for you last quarter.
Do we see those trends continue into Q3? Did it get worse? Can you just talk about the 2? Yes.
I would say that there's even subsets within the general hot and cold category.
In our press release we refer to the continued success of our Frymaster fryer brand.
And on the cold side the Manitowoc Ice brand.
On average the cold side of our business has grown more effectively than the hot for a variety of dynamics.
But really it's the general market in the U.S.
that's associated with our grills and ranges and convection ovens that have been slower just in general.
And it's -- we believe it's a market phenomena.
Certainly not a share phenomena on our part.
It was a little tempered less tempered in this past quarter and we expect it to stabilize moving into Q4 and beyond.
Research Division</strong> And then last question you did add a risk disclosure in your debt offering with a -- it's a fairly sizable dispute with the IRS.
Can you maybe -- just help me think about what I should think about in terms of I don't know risk there and kind of what the -- what we could be talking about in a worst-case scenario.
I mean could you ultimately be looking at $100 million-plus payoff to the IRS if you were to lose that dispute? Well I think that the disclosure probably needs to speak for itself.
I mean that number is in there so that certainly does reflect what the worst-case scenario would be.
I think as we look at the issue and the practicality we certainly don't expect that.
We don't see that.
We feel as though the specific rules that are utilized when you have deductibility of a foreign exchange transaction were observed and therefore it is valid.
Obviously the IRS has a different view.
And we will continue to as the disclosure says seek the administrative remedy in order to essentially get to resolution.
And if that is not successful we're prepared to take other measures.
Research Division</strong> And what is the timeline? Are you meeting with the IRS here in the fourth quarter? Or I mean could this -- this could essentially be something that drags on for years is it? Yes to your latter comment.
It could take years.
And we'll take our next question from Ted Grace with Susquehanna Financial Group.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So I just wanted to come back to the Foodservice business and kind of come at Ann's question a little differently.
A quarter ago we talked about improved confidence and acceleration in the back half of this year.
It was based on late 2Q patterns we saw into 3Q the benefits of the rollout new product introduction and geographic stabilization especially North America.
It doesn't look like it occurred this quarter and certainly the implied outlook for 4Q is kind of anemic.
So can you just walk through what the immediate challenges are? You've talked generally about election uncertainty and economic uncertainty but was there any -- is there anything more specific whether it's food cost inflation or other things that crept up on you this quarter? And just understanding what happened in the near term would be helpful as a starting point.
Just a quick comment from me.
And then I think Mike probably is the guy to answer this question.
But as we look at the fourth quarter and the revision to our guidance we certainly don't look at it as anemic based upon what the market dynamics are right now.
It's more a function of the lackluster first 3 quarters that we had as opposed to what we're looking at in the fourth quarter.
But I'll turn it over to Mike.
Yes.
I mean I would agree with that Carl.
We've got some great opportunities that are targeted for the fourth quarter one that was referred to earlier around the blended ice opportunity in Europe.
And we we're still having solid success with chain customers in Asia most notably China.
But to answer the question that you pose the most difficult challenge for us remains Europe.
And Europe in this last quarter was worse than we expected going into it and we're not out of the woods.
So we continue to monitor the market very closely.
We're very selective about where we're pursuing growth and we're trying to pursue as many lean initiatives as possible to maintain margins in that sector.
But that's our steepest challenge for sure.
And that concludes our question-and-answer session.
I'll turn it back to Steve Khail for any closing remarks.
Before we conclude today's call I'd like to remind everyone that a replay of our third quarter conference call will be available later this morning.
You can access the replay by visiting the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in the Manitowoc Company.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our fourth quarter conference call.
Have a good day.
Good day everyone and welcome to today's Manitowoc Company's Fourth Quarter 2012 Earnings Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
And at this time for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Khail.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Manitowoc's fourth quarter earnings conference call.
Participating in today's call will be Glen Tellock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carl Laurino Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Mike Kachmer President of Manitowoc Foodservice; and joining us from France is Eric Etchart President of Manitowoc Cranes.
Glen will open today's call by reviewing our 2012 accomplishments and our go-forward strategies.
Carl will discuss our financial results for the fourth quarter and provide our initial guidance for 2013.
Then our segment presidents will review their 2012 highlights and offer an outlook for their businesses in 2013.
For anyone who is not able to listen to today's entire call an archived version of this call will be available later this morning.
Please visit the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com to access the replay.
Before Glen begins his commentary I would like to review our Safe Harbor Statement.
This call is taking place on February 1 2013.
During the course of today's call forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 will be made during each speakers' remarks and during our question-and-answer session.
Such statements are based on the company's current assessment of its markets and other factors that affect its business.
However actual results could differ materially from any implied projections due to one or more of the factors explained in Manitowoc's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are also available on our website.
The Manitowoc Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or other circumstances.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Glen.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
We ended the year well with fourth quarter sales growth of 10% and further margin improvement.
Our full year results which were in line with our revenue and earnings expectations reflect the solid execution of our team against our strategic imperatives in the face of prolonged uncertainty in the global economy.
Our Foodservice segment reported year-over-year sales growth of 7% in the fourth quarter with increased revenues across all of our geographies.
During the quarter we also experienced solid year-over-year margin improvement with operating margins increasing 70 basis points while our -- while maintaining our investments to further strengthen our Foodservice business.
Our strategy that primarily centers on chain customers and evolving product lines and driving sale economies continues to bear fruit.
Turning to Cranes.
Sales grew 12% during the fourth quarter representing our highest sales level since the fourth quarter of 2008.
More impressively operating earnings increased 45% on a year-over-year basis.
Demand for our crane products continues to be strongest in the Americas complemented by improving activity in certain emerging markets and the greater Asia-Pacific region.
From a product perspective large rough-terrain cranes and all-terrain cranes were the best contributors to growth for the quarter.
We expect 2013 to be another year of continued growth in both segments for revenue and earnings.
We are focused on margin improvement in the face of slow growth and potentially choppy end markets and macro economies.
Lingering concerns over government transitions regulatory policies and consumer confidence have influenced our outlook and action plans as we start 2013.
However our team has proven time and again its ability to navigate through challenging landscapes.
We have been diligent in our efforts to improve operational efficiencies and manage our cost structure over the last several years.
Our company-wide strategic initiatives remain unchanged.
We will balance our investments for long-term growth with our unwavering commitment to drive meaningful enterprise margin expansion.
Now let me highlight some of these investments and initiatives.
First we continue to make strides to enhance and rightsize our global manufacturing footprint.
As we previously discussed we are building a multipurpose Foodservice manufacturing facility in Monterrey Mexico.
We are also in the process of further consolidating certain beverage equipment production from Southern California to an existing facility in Tijuana Mexico.
Additionally in Cleveland we have invested in expanded manufacturing in a new full-capability test kitchen that includes training engineering and marketing support for our Others [ph]  production in the Americas.
These investments have not only enabled us to consolidate our operations but to also improve customer service and accelerate our product development processes.
Second as part of our manufacturing strategy in Cranes we remain committed to not only growing our presence in emerging markets but also improving our footprint in manufacturing efficiencies globally.
For example as part of our initiatives in France we are developing a shared services platform to serve our tower crane manufacturing and support operations in Nuan [ph] Sharlene [ph] and Ecully.
In addition we're accelerating our lean initiatives across all of our European operations to boost our manufacturing efficiency while also launching a program to in-source various components and processes to drive improved long-term profitability.
As we have stated Brazil represents an excellent opportunity for Manitowoc which is enhanced by our new crane manufacturing facility in Passo Fundo.
Our Brazil factory will not only support our strong market shares in the Latin America region but should benefit from strong infrastructure spending in energy highway and transportation projects.
Another important manufacturing initiative is our ongoing commitment to China the world's largest construction equipment market.
Our presence in and service to this market holds great value and subject to final government approvals it will soon be enhanced.
We recently signed an agreement to replace our joint venture partner with Shantui Investment Company Limited.
Eric will discuss the benefits of our expected -- partnership with Shantui later in the call.
Moving on the implementation of several operational excellence and quality initiatives remains a key priority for 2013.
These initiatives include our previously discussed Project One ERP initiative the recently completed demand flow project to streamline our boom truck manufacturing plus numerous operational excellence imperatives in both segments which include facility consolidations lean initiatives and regionally targeted manufacturing.
These initiatives coupled with our procurement savings should enable us to significantly improve our enterprise margin profile even in uncertain market conditions.
To conclude our 2012 results benefited from investments to extend market shares drive growth optimize our cost structure and expand margins.
Looking ahead to 2013 global economic growth will continue to be challenged.
However our proven history to manage the company in any market environment coupled with our focus on strategic investments and initiatives has set the foundation for sustained margin improvement as we move into 2013.
I will now turn the call over to Carl to discuss our detailed fourth quarter financial results and to share our initial thoughts on guidance for 2013.
Carl? Thanks Glen and good morning everyone.
We reported net sales for the fourth quarter of $1.1 billion which is an increase of 10% from a year ago.
The year-over-year sales increase was driven by a 12% increase in Crane segment sales coupled with a 7% increase in Foodservice segment sales.
GAAP net income for the fourth quarter was $34.5 million or $0.26 per share versus net income of $14.9 million or $0.11 per share last year.
EPS excluding special items was also $0.27 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2012 versus $0.14 per diluted share last year.
As noted in our press release positive Q4 EPS adjustments included accelerated debt reduction charges and restructuring charges primarily related to headcount reductions in our European Crane business.
Moving to the balance sheet.
We reduced our debt by $204 million during the quarter bringing our full year debt reduction total to approximately $80 million.
Debt reduction in 2012 fell short of our full year target due to a high volume of cranes that were shipped in the waning weeks of the fourth quarter.
As a result we had $60 million more in working capital at the end of December than we planned primarily in the form of accounts receivables that we expect to collect in the first quarter of 2013.
This provides an opportunity which will mitigate the seasonal cash flow usage we typically see in the first quarter.
Turning to our segment results.
Foodservice sales in the fourth quarter of 2012 totaled $363 million up 7% from a year ago.
Fourth quarter 2012 operating earnings in Foodservice were $50 million a 12% increase.
Operating margins of 13.8% were 70 basis points higher driven by a favorable product sales mix and improved operating efficiencies across the segment.
It is also important to note that we achieved these margin results while maintaining our investments in our key brands and product categories across our global platform a strategy that we will continue to pursue to satisfy customers' demands for new and innovative products.
Moving to the Crane segment.
Fourth quarter sales totaled $767 million a year-over-year increase of 12%.
Fourth quarter sales were driven by successful shipment of pent-up third quarter units as well as continuing strong demand in energy and infrastructure markets with geographic strength primarily in the Americas and greater Asia-Pacific.
Overall Crane segment operating earnings in the fourth quarter were $56 million versus $39 million last year.
This resulted in fourth quarter Crane segment operating margins of 7.3% up 170 basis points.
This year-over-year comparison was positively impacted by product cost takeouts volume-related benefits operating efficiencies and pricing.
Crane backlog at quarter end was $756 million which was a slight decline from the prior year quarter.
While fourth quarter orders declined 19% from the prior year period second half 2012 Crane orders were essentially equal to those in the second half of 2011.
Year-over-year differences in stocking activity coupled with the timing of pricing increases affected second semester order activity in both years.
Year-to-date EVA improved through the fourth quarter of 2012 by 28% versus the fourth quarter of 2011.
In the Crane segment EVA climbed 112% returning this business to positive full year EVA for the first time since 2008.
During the quarter Foodservice also posted solid EVA growth with an improvement of 25% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.
Before concluding my remarks let me discuss our 2013 outlook.
For the full year we expect mid-single digit revenue gains in Foodservice and high-single digit revenue growth in cranes.
We expect to achieve a continuing mid-teens operating margin in Foodservice and a high-single digit operating margin in cranes.
We view 2013 as a transition year for Foodservice margins where improvements in the core business will offset strategic investments that lay the groundwork to realize our longer-term high-teens margin expectations.
Our debt reduction in 2013 should exceed $200 million while capital expenditures and interest expense will approximate $100 million and $125 million respectively.
Debt-to-EBITDA will once again decline more than 1 full turn to below 4x approximately half of the peak level experienced in 2010.
Finally we expect the full year effective tax rate to be in the mid-30% range with seasonal volatility similar to our 2012 results.
Let me now turn the call over to our next speaker Mike Kachmer who will share his thoughts concerning our Foodservice segment.
Mike? Thank you Carl.
We made significant progress in 2012 advancing our strategy and solidifying our leading position in the global Foodservice industry.
Our fourth quarter results were solid with sales growing across most markets margins meaningfully expanding and investments being made in our brands and product categories.
From a geographic perspective North American demand rose during the fourth quarter primarily driven by U.S.-based global chains.
In addition we saw increasing demand in other international regions such as Asia and Europe as we closed out the year.
Equally important we experienced margin expansion across all of our geographic regions during the quarter while maintaining our strategic investments in the business such as improving our infrastructure in emerging regions.
Looking at our results from a product line perspective we saw increased activity in both our hot and cold product offerings during the fourth quarter.
Specifically we continued to see strong activity related to our Merrychef accelerated cooking ovens particularly in the convenience store and sandwich shop segments.
And in December we began shipments of our blended ice machines to support our launch in several European markets beginning in the spring.
We also enjoyed continued success with our Indigo ice machines at leading chains seeking energy and water savings as well as operational improvements.
Our success with Indigo allowed us to gain additional market share in 2012 in the large and highly competitive ice cube machine segment.
In 2012 our investments in new product development yielded more than 30 new products.
We introduced a variety of technological enhancements for multiple product offerings as innovation remains core to our strategy.
Products from 8 of our brands were recognized for their innovation by the North American Food Equipment Manufacturers Association and will be featured in their WHAT’S HOT! WHAT’S COOL! pavilion at the industry's largest trade show next week.
Our WHAT’S HOT! products include our combi smoker from Convotherm our Garland green heat induction technology and our Merrychef eikon e6 oven with Planar Plume Technology.
Among our WHAT’S COOL! products featured at NAFEM will be the Multiplex ice core beverage chiller plus a new line of ice machines from Manitowoc.
The strength of our products and brands provides significant opportunities to grow along with our customers.
Not only do we aim to be their supplier of choice but also their innovator of choice.
Our customers are constantly looking for new ways to enhance their menus and we are at the forefront of that innovation.
As validation Manitowoc received important recognitions in 2012.
First we received 3 kitchen innovation awards from the National Restaurant Association; second 5 Manitowoc Foodservice brands won prestigious 2012 Overall Best in Class Awards from Foodservice Equipment &amp; Supplies magazine; and lastly we were recognized by McDonald's for our sustainability accomplishments.
Looking to 2013 we will deploy additional resources to strengthen our ice machine beverage dispensing fryer and accelerated cooking product lines while also commercializing new services.
Maintaining our industry-leading positions with all of our brands is critical to our strategy and will be a major driver of our expected growth.
In 2013 we will combine these great brands with an intense focus on select strategic accounts and long-standing channel partner relationships in our effort to accelerate growth in all markets.
We have also invested significant resources implementing our manufacturing strategy and driving lean initiatives.
As a result we expect our production efficiencies and our cost structure to improve significantly in 2013 and beyond.
As Glen mentioned we are building a multipurpose manufacturing facility in Monterrey Mexico as well as consolidating certain beverage and ovens operations.
We remain committed to optimizing our operational footprint over the next few years while further implementing world-class manufacturing processes.
Over all we expect a modest growth environment in 2013 but our clear strategies will enable us to drive improved financial performance in the near and longer term through intense customer focus greater innovation around our brands and relentless efforts around operational excellence.
With that I'll now hand the call off to Eric Etchart for his views and outlook on the Crane segment.
Thank you Mike.
We ended 2012 on a promising note for the Crane segment with notable year-over-year and sequential revenue growth as the deal [ph]  achievement from Q3 bolstered revenue in the fourth quarter.
Driven by sustained execution across all levels of the segment and geographies we also saw significant margin expansion to close out the year.
Specific to our sales growth we experienced strong activity in the Americas regions during the fourth quarter.
We also saw higher demand in several emerging markets such as Brazil Central America Africa in general and Algeria in particular the Philippines and Thailand in greater Asia-Pacific while demand in Europe and China remained pressured.
An unseasonably high third quarter backlog coupled with a cautious sentiment among customers driven by the recent elections the fiscal cliff debate and debt ceiling concerns in the U.S contributed to the sequential and year-over-year decline in orders during the fourth quarter.
From a product line perspective we saw varied demand levels across our product categories in cranes with large rough-terrain cranes and all-terrain cranes making strong contributions as the demand continues to be driven by energy and infrastructure projects.
Boom truck sales are also increased during the quarter primarily driven by activity in the oilfield and residential housing markets in North America.
Typical with previous years crawler cranes activity picked up toward the end of the quarter in the Americas regions while tower crane activity remained pressured during the fourth quarter most notably in Europe China and the Middle East.
Lastly frankly it [ph]  continues to experience steady growth with solid activity across all regions and as this business contributes to enhancing the reputation of our products in the eyes of customers in both traditional and emerging markets.
During 2012 we introduced 10 new crane products including the gross 400-ton capacity GMK6400 which began shipping in the fourth quarter.
In addition I am pleased to announce that our first Model 31000 crawler cranes has been shipped to one of the largest rental operations in Korea.
We firmly believe that our recent and future product introductions are great investments for our customers because they offer exceptional quality dependable performance and optimal residual value as illustrated by the success of our RT9150 one of the world's highest capacity rough-terrain cranes and the GMK6300L a remarkable all-terrain crane that we launched in 2012.
As we enter 2013 we expect to announce several new products during the year as we emphasize our innovation imperatives and enhance our competitive position.
On that note let me reiterate some of our top key initiatives for the Crane business as we move forward to 2013 and beyond.
First continued investment in emerging markets.
As Glen mentioned production at our new facility in Brazil has ramped up and during the fourth quarter the first Grove rough-terrain cranes assembled in this factory were delivered.
This new facility creates significant opportunities for Manitowoc in both the near and long term in a region where our brands are clearly market leaders.
Second we are focused on improving our operational efficiencies through initiatives such as Project One.
When fully implemented our new ERP system will unite and streamline numerous information functions across all of our crane operations while enhancing our customer responsiveness and long-term margin profile.
And finally we are committed to growing our presence in the Chinese truck crane market.
Our joint venture with Shantui a widely recognized and leading manufacturer of construction equipment will enhance Manitowoc's presence in this strategically important market.
Our initial plans calls for Manitowoc and Shantui to design and build truck cranes in China for both the domestic and export markets.
Leveraging a dual-branding strategy the JV is expected to supply high quality truck cranes for various emerging markets including India the Middle East Latin America and Eastern Europe.
With a Shantui factory located close to the joint venture facility in Tai'An the joint venture will have direct access to a large and skilled team of managers to lead the joint venture's operations human resource and purchasing functions.
In addition Shantui's sister company produce many of the key components the JV cranes will require which we can also for our cranes in Manitowoc's product line have access.
Terms of the joint venture were finalized by Manitowoc and Shantui last week with government approval of the joint venture expected shortly.
Looking ahead to 2013 we expect another year of modest growth due to the expected slow markets in Europe and for tower cranes product lines specifically.
The his segment will focus on margin expansion thanks to our commitment to world-class manufacturing quality initiatives and operational excellence.
In addition we will continue to enhance our competitive position by investing in new products and growing our presence in emerging markets to drive long-term profitability.
With that I return the call to Glen for his closing comments.
Glen? Thanks Eric.
Despite the challenges of 2012 we clearly demonstrated our ability to expand margins and capture market share in both Cranes and Foodservice.
Looking forward we expect 2013 to be a modest growth environment.
However I am convinced that we have the right strategies in place to leverage our market-leading positions with prudent investments while emphasize -- emphasizing our commitment to increasing profitability boosting margins and creating greater shareholder value.
Put another way we'll continue to build something real for our customers for our employees and for our shareholders as we have done for the past 110 years.
This concludes our prepared remarks for today.
Melody we will now begin the question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] Now we'll go to Ted Grace with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I was hoping to just touch on the crane orders and I know that I think both Glen and Eric had mentioned kind of the transient impact of fiscal cliff and elections in the U.S.
But is there any chance you could just try to quantify what that impact may have been or even talk to the progression of orders through the quarter and maybe give us some characterization of how January's felt? I can -- I mean I can talk about the pacing a little bit Ted.
This is Carl.
I think as you would expect given the election in early November I think we had definitely a very slow start to the normal type of pacing that we would typically see in the fourth quarter.
You know it's tended to be seasonally strong as is the first quarter typically and I think that eased a little bit post-election but obviously you still had the fiscal cliff concern.
So overall the other thing that I commented on in my section was the semester-over-semester essentially being pretty close to flat and there were some differences as it relates to some announced pricing that took place in the fourth quarter of '11 that actually took place for '13 this year in the third quarter and I think that that added a little effect on the pacing of the second half of year orders in both years.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just because we normally think about 4Q 1Q being the strongest order quarters in this transient dynamic in the fourth quarter could you -- should we recalibrate our expectations for 1Q 2Q? And just to hit -- it's not hard to see the backlog but when should we look for orders to maybe accelerate to provide the coverage to hit the revenue growth targets? Well Ted I wish I had the definite answer for that question.
But I think by just providing the guidance that we did I think gives us some certainty that we still look around the globe and whether it's in Asia whether it's in some of the emerging markets or even here in the Americas I think we're comfortable with the guidance.
I mean we're only 31 days into the year and so I'd hate to say we're going to expect it to ramp up in the first quarter not in the second.
I think it's just a different dynamic and again you still have some of that fiscal cliff issue being kicked down the road through the end of February.
So I think it's just a different dynamic but I still feel comfortable with the guidance that we've given on Crane revenues.
And Eric do you have anything to say on that? No I would agree.
Obviously we haven't seen the level of activity in the orders from the dealer in North America that we have seen in 2011 and that's a big driver for the difference and for the reasons we have discussed.
But you have some certain positive signs that you will see in the Americas regions for example or some other emerging market as we said.
But obviously what's going to happen in Europe is also a big question mark and the activity is very sluggish.
So if you put that in the bag I think the guidance we gave is a realistic one.
We'll go to Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> The guidance that you gave for Crane margins is pretty wide.
And I mean I know why you're doing it there are a lot of variables there.
But can you talk about some of the variables that would lead you to the high end of the range versus the low end of the range? And maybe in past calls you've talked about mid-20% incrementals as a realistic goal for 2013.
It seems like at the high end of the range you're like [ph]  higher than that.
And is that because you faced a bunch of one-time issues in '12 and you can get better in '13? And so how realistic is it that you can get to a 30% incremental or higher in '13? Yes Andy Carl again.
The comment I would make on that is as we've been talking about quite frequently there's really been a negative mix to the current upcycle that we've seen and we don't see that necessarily changing to any great extent.
I think with some of the inquiries that's going on on some of the larger capacity crawler cranes certainly provides some potential for the latter part of 2013.
But other than that certainly not hanging our hat on getting a huge benefit that's coming out of mix.
The benefit that we see to get -- up to those higher margin levels that are implicit in the guidance really comes from some of the product cost takeout operational efficiencies that are ongoing to -- in the business and important initiatives for us in 2013 that Glen touched on in his prepared remarks.
Yes.
Andy I would add to that with respect to both Foodservice and Cranes I think the speed as some of the initiatives that we have going on whether it's in Europe or whether it's in Mexico or whether it's in the United States and in the areas that we mentioned the speed of how fast some of those come into play and the annualized amounts that we get out of the savings and the benefits from some of those things that can place -- that places us at a higher end but I think we've tried to use a realistic number to guide into some of those margin expectations.
But a faster pace into some of those initiatives or completion which on Cranes some of them go into 2014 along with some of the Foodservice it's a matter of you have a little bit of investment and not all the savings until really the first part and middle of next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful Glen.
And then let me ask you about food equipment in the sense that you gave this guidance for continuing mid-teens margins which is obviously also kind of wide.
I mean you talked about some of the investments in '13 that are going to offset some of the cost savings and the modest revenue growth.
But can we expect some margin improvement in '13 based on some of the cost initiatives that you've already had? New products are still coming out and you will have some inherent growth there.
I mean we still expect some growth in margins.
Is that fair? Yes.
I think the answer to that Andy is yes.
But I don't think you're going to see the -- we tried to be realistic about it because of some of the investments.
It's not the size of the improvements you saw '11 to '12 and '12 -- I'm sorry '10 to '11 '11 to '12.
But again I want to get you to when you look over the next 24 months as you get into 2014 that's when we should see the greater jump in the margins in Foodservice.
I think that's the -- I think the expectation for '13 is definitely a transition year.
Remember that we did have a little bit of an unusual windfall in the first quarter of '12 that we certainly wouldn't expect to replicate and that will create a little bit of a challenge in the first quarter.
And then I think some of the benefits that we would  see from some of the initiatives that we have in place really are late in -- come to roost late in the year.
And the benefits that we're getting from the things we've already done are being offset from some of the longer-term investments that are being made that will enhance 2014 margins.
Next we'll go to Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Just to continue the Foodservice margin discussion because that sounds pretty interesting heading into '14.
I'm wondering if you might quantify for us the lean initiatives spending in 2013 in terms of how meaningful of a headwind that is and what's the additional run rate savings that we're going to see in 2014 versus '13 once you're done with those initiatives as well? Well I'll make a comment on that and then turn it over to Mike for any color that he would want to put in.
And the benefit that we received from our lean initiatives this year is probably in the high-teen-million-dollar level in total for 2012.
We would expect similar levels in 2013 and that's -- that I think gives you some flavor given the kind of the flattish expectation we've given for Foodservice margins about some of the investments that we're making in the business in order to drive operational efficiencies that will enhance 2014 and beyond.
Right Carl.
Just picking up on that comment I think it's important to keep in mind the size and quantity of the initiatives in 2013.
We're completing the consolidation of a factory from Fort Wayne Indiana into Cleveland Ohio and along with that comes substantial expenses.
We're closing multiple operations in Southern California moving them to an existing base in Tijuana Mexico.
And we've got a major new campus factory that's starting up in Monterrey that also has substantial expenses associated with it.
So while we've done a lot since the acquisition of Enodis the rate of expenditure and movement in 2013 is even more substantial which is a good signal and again being offset by the other good things that are taking place from past years including LEAN.
Research Division</strong> That's helpful context.
And just a clarification Carl the teens number that you mentioned is that just for Foodservices or across the enterprise? That was Foodservice.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And on the Crane business I'm wondering if you could just rank order for us which regions you expect to drive your business in 2013 and specifically I guess what kind of top line pickup are you expecting out of North America franchise? I think certainly the Americas is the -- an area of the business where we are expecting continued strength.
It's certainly been a big part of the upcycle that we've seen thus far.
Other -- we've commented on other emerging markets.
Asia for Cranes has been a difficult story given China in total.
We see that turning around definitely in 2013 and the indications that we've seen thus far are certainly adding some credibility to that idea.
We'll go next to Schon Williams with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wondered if you could just comment maybe a little bit more on the new China JV maybe talk about when should we expect the benefits from that new relationship to start to impact the numbers.
And then your old JV was -- it looked like it was unprofitable.
Should we expect this new JV to be immediately accretive? What should we expect in terms of financial impact there? I'll make a general comment and then I'll let Eric follow up on some of the -- more specifics.
But this is a JV we've been in for quite a while and if you recall I think there was some assumptions made.
We got into this with our original partner.
There were some things we couldn't get through the government and so by changing out our joint venture partner with somebody the size of Shantui it gives us a lot more opportunity with not only the improvements of the business to get to some pretty aggressive targets that have already been set between the 2 but I think when you look at it the last thing we have to get Schon is the final government approvals which we expect here in the next couple of months.
So I would say what you're going to see from any of the accounting and improvements you'll see in the second quarter of this year.
As we go into the -- to 2013 I think as each month goes by we should continue to see improvement as every month goes by as Shantui brings some of their operational experience and management skills from the China where we will bring a lot of the technology in some of our designs.
So that's really what it is but Eric I'll let you talk to the specifics of some of maybe your goals.
Yes.
Well Obviously Shantui is a very strong player in the China market.
I mean if you look at their bulldozers that's one of their product lines they are the #1 with probably 60% market share in China and they have a fairly large distribution networks.
And if we really want to step up on that distribution network first of all to sell obviously the product that the JV will produce but also to penetrate -- probably we have more chance to succeed with our rough-terrains and our all-terrain cranes which are not going to be built in China but I think access to that distribution network is really very important for us.
Again with the previous partner we didn't have a carrier license and this was really a different headwind for us to be successful in China.
And then finally as I mentioned earlier Shantui is part of SHIG and we think the Shandong Heavy Industry Group you have Weichai Power and they produce a lot of components like gearboxes axles and translations [ph] things that we can really use in our truck cranes in China but also possibly leverage for our -- the other products.
So for us China is a very important market not only because of the sheer size of the Chinese market but we believe also that if we know how to play in that market and be relevant we will be probably also stronger in let's say competing with the Chinese in the other emerging markets.
So it's I think a very good move for Manitowoc again short-term but long-term I think we have a lot of potential to leverage that partnership with Shantui.
Research Division</strong> Okay and then a follow-up on Cranes.
Could we just talk about where we are in terms of utilization for the new Brazil facility and maybe the impact we can expect from that location in 2013 versus 2012? Well we've been happy with the ramp-up and the efficiency of the factory.
Obviously it's only one factory and the success that we're having there is obviously inherent in the overall guidance that we've given.
But we're on pace with where we expected to be at this point in the project.
The other thing that I might mention is we are getting some benefits from a finance standpoint because of the amount of local content that we have that's helpful for our customers.
Yes and maybe Carl I would throw in another comment.
We also intend to -- given the potential that we see in these markets we are going to start the production also of tower cranes.
So we are starting with 3 models of rough terrains and we're going to start by the end of the year to produce also some tower cranes.
We'll go next to Charlie Brady with BMO Capital Markets.
The guidance on the Foodservice revenues just can you clarify is that pro forma for removing Jackson? Yes.
All right.
And then just on Eric's comment on the Crane business I think you commented that towards the end of the quarter you started seeing a pickup in the crawler business.
Could you just elaborate a little bit on that? Is that tearing through? Was it a temporary type of thing? Are you seeing some real -- starting to see some improvement in the crawler side? Well I think -- I wouldn't know that I'd call it great improvements Charlie but I think what Eric's comments in his -- the commentary we seem to get this I would say over the last 2 3 years where people are looking -- and the crawler obviously has the highest price tag of most of the products.
So when you look at what people have towards that end of the year they're looking at their tax situation.
They're doing all those things.
I mean it's -- you -- we've seen over the past 2 3 years where the fourth quarter seems to be a pretty bland [ph]  order intake in crawler sales what you can get out.
So I think that's more of that -- the comment that it was consistent with prior years so it was a pickup in the fourth quarter versus the second or third.
But I think it's still that product line that I think somebody asked "How do you see the margins improve?" I mean if you see a pickup in the non-res and you see a pickup in the housing and people start feeling comfortable in a lot other different markets that's going to bring that along.
But I think we again in our guidance I don't think we have great expectations for the crawlers in 2013.
All right.
And just broadly on the cranes you've talked a lot about the orders and kind of what's -- what happened in the fourth quarter.
But I wanted just on kind of an acquiry [ph]  level a kind of a little bit softer number.
When you're hearing from your customers as far as pent-up demand and what kind of that how that feels among your customer base? I'll let Eric take that one.
Well I mean of course if you look in the America market right now there is a kind of -- the mood is good.
I mean there's a little bit upbeat that's probably we had AED [ph] and CNRA [ph] in the first quarter in January.
And that's the first time in many years that we are starting to hearing some more capital purchase planning for projects that are really identified.
So that's always obviously very encouraging.
So you see also the housing in certain areas are picking up which -- Sudap [ph] as well.
You have the tower cranes which is not a big market but the rental utilization in towers is really getting good and the rental rates are up so there are some signs that are definitely positive I think in the U.S.
Utilizations and the rental rates are picking up so that's really encouraging.
But now I mean again Europe is a completely different story and that's going to be a headwind definitely as we move into 2013 because we don't have hope that -- and especially on the tower crane business because the mobile crane business has been better.
But towers really we don't think we will see a lot of investment for the rental houses in Europe and especially in France and the other countries.
Italy and Portugal and Spain completely dead and will continue to be dead for a while.
All right.
One more I'll hop off.
Just on the Chinese truck joint venture that you guys recently announced Eric you've previously said in I guess an interview you were giving that you got about a 1% market share now.
You think 10% is a reasonable goal over 3 years to 5 years.
I'm just wondering is there any way to kind of quantify if we look out 3 to 5 years and you're able to get a 10% market share in the Chinese truck crane market which is obviously the biggest in the world what that might mean in terms of kind of revenues? Well I'll let Carl talk about the numbers.
But yes that's a goal that we have with our joint venture partner that we said that we got to get there to be -- again we use relevant in China.
And we think that with all the benefits that we get with Shantui and obviously the growth technology we have the right ingredients to be successful.
So Carl you want to comment on the sales turnover? Financially at this point in time obviously we are a very small player in this market.
It's a joint venture structure that's certainly enhancing our position with the upgrade I'd call it in the partner that we hope to get through the government approval process but I think it's a little early to start putting some specific metrics.
That objective is there for us to try to approach but I don't think we're really prepared to put a lot of meat on that bone yet.
We'll go next to Mig Dobre with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you can provide a little more clarity around your Crane segment margin guidance.
I'm trying to understand how much of the year-over-year margin improvement that you're seeing for 2013 is going to be a matter of volume and how much is driven by your operational excellence initiatives.
And I'm also wondering if we're likely to see a similar dynamic as to what we're seeing in Foodservice to where some of these initiatives could result in additional benefits in 2014.
Well I think there is a difference certainly between our expectations about the incremental margins in Crane versus Foodservice and a lot of that goes back to what we talked about earlier in the call in terms of a transition year for Foodservice from a margin performance standpoint.
For us in Cranes the bulk of what we expect is really coming from the efficiencies the product cost takeout.
We expect to see some material cost inflation that we expect to be able to cover through our pricing and the balance of the improvement in the margins is going to come from -- lean quality initiatives is significant and the benefits that we get from those programs that have been put in place in terms of our cost reductions that would come from quality would be the key drivers.
But I think when you look at Mig some of the Crane initiatives Mike said a little bit more near-term when it comes towards the end of 2013 early 2014.
Some of the Crane initiatives I would say some of those whether it's in France or some that we mentioned or some of the other ones in Asia those are probably early 2014 at best but the greater impact will be the back half of 2014.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then switching over to Foodservice.
You mentioned balanced growth across geographies.
I'm wondering if you can give us a little more color particularly with regards to demand from the QSR customers outside of North America.
And then sort of related to this considering the amount of new product introduction that you guys have had and relatively easy comps as the year progresses why shouldn't we expect a little bit more growth than what you're guiding for in 2013? Well Mike go ahead.
Well I -- the first part of the question with regard to the balanced growth that's occurring across geographies we did see success in the fourth quarter.
And even in our toughest market which is really the Western European market we did reasonably well also.
We had good success with our accelerated cooking products some of which was geared towards the QSR segment and others towards the general market.
The additional point around QSR in total we are continuing to build up our connection to that segment.
Our revenues associated with that segment continue to grow.
The resources that we deploy against that segment continue to be enhanced and we see significant opportunities in '13 and beyond.
It's a really important category for us as we've explicitly stated is part of our strategy.
The other thing that I would say about the guidance Mig is because this is an industry that tends to be correlated to consumer confidence and there is a lot of uncertainty in certain geographies in Europe in particular but elsewhere as well we don't have a significant expectation for any kind of market cooperation in Foodservice.
And the thing that will drive the guidance that we've given are the types of things that you're talking about the new product introductions is a key driver there.
So that's where we stand from the guidance.
We'll go next to Seth Weber with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just wanted to go back to something I think I heard Eric say.
Is Europe going to be an increasing headwind to the Crane business this year? I mean it strikes me that it's probably not getting much worse from here or did I mishear or something? Or is it just kind of bumping along the bottom? I don't think it's worse.
That's not -- I think it just -- it's not -- it's a headwind in any of our growth projections.
That's certainly the way to look at it.
I mean we have it as a flat market.
[indiscernible] The big decreases came in 2009 2010.
I mean that's -- you've just been bumping along the bottom since then.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
And can you remind us how far down that market has come I guess peak to trough? Do we have to? LLC Research Division</strong> I mean is it like 75% or so something like that? You're in that range.
It's probably a little bit more than that.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And is that largely the tower business? And are there any measures that you could take in that business on the cost side? Yes and that's -- I mean that's exactly what's going on.
I think when you look at the commentary that we made and the -- taking some of the tower crane manufacturing and going to a common platform of managing the facilities in France we are taking some actions.
You see the -- in the financials we took a restructuring charge a lot of that is for Europe.
But when you look at basically the tower crane business that's what it is.
I mean yes there is -- Eric says Italy Spain and Portugal are dead I mean dead from a growth standpoint.
There are still things that are -- whether it's some RTs or small crawlers or whatever it's going to be I mean you still have those one-offs.
But we just aren't looking as -- it'd be foolish for us to think that there's any growth there but yes we are improving the cost side of the basis.
And last year we had the implementation of Project One in France.
We've done it in Portugal so -- I mean that's all in Crane care[ph]  Europe.
That's all helping the cost structure that we have in Europe.
LLC Research Division</strong> And then I guess just more broadly on the price cost equation.
I mean do you feel like you're getting pricing globally that's going to cover material costs and can you just comment on the competitive environment for pricing for cranes? Sure Seth.
As you know we try to be a leader from a pricing standpoint.
It's difficult for us to do that in cranes.
You know about the big headwind that we had in 2011 for the obvious reasons as a late-cycle business.
But over the longer period I think we tend to do very well from -- getting the pricing that's necessary for us to cover the material cost increases and the margin expansion comes from our operational efficiencies.
I would also mention Seth you asked -- this is just -- you said in Cranes I wanted to reemphasize that it's also in Foodservice.
I mean it's not -- I mean it's not like Mike and his team have an easy goal of it in putting pricing increases through or with competing with competition in the product line.
So I mean it's a competitive environment and -- but I don't think it's going to -- I don't think it's any different in 2013 than what we saw in 2012.
LLC Research Division</strong> Fair enough.
Just on food do you feel like the quick service guys are more likely to spend than the institutional? It sounds like there's been some slow -- some more challenges on the institutional food business lately.
I'll let Mike address that.
I think it's a fair point and I think it's accurate.
It varies a little bit by geography but net-net in our largest markets we think the quick-service restaurants will spend more in '13 and probably into '14.
We'll hear next from Rob Wertheimer from Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> It's Joe on for Rob.
First question with respect to Cranes just in terms of the operational benefits to margins in '13 how much of that did you really already have in 4Q? And then maybe with the pushout of some of the $120 million of activity from 3Q to 4Q did that weigh on margin at all in the quarter just sort of a bit of a rush to get things done? Well we'll always get volume benefits.
Probably not quite as much in 4Q as the top line would have reflected because we did have some pent-up activity that we simply weren't able to ship.
But as it relates to the operational initiatives that we have that we expect to enhance 2013 margins it's essentially driven by the new initiatives that will be put in place throughout the year and obviously getting some full year run rate from some of the actions taken this year.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then just another one on the pricing environment.
I mean how well would you say pricing is sort of sticking in this environment? And are competitors maybe being a little bit more rational or does it vary considerably by kind of product line still? Well I mean -- and that's why I made the comment just at the end of the other one that it really hasn't changed from 2011 or 2012.
I think there's some competitors that you would qualify as rational and some irrational.
But I'm sure with certain customer or certain products or certain regions of the world I mean all of us are going to be -- I mean hey anytime you lose a deal it's -- someone's going to call you irrational.
So -- but I think it's reasonable so I don't -- I think the price increases that we've put through have been reasonable.
I think people understand them and they can understand them when you show them the data as to why it is.
I don't think people are looking at it and saying it's unreasonable for where the commodity markets are and things like that.
So I mean look Carl made the point we try to lead with it and I think when you look at some of competitors no matter who it is whether it's Foodservice or cranes it depends with the business model.
Some would rather take a loss than have market share.
And I think -- we feel our products are leading brands and it should be afforded some of the things that come with being a leader so we'll continue to compete just like everyone else and the guidance kind of reflects that appropriately.
LLC</strong> Okay.
Last one just on the tax rate with volatility over the course of the quarters are you able to frame anymore what to look for in the first quarter? Well it will be very high again in the first quarter.
I mean it's just the seasonal aspect of the business.
You saw what happened in the first quarter last year.
Don't necessarily expect it to be quite that high again but the mid-30s percentage effective tax rate is something that is a full year metric.
That will be skewed probably on -- the effective tax rate will be higher -- probably considerably higher than that in the first quarter probably lower than that in the second quarter and closer to that to the full year -- to the metric in the last 2 quarters.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I'll turn the conference back over to Mr.
Khail for any additional or closing remarks.
Before we conclude today's call I'd like to remind everyone that a replay of our fourth quarter conference call will be available later this morning.
You can access the replay by visiting the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in the Manitowoc Company.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our first quarter conference call in May.
Have a good day.
Again ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
Thank you all for joining.
Good day everyone and welcome to this Manitowoc Company Inc.
First Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
Today's conference is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the opening remarks and introductions over to Mr.
Khail.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Manitowoc's first quarter earnings conference call.
Participating in today's call will be Glen Tellock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carl Laurino Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Glen will open today's call by providing an overview of our quarterly results and business outlook.
Carl will then discuss our financial results for the first quarter in greater detail.
Following our prepared remarks we'll be joined by Eric Etchart president of Manitowoc Crane for our question-and-answer session.
For anyone who is not able to listen to today's entire call an archived version of this call will be available later this morning.
Please visit the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com to access the replay.
Before Glen begins his commentary I would like to review our Safe Harbor Statement.
This call is taking place on May 1 2013.
During the course of today's call forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 will be made during each speakers' remarks and during our question-and-answer session.
Such statements are based on the company's current assessment of its markets and other factors that affect its business.
However actual results could differ materially from any implied projections due to one or more of the factors explained in Manitowoc's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are also available on our website.
The Manitowoc Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or other circumstances.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Glen.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
We are pleased to report solid first quarter results as we continue to successfully leverage our innovative technologies diverse product offerings and geographic reach across the entire Manitowoc enterprise.
Despite some pockets of economic uncertainty we ended the first quarter with positive sales momentum and continued margin expansion through the successful execution of our long-term strategies.
Foodservice posted another quarter of sales growth despite some deferred spending among large customers.
And while we maintained healthy margins in the business we did experience some moderate year-over-year contraction.
This decline which we anticipated was primarily driven by our focus on investing in ongoing manufacturing strategies in Mexico and Cleveland complemented by New Product Development.
Positive sales performance in Foodservice was driven by new product successes in various product categories and select end markets.
This included momentum with our Convotherm ovens success with Indigo ice machines plus the continued rollout for the Multiplex Blend-in-cup units to support a launch in the European market.
From a geographic standpoint we experienced balanced growth across all regions.
Despite a quarter of lackluster consumer confidence in North America we maintained our strong position in this region and we remain confident in its long-term growth profile.
EME historically one of the toughest markets in Foodservice grew significantly during the quarter which was primarily driven by the previously mentioned Convotherm product line and our blended beverage rollout.
And while China remains somewhat challenged we continue to see growth by the major chain restaurants in this region.
Looking at our Crane segment our first quarter results were encouraging as we experienced solid year-over-year sales growth driven by focused execution across all levels of the business.
We also expanded margins by 150 basis points.
During the first quarter new orders were up modestly from year end 2012.
Geographically we continue to see growth in North America as Crane customers are beginning to renew their fleets due to increased project activity and improving rental rates.
In addition we experienced continuing demand in certain emerging markets such as Asia Latin America and the CIS which was muted by an ongoing slowdown in the Middle East and Africa as well as weakness in Australia.
Not surprisingly demand in Western Europe remained weak.
During the quarter we saw strengthening demand across a variety of our product categories in Cranes which included crawler cranes in the Americas complemented by large rough terrain cranes and all-terrain cranes on a global basis.
Most of these product lines continue to be driven by strength in the energy and infrastructure markets.
Our Crane activity improved in select emerging markets such as India and the CIS region but this product line continues to experience ongoing softness in Europe.
Moving on I want to quickly touch on the major industry trade shows that each of our segments participated in recently which were highly successful and support our increasing confidence in our full year outlook and long-term positioning.
At the NAFEM and Bauma trade shows our interaction and engagement with customers centered on several of our company-wide strategic initiatives including the new standards of innovation and technology that our products are creating in the market.
At NAFEM we demonstrated our continued focus and push toward increasingly user-friendly products that accelerate the cooking process offer multiple cooking platforms within 1 piece of equipment and consume less energy and water.
An example of this includes our newest ice machine the NEO which is an all-in-1 undercounter ice making and storage solution that provides an enhanced level of performance reliability and convenience.
Other Manitowoc Foodservice innovations that we featured at NAFEM included technology enhancements for our Merrychef ovens Frymaster's high production fryers Convotherm's Combi Ovens with smoker technology and the next-generation of the Multiplex Blend-in cup units.
Equally impressive Manitowoc Foodservice was recently named an EPA ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year for the fourth consecutive year.
With 556 products in our ENERGY STAR portfolio this noteworthy recognition exemplifies our continued leadership in protecting the global environment through our sustainability initiatives.
Similarly our Crane segment continues to capture the industry's attention by a strong combination of innovative products and services.
At Bauma we launched 3 new technologies including Manitowoc Falcone a new collision avoidance solution for cranes; Global CraneSTAR Express a comprehensive crane monitoring and data tracking system; and CCS our common control system technology which provides an identical control interface across our crawler tower and mobile platforms.
Among the new product introductions Bauma also gave us the global stage to launch the Manitowoc MLC 165 a new 165 metric ton capacity crawler crane.
[indiscernible] on the global exposition to introduce 2 new rough terrain cranes plus the new 3-axle 60-ton capacity all-terrain cranes.
In addition Grove GMK 6400 received an ESTA Innovative Manufacturer award for its host of innovative features including a patented dual source powertrain.
Rounding out the Manitowoc display Potain premier 3 new tower cranes and high-speed winch.
As a result of these new products coupled with the encouraging order intake generated by Bauma we have increased confidence in achieving our financial performance objectives and full year guidance.
With the release of our new products the quality initiatives that we undertake as part of our routine R&amp;D efforts significantly enhances our Crane designs and product reliability metrics before any new Manitowoc crane enters the market.
This is best exemplified by the Grove RT770E a new 70-tonne capacity rough terrain crane whose quality and reliability were validated with 10 years of accelerated life cycle testing prior to its launch.
Overall both NAFEM and Bauma provided us with the opportunity to showcase our industry-leading product lines and for our customers to witness the results of our investments in innovation and new product development.
The feedback we received was not only extremely positive and encouraging but it was gratifying to see that our strategies and value propositions are clearly resonating with our global customers who constantly seek new ways to enhance their operations.
Before I conclude let me remind you of several strategic investments we continue to implement as part of our long-term growth strategy.
First we are continuing construction of our multipurpose Foodservice manufacturing facility in Monterrey Mexico.
We expect customer shipments from this new facility to begin later this year.
In addition we are consolidating certain beverage equipment production to an existing facility in Tijuana Mexico which should be completed by midyear.
We are also combining our U.S.-based oven facilities to a facility in Cleveland Ohio.
The manufacturing function has been effectively consolidated and we anticipate the service and support functions to be integrated and operational prior to year end.
In Cranes we remain committed to improving our footprint in manufacturing efficiencies globally.
A testament to this is development of a shared services platform in France to serve our tower crane manufacturing and support operations in multiple locations which we will start to see a benefit in the third quarter of 2013 with the full project completed over the next 12 months.
In addition we have also accelerated our lean initiatives across all of our European operations to boost our manufacturing efficiency helping us drive near-term profitability as well as increase in manufacturing throughput.
To conclude we remain confident in our 2013 outlook and see many positives as we start the second quarter as both businesses continue to benefit from the significant investments we have made to upgrade our global manufacturing network improve operating efficiencies and drive product innovation.
We are confident in our capabilities to enhance our market leadership positions and drive continued revenue growth and margin expansion.
I'll now turn the call over to Carl to discuss our detailed first quarter financial results.
Carl? Thanks Glen and good morning everyone.
We reported net sales for the first quarter of $898 million which is an increase of 5% from a year ago.
GAAP net income for the first quarter was $10.4 million or $0.08 per share versus the net loss of $300 000 or breakeven on a per share basis last year.
EPS excluding special items was $0.09 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2013 versus breakeven per diluted share last year.
During the first quarter cash used for operations was $108 million versus $130 million in the prior-year quarter driven by cash used for working capital to support the growth in both segments.
For the remainder of 2013 we will remain focused on achieving our cash flow targets as we continue to prioritize debt repayment while also funding our growth and process improvement initiatives.
We also remain on target to deliver at least $200 million in full year debt reduction through cash from profitability.
We expect the pace of our debt reduction to be similar to the normal seasonal pattern which is to say that the bulk of the debt reduction will occur in the fourth quarter.
Turning to our segment results Foodservice sales in the first quarter of 2013 totaled $351 million up 2% from a year ago.
First quarter 2013 operating earnings in Foodservice were $49 million down 4% on a year-over-year basis.
Operating margins of 14% were 80 basis points lower than the prior-year quarter but we still anticipate full year margins to be in line with expectations.
In addition to the ongoing investments in our key brands and product categories that Glen previously noted first quarter Foodservice margin comparisons were adversely impacted by a $2 million nonrecurring pension adjustment that benefited first quarter 2012 earnings.
However these margin detractors were partially offset by our product cost takeout and lean manufacturing initiatives.
Moving to the Crane segment first quarter sales totaled $547 million a year-over-year increase of 8% which included a nominal impact from currency exchange.
Overall Crane segment operating earnings in the first quarter were $31 million versus $21 million last year.
This resulted in a first quarter Crane segment operating margin of 5.7% up 150 basis points.
This year-over-year comparison was positively impacted by higher sales volumes operational efficiencies and price cost benefit.
Crane backlog at quarter end was $776 million a decrease from $931 million in the prior year quarter.
For the first quarter new orders totaled $569 million which represents a book-to-bill ratio of 1.04x.
EVA in the first quarter of 2013 increased by 7% versus the first quarter of 2012 with contributions to the improvement coming from both segments and the larger improvement generated by our Crane segment.
Before concluding my remarks let me discuss our 2013 outlook.
As noted in yesterday's press release we are reaffirming our guidance for 2013.
For the full year we expect mid-single digit revenue gains in Foodservice and high-single digit revenue growth in Crane.
We expect to achieve a continuing mid-teens operating margin in Foodservice and a high single-digit operating margin in cranes.
We view 2013 as a transition year for Foodservice margins where improvements in the core business will offset strategic investments that lay the groundwork to realize our longer-term high-teens margin expectation.
Other guidance expectations include capital expenditures and interest expense of approximately $100 million and $125 million respectively.
Debt-to-EBITDA were once again declined more than 1 full turn to below 4x approximately 1/2 the peak level experienced in 2010.
Finally we expect the full year effective tax rate to be in the mid-30% range with seasonal volatility similar to our 2012 results.
With that I will turn the call to Glen for his closing comments.
Glen? Thanks Carl.
We continue to have great confidence in our business and the strategies we're implementing across the entire Manitowoc enterprise.
With our proven track record to manage the company in virtually any market environment and our strong market leading positions in both of our segments we believe Manitowoc is well positioned to continue -- to drive continued growth margin enhancement and shareholder value in the year end.
This concludes our prepared remarks for today.
Shannon we will now begin our question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And our first question comes from Robert Wertheimer with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> Just wanted to check on your current view on the timing of full shipment versus your expectations at Tijuana and Monterrey and just the timing of margin tailwind coming through versus the headwinds.
So when is shipping and when do you expect the full benefits to be flowing through on a sort of quarterly basis? And you were talking about the consolidation in the beverage side that we said in Tijuana? LLC</strong> Yes beverage and then also the multipurpose in Monterrey.
Okay okay.
Well what you'll see is with respect to the beverage side in Tijuana that's a midyear completion.
So the benefit should start as we get into the latter part of the third quarter but certainly in the fourth quarter of this year.
And then with respect to the facility that we have in Mexico you're going to start to see some of the first products being built down there which are kind of the prototypes and the liability testing and that could happen as early as the end of May and into June but really the benefits are going to start later this year in the fourth quarter.
LLC</strong> And then by the time you start next year will you be fully ramped on all the extra expenses from testing or from training or whatever? Will those be out? Or will that linger into next year? No we shouldn't have the training expenses.
I mean it should be very similar to what you saw when we did the facility in Brazil.
I mean it's going to be a quarter or 2 of the start up.
You've got to remember there's a little different product to get going.
We just need to get the people.
That's really what we have and that's the big thing between now and fully in embattled in Monterrey by the end of the third quarter but I mean it's obviously a different product and so I think the kinks are out certainly by the end of the year.
Rob this is Carl.
From a modeling standpoint I would say our ability to get to the guidance that we've given for Foodservice the flat margin and making up for the margin erosion that we saw this most recent quarter is definitely going to be very heavily skewed to the fourth quarter.
We're going to be pretty flat in the interim quarters.
And next we will go to Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Glen can you talk a little bit more about what you mean when you say that Bauma was a record-breaking event? I guess what I'm getting at is seasonally 1Q is usually the strongest with 4Q in orders.
Does that mean 2Q now could be the strongest? And what is a record for you guys? Is it like $100 million $200 million? Any quantification you could give us would be great.
Well I think the initial comments from our record Bauma that means I think the show itself.
Not think we meant it as the show itself.
There was 500 000 participants.
You looked at the number of exhibitors.
You looked at the number of new products that were there.
By all accounts Bauma was a very successful show as a trade show.
And I think compare it to the last time when you had the disruption from the eruption when you had the volcano many of your customers couldn't get there and all that kind of thing.
So I think if anybody was at the customer event on Wednesday night I mean by all accounts it's very successful and that gives you confidence there.
And then when it comes to the order side and the move we've taken I'll let Eric talk a little bit about that.
But typically we don't give out the numbers of what orders we take.
But yes a lot of times it skews between that first and second quarter when you have -- and next year ConExpo is in early March.
And if it's as successful as Bauma it's going to go back between the first and second quarter but it does impact it a bit.
Eric if you want to talk about the orders? Well Andy the orders have been strong for Manitowoc.
It's been a great show.
I think we're certainly very proud of the new products we had on display.
Those new products attracted a lot of orders I must say and especially the GMK6400 which has got the ESTA innovation award.
We have many patents a lot of innovation in that crane.
And I just can't wait to see that crane start shipping.
The show also show obviously demonstrated that there is a high confidence level in many people around the globe even in Europe.
Although notwithstanding the bad economy I mean we saw a lot of customer eventually purchasing some cranes primarily GMK.
So great show.
I think we demonstrated that Manitowoc is at the top of innovation.
And one thing I would add to that Andy is we generally don't say a lot when it comes to just the number on what the order intake is because of the fact you don't know if somebody is just waiting to come and bring in order to Bauma they're going to be there.
And so it's hard to say that it's -- it wouldn't have been in the first quarter anyway if you didn't have Bauma and this and that but what I would say is that we had pretty high expectations that this should be a good show and I would say that those expectations were realized.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful Glen and Eric.
So I feel like I'm picking on Eric a little bit but I'm going to do it anyway so 150 basis points in the quarter is good in cranes but at the same time you guys know you had a pretty easy compare with 1Q last year.
I think you -- a month of it was affected by the strike.
And so you did 25% incrementals when price/cost should be helping you and you have that pretty easy compare.
So how would you really assess the quarter? And does it really give you confidence that you can sort of reach that high single-digit margin as you go forward because I know you've been taking cost out of the business too.
So I kind of thought maybe you could do a little better there.
This is Carl and I'll turn it over to Eric for any color he wants to provide.
But obviously at the 25% incremental it is toward the top end of our overall guidance.
There's things that have a flow-through effect as you look at the things that we're embarking on for operational improvement.
To your point we were favorable from a price/cost standpoint but I would say what we're able to do was very consistent with what our expectations were when we gave the full year guidance.
And I think Andy we are focusing on our operational efficiency.
We have tremendous potential to improve the gross margin lines.
Glen mentioned about the lean initiative we have in Europe.
I would also mention the quality initiative that we have.
We have seen a very good reduction of cost of quality as we move we started last year and we see these improvements moving forward.
So I think we are well positioned to meet our guidance in terms of margin improvement.
And next we will go to Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Glen or Carl in Foodservice I'm wondering if you could talk about what was the expense headwind from the investment in the manufacturing footprint and lean initiatives and help us understand if you don't mind the cadence of that spending over the next couple of quarters.
If you take all of these projects in aggregate it's probably on the order of $5 million roughly.
And to Glen's earlier comment that shouldn't diminish as we get a little bit further into the year and you start to get some of the essentially the ramp-up in place.
Research Division</strong> And in cranes I'm wondering if you could talk about heading into second and third quarter what regions are you most optimistic about on a pickup in orders? And if you could within those comments touch on how much traction you're seeing in South America now that you're ramping up production that's been on the eligible financing product.
Go ahead Eric.
Well regarding the tractions in terms of product categories I mean it's fair to say that we have seen a significant rebound of our product crane business worldwide but especially in North America for the large crawlers and the small crawlers has been also fairly good.
We saw that happening in Q3 last year.
It gets sequentially stronger in Q4 and Q1 has been I think a very good quarter in terms of intake for crawlers.
GMK has remained very strong globally and the large rough-terrain cranes are fairly strong.
Again same driver is primarily the energy over related activities and we have not yet seen housing really bringing more activities for the boom trucks.
In terms of Latin America I would say everything is going according to basically our plan.
We continue to see very strong demand.
The competition is fierce right now in Latin America especially on the GMKs.
And for Brazil we continue to localize our rough-terrain cranes.
We will have 4 products being eligible to finance by the end of the year.
Right now we see a little bit of softness in the order intake in Brazil that's due to I think the economy there but we save the cost with our localization strategy.
Research Division</strong> And lastly can you just help us get a sense of when you expect to increase production of the crawler crane product did you get any production ramp in the quarter? Or is that more of a 2Q 3Q in terms of when you see the real ramp in your production? Yes it's second third fourth quarter Jerry.
It wasn't a big impact in the first quarter year-over-year but it is as we talked about the MLC 165 and then some of the other traditional products but yes it's a second third fourth quarter.
Next we will go to Ted Grace with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So I was hoping to follow up on some of the questions Jerry and Andy asked.
And just as it relates to the orders from Bauma could you characterize kind of like orders versus leads? I mean I know you reiterated the guidance and you commented that you feel good about hitting it but how would you just kind of characterize kind of how much of the revenue target you've already got in firm orders and how much is maybe predicated on good leads you got out of the show? Just to understand those dynamics would be helpful.
Well I guess -- Eric and I are looking at each other.
I would say obviously the order that's a known what we have for the rest of the year.
I think you have to remember there's different -- you have to go by region.
And when we get into North America you have the dealer network.
And so you get into the dealer network and so it's -- the show's attended pretty well by North America but it's not the North America show.
So those that are over there really are interested they come for a reason.
They come to the show.
They want to talk about the new products they want to talk about what you have coming.
And basically those conversations are about their confidence in the markets and what they're going to do in North America.
If they come over they have a few beers and then they leave the show and go to Austria you don't get that same confidence that you did from this show.
When you get into Europe it's still more that European show.
I think you had the real people there that wanted to buy.
It was very well attended.
People while we said Western Europe is still pretty down there are pockets of enthusiasm and that's what you had in different areas of and I would call it EME.
And then you get to Asia again it's like the Americas when the Asian -- anybody that was there from Asia that was by us was talking about things that they were doing the projects they had and giving us the list of projects that they had and the equipment they were going to need at certain points in time.
So it's a combination of both of those that as we say we have the orders in hand plus the confidence that they're going to be following up with our people.
It's not just "Hey I'm going to start comparing this product against everything." The projects are there and that's what gives us the confidence.
Eric I don't know if you want to add anything there.
Well maybe I can say that the number of quotes outstanding is fairly high overall including some of the region where we have seen some softness like the Middle East and Africa.
So this is potentially good for future orders because there is activity going on there in those countries and I would say the first quarter has been quite soft in that respect.
But if you look at our order and backlog this is what we plan to build.
I think we are in a good situation.
LLLP Research Division</strong> On the China crane JV could you give us an update on what's happening there and how we should think about the impact on revenue and margins as you change the accounting I think from consolidating it to deconsolidating it and reporting it below the line? Ted this transaction is subject to the approval of the Chinese authorities and the antitrust in Beijing so we are following each of the milestones and I think we are in a great shape to have all the approvals at least hopefully by the end of the second quarter or early Q3.
So in terms of impact I'll let Carl answer you.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay so we should look for deconsolidation by the end of 2Q? End of Q2 that's our goal.
Of course we are not completely in control right? We have the Chinese authorities above that decision but typically if you look back at previous transactions 6 months was the kind of time frame that was needed [ph] so we should choose for that date.
LLLP Research Division</strong> The last thing I wanted to ask just coming back to the question Andy asked is on price/cost in cranes could you just characterize maybe kind of Bill of Material how steel prices are looking both for commodity steel and high tensile and I'll get back in queue.
Yes Ted I would say the commodities worldwide I think are steady.
I don't think you're seeing a big ramp-up in commodity costs.
I think it's holding and I think when you talked about different slowdowns around the world.
I think there is a little bit of better pricing that some of our vendors are talking to us about.
So that said it's a pretty good environment right now.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Is it in line with expectations or maybe a little better? I would say in line.
Yes I would say in line.
And next we will go to Schon Williams with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> We've spent the majority of the call on cranes maybe I'll switch it up here a little bit here on food.
Can you talk about you netted some cost of deferrals in Q1.
Anything specifically that you could cite there or maybe just give a little bit more color and then anything in terms of weather impacting you in Q1? Yes a great point on the weather Schon.
It has been an impact as you had a cooler spring throughout many parts of the country here in the United States.
So I think that has impacted it a little bit but the other impact that we talked about with respect to -- it's really the consumer confidence.
You go back to the early part of the year let's talk about middle of January when people were starting to get their first paychecks and had a payroll tax hike you're seeing the impacts of that when you talk to -- when you see the restaurants that are releasing their earnings some of the chains but even the general market the feedback we're getting is "Hey people are still going out and they're eating but they're just not having the same amount of spend that they typically do at a restaurant." For instance casual dining.
They may go out they may dinner but they won't get an appetizer or they'll make it 2 appetizers and no dinner.
But you're seeing I think some of the things are being told that total spend is down a bit.
So really that has impacted I think some of the capital spending that projects that people wanted to upgrade even earlier in the year.
But we're pretty confident that some of this hopefully reverses itself later in the second quarter third and fourth quarters.
But again that is really what's impacted the first quarter in Foodservice.
If I can Schon part of the reaction that you'll see out of some customers in this environment where their customers change their behavior as Glen articulated is they'll go on offense but sometimes that in and of itself can create deferrals where they're kind of deciding what they're going to do what it might mean in terms of their CapEx and the equipment spend they're going to need to satisfy some of those changes that they want to make and that will create some of this deferral that I think we experienced.
Research Division</strong> What about weather impact in terms of new store openings was that a factor at all? No I mean you've got to remember the new store openings typically are less of an impact in any particular time frame but you would see on the new stores they're typically it'll be in the second and third quarters.
You're not going to see them in the second quarter that seasonality by itself.
But what you will see and I think the one that probably has the most impact on is probably in the ice business when it comes to their order rates up and down with hot weather.
I mean we joke if you see early in the year you go to USA TODAY and look at their weather map there's a lot of red on it that's a good sign for us.
But I think when you look at that it has impacted a little bit in the first quarter.
Yes the other one that has been down a bit even though the chains are spending is China's been a little difficult this first quarter but again that's why we call it a CapEx deferral and I don't think it's just something they're not going to stop.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe if I could sneak one more in on the margins I think you talked about maybe impact from restructuring or reorganization on a year-over-year basis.
But can you give a little additional color on maybe the pension and the mix headwind and maybe quantify that if you could? Overall obviously we've got some benefit over the slight growth that we did have.
And from a pricing which as you look at in aggregate it wasn't -- it's actually stayed as we look at the full year I would say based upon the comments that we expect to be favorable to the original expectations on the material cost side.
But if you look at it year-over-year maybe it was up a little bit that we had overcome.
So overall I think I would go back to my earlier comment that we've guided to flat margins in Foodservice.
I think the ability to make up for what we lost in the first quarter is definitely going to be skewed to the fourth.
Next we will go to Charlie Brady with BMO Capital Markets.
On the margins.
First on the crane side as you talk about more crawlers picking up particularly the heavy crawlers which are on the higher-margin side do you think as you go through the rest of '13 the margin improvement comes more from higher volumes running through the plants or you get a greater benefit from the mix? I think it's not necessarily I mean we're going to have some growth as you know this year and we'll get the absorption benefit from that.
But I would point to the margin expansion more in terms of some of the things that we're going to get out of the quality benefit that we're getting as well as the product cost take-out initiatives and efficiencies that we're going to put in place.
I think the mix standpoint because especially when you get to the higher end of the crawlers that ends up -- that's the longest production time and it takes longer and longer to deliver as you get higher and higher in the capacity range.
Charlie maybe one on the mix.
The tower cranes as you know is also a driver of the mix.
And unfortunately right now we have softness in Europe.
I mean we see obviously some good markets in other places like Asia or even in the U.S.
I mean if you think about it I mean we got 3 orders from U.S.
customers at Bauma which give you a sense of confidence that the telecom business in the U.S.
starts rebounding which is a very good sign.
If you take the City of Vancouver for example they have 100 potential projects with tower cranes and the interaction has put that in demand so that's going to be helpful now.
This is not going to mitigate the softness that we see in Europe.
And in terms of mix I don't think we can count on the mix really to up the sales this is why we are so focused on our operational efficiencies.
Just switching over to Foodservice your commentary on a lot of the margin from being fourth quarter weighted generally in fourth quarter we get a pretty sharp drop-off sequentially from Q3.
And I'm wondering does that normal seasonality get muted to any meaningful degree because of the way some of these consolidation benefits are hitting Q4? Yes I think I would say to some extent we'll still definitely see the seasonality just because of the way the order and the delivery patterns work in the business and the importance of absorption in the factories overall to the margin profile.
But I think there's an opportunity for us to really kind of make up for the margin erosion that we saw in the first quarter in the fourth.
One final one on kind of bigger picture.
I'll get back in the queue.
There's some legislations proposed in Congress about permanently extending the 15-year tax depreciation for leasehold improvements and restaurant improvements and some other things.
I'm wondering has that entered the conversation you're having with customers in terms of are they holding back in anticipation of this? And on the other side of that if this happens to pass and who knows if it will any gut feeling on how that might spur investment for you guys? I can tell you it hasn't entered very many conversations Charlie.
So that being said I'm not sure what it spurs with respect to a near term.
I think it's a matter of I'm going to go back to the franchisee operator.
It is going to help them directly but you still have to have the footprint through the restaurant for people to be spending money and they're looking at bottom line.
It's going to help them from that perspective but if they're making money they're going to be investing.
So if that does it you're going to see it but it may not help everybody.
It's like the bonus depreciation for a lot that was happening on the cranes.
People waited until the end of the year until they really made those decisions when their tax accountants told them you either have to spend money or not.
And I know it sounds simple but that's how a lot of people bought late in the year when you had the 100% bonus depreciation.
Next we go to Mig Dobre with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> I'm going to have to go back to Bauma because I'm really looking for a little more clarity around orders and the show itself and I understand that sentiment was good and you made comments surrounding the show itself.
But your press release states that you booked substantial crane orders for delivery in 2013.
So I think back to a prior question does that imply different seasonality in orders and really how should -- what's a fair expectation to have for orders sequentially or year-over-year however you want to frame it? Mig I'll go to your first question which is does it imply a different seasonality.
One trade show shouldn't designate a trend.
And so I guess you have to look at okay what's it over the first 2 quarters? And this is -- we have this conversation every 3 years and we'll have it again next year when you have ConExpo in the first quarter and not the second quarter because we'll be comparing a different number.
So that's really what we're looking at.
I don't know that it implies a different seasonality.
It implies that the show happened to fall in the second quarter this year as opposed to a different quarter.
Last year was Intermat that's not a big order-taking show.
That's more regional and then the same thing happens in the fourth quarter when you have sometimes you have Bauma China or [indiscernible] in China.
It's dependent on that.
That's why we're trying to give you a little bit of feel to say it was a good order show and so you don't know if it's a deferral from the first quarter that somebody already had it or it makes the second quarter better.
But you can look at it either way.
I don't think it makes a difference [indiscernible] in seasonality.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
I hope you can understand why I think all of us are sort of gravitating back to this question though.
Then sort of looking a little bit longer term I wonder if you can share with us your outlook for crawler and tower cranes over the say next 2 to 3 years.
Where do you think we can get volume wise versus the prior peak? And with that in mind what are your thoughts on your overall cost structure in crane? How would that match your volume outlook over the next 2 to 3 years? Well that's a good question.
When you look at what we would tend to believe I would say we look at where the next peak may be.
We can all argue that in cranes.
But we believe that the only product line that wouldn't get back to its prior peak would be the tower cranes and so that's why you see a lot of work that's going on in the right now in the tower crane side of the business with some of the moves that we're making from a manufacturing standpoint and those kinds of things.
We're trying to say okay "How do you best minimize and get an efficient cost structure in the tower cranes worldwide?" We've done the same thing with the crawler cranes and that's why a lot of these things -- if we knew 5 years ago in the last downturn what we know today you always do things differently if you could go back and relook at it.
So I think to answer your question towers is really the only one that we don't believe gets back to the peak and that's why we're working on implementing the cost efficiencies and things that Eric already talked about that we're doing there with respect to the rest of the cost I mean we're pretty comfortable with the things we're doing.
As an infrastructure in the business but we really have some opportunities to continue to wean out every one of our facilities worldwide.
That's where you get the biggest improvements.
And next we will go to Seth Weber with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm going to go back to the order question in the crane business.
So I mean you have a revenue guide out there plus or minus $2.6 billion $2.7 billion sort of where you get on a high single-digit growth rate.
So in my mind that assumes that orders need to start to pick up to something in the at least into the mid $600 million range soon to kind of hit that type of revenue number.
So in that spirit can you tell us whether you think orders will be up in the second quarter year-over-year or whether you expect book-to-bill to be over 1 in the second quarter? Is that a fair way to think about it? I think probably the challenge that we have here is that there's always an ebb and flow to the orders.
There's -- we just don't make a practice of forward projecting what our orders are.
We can say that what we stated in the press release and reiterated in our prepared remarks is true.
The order activity in a show that tends to be a good order show and the business is good and our expectations were realized.
But it's not going to yield.
That 1 week show will not enable you to make a comment just based upon what happens in the show that enables you to essentially relax relative to what you need for the full year in order to get to your revenue guidance.
But everything that we did experience in terms of bulk orders at the show the things that we think all of the activity at the show reflects certainly gives us enhanced confidence that we're going to be able to deliver the guidance that we've provided.
And I would say the trend from the show holds I think it's reasonable to expect that we would have some maybe better than historic trend second quarter orders but it's not going to be predicated on just what happened at the show.
LLC Research Division</strong> I understand that.
But the language in the release talks about increased confidence and so that's where I think people are trying to get comfortable with what's making you more confident.
I mean is there any -- can you give us any cadence of orders through the quarter? I mean one of your peers talked about progressively monthly things were getting better January February versus January March versus February.
Did you experience anything like that? Yes we saw similar trends Seth.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
Can you talk -- I think Eric you may have mentioned that LatAm is becoming more competitive.
Is that for I guess Chinese OEM or can you give us any more color on who that competition is coming from? And more broadly are you seeing any change in the competitive environment given the weak yen? Well first of all these are more the traditional first year competitors that are active very active in Latin America.
So in that respects we haven't seen really major inroads from the Chinese maybe outside of a small truck range in Brazil but that's not impacting us really.
But it's because the market are active and I think it's important for every manufacturers to have some kind of market share and traditionally we are very very strong in Latin America absolutely no doubt.
What was the second part of the question? LLC Research Division</strong> Just the yen we've heard some discussions about yes.
Yes it certainly gives some tractions and some steam to the Japanese competitors and especially we see that in Asia and in the Middle East.
They are definitely more aggressive so that's helping them definitely.
LLC Research Division</strong> But broadly are you expecting Manitowoc crane pricing to be up this year? Yes we should be slightly up.
We have to offset a little bit of cost material benefits according to at least [ph] what we have seen but we will have some pricing modest pricing I would say.
And next we go to Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> I just wanted to take a step back on the Foodservice side and clarify something.
You said customer deferrals in Q1 but in your commentary it sounded more like these weren't orders that you already had in hand the customer said "Oh whoops I don't want to take delivery now I'll take delivery later." And these were orders that never happened that you thought might happen.
Can you just clarify which of the 2 you meant by customer deferrals? Yes Ann it's not orders we have in hand.
It's conversations with different customers that are going to begin projects and they decide to defer when they need equipment during the year.
They have conversations with -- they have their business plans and they share information with us on a periodic basis and basically sometimes we try to anticipate from a manufacturing standpoint from an ordering standpoint the inventories and that kind of thing.
We try to anticipate what their needs are.
But yes it's more -- it's not orders in hand.
It's just because that stuff moves pretty rapidly there's not a lot of backlog in Foodservice.
So it's just a matter of when they begin to spend their money.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Most of my other questions have been answered but I just wanted to try have you had any discussions with the activist investor who owns a significant percent of your shares now have there been any conversations with them? Typically we don't talk about any conversations with shareholders but no I'm not aware of any conversations.
And next we will go to Eli Lustgarten with Longbow Securities.
Just a couple of quick [ph] questions but I now we've covered most of the territory.
On Bauma I guess the indication most of the orders that you received were for '13 delivery were there any longer lead time these projects that would have gone into '14? And secondly what was the pricing like at Bauma? I mean one of your big competitors is much more interested in market share this year than they are in volume than they are in profitability from what I hear and between that and some of the Chinese getting very active we hear there's very very active pricing competition out there? To answer that and it probably gives me an opportunity to try to summarize the confidence in our revenue numbers for the year again.
First off yes most of the orders are going to be -- anything substantial is going to be in 2013.
I mean there's spillover but it's not significant to worry about any spillover in 2014.
To your comment to the market share versus the pricing look we tell our people everyday that you can't feed your family on market share.
And so yes there's probably a lot of hoopla.
We saw 1 customer that if you bought 1 product they had they were giving away a Maserati.
You tell me how that works.
I don't know.
But no we weren't giving away anything free.
We didn't have any promotions.
I mean we have -- it's a typical pricing that we have any conversation we have with the customer.
I mean again like I said some of these things our salespeople have been talking to these customers about the products they were going to see at Bauma for months and they close the deal at Bauma.
I mean sometimes it's to be in front of Eric the senior staff the regional president to have that opportunity that to talk to people so it's not about getting market share.
I don't know what our competitors sold.
All we know is what we sold and so that's the way we look at it.
I would take this opportunity also Eli to just say and try to clarify some of the confusion between our orders and our confidence.
We give guidance at the beginning of the year based on a lot of assumptions.
And as we go through the year we have to check off some of these assumptions that we feel better about and the order trends we're feeling better about because of what happened at Bauma the confidence that people have projects whether it's contractors or rental fleets.
When it comes to utilization rates when it comes to rental rates all of these things that's why we say we feel better that business is improving a bit and so that we can meet those revenue projections.
These orders we get at Bauma are just 1 item we have in all of our assumptions.
As Carl said to give us that confidence that we expected it to be good and it was good so let's check the box.
It's another arrow on our quiver that we feel better about our guidance and don't have to change it.
So I don't know the changes in the seasonality these other things.
I just wanted to get that point out.
Eric? Let me give you why -- about pricing I would say one of the trends that we can see moving forward and what's kind of obvious at Bauma is that the customer are becoming smarter and more sophisticated when they make their crane-buying decisions.
It's not all about price.
It's not because of telematics and all these other things that you really look at the cost of an issue.
They look at the reliability the MTBF the residual value the after-sales support and all this plays very much into -- it plays out very well now.
And I must say that the smartest people and the best crane company in the world buying our cranes for those reasons.
So I think it's important and I think it's a trend.
The customer are getting more sophisticated in their purchasing decision.
Let me ask a quick question on food equipment.
You have 2% in volume in the first quarter.
You're still talking about I guess mid-single digit.
Industry forecast very consistently of course would have been up talking about food revenues up about 4% this year.
That seems to be the standard across the board.
It seemed to me you have a little bit higher target ranges than that.
Is that mostly because of the new products the market share gains that you're talking at because it doesn't look like the end-market condition that the industry is pretty uniform about low-single digit topline growth.
Eli I concur with your number there on the 4% maybe even a little bit lower but not substantially.
But I would say that we do try to tend to target GDP growth or industry growth times 2 I mean and that's because of the new products and that's because of market share gains that we believe we can get through products we introduced previously.
So yes I think we typically will have a little bit higher target than what the market would entail.
And it does appear there are no further questions in the queue at this time.
Mr.
Khail I'd like to turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Before we conclude today's call I'd like to remind everyone that a replay of our First Quarter Conference Call will be available later this morning.
You can access the replay by visiting the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in the Manitowoc Company.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our Second Quarter Conference Call in July.
This concludes today's call.
Have a good day.
And that does conclude today's conference.
We do thank you for your participation.
Welcome to the Manitowoc Second Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the call over to Steve Khail Director of Investor Relations.
Please begin.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Manitowoc's Second Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Participating in today's call will be Glen Tellock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carl Laurino Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Glenn will open today's call by providing an overview of the quarterly results and business outlook.
Carl will then discuss our financial results for the second quarter in greater detail.
Following our prepared remarks we will be joined by Eric Etchart President of Manitowoc Cranes and Bob Hund our newly appointed President of Manitowoc Foodservice for our question-and-answer session.
For anyone who is not able to listen to today's entire call an archived version of this call will be available later this morning.
Please visit the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com to access the replay.
Before Glen begins his commentary I would like to review our safe harbor statement.
This call is taking place on July 30 2013.
During the course of today's call forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 will be made during each speaker's remarks and during our question-and-answer session.
Such statements are based on the company's current assessment of its market and other factors that affect its business.
However actual results could differ materially from any implied projections due to 1 or more of the factors explained in Manitowoc's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are also available on our website.
The Manitowoc Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or other circumstances.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Glen.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
The second quarter marked another period of solid results for Manitowoc driven by the strength of our diverse and innovative product portfolio as well as our steadfast execution across several key strategies including our manufacturing and LEAN initiatives.
While macroeconomic conditions continue causing headwinds we are encouraged by the conversations and outlooks across our global customer base.
Additionally we are confident about Manitowoc's opportunities for growth through the remainder of 2013.
During the quarter our Foodservice segment posted modest sales growth despite some customers deferring CapEx spending related to new store openings and other growth initiatives.
However several of these customers have accelerated their pace of spending as we've entered the third quarter.
Based on recent customer discussions we expect this trend to continue for the remainder of 2013.
While we maintain the healthy margin profile in the business we did experience a year-over-year decline during the quarter driven by the execution of our manufacturing strategies in Tijuana Mexico and Cleveland Ohio which are now virtually complete and will provide an incremental benefit to margins in the fourth quarter of this year.
Positive sales performance in Foodservice was driven by our success in various product categories including results from the new products such as the NEO our newest ice machine.
In addition the rollout of our Multiplex Blend-in-cup units in the U.K.
was completed during the second quarter and I'm pleased to report that additional opportunities for this product line have begun to gain traction across several key EMEA markets.
This performance is testament to our diverse product offerings across the globe as well as our ability to leverage existing customer relationships all of which affords us with opportunities to accelerate long-term growth in the segment.
Before I discuss our crane business I wanted to take a moment to introduce our new President of Manitowoc's Foodservice segment Bob Hund.
We are pleased to welcome Bob to his new position and we are confident that his contributions to the business will be a valuable asset within the segment.
While Bob does not begin his position as Foodservice President until August 1 he has joined our call today.
Bob has been instrumental in helping to drive our financial success and operational improvements within the Crane segment and brings demonstrated global leadership to Manitowoc Foodservice.
Under Bob's leadership his top priority will be accelerating long-term profitable growth by leveraging our competitive strengths in the segment.
Consistent with our strategic imperatives we'll also aggressively invest in innovation by launching new product spend in our ice brine refrigeration and accelerated cooking categories over the next 12 months.
In addition based on previously initiated plans and leveraging the success of our Crane Care business we are pursuing growth initiatives in our Aftermarket Services and solutions for Foodservice.
Moving on to our Crane segment our second quarter results were encouraging as we witnessed a 7.6% year-over-year increase in sales and generated the highest operating margins in Crane since 2008.
We are seeing the benefit of the initiatives we have put in place to improve and enhance our operations globally.
While we experienced solid order intake around recent attendance at the Bauma Tradeshow overall new orders increased sequentially but were down year-over-year.
While the Q2 order intake was the strongest we have seen in the last few quarters the year-over-year sharp fall is reflective of the cautious CapEx spending environment within some end markets in geographic areas.
Overall Crane performance was driven by solid demand in the Americas region as higher crane utilization rates and improving rental rates spurred orders across this region.
In addition we experienced continuing demand in certain emerging markets.
Consistent with previous quarters demand in Western Europe China and Australia remained weak.
From a product line perspective demand across a variety of our product categories in Cranes led to our improved second quarter performance which included increased activity in crawler cranes and large rough terrain cranes in the Americas complemented by all-terrain cranes on a global basis.
With another quarter of improving activity in crawler cranes we believe we have hit the inflection point in crawler demand.
Most of our product lines continue to be driven by strength in the energy and infrastructure markets as well as a pickup in both residential and nonresidential construction.
Lastly tire crane activity exhibited sustained strength in the parts of the greater Asia-Pacific region as well as select emerging markets such as India Turkey and Russia.
However this product line experienced ongoing softness in Europe the Middle East Africa and China.
More broadly speaking conversations with our crane customers are increasingly positive which suggests stronger growth opportunities as we look into the remainder of 2013.
While a fair amount of uncertainty remains given the broader macroeconomic environment we will continue to invest in the areas that will accelerate our growth such as new product introductions and initiatives related to emerging market infrastructure.
We firmly believe that our recent and future product introductions are great investments for us and our customers because they offer exceptional quality dependable performance and optimal residual value.
A few highlights are illustrated by the recent successes of our Grove RT770 a new 70-ton capacity rough terrain crane and the GMK6400 a unique 400-ton capacity all-terrain crane that we displayed at the recent Bauma trade show.
We expect to continue to announce multiple new products over the coming months including several new products that will premier at ConExpo 2013.
Moving on let me provide a quick update on the implementation of several manufacturing and operational excellence initiatives that have been completed or continue to take hold.
As I mentioned earlier the Foodservice facility consolidations remain on track.
In addition to the construction of our multipurpose food service manufacturing facility in Monterrey Mexico.
We expect customer shipments from this new facility to begin in the latter part of 2013.
In Crane our focus on reliability and product quality continues to resonate well with our customer base as exemplified by our latest customer satisfaction index.
With the release of our new products the quality initiatives that we routinely undertake as part of our R&amp;D efforts not only enhance our crane designs but also ensure optimal product reliability.
In addition we continue to deploy our Project One initiative across Europe and Asia.
When fully implemented in 2015 our new ERP system will reunite and streamline numerous information functions across all of our crane operations while also providing cross and efficiency benefits.
To conclude Manitowoc's progress on several fronts further demonstrates our commitment to position the company for long-term profitable growth.
We will continue to pursue a consistent strategy that is centered on our global manufacturing network process improvements product innovation and Aftermarket Services that all offer significant opportunities for continued growth.
I'll now turn the call over to Carl to discuss our detailed second quarter financial results.
Carl? Thanks Glenn and good morning everyone.
We reported net sales for the second quarter of just over $1 billion which is an increase of 5% from a year ago.
GAAP net earnings for the second quarter were $57.6 million or $0.43 per diluted share versus earnings of $45.3 million or $0.34 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2012.
EPS excluding special items was $0.45 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2013 versus $0.34 per diluted share last year.
EPA in the second quarter of 2013 increased by 37% versus the second quarter of 2012.
This increase was driven by contributions from both segments but more heavily weighted toward those generated by our Crane segment.
During the second quarter cash provided by continuing operations was $47.5 million versus $6.6 million in the prior-year quarter driven by improved earnings and partially offset by the seasonal working capital requirements in both segments.
For the balance of 2013 we will remain focused on achieving our cash flow targets as we continue to prioritize debt repayment while also funding our growth and process improvement initiatives.
We remain on target to deliver at least $200 million in full year debt reductions led by cash from profitability.
We expect the pace of our debt reduction to be similar to the normal seasonal pattern which is to say that the bulk of the debt reduction will occur in the fourth quarter.
Turning to our segment results Foodservice sales in the second quarter of 2013 totaled $390 million up 1% from a year ago.
Second quarter 2013 operating earnings in Foodservice were $63 million.
Operating margins is 16.2% or 90 basis points lower than the prior year quarter.
We continue to expect 2013 full year margins to be in line with 2012 full year margins.
The second quarter Foodservice margin comparisons were driven by flat sales material and labor cost increases negative product mix and the ongoing manufacturing initiatives in our key brands and product categories.
Moving to the Crane segment second quarter sales totaled $657 million a year-over-year increase of 7.6%.
Crane segment operating earnings in the second quarter were $65 million versus $52 million last year which is a 25% increase.
This resulted in a second quarter Crane segment operating margin of nearly 10% up 138 basis points.
This year-over-year comparison was positively impacted by higher sales volumes operational efficiencies and favorable material cost realization.
Crane backlog at quarter end was $726 million a decrease from $944 million in the prior year quarter.
For the second quarter new orders totaled $604 million which represents a book-to-bill ratio of 0.92x.
Overall new orders during the quarter declined 4% year-over-year but increased 6% sequentially.
Before concluding my remarks let me now discuss our 2013 outlook.
As noted in yesterday's press release we are reaffirming our guidance for 2013.
For the full year we expect mid-single digit revenue gains in Foodservice and high single-digit revenue growth in Crane.
We expect to achieve a continuing midteen operating margin in Foodservice and a high single-digit operating margin in Crane.
We view full year 2013 as a transition year for Foodservice margins where improvements in the core business will roughly offset investments designed to help achieve our long-term high-teen margin target.
Other guidance expectations in food capital expenditures and interest expense of approximately $100 million and $125 million respectively.
Debt-to-EBITDA will once again decline more than 1 full-term to 4X -- to below 4X approximately half the peak level experienced in 2010.
Finally we expect the full year expected tax rate to be near 30%.
This is a reduction in our original mid-30% guidance primarily due to second quarter favorable discrete items that drove the Q2 effective tax rate to 14.1%.
With that I'll turn the call to Glen for his closing comments.
Glen? Thanks Carl.
To conclude our second quarter performance reflects benefits from strategic initiatives we have implemented over several years that position us well for long-term success.
These include new product introductions lean and segment implementations and leveraging our global scale to drive improved performance.
As a result of these strategies coupled with the improvements we see in our end markets we remain optimistic in Manitowoc's full-year outlook.
Put another way we remain confident in the areas of the business that we can control as well as in our ability to execute and improve the entire Manitowoc enterprise further positioning us for greater value creation and competitive success.
This concludes our prepared remarks for today.
Teresa we will now begin our question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll go to Andy Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> This is Vlad Bystricky on for Andy.
So I just wanted to ask you guys about crane orders and your outlook.
So revenues for the first half is about $1.2 billion and orders are at a similar level but your guidance implies something around $2.6 billion in revenue for the year.
So can you help us understand how you get to the implied second half revenue of around $1.4 billion given recent order levels? I mean are we missing anything? Well I think it's always the same thing.
You have units that are unfinished goods that either are waiting could be financing it could be shipment boats and it can be a lot of different things.
We talked about I think in the first quarter there are certain shipments that we've held up due to manufacturing inefficiencies or quality issues that we just don't feel comfortable shipping the products right now.
And as we go through some of the new product introductions.
So a lot of that comes into play when you look at the inventory levels.
I mean I think you can see it there.
The other thing is when you look towards the back half of the year in certain product lines there still are incentives for customers as they look towards the back end of the year.
And I would say primarily in the last few years you've seen crawler cranes pick up like in the fourth quarter and especially towards the end of the year as people look and see where their balance sheets are at where their tax situations are at and if you have it on hand you see that happen late November and in December.
So I think when you put it all together the orders that we expect the conversations we've had we're pretty comfortable with what we see in the Crane side of the business.
Flipping it over then to the Foodservice side I think it's -- again you look at flat where some of the guidance is implies a pretty strong second half.
That's just the way the business has been trending and we're comfortable with what we've seen as we've entered the third quarter.
We talked about the shipments out of Mexico for the new product line.
We have some new product introductions that are coming out late third quarter and then into the fourth quarter.
Just some of the things that we know with certain customers assuming they make the expenditures as they've said it's doable.
I mean we certainly understand the concern but we also feel pretty good about it that we would say we would confirm our guidance.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's great that's very helpful.
Just a follow-up then on cranes.
Can you update us on sort of what you're seeing in Brazil today and whether your expectations for that market have changed versus what you were thinking coming into the year? I'll let Eric talk to Brazil.
Brazil is actually slowing down.
This being said our overall Latin America business is slightly up compared to last year and it's offset by other economies in Latin America.
However on Brazil we see the course with our strategy.
We have now 3 products rough terrain cranes which are I would say localized Brazilian RTs so eligible to the finance.
And we do intend to continue to have the products in our Passo Fundo facility.
So some 2 additional rough terrain cranes will be produced in that facility and plus we'll stay the course with our tower cranes because we believe tower cranes demand in Brazil will slowly grow.
So we stay the course.
Yes the economy is now -- we're talking about 3% growth.
It's not what we expected but we have our example that demonstrate that it's nice to stay the course with these kind of initiatives.
For example in India we have a very difficult market right now.
The Indian rupee has devaluated 30%.
We stay the course with our tower cranes factory.
We have localized our Indian tower cranes and we are seeing growth year-over-year now in India despite a very challenging economy.
I think Brazil is exactly the same thing.
Charlie Brady with BMO Capital Markets.
I just wanted to go back on the crane orders for a second.
I mean crane orders first half over first half are down about 10%.
Your guidance implies around $2.6-ish billion for the year.
So if you make the assumption that everything booked and shipped in the year which I know doesn't always happen stuff slips out beyond that I mean it implies a very very strong second half order period relative to last half -- second half of last year.
I mean is that in order like 25% 30% second half over second half.
I mean is that math correct or am I missing something on that? Carl can you? And then Eric go ahead.
Charlie as you know there's a certain amount of activity that does get booked and shipped within quarter.
So there's some noise that can be created in just the straight math that I think you walked through.
But directionally I think you're right.
I think some of the optimism that we're seeing and bringing some of the orders to fruition that we know about will be a component of what we expect to see in the second half of the year.
Maybe Charlie I can add a little bit of color.
I mean on the new products the GMK6400 and the RT770 those products have been really tested in and out.
They are ready to ship and we start shipping in Q3.
So we expect those products really to be a big champion and to drive significant order intake as we move forwards that people can keep the tires in the field.
Number two we have seen this year so far a very soft business in the Middle East and in Africa and we expect to see growing demand -- and we start seeing growing demand right now in countries like Saudi Arabia for example or Kuwait or Qatar and even Iraq.
So I mean with softness that we've seen in those countries we expect to see more activity moving forward into the year.
And then North America we continue to see positive demands for our products.
So overall that's how we feel confident about achieving our guidance.
That's very helpful.
Can you just comment on tower market? Any change since last quarter? I'm assuming not but just your comments would be appreciated.
Well Charlie the tower crane business continue to be very challenging in Europe maybe with the exception of Germany.
That's not a real surprise although we can see moving pieces like some consideration of rental houses.
However we are seeing very very strong demand in some of our emerging market.
Russia is 1 of these countries where we see very very strong demand for tower cranes.
India as I mentioned earlier and overall greater Asia Pacific.
Korea for example is now a strong market for tower cranes.
Singapore continues to be very very strong and a lot of countries in Southeast Asia are strong.
So with the footprint we have in China with our factory that service this marketplace and again India where we produce I think we are in a very good position to serve those markets.
Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Ravi Gill on for Jerry.
Glen or Carl can you talk about the actual impact that restructuring charges had in 2Q for the Foodservice business? And then can you talk more about the margin expansion potential in 2014 from all the LEAN initiatives that you're implementing this year? Ravi as I think I mentioned on the earlier call the expectation is that we'll probably be really realizing the uptick in the margins that will enable us to be year-over-year flat as a fourth quarter issue for us in Foodservice.
And that's a function of exactly what the first part of your question is asking about what was the impact in quarter for -- from the manufacturing items which for us in the quarter was circa $4 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then Glen in the Crane business in the prior cycle you're able to achieve low teens margins even before peak sales levels in '08.
When should we expect the crane business to deliver similar type margins this cycle and to what extent is the driver going to be volume versus pricing? Well I think what you had in the last uptick I would say we didn't have some of the investments that we made such as the PVC such as the factory in India the new factory in China.
There were some Brazil.
I mean so you do have a little bit of added fixed costs in some of the investments we made in emerging markets.
So that's 1 area really.
But I would say I think you can see the impact that the manufacturing initiatives that we have had just in the manufacturing changes that we've made for instance like right now in Europe whether it's in [indiscernible] our AT factory or some tower crane factories I think you're seeing the benefits of the manufacturing initiatives that you're starting to see the benefits of the manufacturing initiatives we've put in place in 2007 say in Shady Grove or Manitowoc from the equipment standpoint or welding equipment.
And so those the more value that comes through the greater throughput we get to the bottom line because of those initiatives.
So the big thing is going to come from volume.
To grab the margins as they go up from where they are right now and almost to double-digit to get them to the low teens a lot of it is because -- I would say majority of it is going to come from volumes.
The other thing is the mix has to change a little bit.
You got to get a little bit better mix on towers and crawlers than what you have on the mobile hydraulics.
So I think once those things take hold I mean you're starting to get back to the margins that we've seen in the past.
Schon Williams BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Wondering if you could just -- could you update us on the status of the new China crane joint venture? Well Schon we have not yet gotten the formal approval from the Chinese authorities.
We got the antitrust approval from Beijing.
We are expecting now the approval for the [indiscernible] in Shendong province.
It should come any day.
So I think we are making progress.
I would expect this approval to come in Q3.
Of course we don't control this.
This is in the hands of the government but we are confident that we should see the agreement coming very soon.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just on -- kind of staying on cranes.
I mean incremental margins picked up nicely in the quarter running in kind of high 30s here.
I'm just trying to get a sense of -- I mean it sounds like the mix is helping the margin profile in cranes but I'm just trying to get a sense of how sustainable is incremental margins in the kind of mid-to-high 30s? Should we expect something more like Q1 kind of low 20s? Can you just give a little clarity there? Yes Schon.
I think -- I'm not sure what -- you may have been looking at a legacy Q2 number for 2012.
I think the math on the reported Q2 is closer to low 30s in this environment.
We did get some benefit from the mix probably a little bit more than we would have expected with some additional year-over-year crawler contribution in the second quarter.
So in terms of our expectations for the year again you got to go back to the original guidance that we gave.
As you look at it from the full year it would put you somewhere in that 25% to 30% incrementals.
Research Division</strong> But you would expect that mix benefit should at least maintain or accelerate over the coming quarters is that right? I would think that there would be opportunity for us to push that to Glen's point when we start to get a little bit better overall product mix with greater contributions in towers and crawlers coupled with the continuing improvements that we're making on our efficiencies which we're experiencing real time.
Mig Dobre with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Just sort of sticking with crane and this question has been asked several ways this morning but I guess I'm wondering looking at orders in the quarter can you maybe give us some color about conversion of orders that you might have gotten from Bauma? Was that pretty much in line with what you expected initially? And how did that order trends progress in the quarter? I would say back to the Bauma orders we obviously had a lot of discussion about that on the last quarter and I would say again we were pleased with the order intake that we had in the quarter.
But as I said last time the reason we don't report some of those is because you're not sure how many people brought in orders to the show that would have made them and made the order in May or June.
So I would in all honesty the orders weren't as robust in the back half of the quarter as they were in the front half of the quarter.
I mean it's really that simple.
But I think as you look at the normalized pattern that we have in the first half of the year I mean it's certainly acceptable to us as we move forward.
Eric anything to add ...
Research Division</strong> Glen just to be clear one of your competitors has said that they've had a bit of a harder time converting some of the opportunities at Bauma into actual orders and I'm trying to understand whether or not you saw something similar or maybe you've done frankly better than that.
I don't necessarily know.
I think there's -- I guess I wouldn't categorize us as having trouble converting.
I mean if there are 1 or 2 deals that didn't convert I don't throw those couple of deals as bad eggs on the whole group.
So I don't know that I would characterize as that.
Eric do you...
No.
I mean coming to my mind we had 1 large order coming from the Middle East that we could not convert into a firm order this quarter but that's the only 1 that comes to my mind.
Research Division</strong> Great that's helpful.
And I guess my last question here is maybe a little bit of color on the competitive environment overall in crane.
Have you seen any changes year-to-date? Any color there would be helpful.
No.
I think -- I don't think it's any different.
I think people -- it's a competitive environment.
You have to sell your features and benefits.
Again we aren't the cheapest on the market.
Sometimes we're not the most expensive either.
So I'm not sure that I see a big change.
I think the 1 area that maybe you see is with the strengthening of the dollar I think as maybe some of the European customers have been a little bit more aggressive but I don't know that that's really any different than what you see over a normal course of 24 or 36 months.
Seth Webber RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Again following up on some of these questions.
I mean can you comment on whether net pricing is positive for the Crane business and I guess for Foodservice as well? Yes on both.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And how much of that is just related to input costs going down or are you actually getting absolute price increases? I think you have the benefit of both on that.
In the pricing where it can it's holding a bit but I think we are having some pretty good excess -- success whether it's product cost takeouts or the sourcing initiatives.
Commodities has held pretty well this year.
And the way I might describe it Seth is that I think given some of the earlier pressure that we saw as we were coming out of a rough environment we took some pretty aggressive pricing action when we saw a steep slope of the curve on the cost and I think we've had the luxury of not needing to raise prices to the same degree recently because we have seen a little bit more cooperation on the cost side of the equation.
And Seth the investment we have made on the quality of the products since now 3 or 4 years is also kicking in and we see really improvement in our cost of food quality as well.
LLC Research Division</strong> And I guess just going back to the crane margin.
The China JV hasn't closed so are you still absorbing the costs from the original -- your original partner there? Does the second quarter margin reflect loss from the original agreement then in China? It's apples-to-apples yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So that should get better...
We continue to absorb that cost.
LLC Research Division</strong> You're absorbing that cost.
And that should -- do you think that that reverses out then here in the third quarter? That's our expectation.
I will be honest.
We thought -- we were hoping to get that late in the second quarter.
But there's really 1 last approval we need and we're down to it.
So I mean I certainly would expect that would happen in the third quarter.
Just to be clear Seth from an EPS standpoint we'll make a big difference -- it will make a difference in the crane operating margins I think to your -- to the point of your question.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
So the margin should get a tailwind going forward then? Once we get it closed.
Not until that point.
LLC Research Division</strong> Correct.
And I guess just lastly anything on the financing side? Are you seeing anything with crane financing getting easier or harder across the board? I think it's pretty consistent.
We obviously have probably more challenges in emerging markets just because of the development of finance availability in those types of markets that can be difficult.
But I would say overall it's been pretty consistent at a reasonably healthy level.
What we might want to see a little bit more aggressiveness from the financial community would be in some of the real estate type projects that probably come online faster if there was greater availability of finance in that end market.
Ted Grace Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Either Carl or Eric is there any chance you could provide kind of an EBIT bridge if you will for cranes? I think we've all been really impressed with incrementals particularly in light of the fact that the China JV is still being consolidated.
So 1 thing that might help us on the call is if you could maybe say look pricing is X and better cost did Y and ERP was X and Brazil was Z and just help us bridge kind of how you got on $46 million of revenue growth $17 million of incremental operating profits? Well obviously we do get the benefits of growth that you combine that with a little bit of pricing.
That's well into over $10 million on that front.
We talked about the manufacturing efficiencies and cost benefits.
That's on the order of -- not quite as high but still pretty impressive close to $10 million.
We talked about cost reductions on material cost side.
That was a benefit of certainly several million dollars.
We talked about the quality enhancements that's another handful of million or so.
And obviously we've got some things on the cost side and inflation side that offset some of those benefits that we've seen that bring it to the reconciled level of year-over-year operating income.
And the offsets are labor and benefits some things of that sort? What particulars should we be thinking about in that regard? Yes a little bit of overhead some engineering expense.
We've got a little bit of ERP year-over-year not a lot because we had been investing last year as well but there's a little bit of increase on that front this year over last year.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then the next question hopefully I don't embarrass myself by asking this but I guess the way I typically thought about the business is customers place orders cranes get built according to those orders.
Just to understand Glen's prior comments on inventories should we assume that the company actually builds product kind of to hold in inventory so kind of at risk so that it can fulfill expected orders faster? Yes I mean that's true.
I mean let's be honest.
When you have some of the lead times that you have on some of the components Ted you have to be buying some components based on at least a reasonable forecast.
So what we try to do on some of the bigger units and longer lead time we have what we call hedge packages on certain items and that's what you're trying to get.
And then you can get the rest and get the throughput.
So it's really a matter of -- when we were back in the days when you had 14 months lead times I mean that's a competitive disadvantage if somebody's trying to get into the market.
So I think the market is changing a bit because I think customers know they don't have to pull the trigger as early as they have in the past.
And so if you have it available that's exactly what you're going to do.
So I wouldn't say that we just build to stock.
I mean that's certainly not what we're doing but you do have a little combination of what are hedge packages versus what are build-to-order.
No I just wanted to add.
One thing that has not changed in the market dynamics is that the cranes end users they really wait until the last minute to place their orders whether it's distribution channel or elsewhere depends how we go to the market.
That's really something that has not changed and it's probably because everyone is very focused.
So that triggers a little bit of how we have to manage inventory.
Maybe being a little modest Eric because I think part of that also may come from our efficiency that we've improved efficiencies that enable customers to have that luxury to wait a little longer.
Yes we've been working very hard with our supply chain and we have a lot of initiative in that respect so obviously improved availability as much as we can in the plans.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So then the last question I'll get back in queue is could you help illustrate kind of what the time to wait would be if I were to place an order for a crawler today just say a midsized crawler could you start manufacturing now and how long would it take to actually get that unit out the door? And then maybe if we could just understand the same kind of timeframes for call RTs and ATs? The thing is Ted the answer is and I know you don't want to hear it it depends.
If you're in the U.S.
you got to remember our distribution base that's exactly what it's for.
So if you're going to buy direct if you're a national car or whatever I mean there are things that we have conversations going with those customers on a regular basis.
And so I mean again I hate to say it it depends.
But the throughputs are a lot different for a 16 000 crawler crane than it is for a 90-ton RT or a 50-ton boom truck or a self-erecting tower crane.
And so I mean it's a different cycle for everything but I can tell you that based on what we have and the flexibility we have around the globe is there are certain customers and that say hey my job may have got pushed back go ahead and take that one I'll take the next one and it can be within 2 weeks.
So I mean again I hate to say it depends.
We try to do it as fast as we can.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Yes I'm just trying to see if there's any kind of illustration.
Let's go back to Vlad's question.
If you were to get an order for a crawler in November is it conceivable that it could translate into incremental revenue in December without being like hey we're going to trade slots if somebody wants it later so net-net it's actually incremental revenue to the company more units? And the answer is yes.
Some of that is based on what we -- we look at seasonal patterns we look at trends we look at discussions with customers and that's why we end up at the end of December or the end of any quarter we do have finished goods on hand.
I mean we can use the term orphan which means there's a crane that's sitting there that doesn't have a name on it but I can tell you that it's not a significant amount in inventory that's an orphaned item.
Eric whispered to me that he could get you that crane before the end of the year Ted.
We'll talk right after the call.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Do you take IOUs? Rob Wertheimer Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> It's Joe O'Dea on for Rob.
First question just the -- you called out the positive contribution from Crane Care in the quarter.
Just curious if sequentially that's that being up and if it's a sign of more equipment going back to work or on the flipside if there's any indication of customers maybe extending equipment life and doing a little bit more servicing side? Certainly we don't get specific financial information by product line or category but we certainly called out the Crane Care.
There's some growth there.
It tends to be I would say a good concurrent indicator of what's going on in the marketplace when we do see improvements it does reflect typically that the utilization rates are driving some of that Crane Care business for us.
LLC</strong> Okay.
And then on Foodservice typically 4Q will see a sequential decline from 3Q on the margins.
It sounds a little bit different this year.
So just looking for maybe a breakdown of how much of the difference is going to be driven by product introduction timing how much is maybe unique demand pattern in the year and then how much is just based on the new manufacturing coming online? Obviously when you look at the last year margin you would -- to stay at that flat level you'd have to see some incremental improvement in the margin and I think that that opportunity certainly exists where we expect to see a little bit greater benefit to make up for the first half of the year.
To get to that flat margin is a fourth quarter benefit.
Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Research Division</strong> This is Damien on for Ann.
First on cranes can you give us a little color on how the crane orders looked in July? I mean have there been any significant changes since the end of the quarter? We typically report the backlog and the order flow on a quarterly basis.
But I think the ability for us to call out our expectations for the full year guidance I think reflects what we've been seeing realtime the business.
So some decent activity.
Research Division</strong> And then I guess just turning quickly to Foodservice.
Should we expect the majority of the benefits from your initiatives for margin improvement to materialize in the fourth quarter or are we going to see the lion's share of it show up in 2014? Well you'll start to see it in the fourth quarter.
It will impact margins in the fourth quarter but then obviously you're going to get the full year run rate in 2014.
And then will be a full year run rate.
Both Tijuana Cleveland and the Nevada product line.
Steven Fisher UBS.
Research Division</strong> Just on Foodservices.
You mentioned that several customers accelerated their spending going into Q3.
Could you just give us a little more color on what's driving that spending acceleration? Well when you look at any year any time you have certain customers that you're talking with and they kind of plan their spend through the year.
And I think they watch what happens during the year they watch what their franchisees are telling them and they watch what other investments their franchisees have to make in the business and then they pull the trigger when they feel it's necessary.
So we make our best guesses as to when we might have these expenditures and I think some of it was -- not think we know a bunch was deferred in the first half.
So you have these conversations the relationships you have and many of them have committed and that's what I'm going to say committed to doing what they said they were going to do on a full year run rate which means -- they've said hey make sure your supplier base is on make sure your manufacturing is there.
So we expect that to happen and as we said in the commentary we've seen some of these already happened in July back to the last comment what have you seen happen in July and we've seen that ramp up.
So long as the spigot is not turned off we believe some of the deferrals will be made up over the back half of the year.
So -- I mean I won't give specifics.
I don't want to lay out any customer names or anything like that but as I said earlier you look at whether it's the -- our Nevada product line you look at some of the prime things that are going on but truly it's -- some of the beverage products and truly across all.
[Audio Gap] Before we conclude today's call I'd like to remind everyone that a replay of our second quarter conference call will be available later this morning.
You can access the replay by visiting the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in the Manitowoc Company.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our third quarter conference call in November.
Have a good day.
That concludes this today's conference.
You may now disconnect.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Manitowoc Company Inc.
Third Quarter 2013 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
For our opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Khail.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Manitowoc's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Participating on today's call will be Glen Tellock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carl Laurino Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Bob Hund President of Manitowoc Foodservice.
Glen will open today's call by providing some introductory remarks about our quarterly results and business outlook.
Following that Bob will comment on our Foodservice results for the third quarter as well as sharing his longer-term goals and strategies.
Then Carl will discuss our financial results for the third quarter from an enterprise and segment perspective.
Following these prepared remarks we will be joined by Eric Etchart President of Manitowoc Cranes for our question-and-answer session.
For anyone who is not able to listen to today's entire call an archived version of this call will be available later this morning.
Please visit the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com to access the replay.
Before Glen begins his commentary I would like to review our Safe Harbor statement.
This call is taking place on October 25 2013.
During the course of today's call forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 will be made during each speakers remarks and during our question-and-answer session.
Such statements are based on the company's current assessment of its markets and other factors that affect its business.
However actual results could differ materially from any implied projections due to one or more of the factors explained in Manitowoc's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are also available on our website.
The Manitowoc Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements whether as a result of new information future events or other circumstances.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Glen.
Thanks Steven.
Good morning everyone.
We reported solid top and bottom line results for the third quarter driven by another period of year-over-year revenue growth in both Crane and Foodservice.
We have worked diligently to leverage our competitive advantages that are benefiting from the substantial investments we have made across the Manitowoc enterprise.
In addition our ability to navigate through prolonged sluggish growth that exists in the marketplace is a testament to our unrelenting focus on our key strategic imperatives as well as our diverse product offerings leading technologies and geographic reach.
Looking at our segments Foodservice posted modest sales growth during the quarter as some customers deferred capital expenditures related to new store openings and other growth initiatives.
We continue to successfully penetrate new customer segments and identify additional opportunities for expansion which included the recent launch of a new ice machine line and the successful rollout of our blended beverage technology in Europe.
Bob will discuss our Foodservice strategy in more detail shortly.
While our margin profile in the business remains healthy we did experience a year-over-year decline during the third quarter driven by the cost of our manufacturing initiatives in Tijuana and Monterrey Mexico and Cleveland Ohio which are now virtually complete and will incrementally benefit margins in the fourth quarter and throughout 2014.
Looking at our Crane segment.
Our third quarter sales grew by over 10% driven by focused execution across all levels of the business.
Our Crane segment also experienced a significant improvement in operating margin achieving year-over-year increase of 110% as our initiatives to improve and enhance our operations globally bear fruit.
Results in our Crane segment were driven by a sustained demand in the Americas region with crawler cranes and large rough-terrain cranes performing well as higher crane utilization rates and strengthening rental rates drove our performance.
We also saw continuing success with Manitowoc Crane Care given our strategic investments in this unique aftermarket product support solution for nearly a decade.
In addition most of our product lines continue to be driven by strength in the energy and infrastructure end markets.
From a geographic perspective in addition to the Americas markets of relative strength include the greater Asia-Pacific region the Middle East and Russia.
Whereas China India Australia and Brazil continue to be weak.
We also saw order intake decline during the quarter compared to the third quarter of 2012.
Although many customers are experiencing improved operating results crane utilization and rental rates year-over-year shortfall in new orders reflects overall customer cautiousness and conservative actions with our CapEx investments.
And while the Global Markets have not rebounded to the degree that we had expected we have continued to manage the business and stay the course as evidenced by the third quarter's margin improvement.
Looking forward we continue to make investments for our long-term growth even as the global macro environment remains challenging.
First we remain at the forefront of product innovation in Cranes and Foodservice.
In Foodservice this initiative remains core to our strategy with the recent product launches and our upcoming introductions of several technology enhancements.
In Cranes our recent product launches have performed well including the 400-ton capacity GMK 6400 the 70-ton capacity RT770 and the 20-ton capacity MDT385 [ph] tower crane.
We expect to unveil an impressive array of new products over the next several months including an array of technologically advanced products that will premiere at ConExpo 2014.
Second we continue to invest in our global manufacturing initiatives.
Bob will expand on these initiatives in Foodservice shortly.
In Cranes our recently developed shared services platform in France has started to positively impact Manitowoc.
Furthermore our ongoing ERP deployment initiative known as Project One will be fully implemented in 2016 and will provide cost and efficiency benefits that cannot be achieved with our current systems.
To conclude we have worked diligently to leverage the competitive advantages across our business segments.
We are beginning to see the rewards from our investments to upgrade and rationalize our global manufacturing footprint implement cross-segment process improvements and drive innovation throughout the business.
While global economic growth will continue to be uncertain and challenged our proven history to manage the company in any market environment coupled with a continuing focus on our strategic initiatives will set the foundation for long-term profitable growth across the entire Manitowoc enterprise.
With that I'll turn the call to Bob for a discussion on our Foodservice segment.
Bob? Thank you Glen and good morning.
I'm happy to be on my first earnings call as President of Manitowoc Foodservice.
Today I want to focus my comments on the goals and strategies for the Foodservice segment in addition to providing a brief overview of the segment's third quarter results and accomplishments.
During the third quarter we made sustained progress in Foodservice.
Despite some customers continuing to defer capital expenditures the segment posted modest sales growth.
Driving these results were sustained growth in North America and increased demand in Europe a direct result of the successful rollout of our Multiplex Blend-in-cup product across that region.
This success speaks volumes about the diverse product offerings across the globe as well as to our ability to leverage existing customer relationships all of which affords us opportunities to accelerate long-term growth in this segment.
In contrast the greater Asia-Pacific region remains somewhat challenged primarily due to uncertainty in certain Asian economies.
However as we continue to penetrate this market we expect to see growth by the major chain restaurants in this region over the long term.
Looking at our results from a product line perspective we saw increased activity in select hot and cold product offerings.
Year-to-date sales in most product lines have shown modest growth with the exception of our beverage and the U.S.-based refrigeration and custom fabrication business which have seen more substantial growth.
In contrast our retail walk-in refrigeration and our Asia-based custom fabrication businesses have witnessed declines.
Looking ahead let me touch on our strategy for the business.
Our primary goal is to drive long-term profitable growth by leveraging our strengths and the leadership of the Foodservice segment.
This objective will be satisfied using a 3-pronged approach of customer focus new product innovation and leveraging our global scale.
I'm confident in the strength of our products and brands which provides significant opportunities to grow along with our customers.
Not only do we aim to be their supplier of choice but also their innovator of choice.
Consistent with this strategic imperative we will be launching new products expanding our ice frying refrigeration and accelerated cooking categories in both the fourth quarter and throughout 2014.
Our customers are constantly looking for new ways to enhance their menus and support menu rollouts.
And with our significant R&amp;D resources complemented by a culinary department that is unmatched in the industry we're at the forefront of that innovation.
This strategy will remain a key ingredient for the Foodservice segment's long-term success as we support all areas of the kitchen from hot offerings to our accelerated cooking and grilling technology to our cold offering such as our award-winning ice machines that provide significant energy and water savings to our touchscreen control systems technology which being implemented across our product array.
Exemplifying our new product innovation efforts our successes include: First the completion of the INDUCS acquisition that will not only enable us to broaden our surface cooking offerings but also introduce this innovative technology into other product lines.
Second the launch of our new cool air ice machines built at our new Monterrey facility.
Third the launch of new hot-holding technology that allows customers to hold hot food longer without compromising taste or food quality.
Fourth the successful rollout of the innovative Multiplex Blend-in-cup offering in the U.K.
that has enabled us to penetrate multiple markets across Europe.
And fifth the recent recognition of 5 Manitowoc Foodservice brands as the 2013 Overall Best in Class awards from Foodservice Equipment and Supplies Magazine.
As Glen noted earlier we remain on track with our multiple manufacturing initiatives in Monterrey Mexico Tijuana Mexico and Cleveland Ohio.
As a result of these manufacturing strategies we expect sustainable and significant improvements to both production efficiencies and our cost structure.
These initiatives underscore a greater goal for this business to operate as more unified business and to work more as one organization.
By employing this one strategy Foodservice will utilize streamline business systems operating practices and processes thus offering a unique value proposition that provides an efficient and consistent channel to our customers.
In addition by leveraging the success of our Crane Care business we are pursuing growth initiatives in our aftermarket services and solutions for Foodservice.
In closing while there are lingering concerns in various parts of the economy the implementation of our long-term initiatives will help generate solid growth across the Foodservice business and around the world.
That said we will continue to invest in these initiatives while appropriately managing expenses enabling us to grow -- enabling us to gain operating leverage as the business grows.
The drive toward continued customer focus new technologies and greater innovation around our brands plus improved operating efficiencies and investments to upgrade our global manufacturing network should solidly position us for long-term success in the foodservice industry.
I will now turn the call over to Carl to discuss our detailed third quarter financial results.
Carl? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
We reported net sales for the third quarter of just over $1 billion which is an increase of 7.1% from a year ago.
GAAP net earnings for the third quarter were $52.9 million or $0.39 per diluted share versus $22.2 million or $0.17 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2012.
EPS excluding special items was the same as GAAP EPS in both quarters.
EVA in the third quarter of 2013 increased by 35% versus the third quarter of 2012 which is driven by improved results from both segments.
During the third quarter cash provided by continuing operations was $114.4 million versus $49.7 million from the prior year quarter driven by improved earnings and partially offset by the seasonal working capital requirements in both segments.
For the fourth quarter of 2013 we will remain focused on achieving our cash flow targets as we continue to prioritize debt repayment while also funding our growth and process improvement initiatives.
During the quarter net debt reduction totaled $95.4 million and we will remain on target to deliver at least $200 million in full year debt reduction led by cash from profitability.
To reiterate our normal seasonal cash flow pattern is for the bulk of debt reduction to occur in the fourth quarter.
Turning to our segment results.
Foodservice sales in the third quarter of 2013 totaled $402 million up 2% from a year ago.
Third quarter operating earnings in Foodservice were $69.5 million.
Operating margins was 17.3% or 90 basis points lower than the prior year quarter.
We continue to expect full year margins to be in line with last year's full year margins.
Third quarter Foodservice margin comparisons were driven by ongoing investments in our manufacturing strategies key brand initiatives as well as new product development costs.
Moving to the Crane segment.
Third quarter sales totaled $613 million a year-over-year increase of 10%.
Overall Crane segment operating earnings in the third quarter were $56 million versus $27 million last year which is a 110% increase.
This resulted in the third quarter Crane segment operating margin of 9.1% up 430 basis points.
This favorable year-over-year comparison was primarily led by higher sales volumes solid gains in operational efficiencies and results from our procurement initiatives.
Crane backlog at quarter end was $568 million a decrease from $726 million for the prior year quarter.
For the third quarter new orders totaled $450 million which represent a book-to-bill ratio of 0.7x.
Overall new orders during the quarter declined 23% year-over-year reflecting cautious posture of many of our customers despite the improved results in their businesses.
Before concluding my remarks let me now discuss our remaining 2013 outlook.
As noted in yesterday's press release we are lowering our Crane and Foodservice revenue guidance as well as our full year effective tax rate while reaffirming margin guidance and all other key full year financial metrics.
For the full year we now expect modest single-digit revenue gains in Foodservice and mid-single-digit revenue growth in Cranes.
The fourth quarter of 2012 was an unusually high revenue quarter in Crane which we do not expect to replicate in the fourth quarter of 2013.
However we do expect to achieve our full year margin guidance of high single-digits given improvement in manufacturing efficiencies procurement efforts as well as favorable year-over-year crawler mix.
In Foodservice we expect to achieve a full year mid-teens operating margin despite the margin decline in the year-to-date period.
This is primarily due to realizing the benefits from our manufacturing changes implemented earlier this year being fully realized in the fourth quarter.
Other guidance expectations include capital expenditure and interest expense of approximately $100 million and $125 million respectively.
Debt to EBITDA will once again decline more than 1 full turn to below 4x approximately half the peak level experienced in 2010.
Finally we expect the full-year effective tax rate to be below 30%.
With that I'll return the call to Glen for his closing comments.
Glen? Thanks Carl.
To conclude we've delivered another quarter of solid sales and operating performance amidst the increasing uncertainty and pressure in the global macroeconomic environment.
In times such as these it is important to note that we will continue to diligently manage the business in areas we can control.
Over the years we have proven our ability to navigate through tough environments.
Our efforts will continue to emphasize expanding margins generating strong cash flows and focusing on our strategic imperatives such as new product introductions aftermarket solutions and operational excellence initiatives.
We are confident in our ability to drive our long-term profitable growth as we look ahead to 2014.
This concludes our prepared remarks for today.
Shannon we will now begin our question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] It looks like we will take our first question from Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Glen or Carl one of your competitors mentioned an uptick in crane orders in October.
Maybe you can talk about -- have you seen any uptick in 4Q so far? And then do you expect customers as they usually do to buy more crawlers in 4Q? And could you talk about whether customers -- your opinion of whether you think customers will defer orders until U.S.
ConExpo? Or how you're thinking about the potential for orders at ConExpo? I'll take the first one.
We -- I think we've been very consistent.
We report our backlog on a quarterly basis report our orders on a quarterly basis and we'll continue to do that.
I think that's -- I mean that's just the best way to say that.
Now what do we expect in the fourth quarter? Andy it depends sometimes on whether -- and we've talked about this in the past.
Whether you have price increases if they're midyear if they're late in the year if it's first part of next year.
And so people will if they think there's a price increase coming they'll put their orders in they'll put their projections in for 2013.
But yes we haven't had any price increases.
So do we expect that our dealers in North America will start giving us their orders for 2014? Yes.
Do we expect the people in the other regions EMEA and Asia to do the same thing? Yes.
So I mean yes there's that expectation that we have that obviously orders would be better in the third quarter.
And then lastly you asked about ConExpo.
That's a wildcard.
I think we have some great products that are going to be shown at ConExpo.
We're looking for -- I can make a pitch for ConExpo being the Chairman of ConExpo that we're expecting record attendance at ConExpo.
It's going to be -- we've sold the most space that we've ever had for ConExpo so we're expecting it to be a very good show.
And I would think our Crane segment would be at the forefront of having a very good show for that so -- and that it all depends I mean if people know what's going on beforehand.
Again that's why you try not to say much about orders received at that because you don't know if it was received in January February prior to ConExpo or if they want the attention at ConExpo and come in with the order at ConExpo.
So again I -- one thing I want to say that is so odd right now is when you talk to a lot of the customers and it doesn't have to be just in the Americas people aren't as pessimistic as our orders showed over the third quarter.
We mentioned people -- when I say crane rental companies contractors customers on the crane side they're more optimistic than what our certainly orders would show.
But obviously you don't feed your family on quotes.
So that's one thing that's a little bit of a challenge to us right now as you look at trying to plan for 2014.
Obviously the numbers are the numbers.
Eric I don't know if you have anything to add to that? No I think you've covered all the topics pretty well with that.
Research Division</strong> Glen that's helpful.
Maybe one for Carl.
Your incremental margins in Cranes were very strong and now for the year you're well over 30%.
Can you talk about if there was anything unusual in 3Q margins? Or is this really just good execution and positive mix from crawlers helping? And then going forward do we expect that mix to continue to be positive as we go in the fourth quarter and then 2014? There wasn't anything really unusual.
I think the ability to get there -- the only thing that I might point out that is a little bit unusual is obviously the comparable period.
2012 third quarter was a light quarter.
We talked about the push out of some of the top line in the revenue that benefited the fourth quarter last year.
That was a little bit unusual and obviously that affects the absorption that was detrimental to last year that we didn't suffer this year.
So really the drivers are the types of things that you probably would expect procurement cost savings.
Research Division</strong> When you say procurement you mean steel Carl? Basically it looks good.
Input cost not necessarily just steel.
The manufacturing cost savings that Glen talked about in his prepared remarks and the things -- those would be the 2 primary drivers to the performance.
Andy I'm going -- I mean we're working very very hard on our LEAN journey.
I think we have -- I had a -- really a team of great manufacturing folks and working very hard in improving our productivity efficiencies in the plants.
And we saw truly bearing some very good fruits.
And the other things we have embarked into a quality program 2 or 3 years ago.
And if you look at our cost of pool [ph] quality we see now some good improvements.
So that's also a good contribution I think to our improved margins.
Next we go to Alex Blanton of Clear Harbor Asset Management.
LLC</strong> I'm going to go away from some of the numbers for a minute and ask you you mentioned that at ConExpo you'd be showing new products with new technology.
Could you be a little more specific and just give a little -- a description of what the new technology is what it does what the benefits are and so on? Yes I would -- that's a good question and we had a lot of discussion on how to say that in the script.
But I would -- the best way to say it Alex is we're not ready to fully reveal what some of that stuff is.
And I think that's where some of the surprise will come out at ConExpo.
But I think it suffices to say that we do have some things that go across all the product lines that people will be happy to see.
LLC</strong> Well let me just ask is it electronically related new electronics and...
It's -- could be some of that.
It's different types of innovations in lifting solutions.
It's all of the above that we -- common controls.
All of the above.
LLC</strong> Well we look forward to seeing that.
Second question is this.
You mentioned LEAN initiatives I think in the press release.
LEAN practices helped you improved your margins.
Which LEAN practices has the biggest impact on your business the last year or 2 your margin? Well I think it -- what starts -- I'm going to let Eric give a more specific description of what's happened.
But I think Alex the big thing is LEAN is a journey.
And it's really -- I mean we've been on this for a long time but when you really start to get the benefits is when everybody starts buying in and everybody gets it.
When it becomes a behavior as opposed to a management philosophy.
And sometimes people want to look at it as "Oh here we go again with another program." It's really when people start buying in and get it.
And we've seen this in a lot of things whether it's EVA or safety or whatever it is.
I mean when people make a behavior that's when you start to see the benefits.
And I think that's what's happening a little bit on the Crane segment.
But Eric you're going to speak to some specifics for Q3.
Yes it's about value stream management material flow.
Obviously 5S that we have started many years ago but that's a good one.
You see our safety metrics have improved drastically.
So it's all about this.
Working also with a supply chain has helped us really improved but not only on the inventory turns but on our efficiency as well.
LLC</strong> All right and LEAN...
This isn't that globally across all the plants.
That's very important pointed as well around the globe.
And so we have some common practices that you can see in France Germany U.S.
Brazil and China.
[indiscernible] LLC</strong> Yes.
And let me ask you what your -- have you been able to shorten your lead times because of this? And if so in your small- and medium-sized equipment what is the shipment time? Not the assembly time but the time when you get an order that you can deliver? Well we have made some improvement.
Obviously depends on the product line as you can see.
It's difficult.
On the crawler cranes you still have some specific confidence that's a very long lead time.
But overall yes.
We definitely have improved our lead time with the suppliers definitely.
And we are more desired [ph].
LLC</strong> What would you say is it in weeks or months? Give us an idea of what that is.
I just want to compare with others in the industry.
Well and again Alex that goes by product.
Obviously it's different for a 70-ton RT and a self-erecting crawler crane than it is for a 400-ton crawler crane so -- but I would say you're certainly looking at several weeks easily in many of the product lines.
And next we will go to Nicole DeBlase.
Research Division</strong> So just a question on the competitive environment.
I'm curious what you're seeing on the pricing front within the Crane segment.
Any big changes versus what you've talked about in the past few quarters? No.
I think it's still pretty much the same Nicole.
It's -- there are deals where some people get very aggressive and that's -- I don't see it any different.
I don't think pricing has been an issue across the board there.
I've seen very surprising discipline I mean from most of the people of course.
You can see deal that -- you can see people being more aggressive on specific deals.
But overall I would concur with that.
The only thing that we have seen is because of a yen softening yen it has definitely helped our Japanese competitors in some part of the world particularly in the Middle East where I think they are more aggressive than they used to be.
And I think it's really driven by the currency impact.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
And then just maybe one for Carl on tax.
I know you guys have less than 30% in the press release but can you provide any more details around what you're expecting for our fourth -- for the fourth quarter or what we should be modeling? Well I think there's an opportunity for us.
Obviously it's difficult to project on the tax front because of the different jurisdictions that are the drivers.
It could be significantly below 30%.
But I would -- if I was going to bracket it it would be somewhere in the -- maybe as low as the mid-20s if everything went the right way.
But we think it's probably best to express it as -- that it will be below 30%.
And next we move to Seth Weber with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> Just -- so I'm just looking at your guidance for this year for the Crane business mid-single-digits which -- revenue growth which suggests something north of $700 million for the fourth quarter.
And I'm just trying to reconcile that number with the Crane backlog of $568 million.
Can you help me connect those dots there? I mean are you booking and shipping more stuff into the quarter? Is it Crane -- you mentioned Crane Care a couple of times.
Is it -- Crane Care is incrementally stronger than what we had used to think about? Or how do you get to kind of a $700 million-ish revenue number off of a $568 million backlog? I think Seth first of all good work on the roll forward.
Secondly yes.
I mean you hit it on the head.
It's what is going to be ordered and shipped within the quarter that's the big unknown.
But based on some of the things we do know and some of the things we're comfortable with that's the expectation.
I would say we've talked about orders and how things have been ordered and shipped within the same quarter.
The percentage that we would have in the fourth quarter to get to that $700 million number is a little bit higher than it has been in previous quarters.
And there's a lots of things that go into that.
And again I'll go with conversations with customers.
Some of the past history that we've had as we've gotten towards the end of the year with the accelerated depreciation that all plays into it.
So it's really the number that we're focused on as what's ordered and shipped within the quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Can you frame what that's been historically as a percentage? Well again when in the trough that gets upwards 50% 60%.
When there's a backlog it gets down to 10% 15%.
I would say you're looking more towards the -- right now somewhere right in the middle there.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
Does that mean that -- does that infer that it's -- it'll be smaller cranes because you have the ability to turn those out more quickly? Or can you book and ship crawler or a bigger crane intra quarter the same as you could a smaller crane? Seth I'll jump in here.
This is Carl.
The progress that we made on a -- from a cash flow standpoint was good in the quarter.
But we still have some more inventory than I would like to see.
We've got finished goods that obviously are in various categories of crane not all very large cranes but kind of across the product line.
And that -- I think that will enable us to obviously deliver very quickly on some of the orders we expect to receive this quarter.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
That actually makes sense.
And I guess if could just follow-up with another question.
One of your competitors this week talked about some excess channel inventory in North America across the industry.
Is that something that you're seeing? Or is that something you would have any comments on? I'll let -- it's funny you say one of our competitors.
There's only -- I think we know who it is.
And you know this because we've talked about it in the past we track our dealer inventory on a regular basis.
And I'll let Eric give more specifics if he feels like it but when we look at the dealer inventory channel I think we're at levels that are very reasonable for what we track on on every one on the product lines.
Yes we track the dealers' inventory every week and the dealers report that on a special web application that we have developed so we know exactly where we stand.
And frankly speaking we have not seen anything different than the other quarters.
I think the inventory level is at the right level for Manitowoc.
And next we move on to Charlie Brady with BMO Capital Markets.
Just back on the Crane orders second quarter and some of the crane orders tailed off as you went through the quarter.
Can you give us a sense of kind of the tenor of orders through the third quarter and insight and kind of -- has it got changed? Has it gone up or down or flat going out of the quarter? Yes I would say it was probably a little better early in the quarter.
And I was -- you get August with the European holidays and that kind of thing.
And I think historically you'd see a little bit of a pickup sometimes in September after the European holidays.
But I would say it probably wasn't as good as it had been in the past.
So I would say it was okay in July and you probably saw August and September being a little lighter than -- and again I'm going to say than what we had expected.
And that's to Carl's point on some of the inventory.
Okay.
And I guess I mean I'm trying to square up here.
When you say you're looking at fourth quarter Crane sales I mean what is your sense of visibility given that we're 1/3 of a life through that quarter anyways in terms of -- you talked about a little over $700 million number.
We can all do the math on that.
I mean obviously it's dependent you say on what's going to be booked and shipped in the quarter but I mean what is the extent of your visibility on exactly what's getting booked? And when are you going to ship out in the quarter and book for revenues? Well the visibility is the conversations with our salespeople and dealers.
I mean that's -- and I think I'll use the same term you did one of our competitors in North America talked about the amount of quoting activity and we see the same thing.
So it's really what goes from quote activity to actual shipments.
And I think that's one of the things that's a little different now Charlie than we've seen in the past.
People -- this is the third year in a row where the first half of the year was pretty good and all of a sudden the third quarter and my comment is is that the new norm? I mean after 3 years in a row maybe perhaps it's a trend.
And I think if people realize if the inventory is available their decision process is a little bit quicker.
And then they expect the manufacturer the OEM to have the inventories as opposed to them having it.
So I think what's happening as you're seeing that little bit of -- well I think if the manufacturer has it I don't have to go out as far.
And so when you put all that together and you look at the expectations that's why I said it's a little different than what it's been in the past because the expectations or the conversations we have with lot of customers isn't as bad as what our order intake appears to be.
Right.
But at some point there's a lead time to make a crane and I'm guessing it's generally more than 2 months.
So I'm just trying to square that out.
Yes but I think -- that's Carl's point.
That's what I mean -- I want to go back.
I mean we've said it a bunch of times and you've heard other people say it.
I think there was an expectation for the market to be a little bit better.
So we do have units in inventory.
I'm not going to say we build to stock that's not what it is.
But based on conversations with customers and what they think they need and what projects they have coming out there are certain products that can be ordered and shipped within a couple of weeks.
All it is the final touch up and the testing on certain products and so that's -- when you look at the inventory numbers of finished goods that's where it's going to -- some of it's coming from.
And next we move to Robert Wertheimer with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> Let me just start with Foodservice real quickly.
Could you just talk a bit about given all the production improvements that you've done can you just mention what you feel like the margin improvement in the next year is? Is it better worse than you thought? And does it look just as good as it had when you planned all of that? Yes I think it's pretty consistent with our expectations.
I think you'll see some of that in the fourth quarter.
Obviously to the guidance that we've given.
Implicit in that is there's a pretty good pickup that takes place in the fourth quarter.
And that will sustain in 2014.
So obviously we'll give our formal guidance when we have our Q4 conference call.
But we'll definitely see some year-over-year because of the manufacturing changes and the costs that are associated with that not being in place late this year as well as 2014.
LLC</strong> And 4Q would still have some tailing effect of investment changes and disruption et cetera and continue to improve from there? I know I'm boxing you in I'm sorry.
No pretty minimal for this quarter.
It's -- we're getting to the gravy time on the changes that we've made.
LLC</strong> Great.
And then Glen if I could ask I know everybody's harped on the same issue but you mentioned something that Terex had said it feels like people are inquiring quoting doing more and more activity but yet the orders have been as you said fallen off either the back half or a couple of years are really just not as good as it were a couple of years ago.
Are there pockets of strength that people needed to order for and did that and they've gone away and so you've seen that mix change? Maybe I could ask specifically about U.S.
Petroleum and whether it was frac-ing or something else there was a pocket of strength that really made it good and that faded away and you're waiting for the other pockets to pick up? Or is there anything else you can do to help bridge that GAAP between the interest and the activity in the past orders that you've had? I really -- Rob I just think it's just the uncertainty in the economy.
I mean I think people thought you would get through so I'm just keeping it to North America for right now.
But I think if you looked at what was happening through the summer with some of the political things in the Middle East you come to the Americas you have -- are we going to have a government shutdown? How does that impact everything? I don't think people are seeing things as it's a long-term negative.
I think people are just uncertain.
So they're saying that "Hey if I don't need to buy something right now why would I go put in an order make an order to get something in the fourth quarter? Why don't I just wait and see what's going to happen on October 17? Why don't I wait to see were some of these things come out?" And I think there's just a cautiousness.
I mean it's no different than us with some of the capital expenditures we have.
I mean we're looking at our business and saying okay if we want to do some of these things.
I mean we use the phrase pause as a strategy.
And that's I think what's happening.
People are pausing.
They're not stopping they're just pausing to see what's going on.
And I think when you go then back to the basics on the Crane side of the business and look at utilization rates look at rental rates they're improving.
You look at some of the performance of some of the people that are in the rental business it's pretty good.
And I'm not saying -- they're not doing backflips saying business is great back to 2007 2008.
But their businesses are a lot better today than they were a year ago and so I don't.
That's the struggle.
And I want to say one quarter doesn't constitute a trend but we're certainly going to watch it very closely to see how 2014 we think it's going to shape up.
Eric I mean do you have a ...
I think back to the conversations the large rental houses in the U.S.
are really starting to talk about their rental fee in 12 18 months.
These kinds of conversations we deal now than before.
So I think there is some level of confidence that 2014 should improve in the U.S.
and crawlers in particular because we think that 2013 and 2014 for the wind business should be good we know that.
And again I mean oil and gas continue to be a strength.
So I think there is a lot of positive but that doesn't translate into orders.
And I think this bounces back to what Glen mentioned it's a lack of confidence on what's going to happen.
So a lot of positive but there is a kind of disconnect with the order rates right now.
And next we move to Schon Williams with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> Could you just talk specifically what was the year-over-year growth drag for food margins just from the restructuring consolidation? In the 9 months Schon it was almost $6 million.
There was some -- obviously some of these projects began in 2012 so there was spend.
But if you look at the year-over-year growth change it's about $6 million.
That's year-to-date? That year-to-date correct.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then last quarter and perhaps a quarter before that you talked a little bit about some quality control issues on the crane side of the business possibly holding up new product development and possibly orders.
Can you just give us an update on where we stand with that? You cut out there for a second Schon.
The question was just in the past you talked about you had some new products coming out in the back half of the year but you're kind of holding off on introducing some of those products because of quality-control issues that you had identified ahead of time.
Is that still an issue? Can we -- is there any update to that? No there's -- I mean the things that we talked about with respect I think was the RT770 at the end of the second quarter.
Those have worked their way through the system.
And I think there's probably just a little bit left here early in the fourth quarter.
But no we're good to go.
Research Division</strong> And can that -- I mean can that alone be a needle mover for orders in the fourth quarter? Or it's the small piece of the mix at this point? Yes it's a smaller piece but it will -- it certainly will move it.
That didn't go out in the third quarter.
I mean that was kind of the bottleneck that we had and how do you get the fix that we had early in July and then get everything out the last part of August and September.
So yes it moves it a bit but I would say that's a known factor to us.
As I said earlier on the call the unknown factor is what we have to order getting orders and ship within the quarter the bigger wildcard there is that piece.
And next we move to Ted Grace with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Quick question for Eric and -- or Glen.
We talked about kind of crane orders and the cadence throughout 3Q but do you track inquiry levels? And is there any characterization you could share on kind of how that pattern looked throughout 3Q? And maybe even some more perspective how it's progressed 2Q into 3Q by month and give us a flavor for that? I'm not sure I completely understand what you're saying.
When you say the gray...
LLLP Research Division</strong> Sorry inquiry levels.
Inquiry level.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Yes so the kind of -- we've talked about inquiry levels for customers that are calling either asking for quotes or -- I don't want to call it tire kicking but kind of that kind of concept.
As I said earlier I think it's the same as when we talk in the second quarter call conversations are good.
The conversations are upbeat but I don't think it's any different now than it was in July.
When it came into the order trend yes as I said earlier the order trend was a little bit better in July than August September.
But I think all the conversations -- Eric was all over Europe and Middle East during the third quarter.
I've had a lot of conversations with customers here in the U.S.
and we compare notes on a regular basis.
And I think we're both on the same page with respect to the conversations.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So the volume of conversations didn't change materially? No.
And of course it depends where you are.
But I mean if you take the Middle East side I think we see more discussions over activity in some countries which were very quiet before at least for the first part of the year like Saudi Arabia or Qatar or Iraq.
I mean you see more activity there.
If you move to the far east I mean in Korea there is a lot of activity going on both from towers and mobile cranes right now taking place in Korea.
That's really happening in Q3.
I mean doesn't mature as yet in a lot of orders influx but there are more activities taking place in Hong Kong for towers for example Singapore so -- and these are the hot spot.
Of course Australia is down and India is also down and Brazil has slowed down.
I mean no doubt about this.
But overall I think the level of activity and the discussions about cranes is it's solid I should say.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay great.
And then one quick question for Bob or as quick as you can summarize it.
Bob I think you've kind of have been in the seat for 90 days.
I just would be curious to get a quick snapshot of your first 100 days observation.
And if you were to force rank the #1 kind of focus and where you think you can make the biggest difference or will make the biggest difference? I know you talked about focusing on customers new product introductions and leveraging the scale but what will be kind of the #1 opportunity you see for yourself? Thank you Ted for asking.
I've noticed in the first 100 days there's a lot of opportunity across Foodservice.
We have a lot of talent across the world in our different operating companies leveraging that talent to help innovate on a customer's behalf.
Yes it seems in Foodservice with Manitowoc in particular that we really shine when we can help a chain or a specific customer expand their menu offering.
When we can differentiate their product to their customers in a certain way.
And that's why we have this team of culinary people and R&amp;D people.
If you look at where we really excel it's in those areas.
And we're doing that.
Expanding in that direction to be able to provide discernible value for customers I think is an area of growth that we have.
And I think a lot of the major chains realize that for us.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay great.
Well we look forward to seeing the progress.
Yes thanks.
It's all about alignment.
And next we move to the Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Carl and Glen can you talk about how challenging is it to run the business operationally in this environment where you get a lot of quoting activity but a lot of book and ship has to happen in the fourth quarter? And what are you doing operationally to manage the process in that environment? Well the guy that actually has to face that issue is sitting to my left.
I'm going to let Eric tackle that one.
Well it's not necessarily a walk in the park.
I would say it's -- you've got to be very very focused in what you do.
And we -- again we stay very focused on our key strategic initiatives.
And again improving our manufacturing efficiencies and the changing initiative is very very key.
The customer focus is very important.
I'm very pleased with the new product.
I mean the product we have introduced has made a very good impact in the market because of the quality reliability and the features.
So that's something that we will continue again to invest in our R&amp;D because it's a recipe for success.
And I cannot wait that we are overly repowered because that takes still a big toll in our engineering efforts.
But overall I mean it's not as easy.
We're not back to the peak of the cycle.
We're still very far from the 2008 situation.
So it's kind of -- you cannot have any waste in your organization and you've got to be efficient so -- and the lack of visibility makes it kind of always very challenging.
And Jerry I would add one thing that makes it challenging as an enterprise is the fact that we have some other initiatives and goals that we're trying to initiate.
And that is debt reduction.
It's some of the imperatives that we have on the innovation and making sure we invest in the aftermarket and we're doing all those things.
So I mean if we -- in a perfect world if everything is working together we have a pretty good plan.
It's when different pieces of plan don't come together and you had changes in the environment.
And that's why I said a couple of times in my remarks we're pretty good at doing this.
We've shown a pretty good history of being able to navigate through the ups and downs of our markets.
And the beauty is the Crane segment has been together as a group after we did the acquisitions of Potain and Grove since 2002.
They've been through this before and it's a lot of the people that have navigated through.
And they pull out their playbook and they know the right moves to and then levers to pull.
In Foodservice it's a little bit of a different story because as we come together we're into this for 4 5 years.
You have a group of people that did it individually but not as the enterprise we have today.
That's across the globe with the product breadth that we've had.
So it's some of that learning that we have and spreading that across the enterprise.
And I think it makes us -- I think the one thing we're going to say forward and I think whether it's our competitors or rest of the people in construction equipment they are no better at forecasting than we are.
And so what has to happen is who's more flexible.
And who can navigate through these times? And I give our team a lot of credit for it.
One thing I would like to add for cranes.
We have these SAP Project One deployment and we stayed the course.
And gosh it's a big project.
I mean I think we should outline how many efforts and SG&amp;A are going into these deployments.
We know that it will be -- it will pay off when we are fully deployed in 2016.
And we stay the course because we know it's a right thing to do.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And a follow-up on the orders in the quarter.
Were there any regions at all where your book-to-bill was close to 1 or over 1 and where was -- back which regions saw the biggest backlog burn? Just help us understand the cadence? Carl? I don't believe that anybody was over 1X book to bill.
There's obviously specific countries within regions that are better than the average.
But I don't think an entire region was over 1x book to bill in the third quarter.
And next we go to Stanley Elliott with Stifel.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> A quick question.
We talked about the quoting activity in these conversations in general.
Do people tend to be more optimistic on the smaller side of the crane market or more on the larger side of the crane market? I would be more optimistic on the larger side of a crane market.
I mean if you talk to customers and they want bigger and bigger and bigger.
So I think we'll see as we go for the up cycle I think the mix would be very different from what we have seen back in 2007 and 2008 so bigger cranes definitely.
Nicolaus &amp; Co.
Inc.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And then in regard to the Project One would the spending -- should we think about the spending being fairly consistent all the way through 2016? Are there any ups and downs puts and takes along those lines? It'll drop a lot in 2016 but it will sustain until then.
And that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Khail for any closing remarks.
Before we conclude today's call I'd like to remind everyone that a replay of our third quarter conference call will be available later this morning.
You can access the replay by visiting the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in the Manitowoc Company.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our fourth quarter conference call in January.
Have a good day.
And that does conclude today's conference.
We do thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect at this time.
Good day everyone and welcome to this Manitowoc Company Inc.
Fourth Quarter 2013 Earnings Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Khail.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Manitowoc's Fourth Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Participating in today's call will be Glen Tellock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carl Laurino Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Bob Hund President of Manitowoc Foodservice; and Eric Etchart President of Manitowoc Cranes.
Glen will open today's call by reviewing our 2013 accomplishments and our go-forward strategies.
Carl will discuss our financial results for the fourth quarter and provide our initial guidance for 2014.
Then our segment presidents will review their 2013 highlights and offer an outlook for their businesses in 2014.
For anyone who is not able to listen to today's entire call an archived version of this call will be available later this morning.
Please visit the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com to access the replay.
Before Glen begins his commentary I would like to review our Safe Harbor statement.
This call is taking place on January 31 2014.
During the course of today's call forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 will be made during each speaker's remarks and during our question-and-answer session.
Such comments are based on the company's current assessment of its markets and other factors that affect its business.
However actual results could differ materially from any implied projections due to one or more of the factors explained in Manitowoc's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are also available on our website.
The Manitowoc Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or other circumstances.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Glen.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
2013 was a successful year for Manitowoc on many fronts as we diligently focused on managing those areas within our control.
Overall we experienced margin improvement across the entire Manitowoc enterprise in 2013 as our investments to upgrade and rationalize our global manufacturing footprint materialized.
In addition we implemented various cross-segment process improvements while continuing our innovation commitments.
These initiatives were instrumental to our improved performance in 2013.
Looking at our segments.
Foodservice reported year-over-year sales growth of 10% in the fourth quarter with increases in North America and substantial growth in EME driven by success of our grills and blended beverage equipment rollouts in Europe.
During the quarter we also experienced notable year-over-year margin improvement which was a direct result of production efficiency gains and a streamlined cost structure from our manufacturing strategies in Tijuana Monterrey and Cleveland.
We achieved this margin expansion while also maintaining our investments in other key Foodservice areas to further strengthen the business.
Our strategy that centers around our customer intimacy synergistic solutions and leveraging our global scale continues to position our Foodservice segment for long-term success.
In Cranes our fourth quarter sales declined by 8% due to the unusually strong shipments in the fourth quarter of 2012.
We also saw strong order intake during the fourth quarter which was the highest level since before the recession driven by a strengthening momentum for our crawler cranes and tower cranes.
Geographically demand for our Crane products continues to be the strongest in the Americas complemented by improving activity in certain emerging markets.
While our full year margin expansion was substantial at 170 basis points we did experience a year-over-year margin decline in the fourth quarter caused by the lower year-over-year volume described earlier.
Looking ahead to 2014 our enterprise strategic initiatives remain intact.
Similar to 2013 we will balance our investments between long-term growth and driving meaningful margin expansion.
Bob and Eric will discuss these investments and initiatives in greater detail but let me highlight some of the key areas of our focus for 2014.
First we continue to make strides enhancing and rightsizing our global manufacturing footprint.
These efforts not only improve the cost structure of the business but also enhance customer service and accelerate our product development processes.
Second we continue to emphasize our innovation imperative across the enterprise which resulted in over 50 new products in 2013 and we will see a similar number of new products and technology launches in 2014.
In Cranes we are particularly excited to showcase our innovative new designs which will include an array of 10 technologically advanced products that will premiere at the upcoming ConExpo trade show.
In Foodservice we will introduce dozens of new offerings led by the evolutionary Convotherm 4 [ph] oven at several regional trade shows throughout the year.
Third the ongoing implementation of operational excellence and quality initiatives remains a key priority for 2014.
These initiatives include sourcing lean reliability and organizational efficiency gains.
In total savings from these initiatives should exceed $80 million and enable us to improve our enterprise margin profile throughout 2014.
Lastly we remain focused on improving our capital structure.
We have a much stronger balance sheet today due to our continued focus on debt reduction.
This coupled with our new credit agreement is proof of our commitment to prudent fiscal management and our dedication to drive sustainable long-term growth.
In 2014 our cash deployment strategy remains unchanged as we will continue to fund various growth and process initiatives while retaining our focus on debt reduction.
In conclusion our 2013 results benefited from the operational efficiencies we implemented across the enterprise that expanded margins.
We again proved our ability to manage the business through challenging market conditions giving us confidence that our focused strategy will generate even more profitable growth in 2014.
I will now turn the call over to Carl to discuss our detailed fourth quarter financial results and to share our initial thoughts on guidance for 2014.
Carl? Thanks Glen and good morning everyone.
We reported net sales for the fourth quarter of just over $1 billion which is a slight decrease of 2.1% from a year ago.
This top line performance resulted from a 10% increase in Foodservice and an 8% decrease in Cranes given the already mentioned difficult comparable period in 2012.
GAAP net income for the fourth quarter was $20.9 million or $0.15 per share versus net income of $34.5 million or $0.26 per share last year.
Both periods included special items.
EPS excluding special items was $0.47 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2013 versus $0.27 per diluted share last year.
This includes an adjustment to GAAP EPS in the quarter due primarily to the forgiveness of a loan to our recently divested Chinese truck crane joint venture.
GAAP earnings per share for the year also benefited from a lower full year effective tax rate of 16% which was the result of favorable earnings contri mix a favorable tax audit outcome and other settlements.
EVA in the fourth quarter of 2013 increased by 43% versus the fourth quarter of 2012 which was driven by improved results from both segments.
Full year EVA improved 37% in 2013.
During the fourth quarter cash provided by continuing operations was $273 million versus $236 million in the prior year quarter driven by cash from profitability and a reduction in working capital in both segments.
During the quarter we reduced our debt by $247 million bringing our full year debt reduction total to approximately $258 million.
As those who have followed Manitowoc for some time know our normal seasonal cash flow pattern is for the bulk of debt reduction to occur in the fourth quarter.
As we look ahead into 2014 we will remain focused on achieving our margin improvement and cash flow targets.
And as Glen noted we will direct resources to those areas that will deliver the highest returns on our investments.
Turning to our segment results.
Foodservice sales in the fourth quarter of 2013 totaled $400 million up 10% from a year ago.
Fourth quarter 2013 operating earnings in Foodservice were $69 million a 38% year-over-year increase.
Operating margins of 17.2% were 350 basis points higher than the prior year quarter driven by favorable product sales mix and improved operating efficiencies across the segment.
Foodservice margins also benefited from a reserve reduction of $1.8 million related to a previous acquisition.
Moving to the Crane segment.
Fourth quarter sales totaled $705 million a year-over-year decrease of 8%.
Crane segment operating earnings in the fourth quarter were $55 million versus $60 million last year.
This resulted in a fourth quarter Crane segment operating margin of 7.8% down 10 basis points.
This year-over-year decline was primarily impacted by the lower sales volume which was partially offset by solid gains in procurement and operational efficiencies.
Crane backlog at quarter end was $574 million a decrease from $756 million for the prior year quarter.
Fourth quarter 2013 orders totaled $707 million which represents a book-to-bill ratio of just over 1x.
Overall new orders during the quarter increased 30% year-over-year and 57% sequentially reflecting better demand in crawler and tower cranes.
We are pleased that we were able to complete the sale of our interest in TaiAn Dongyue earlier this month.
Closing of the transaction this quarter will result in an approximate loss on sale of $10 million.
Before concluding my remarks let me discuss our 2014 outlook.
For the full year we expect mid-single-digit revenue gains in Foodservice and modest revenue growth in Cranes.
We expect operating margins in Foodservice will approach a high-teens level while Cranes generates a single -- a high single-digit operating margin.
Capital expenditures and interest expense in 2014 will approximate $90 million and $100 million respectively.
Total leverage will decline to below 3x debt-to-EBITDA well below half of the peak level experienced in 2010.
Finally we expect the full year effective tax rate to be in the mid to high 20% range with a higher-than-average effective tax rate in the first quarter and a lower-than-average rate in the last 3 quarters.
Let me now turn the call over to our next speaker Bob Hund who will share his thoughts concerning our Foodservice segment.
Bob? Thank you Carl and good morning everyone.
We made great strides in Foodservice in 2013.
During the year we committed to making targeted divestments to better establish practices and processes that would yield a more profitable business built for the long term.
In the fourth quarter these investments began bearing fruit demonstrated by our year-over-year operating earnings increase of 350 basis points.
This positive performance to close out the year speaks volumes on our commitment to the successful execution of our manufacturing initiatives.
From a sales perspective the positive performance in Foodservice was driven by successes in various product categories and select end markets.
This included momentum with our cool air ice machines which are built at our new Monterrey facility; the successful rollout of our Multiplex Blend-in-Cup products in Europe; plus ongoing demand for innovative oven and grill technologies.
Geographically we experienced balanced growth across most regions highlighted by increased demand in North America and EMEA.
As has been the case in recent quarters the greater Asia-Pacific region remained somewhat challenged due to soft conditions in some countries.
However we remain committed to this region and its promising markets as we anticipate major chain restaurant growth in the coming years.
In 2013 our investments in new product development yielded more than 40 new products and product variants.
During the year we also completed the acquisition of INDUCS that not only broadened our surface cooking offerings but introduced its innovative induction technology into other product lines.
Moving on let me provide some color on 2014.
2014 will be a year of transition for Foodservice as we realign the organization to better underscore the 3 elements of our Foodservice strategy: Customer focus solutions-based synergies and leveraging economies of scale.
This realignment will allow us to achieve the following: First we will continue to develop new products to ensure we deliver the incremental value customers require.
Our innovation strategy will remain a compelling aspect to the business as we will continue to invest in our product categories and brands to provide significant opportunities to grow along with our customers.
As such we'll be launching new products spanning our ice beverage frying refrigeration ovens hot holding and accelerated cooking categories throughout 2014.
Second we will realize substantial lean improvements in product cost takeouts.
As you know we've been diligently investing in process improvements such as our manufacturing and business consolidation strategies to drive increased efficiency.
In 2014 this strategy remains in place with our focus on implementing world-class manufacturing standards.
Third we will pursue growth initiatives in our aftermarket services and solutions for Foodservice similar to the focus placed on Crane customers via Crane Care in our sister division which will improve our customer loyalty and also help develop new revenue streams.
And finally we will strengthen our ties to customers and leverage our unique ability to create new menu items and generate incremental value sources for them.
The standards of technology that our products are creating across the Foodservice industry will be a key ingredient to our customers' successes as we look ahead.
To conclude we expect the ongoing implementation of our long-term initiatives will generate solid profitable growth across to global Foodservice business in 2014.
Our focus on the customer new technologies and greater innovation around our brands in addition to our manufacturing initiatives will not only drive our performance but will continue to position us for long-term success in the Foodservice industry.
With that I'll now hand the call off to Eric Etchart for his views and outlook on the Crane segment.
Thank you Bob and good morning everyone.
We were pleased with Crane performance in 2013 as our solid order intake in the fourth quarter and the potential for further margin improvement as we continue to emphasize our cost initiatives gives us confidence as we move into 2014.
As Glen highlighted earlier in today's call we experienced a sustained level of activity in the Americas regions as well as higher demand in some emerging and selected developed markets including Western and Southern Europe.
From a product line perspective crawler cranes and tower cranes experienced improved demand in the fourth quarter.
More specifically tower cranes remained high in emerging markets and part of the greater Asia-Pacific regions notably in India where we had record tower product shipments and order intake despite the soft economy.
Our investment in India to produce towers locally is paying dividends and supporting our strategy of local manufacturing in long-term high-potential emerging markets.
This is also consistent with our potent tower crane factory presence in China which not only marks its 20th anniversary this year but has enabled Manitowoc to become the leading tower crane supplier throughout the Asia-Pacific regions.
Equally important our recent investment in rough-terrain crane production in Brazil has created a solid foothold for Manitowoc products throughout the Latin America region.
Lastly Crane Care continues to experience steady growth with solid gains across all regions and will remain a key differentiator of product support and profitability for Manitowoc as we progress through 2014.
Looking ahead to 2014 and building on the 10 new crane products introduced in 2013 innovation and new product development will remain a key component to the success of our Crane segment to meet customer requirements to drive the efficiency at their job sites and the profitability of their businesses.
Our focus on innovation and an enhanced competitive position will be on display at ConExpo in March as we introduce 10 new products to the global construction market.
We will be introducing new technology at this show that we believe will significantly change the way our customer use lifting equipment and we are excited about its ability to improve our customers' job site efficiency cost and profitability.
In addition to our strategy around innovation and products let me reiterate some of our key initiatives for the Crane business for 2014 that will not only strengthen the business but also enhance our margin profile.
First our focus on customer satisfaction through reliability and product quality continues to resonate well with our customer base.
The positive results are reflected in the continuous progress made by our customer satisfaction index an indicator assessing customer satisfaction for every Crane shipped around the globe regardless of the production plant.
Second we are focused on continuing to streamline our cost of manufacturing and deploying the Manitowoc operating system globally to enhance our operational efficiencies which include accelerating our lean manufacturing initiatives undertaking vertical integration opportunities and making further progress on our purchasing and supply chain improvement journey.
2013 demonstrated that we have internally established those key moves and processes to boost quality while at the same time increasing manufacturing efficiency which resulted in a 170 basis point expansion of operating margins.
The implementation of Project One our new ERP system when fully deployed in 2016 will enable us to make an immediate and lasting positive impact on our business.
We will enjoy common processes across the globe enabling our company to drive more value by aligning execution with strategy while also improving our agility in adapting to new market conditions.
In order to accelerate these ongoing strategies we will be making key organization changes in 2014.
Consistent with my previous comments the new organization is aimed at better serving our cost-reduction initiatives improving our global product and service coordination and providing our customers with greater intimacy services and responsiveness.
As we enter 2014 we expect another year of margin expansion and modest growth in Cranes driven by new product introductions ongoing demand in key product lines supported by our long-term partnership with our first-class distribution network and continued progress in our operational and quality initiatives.
We should get further confirmation of our 2014 expectations at the ConExpo trade show in March.
Overall despite some general market uncertainties that remain across the globe our sound focus on the items that we control coupled with responsiveness in adapting to changing market conditions will enable us to deliver improved financial performance in 2014.
With that I return the call to Glen for his closing comments.
Glen? Thanks Eric.
To conclude we are pleased with our performance in 2013 despite the modest global growth environment and some market-specific headwinds.
While the global business environment remains challenging we enter 2014 with optimism around our ability to improve profitability due to the steps we have taken within our control.
Our culture of innovation combined with the operational excellence initiatives and consistent enterprise-wide execution will continue to be a cornerstone to our long-term success.
This concludes our prepared remarks for today.
Requita [ph] we will now open -- begin our question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We'll take our first question from Schon Williams with BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Research Division</strong> I wanted to address the order patterns on Crane.
I mean certainly Q4 is a strong seasonal quarter for cranes but I think this was quite robust.
I just want to get a sense of how confident do you feel that this may be the new level of orders going forward? Was there anything kind of onetime-ish in the quarter? Any pull-ahead possibility ahead of I don't know pricing increases or just something around depreciation as well any pull-ahead there that you may have gotten a sense from your dealers or your customers? I'll start with that first Schon and then maybe let Eric follow up.
But I think when you look at the order pattern and you go back to where we were in the third quarter and some of the guidance that we had while the orders are very good -- and we also needed some of the orders to be taken and shipped within the quarter and you can see that in the backlog that it's okay but it's not great.
And I think we're excited about where we're headed and I think we're certainly pleased with what happened in the quarter.
But I think as you look in advance of ConExpo I think it's one of those where there's a little bit of relief and caution that we can get into the first quarter and get to ConExpo.
But I think as we've had a lot of meetings and things with customers in the distribution base you have that fourth quarter order rate from the distribution but that's -- in North America but at the same time I think as Eric said in his prepared remarks it'll confirm itself at ConExpo which we're expecting to be a very good show.
And again I think when you look at the number of people that have signed up for ConExpo the attendance of over 125 000 expected and 2 500 exhibitors I expect it to be a pretty good show.
So Eric I don't know if you want to add anything? No.
I mean just we haven't seen much from a bonds [ph] depreciation compared to what we've seen in previous years.
But I think the orders in Q3 were not very good but Q4 is when the order materialized.
Of course I mean it's a very good order intake.
It's hard to say that we will keep continuing at this type of patterns.
But again ConExpo will be very critical.
I mean we have seen in the past this kind of winter optimism and then coming to summer and the lack of confidence.
So this is why we've got to be very cautious in being too assertive that we will continue at that kind of order rate.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then maybe a follow-up for Carl.
Just the new revolver and new credit facility I mean certainly allows you to lower your interest expense.
So I'm just thinking -- and it also is going to leave you with some excess cash here.
I just wanted to get some thoughts on why expand the debt facilities at this point kind of going into 2014? I mean what was the strategy there? Well I think the obvious one is what we've already announced that we intend to call the bonds that are the highest coupon level of debt that we have and replace it with obviously a much more attractive interest rate with the bank deal.
So that's the -- in terms of the sizing of the facility the revolving component of it is 5 years.
And there's certainly an expectation over that period of time the company is going to continue to grow and we thought it would make sense at a good time in the market to have an appropriate-sized facility given the expectation that we're going to continue on the growth path that we have been.
But in terms of capital allocation I think it's pretty consistent in the near term as to where we've been: investing in the businesses for the opportunities that we see near-term but also keeping a pretty strong focus on continuing debt reduction because there's value we can derive from continuing to get the leverage down and reducing our interest expense.
And we'll go next to Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Can you guys talk about a little more about what happened in the Crane segment in the quarter? Your sequential margin was down a bit on higher sales.
We know you were going to sell a large number of cranes out of inventory.
So is that all this was is that you had some under-absorption in the quarter or did something else happened? And then going forward you talk about high single-digit margin percentage in Cranes.
Again Eric sort of talked about expecting better margins.
So should we expect normal or maybe a little bit better than normal incrementals given the lack of the Chinese JV losses in 2014? Obviously the evaluation of the -- of that last part of your question on the JV losses they're out of the 2012 numbers now as a discontinued operation.
But I think the other question that you have relative to the fourth quarter performance is right on point.
The absorption is clearly the issue.
And I think our ability to drive only a 10% reduction in the margin given the top line decline and the fact that a lot of the conversion of the sales levels was essentially moving the inventory that existed and not getting the absorption benefits to anywhere near the same extent that we did last year was really a testament to the procurement and the manufacturing efficiencies that we had in the quarter.
Research Division</strong> Carl is the inventory where you want it now so that 1Q shouldn't have that effect or is it not where you want it yet? Well I think there's continuing opportunity for us to improve the turn characteristics of our working capital.
Obviously as you look at it and the success that we had from the end of September through the end of the year some nice progress.
But I think as you think about an expectation for certainly not robust growth but maybe the opportunity if we do see sustained activities in both the segments that -- and coupled with the things that we're doing in the manufacturing side in both segments I think we can improve the turns and therefore the working capital efficiency.
But Andy I think it goes to still some of the lumpiness that you have in the crane industry.
If you look at where we were at the end of -- and this is enterprise-wide at the end of the third quarter with our debt reduction and then end the way we did certainly we don't want to have these large quarters like that.
I mean again it's not -- it would be better if we sustained that throughout the year and get a little more traction on a more consistent basis than have the momentous fourth quarter.
And I'm certainly not taking anything away from the fourth quarter because our people did a bang-up job to do everything they could for the year but I think to your point there are opportunities on the manufacturing side both in Cranes and Foodservice on working capital management and we expect that to happen in 2014.
The other -- just one quick -- another quick comment Andy because -- on the 2014 expectations.
As you know the seasonal aspect of the business both Foodservice and Cranes is a little slower in the first quarter and stronger activity in the second and third.
So we would expect to see much stronger incrementals in the second and third quarter than we'd expect to see in the first and the fourth.
Yes.
And Andy Eric.
The deployment of the Manitowoc operating system that we have already started 2 or 3 years ago but the new organization that I mentioned earlier is going to accelerate the deployment of the Manitowoc operating system.
And in that respect I think that we should see improvement in our plant turns with a lot of initiatives like PSCP [ph] where we're suppliers of other things.
So we should expect definitely improvement in our turns.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then just a quick one for Bob.
It's hard to -- the growth rate ticked up pretty dramatically in the fourth quarter.
We know you made an acquisition a smaller one in 3Q but we also know that you're introducing a bunch of new products.
So is that what this was in 4Q? Was it just a combination of all of your initiatives plus new products or did the market actually accelerate on you? No the top line for sales Andy was the new products: product introductions rollouts.
The big-hitter areas were in some of our hot side on the ovens and surface cooking and then the blended ice category as well too where we've just had a lot of demand and rollouts in those areas.
And Andy I would say on the margin side if you recall I mean early in the year last year we kept saying that the fourth quarter you're going to see the benefits of the things that I noted in my comments from Tijuana and Cleveland and Monterrey and that happened.
They came to fruition as we expected.
So yes from the top line to what Bob said but the bottom line is certainly our expectation and that's what we had forecasted.
And we'll take our next question from Jamie Cook with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> I guess just a couple of questions.
One last quarter some of your competitors talked about excess inventory in the channel.
Can you talk about how you feel about inventory in the channel? And then obviously the order numbers were good in the quarter.
Can you talk about how we should think about profitability of backlog or the pricing environment relative to I don't know 3 or 6 months ago? And then I guess just my other question goes to you Carl.
I feel like in 2013 you guys were able to pull a number of different levers to grow your EPS in the absence of phenomenal top line growth through taking out the debt the China JV -- I mean a number of different options.
Can you talk about sort of what you think is left in 2014 if for some reason the Crane business is less -- your forecast is off or it's worse than we would expect? Well I mean I -- Jamie I'll start with a little bit on the pricing in the channel and if Eric has anything to add -- but I think the pricing is -- it's unchanged.
I mean it's still competitive.
And if you talk to any customer on every deal or distributor every deal is still competitive.
So I don't think the pricing in the backlog is really different than what the pricing that you've seen over the past 2 quarters or 3 quarters.
So we're pretty cool with that.
Research Division</strong> How about the mix of the product that is in backlog today relative to what you were seeing last year? Well that's the comment that Eric and I think Carl made.
When you see the mix that has gone to the orders more crawlers and towers.
And when you start throwing the towers into the backlog it gets to add a little better margin to the mix.
And it's the same with the crawlers.
So you can -- I mean you could assume there's probably a better margin in the backlog than what we've had in the past with the mobiles.
When you get to the -- what the inventory is in the channel we watch that and I would argue probably better than any of our competitors just because of our distribution network.
And we have pretty good access to that.
I mean I know our people are watching it on a weekly basis.
And so we see what the inventories are out there and I don't know that I would call it -- I wouldn't call it overweight but it's probably a little bit above average.
But I would -- certainly wouldn't call a lot of it overweight.
So I'll let Eric make a comment on that.
With respect to -- and I know your comment was directed at Carl with the initiatives on how do we continue to improve the business I mean those items are in our margin forecast.
But there's always things that we're looking at and opportunities that -- how do we accelerate things? We have our current year 12-month activities that we have out there but the question we're constantly asking Eric Carl or Bob how do we accelerate some of these activities and how do we pull them forward? So that's -- those are some of the opportunities that we get.
And we're constantly looking at different things whether they're sourcing initiatives whether they're the reorganization things that Eric and Bob have gone through new product introductions.
I mean it can be the whole thing.
So I mean there's a lot of things that go into that.
But Eric I think you want to make a comment on the inventory channel? Yes.
Jamie on the inventory side we feel very good in terms of what we see for the crawlers or the GMK.
I mean we are in a very good shape.
I mean where we could be a little bit in excess of inventory right now it's maybe the product the rough-terrains in North America is probably a bit high.
This is why we're going to watch very carefully the retail activity that's going to take place in the first quarter.
And also of course in terms of pricing I think it's been okay.
But if you look at the Middle East or Asia in terms of these rough-terrain product lines we face the competition of the Japanese.
And obviously they have a tailwind with the currency.
The yen is weak.
And that's where we see a little bit of pricing and aggressiveness.
But overall I mean not a big change to confirm what Glen said.
We'll take our next question from Mig Dobre with Robert W.
Baird.
Research Division</strong> Glen I thought I heard this in your prepared remarks.
Correct me if I'm wrong but did you mention something like $80 million worth of cost savings? And would that be incremental in '14 versus '13? Did I hear that correct? You did and that was the number.
Again I would say the one that's probably offset to that $80 million would be any inflation you have maybe on the procurement side of the business of material inflation.
But other than that everything else should be incremental to 2013.
And those are the initiatives.
Those are the things that we've talked about.
It's the reliability.
It's the organizational effectiveness.
It's the lean savings.
It's everything that we see in that -- mostly the gross margin line but some in the SG&amp;A line.
So we'll put it out there because it's just part of the guidance and we're held accountable to it.
Research Division</strong> No sure.
Can you sort of split it up between the 2 segments somehow? We can.
That doesn't mean we will.
But I think you can imply that it's -- with the guidance that Carl gave I think it's really I look at it from an enterprise standpoint if it's a little bit lower on Cranes we will make it up in the Foodservice.
If it's a little bit lower in Foodservice we'll make it up in Crane.
So I mean that's what -- I mean that's really what we're looking at to try to get it.
But I think the guidance that you have on the margins for Foodservice and Cranes are adequate.
Research Division</strong> Well the last one for me here and it's going to be on Crane margin because if I'm looking at your cost savings I'm looking at your comments on mix and frankly everything else that you seem to be doing in that business.
You had 8.7% margin in 2013.
I'm trying to figure out what we all should be thinking for 2014 because to me it looks like your guidance is a little bit conservative.
Is that the takeaway here for high single-digit margin? My comment is we certainly would prefer to under-promise and over-deliver but the -- we certainly look at the specific initiatives in place.
And I think that one of the key variables is what does the top line do? And I think we're taking an appropriately conservative view of that given the fact that we're bringing a much lower backlog into this year than we did last year.
And by virtue of that we'd expect the start of the year from a shipment standpoint to be a slow start if you will for the -- what might be the ultimate market opportunity.
I think the other thing Mig is -- and we talked about being in a challenging environment.
I think one of the things that gives us -- I don't know that it's a big concern but it's the assumptions that we've made on what are the material cost increases.
Obviously both Foodservice and Cranes on the materials side steel is a big one and that's kind of the -- steel companies go out and they announce price increases but it's a matter of what sticks.
And that's been certainly a positive for us in 2013 and I think maybe hopefully we have some upside there but we're maybe a little more conservative than some of those forecasts.
But I think we have to start the year that way because of the uneasiness of these entire markets.
We'll take our next question from Steve Volkmann with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> You mentioned ConExpo a couple of times and I'm hoping to just get a sense of how you think about that.
I know you've been out there for many years.
Is this a situation where orders will essentially sort of dry up between now and ConExpo and then you get a lot of them in around ConExpo and so therefore the first quarter should be fairly weak? Or is ConExpo not so much kind of an order-taking show from your experience? How should we think about that playing into the cadence of the year? Well I think first off it's all within the first quarter.
So any orders we get I mean whether it's none between January and February and then in the first week of March I mean it would all be in that same time frame.
But you know it's -- Steve the funny thing about the trade shows and I'll let Eric talk about more what his expectation but the funny thing about trade shows is depending on what region you're in the customers want to get a little bit of credit for their business with whoever it is.
I mean there's an opportunity to thank the customers with a glass of champagne and take some pictures and you get a lot of the senior management there.
And so the orders may be in hand and the sales guy has it in hand already but they're going to bring it to ConExpo and get some recognition for that.
And I think that's okay.
But I think when we look at some of the new product we have coming out not everybody has seen some of that and they will for the first time.
So then it's a matter of how the acceptance is of that.
So -- but with respect to the order rates I'll let Eric...
Well Steve if you look back in the past in 2005 ConExpo we had a 35% increase in our order intake at the time but that was really when the market turned and we had a really uptick and that was the start really of a strong recovery.
I mean if you go back to ConExpo 2008 it was slightly up single digit but then everything was kind of people trying to buy capacity.
So I don't think that this is a good reference.
So finally if you look back at the last ConExpo in 2011 it was flat versus -- I'm comparing versus the previous quarter.
So it's really hard to say and get to some conclusions.
What we know we have a strong order intake in Q4 no doubt.
We are extremely excited because we're going to bring some new products that are going to be -- some of them are going to be game changers.
So yes we are very excited of what we're going to be seeing at the ConExpo.
Now I mean there are a lot of other things that should play out before we can be very -- certainly that you're going to see a big boom in orders in ConExpo.
But Steve I would caution and I'll go back to the guidance we gave with Crane keep in mind some of these products that you're going to see at ConExpo won't come into play until late fourth quarter and then the majority into 2015.
So don't front-end load that and think it's all going to happen this year.
I want to be careful that we don't get over our skis on that one.
Research Division</strong> Okay great.
That's good color.
I appreciate it and I'm glad to hear you'll be offering champagne out there.
The follow-up if I can add a quick follow-up just on the food side.
What inning of the game are we in in terms of the cost saves that you can control on the food side? If you just assume that we're in some sort of low to mid-single-digit growth rate for the next few years how far can this thing go? I can take that.
I think that if you look at the innings I would say we're probably in the third or fourth.
We have had successes with the manufacturing efficiencies we've had so far.
I think we can go farther with that.
In some of those efficiencies some of the new factories we've left room for growth so we can achieve more.
I think there's still room for some more efficiency gains lean improvements consolidations left.
We do have plans for those in the short term and the long term and we'll continue to execute.
So I'd say there's still room to grow.
And we'll take our next question from Ted Grace with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I have a question for Bob.
Bob we can see the top line guidance for Foodservice.
Just could you maybe just walk through upon your expectations in the geographic markets either for your own business or the entire industry kind of with a focus on North America maybe where you see the strength whether it's the larger chains the smaller chains how we should think about the institutional client base? Yes.
I think Ted if you look at where we're going -- and we follow a lot of the trade associations what they're predicting growth in that area of around 4% if you look at NRA and ASI and some of those associations is what they're predicting in the market.
Where that will happen the largest growth area that we're seeing and that we hear about is in the fast casual segment.
Also the general market is doing well.
In terms of chains the biggest area of growth is in menu expansion.
There are still chain growth areas.
If you look in Asia in particular they're still growing the chains.
They're looking at more smaller footprints than they had before just to cut on cost but they're growing in that area.
In the other areas of the world if you look at -- Euromonitor came out with a report.
They're saying they're predicting about 3% global growth.
But in the European or EME markets Russia Turkey Middle East are going to be more of the hotspots predicted in the year coming up.
But that doesn't mean that we're not growing in the rest of the markets.
In the rest of Europe because of some of our new innovative products if you look at what we're doing with our European ovens with blended ice even in surface cooking we're making some gains in those markets as well too.
So we have a little bit of share growth in that area.
Asia in particular still is -- I wouldn't say flat but it's still not as growing as fast as we'd like.
We are making investments to be able to follow chains in that area because they're -- we're working with them on growth expansion.
But Americas is still like you said is still playing well looks healthy for this year.
EME as well.
Asia's down a bit but there are specific markets that we're following in that area.
And overall it's menu expansion and growth in particular segments -- or in particular machine categories.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then on the new product introduction side could you walk through kind of the highlights for '14 just in terms of absolute numbers? How many new products should we look forward in '14 versus that were introduced in '13? Yes in terms of new products we have a few more in '14 versus '13.
And we've got some interesting things that we'll launch especially in the Combi Ovens.
That's going to be one of our highlighted products for the year.
Glen had mentioned it earlier in his remarks a whole new platform that's coming out in that area.
We also have some new products specifically that will be interesting for chains in surface cooking and grills.
It's an area -- we'll continue to expand the blended ice area.
Hot holding is another area too that we'll continue to work and we've got some new products in there.
We've got some new technologies that we're introducing in fryers not a whole new platform but new technologies in that area that will help.
And then also our whole new product line with the cool air ice machine line that we make down in Monterrey is seeing some good signs for growth.
We -- on the refrigeration side we're coming out with some products that we think will have a greater broader appetite on the worldwide market.
More so than being a North American player we want to expand geographically on refrigeration.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Got it.
And then the last thing is probably a question for Bob Carl and Glen as well.
As you get the balance sheet down to sub-3x debt-to-EBITDA you kind of are in a position to maybe go back on the offensive from an M&amp;A perspective and augment organic growth.
Can you just talk about how you're thinking about that how we should think about that and kind of what the landscape looks like particularly on the Foodservice side? Ted I made a comment I think maybe at the third quarter call.
And we don't want to be offensive but we want to go on the offense.
But I think that's -- to the comments that Jamie made what else do you do what do you look at to improve the businesses? And that's what we talk about on a regular basis.
As I said in my comments though as you look into 2014 we have some initiatives whether they're manufacturing initiatives whether they're the lean initiatives the organizational changes the consolidations; there are some things that we want to do within the business and then it's a matter of paying down our debt.
And you're exactly right.
Strategically we have to look at how we're going to allocate the excess cash as we get below -- but I think when you say below 3x you're talking end of year and as we get into 2015.
And so obviously we certainly have our strategic initiatives that look out to 2016 and '17.
But I think you're right we can -- if there's other ways to deploy our capital and it's all the things that we've ever done before.
I mean shoot we've done stock buybacks we've done stock splits.
I mean we've done all sorts of things and we'll continue to look at every one of those.
But right now I think in 2013 -- I'm sorry '14 it's really funding the initiatives we have and getting down the debt and improving the denominator of the earnings.
We'll take our next question from Nicole DeBlase with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So just -- I'm just curious what you guys are hearing from your Crane rental customers.
I mean have you seen a pickup in demand from them during the fourth quarter? And do you think that we're on the precipice of an investment cycle there? And then also just anything they've said on utilization? Eric and I are looking at each other trying to figure out who should answer.
I'll start.
I mean Eric and I get the opportunity to tag-team the customer sometimes.
And I still think Nicole there's a healthy cautious optimism.
I think what we continue to find is when people are pretty sure that they have work for the cranes they will embark on the purchases.
But I think if you go across North America on the distribution channel I think the majority of them feel pretty good about 2014.
I think there are some regional discrepancies but I think if you would go at anybody that's in the Gulf Coast and then all the things that are happening there you get into Canada some of the things in the Southeast you're seeing the tower cranes pick up a bit.
I think there's a healthy optimism that 2014 certainly brings at the start of it.
It feels better than maybe it did 7 or 8 months ago that's for sure.
And when it comes to the utilization I tell you I was with some people last week and I noticed someone was looking for a crawler crane and they said -- and it's here locally in Wisconsin and they were very frustrated because they want to put it on a pretty good project and they said "We need to get that quick " because some of the crawler utilizations for a lot of these people are very high.
I think to Eric's point earlier the RTs are probably at a normal utilization but some of the other higher-capacity cranes are pretty heavily utilized.
Eric? Yes.
The RTs Nicole I mean the utilization is good but the return on investment is a little bit shy of what it should be.
And now in terms of utilization so -- yes I mean the big crawlers utilization is fairly high no doubt.
And it's good on the GMKs and especially on the large-capacity cranes it's pretty high.
The other things in the U.S.
now we see the tower cranes utilization being extremely high and several companies that have not invested in several years now are thinking to invest in 2014.
So utilization is good.
I mean we would like to see the rental rates a little bit higher so that the investments and the ROI for our customer will be higher.
But yes there is optimism that we have here.
Research Division</strong> Okay got it.
Sounds pretty good.
And then I guess after everything that's happened with the China JV over the past few months I'm just curious what your longer-term plans are in China within the Crane business? Well I think our comments on China have always been we want to play in that market but we don't necessarily want to lead in that market.
And I think that's -- for us to think that we're going to lead in that market against the -- some of our competitors the Chinese competitors that doesn't make sense.
But I think what we did is we looked and we said "Okay given how the Chinese market has responded what really product lines do we want to have opportunities to play in those markets?" And that joint venture kind of when you look at what our investments were in that business versus what our long-term opportunity to get things back out of that market it held a lot of promise as long as we had a good partner.
But when that fell through with Shantui and their troubles that they've had it just didn't make sense for us to try to continue to do it alone without a solid partner.
So we still like what we have in crawlers.
We'll still continue doing the GMK.
We'll still continue to doing the towers.
Don't forget we have a very very good tower crane factory in Zhangjiagang which is a world-class factory for that and we can compete very very well there.
So whether it's Foodservice or Cranes China is still a market that we will participate in.
We'll take our next question from Rob Wertheimer with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> I guess I had a quick combined question on the Foodservice.
4Q is often sort of a seasonally lighter margin quarter.
And obviously the margins were very strong here.
Is there anything with the change in production that changes the seasonality of that business? I'll just stop there.
I think from a margin performance standpoint Rob it was really what Glen talked about a little bit earlier.
Essentially the bearing of fruit of the manufacturing changes that we made that were creating cost for us in the first 3 quarters that pretty much diminished in the fourth quarter and then we got the benefit of really concluding a lot of those activities.
That was the key driver.
I also mentioned in my prepared remarks a little bit of a windfall from the -- essentially an earn-out that we had that we did not have to pay that we had reserved on an acquisition we did several years ago.
That enhanced the Foodservice margin as well.
Rob I would also say what it goes to show is many of the things that we've done -- and for instance we talked about the operational excellence initiatives.
When we do get some of these rollouts if you take the normal seasonal patterns I think they stay the same.
What we don't control sometimes and I think this is going to be the -- where you're going to see these spikes is exactly what we have with the rollout.
When you get that opportunity to have a short-term rollout we'd like it probably a little bit longer term but the customer needs it when the customer needs it.
That's the benefit you get in those rollouts.
So I think that's the change that we have from a seasonal pattern than what we've had before when it was legacy Manitowoc back in 2007 or '08.
Yes maybe I'll just reiterate or underscore what Glen and Carl were saying.
If you look at the mix of our margin improvement in the fourth quarter a little less than half was due to the efficiencies that we finally came home we got in.
The other part had to do with volume and mix.
But if you look at the areas the particular product categories where we really scored big those are areas where we introduced innovative new products that gave us an edge.
It could have given us an edge on price but also gave us an edge on volume.
The surface cooking area the oven category the beverage category the custom fab and refrigeration at Delfield those are the areas where we got some really big gains on margin.
And a lot of it had to do with introducing innovative new products.
It could have been in a rollout or could have been not.
So it's -- I don't -- I wouldn't say it's seasonality as much as it's a combination of the recipe working: the manufacturing efficiencies coming in and innovation working too to give us an edge.
LLC</strong> Great.
And then just one quick follow-up on the tax rate guidance.
Is there anything -- and I'm curious what you think your structural tax rate is right now.
It's obviously a reasonably low rate.
You've had a varied tax rate over the years.
I'm just curious what you think it is really settling in at whether the Mexico facility changed it or anything else changed it? It can be very volatile Rob from the country's income and that's really the reason for the broad range that we've given for 2014 is the variability that can occur on that front.
But I think there isn't anything else that's really unusual from what we were able to do this year.
We obviously had discrete items this year that you wouldn't expect to incur.
So as we look at 2014 it's at a pretty normalized level based upon the guidance that we've given.
We were fortunate because we -- and we were unfortunate because we did have some inefficiencies from a tax standpoint from ineffective losses that we were able to get a double benefit we were able to get profitability in some of those jurisdictions that gives both the operational and the tax benefit in '13.
And at this time I would like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Khail for any additional or closing remarks.
Before we conclude today's call I'd like to remind everyone that a replay of our fourth quarter conference call will be available later this morning.
You can access the replay by visiting the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in the Manitowoc Company.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our first quarter conference call in May.
Have a good day.
That does conclude today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Please stand by we are about to begin.
Good day everyone and welcome to today’s Manitowoc Company Incorporated First Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time I would like to turn the conference to Mr.
Khail.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Manitowoc’s first quarter earnings conference call.
Participating in today’s call will be Glen Tellock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carl Laurino Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Eric Etchart President of Manitowoc Cranes.
Glen will open today’s call by providing some introductory remarks about our quarterly results and business outlook.
Following that Eric will comment on our Crane segment results for the first quarter as well as sharing his longer term goals and strategies.
Then Carl will discuss our financial results for the first quarter from an enterprise and segment perspective.
Following these prepared remarks we will be joined by Bob Hund President of Manitowoc Foodservice for our question-and-answer session.
For anyone who is not able to listen to today’s entire call an archived version of this call will be available later this morning.
Please visit the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com to access the replay.
Before Glen begins his commentary I would like to review our Safe Harbor statement.
This call is taking place on May 2 2014.
During the course of today’s call forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 will be made during each speaker’s remarks and during our question-and-answer session.
Such statements are based on the company’s current assessment of its markets and other factors that affect its business.
However actual results could differ materially from any implied projections due to one or more of the factors explained in Manitowoc’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are also available on our website.
The Manitowoc Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or other circumstances.
With that I’ll now turn the call over to Glen.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
Our first quarter results played out essentially in line with our expectations as we were able to leverage our competitive advantages and benefit from the substantial investments we have made across the Manitowoc enterprise.
In addition our performance demonstrates the underlying strength of our core business and our ability to adapt to changing conditions reiterating confidence in our full year 2014 outlook.
Let briefly touch on each segment in a little more detail.
Foodservice reported sales growth of 9% for the first quarter.
This year-over-year increase was driven by continuing progress in North America substantial growth in EME as well as increasing opportunities in Asia.
Highlighting the positive performance was continued traction with our new grill and oven technologies the ongoing success with our Koolaire ice machines and our successfully blended beverage equipment roll-out in EME.
In addition KitchenCare our aftermarket service and support solutions for Foodservice was officially launched and promises to be a strong contributor to this segment’s performance.
Overall our growth is a testament to our diverse product offerings across the globe as well as our ability to leverage existing customer relationship affording us opportunities to continue demonstrating long-term growth.
During the quarter we also generated improved margins driven largely by our manufacturing initiatives discussed last year which have increased production efficiency and produced a streamlined cost structure in the Foodservice segment.
We have also taken steps aimed at enhancing our customer relationships.
As a result we are supporting their needs with a holistic portfolio of products and services with enhanced speed and efficiency.
Our support includes developing new products that deliver incremental value to our customers maintaining our focus on Lean improvements and product cost take outs strengthening ties with our customers as well as pursuing opportunities within KitchenCare.
Overall we believe our focus on customer intimacy synergistic solutions and leveraging our global scale will further drive margin expansion as the year progresses.
Turning to our Crane segment first quarter sales declined 14% due to the lower level of backlog at the start of the year coupled with customer-related project delays.
Correspondingly our Crane segment experienced a year-over-year margin decline as a result of the lower sales volume.
That said we experienced good levels of activity in the America’s region coupled with ongoing Tower Crane growth in the Middle East.
Overall we remain encouraged by the opportunities for our Crane segment and are confident in our full year outlook.
This is supported by our tremendous showing at ConExpo which once again demonstrated the importance of innovation to our customers and to the construction industry.
Eric will provide more detail in the Crane segment momentarily.
Looking forward we are positioning the enterprise for long-term growth.
First we remain at the forefront of product innovation in Crane and Foodservice.
For example in Foodservice we will be launching new products spanning all of our hot and cold categories throughout 2014 some of which we will showcase at the upcoming National Restaurant Association show validating the strength and competitive advantages within our product lines.
In Crane the recent introduction of our patented variable position counterweight or VPC crawler crane technology at ConExpo was a resounding success which will positively affect 2015 and beyond.
Second we continue to invest in our global manufacturing initiatives with the ongoing enhancement and rightsizing of our global manufacturing footprint.
These efforts not only improve the class structure of the business but also enhance customer service and accelerate our product development processes.
Third the ongoing implementation of Operation Excellence and quality initiatives remains a key priority for 2014.
These initiatives include sourcing lean reliability and organization efficiency gains which should generate over $80 million of gross savings for the full year.
And lastly we remain focused on continuing to improve our capital structure.
To conclude we are confident in our capabilities to enhance our market leadership position and we remain on track to deliver on 2014 strategic and operational initiatives.
We are committed to leveraging our core competencies and strengths to drive our performance including new product introductions industry leading aftermarket services and solutions and operational excellence initiatives in the face of persistent macro-economic pressures.
With that I’ll turn the call to Eric for a discussion on our Crane segment.
Eric? Thank you Glen and good morning everyone.
Our Crane performed as expected during the first quarter in light of soft overall market conditions and choppy demand in emerging markets.
We remain on track with our strategies the investment that we made in the past few years as well as our short-term and long-term objectives.
As Glen mentioned earlier in the call we experienced a good level of activity in the America’s despite customer related project delays triggered by the unusually cold winter weather.
Overall we believe trends in the region are positive and as we see increased customer optimism we anticipate a greater level of activity as we move throughout the year and into 2015.
We have also seen greater demand from Asia and the Middle East and to some extent Europe driven by the activity in Germany and in the UK.
The European driven improvement is an indication that the worst is now behind us in this region.
In Brazil activity remained slow.
However our recent investment in rough-terrain crane production helped us maintain and grow our market share leadership in the region and positions us well to take advantage when the market improves.
Our Passo Fundo factory also enhanced our ability to serve other Latin American countries.
The highlight for the first quarter was our recent participation at ConExpo.
Our interaction and engagement with customers during the show centered on several of our company wide strategic initiatives including the new standards of innovation and technology that our products are creating in the market.
In fact we introduced 10 new products that will greatly improve customer’s job site efficiency operating cost and profitability.
A key contributor during the event was the introduction of our patented VPC crawler crane technology.
Strong orders for the VPC crawlers coupled with orders for various Potain Tower cranes and Grove mobile cranes drove order rate to its highest levels since before the recession further supporting our belief that the market is beginning to rebound.
Last year we communicated that we believe crawler cranes had reached an inflection point in North America.
Our ability to launch these new VPC products as the market continues to improve should provide significant benefits for Manitowoc and our customers as we look ahead.
Moving on from a product line perspective Tower cranes activity continues to recover driven by a greater number of projects in the Middle East sustained demand in Asia and improving conditions in North America and emerging markets most notably in India despite a weak economy and upcoming elections.
We have seen some substantial order in in the Middle East which supports our belief that Tower crane activity in these regions is likely to see solid demand.
We are also seeing improved global demand for all-terrain cranes while rough-terrain cranes experienced ongoing market challenges in the first quarter.
We also experienced continuing success with Manitowoc Crane Care given our strategic investment in this unique aftermarket product support solution for nearly a decade.
Overall Crane Care remains a key differentiator of product support across the construction industry and a meaningful source of profitability for our crane business.
To update you on strategic initiatives our continued focus on lean manufacturing and for achieving initiatives drove solid operational efficiency.
We have also completed our internal reorganization which included several cost reduction initiatives improvement in our global product coordination and enhancements to our world class customer service.
While this process has taken a considerable amount of time and effort I am pleased with our team’s progress as we are better positioned for sustainable long term success.
We also completed another go-live in our Project One ERP global deployment with our Italian factory now online.
Looking towards the balance of 2014 we remain confident in our Cranes business and our full year expectations given the uneven demand across product lines in regions we will remain committed to controlling what we can and enhancing our profitability in the segment.
I will now turn the call over to Carl to discuss our detailed first quarter financial results.
Carl? Thanks Eric and good morning everyone.
We reported net sales for the first quarter of $850 million which is a decrease of 5% from a year ago.
This top line performance resulted from a 9% increase in Foodservice and a 14% decrease in Crane sales.
The GAAP net loss for the first quarter was $8.8 million or $0.06 per diluted share versus earnings of $10.4 million or $0.08 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2013.
Excluding special items the adjusted earnings from continuing operations was $23.7 million or $0.17 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2013 versus adjusted earnings of $14.6 million or $0.11 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2013.
During the first quarter cash used for continuing operations was $265 million versus $103 million in the prior year quarter driven by working capital requirements to support both segments.
For the remainder of 2014 we will emphasize achieving our cash flow targets as we continue to prioritize debt repayment and also funding our growth and process improvement initiatives.
We expect the pace of our debt reduction to be similar to the seasonal pattern in prior years meaning that the bulk of our debt reduction will occur in the fourth quarter.
Turning to our segment results Foodservice sales in the first quarter of 2014 totaled $383 million up 9% from a year ago.
First quarter 2014 operating earnings in Foodservice were $57.9 million.
Operating margin of 15.1% were 110 basis points higher than the prior year quarter.
The first quarter Foodservice margin comparison was driven primarily by new products and advances realized from ongoing investments in key manufacturing strategies.
Moving to the Crane segment first quarter sales totaled $467 million a year-over-year decrease of 14%.
Overall Crane segment operating earnings in the first quarter were $22.6 million versus $34.9 million last year.
This resulted in a first quarter crane segment operating margin of 4.8% down 160 basis points.
This year-over-year decline was a function of lower sales volumes but was partially offset by ongoing operational efficiency improvements.
Crane backlog at quarter end was $842 million an increase of $267 million from the prior year quarter.
For the first quarter new orders totaled $733 million which represented a book-to-bill ratio of 1.6 times.
Overall new orders during the quarter increased 29% year-over-year reflecting the positive showing at the recent ConExpo trade show.
Approximately 26% of the backlog will benefit 2015 and later with less than 10% extending beyond 2015.
To conclude let me reiterate our full year 2014 outlook.
As noted in yesterday’s press release we are affirming our guidance for 2014.
For the full year we expect mid-single digit revenue gains in the Foodservice and modest revenue growth in Cranes.
We expect operating margins in Foodservice will approach a high-teens level while Cranes generate a high single-digit operating margin.
Capital expenditures and interest expense in 2014 will approximate $90 million and $100 million respectively.
We anticipate total leverage will decline to below three times debt-to-EBITDA which is well below half of the peak leverage experienced in 2010.
Finally we expect the full year effective tax rate to be in the mid to high 20% range.
With that I return the call to Glen for his closing comments.
Thanks Carl.
We continue to have great confidence in our business and the strategies we’re implementing across the entire Manitowoc Enterprise.
Overall the growth we experienced in our Foodservice segment during the quarter coupled with our very successful showing at ConExpo in March underscores the strength of our offerings as well as the level of innovation we bring to our customers.
While we expect global economic growth to continue to be somewhat uncertain and challenged our proven track record to manage the company in any market environment will further position Manitowoc for greater value creation and competitive success as we move ahead.
This concludes our prepared remarks for today.
April we will now begin our question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
(Operator Instructions).
And we’ll first hear from Charlie Brady of BMO Capital Markets.
Thanks good morning guys.
Good morning Charlie.
With respect to the crane you called out the amount of backlog that’s going to be in 2015 and beyond which is not something you normally do and I guess I’m just trying to understand is that a function of your customers coming in at ConExpo and ordering and saying give it to me on this date or is a function of the mix has shifted so the lead times on building these cranes more crawlers more towers is just stretching the lead time out a little bit? Yeah Charlie obviously good question.
The real I would say desire to put the backlog out there past 2015 or the 12 months period is we thought it would be a disservice if we didn’t do it that way because of the strength of the orders and I would say most of it almost all of it is the crawlers.
And given the fact that this is arguably the best new product introduction I think we’ve had some years since 1991 I think it’s two things; one people love the technology they understand what it’s going to do to their business.
And two when you look at the distribution of the customers around the world there are capacity constraints as to how much you can do.
And the reason we pointed out 2015 is the product has to come back to Manitowoc.
We are going to finish testing it and that kind of thing.
So really the full production on this doesn’t start until may be late late fourth quarter but more I would say probably more realistically the first quarter of 2015.
But I think it shows the strength of the confidence in this product by our customers and some of them did say that if you have – I mean we had one customers had upwards of double digit number of these they are not going to take them all in 2015 they want them spread over four five quarters.
That’s why we put it out there to say hey it’s relevant and it shows you the confidence that people have in that crawler backlog which is already is kind of the late comer to the party on expansion of the industry.
So that’s why we did it that way and it’s mainly on the VTC technology cranes.
Thanks it’s helpful.
And just as a follow up can you talk about what’s driving the strength in Towers in the Middle East? I mean that’s an area the world that last peaked that there is considerable crane activity going on what’s driving that currently? Go ahead Eric.
Yeah Charlie the Middle East is in fact is really rebounding very very strong for us.
So there are different things I mean Saudi Arabia is playing a big role in that region.
So I mean last year we didn’t see a lot of projects but this year we’ve seen – started probably the end of last year we are seeing a lot of mega projects where it’s the expansion of Medina or the university that’s coming the metro – we have a lot of infrastructure projects that are taking place in Saudi Arabia.
But it’s not only Saudi Arabia it’s a UAE obviously the 20-20 World Expo is driving the confidence and Abu Dhabi they have this master plan for 2030.
So you have a kind of very changing situation in the Middle East.
If you had up Qatar finally we’ve seen the business in Qatar moving up finally I would say in Q4 2013 but now we see a lot of projects coming up out of Qatar.
And you had Kuwait and Oman and Iraq.
So that’s really give us a confidence with the amount of projects that really it’s rebounding.
And if you have read that we have our President in Jebel Ali with our own team but historically we have a very strong distributor in that region that has been performing very well.
And then we can offer cranes from Europe but also from China from our wholly-owned factory in Zhangjiagang.
If you put that together that puts the Manitowoc franchise in a very good position in this rebounding situations with towers.
Thank you.
And next we’ll hear from Seth Weber of RBC Capital Markets.
Hey good morning everybody.
I just wanted to go back again to this reclassification of the orders and the backlog.
I guess my first question is is this a unique situation have you – you’ve had obviously the launches in the past.
I mean have you done this type of thing in the past where you’ve had taken order for something but the order is shipping for more than a year out? And then I guess my kind of related question is are you taking deposits or how are vetting these orders to make sure that they are good and that they are sticky? Seth I’ll take this and I’ll have Carl add some color to it if there anything.
But with respect to the past yeah if you go to before 2009 when even though we had deposits and lot of the backlog eroded when markets crashed in 2009 and 2010.
Since then even with new product reduction it’s never been material.
And I think if you go back before if you go into 2006 ‘7 and ‘8 there is always a lot of talk that everybody wanted to talk about core shadow backlog.
We put a light on the shadow is really we are trying to do because I think it’s before the backlogs were such that it was strong enough to say here is what we have and some people we believed and that’s why really went to twelve months.
You didn’t know if some people were just putting in production slots or if it really was that legitimate backlog and I think that was always the question you have when you out to 14 15 months.
And so that’s why we always did that way.
Now because of the fact that and since 2009 it’s never been material or it’s never been that significant that’s why we decided to do this time to show the strength of the crawlers which have the longest lead time anyway of any other products that would get you out pass that.
And I think again now with respect to deposits we do have a significant amount of deposits for these cranes because of the acceptance of this new products and people’s rental fleets in businesses.
So that hopefully that answers your question and Carl I don’t know did I miss anything on there.
I would just say specific delivery dates is one criterion that would use as well as underwritten finance is another criteria that we scrutinize.
And the other comment that I would make is if you go back to the Bauma Trade Show in the second quarter April of 2013 this was not relevant.
We didn’t really have anything material that extended beyond twelve months.
Okay so just going back to the deposits is it I mean how should we think about it is it like a 10% kind of number? Yeah I think that’s – that’s a ball park about what it is.
Ball park.
Okay and do you think it’s fair – I mean do you get the sense that some of these orders may have siphoned off for a customer who would have otherwise ordered a regular crawler crane that would have hit in twelve months but decided to not order that product and instead take the VPC.
Did you get the sense that there is any of that happening? Well I think anytime we have a new product introduction you worry about the cannibalization of the current product you have.
But I would say when you look at the 18000 or you look at the 2250 which are the two that are been replaced I mean there are some customers that are saying hey can I continue to get that.
You know it’s – the 2250 has been a work horse in our stable for a long long time and there were comments at ConExpo saying hey I hope you keep the 2250.
So I don’t know that it’s been significant what we look in our plan for 2014 when we put it together last year we assumed here so many 18000s or so here is the 2250 here is the 999s knowing that some people still like that crane we have the ability to continue to make it.
And so that’s why we talk about the late production of 2014 or early 2015 for the new VPCs.
So there is going to be a little bit of canalization but I think it’s not significant in the sense.
It’s Eric I agree.
But I just want to add one thing Seth back to those orders I mean we have firm orders with down payment but if you look at the orders there they are the ENT they are rental houses and you add up some distributors but distributors have already kind of retail as well.
So I think they are fairly strong orders.
Okay thank you if – can I slide one more in? Is there any way to quantify these project delays what you talked about? And are they going to – do you expect them to slide though the second quarter or is that just getting pushed out further? That’s a good question.
When you talk about weather delays and especially cold weather I guess the question is if it gets warm does that mean it’s better? I think the – I don’t know that we can quantify it other than the fact that it’s mostly obviously North America when you sit and talk to your dealer base and – coming off a dealer meeting that they just had in Chicago earlier this week it’s a matter of when they can get in and continue to start some of these things.
And in the Midwest look it’s still not very nice weather wise but I think the rest of the United States I think that kind of makes itself through the second and third quarter and I think it works its way through by then.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
My add is up the call at obviously the top line was not exactly what we had planned so it’s for the reasons we talked about and we are reiterating our full year guidance so we do think it comes back.
Okay.
Thank you very much guys.
Next we’ll hear from Andrew Kaplowitz of Barclays.
Hey good morning guys.
Glen or Eric you obviously had a good crane order quarter in 1Q after a good quarter in 4Q.
But now you are going through your seasonally slower period in 2Q and 3Q and especially after ConExpo.
Do you think there is enough demand out there to grow your crane backlog during the seasonally slower time of year I will just start with that? Well I think you don’t want to hear this as an answer but I will give it.
It depends.
I think what we have Andy is and we hear this a lot whether it’s in North America whether it’s in Europe or even I wouldn’t say so much China but I would say other parts of Asia or even South America is I think this is an unusual year because what’s – I will take South America for instance just been there you have the elections down there.
People are waiting to see what happens in Argentina people are waiting to see what happens in Chile.
They had the election but now the person the lady that’s the President she talks about what some of her plans are but there is no specific.
So the people are waiting on that.
If you go through all parts of the world and election seem to be playing a big part.
India is another example of where we see this.
So I think there is an opportunity for some of that to happen.
So I think a lot of the people that we talk to and we go it’s not a matter of if it’s matter of when? And I think some of that plays out here in North America when you go to the parts of the southwest or the Gulf Coast.
What’s going to happen politically here in the United States lot of money on the side lines and people want to put it to use but again that’s why I say it depends but I feel good about where we are sitting today in our crane segment because we have those opportunities the tower crane business believe or not picking up a little bit in North America.
And so I think there is that and when people get past ConExpo and they get into their summer months I think people are going to see when you get past the weather that we are talking about people are going to start putting those jobs in the play and I think there is a lot more bidding that comes out.
So I don’t use the word hopeful because hope is not a strategy but I think I am confident that there are lot of projects that we will be putting to play in the next 12 and 18 months.
May be India the dealer inventory and you know that we track this on a weekly basis here in North America but that’s a great indication.
And the dealer inventory was I would say a little high when we enter the January February and even March and because of our project were delayed the retail activity has obviously taken a headwind but just in the last two to three week we received obviously the dealer inventory depleting and of course we have to see that continues but that was an encouraging sign that it’s now just about at that level so we see the retail activity and the RPO also is kind of encouraging because returning to sales typically with a high rate.
I mean we are talking to our dealers earlier in the week as we have mentioned 70% or 80% the RPO turns into sales that’s kind of indicate also the level of confidence.
So if we continue to see that trend I would say yes we should see more activities.
Eric we are two months really after ConExpo you didn’t see a big fall off in activity after ConExpo did you like you know sort of go-forward at ConExpo as you mentioned? No we did not.
Okay and then just how much of an inflection are you really seeing in your European tower business.
Your competitor yesterday talked about a much better business there.
We know you are very underutilized in that French factory I think that’s a big opportunity.
So maybe you can talk about that a little bit the level of improvement you have seen at that particular factory in that particular area? Okay my comment related to Europe is not specifically tower crane related it was also mobile crane related.
But however a lot of cranes that we are producing there for sure they will – the French factory are going to benefit from the order intake that we have seen in North America because this is one product line getting tractions and typically in U.S.
we are talking about big [inaudible] cranes so big cranes.
So obviously this French factory are benefitting from this.
But specifically the operation is the tower crane business in Europe I think it’s good in Germany it’s good in Switzerland it’s really picking up the UK it’s bad in France the rental rates are terrible and housing would not exceed probably 350 000 whereas the [inaudible] will be exceeding 500 000 but is not materializing.
So we continue to struggle definitely in France and Italy and Spain which were great tower cranes markets.
But I would say that we have seen more orders coming from the countries that I indicated before and the French factory for the absorption of [Cote] will benefit from the increased business as I said in North America and also for the increased business that we are seeing in the Middle East because we can – we are serving these markets with the French factory and the Chinese factories.
But Andy the other thing from – we talk a lot about the operational excellence initiatives.
This is the area where at the beginning of 2013 spent a lot of time you’ll recall in the last upturn we had three locations in France and that was consolidated to two at the same time leaned out many of the areas of the factory in Charlieu or Moulins and brought many of the activities that we had outsourced back in-house.
And so I think when you look at it the factory is lot different today than it was five years ago.
So while yes it’s underutilized the costs are lot less.
So I think that’s where we have a lot of confidence that when that market picks up a little bit you have the benefit of the absorption but at the same time we are in a pretty good state of mind right now in those factories at a lower level of activity.
That’s correct.
And then last Andy one of the factories we see the plant for – we proposed the mechanism that we shipped for the cranes we produce in China as well and that activities is fairly strong right now given the uptick in demand for the cranes manufactured in China.
Thank you guys.
Next we will hear from Schon Williams of BB&amp;T Capital Markets.
Hi good morning.
Hey Schon.
I wanted to maybe start on Foodservice here margins showing some nice improvement on a year-over-year basis but I mean year ago levels were impacted by the consolidation by couple of million dollars I am just wondering kind of an apples-to-apples basis I would have maybe expected more expansion given how robust the sales growth has been.
Can you just talk about where we are in terms of the gains on some of the restructuring are we still early innings is there more to come and kind of what should we expect as we move throughout the year? I will start with that and Bob if you have any comments.
Schon the answer is obviously the expectations for the improvements we expect given the manufacturing changes that we have made are inherent in our guidance to get to that near high teen level and as I would describe it I would say that’s going certainly when you look at it from a year-over-year perspective it’s going to be skewed to the first three quarters of the year given the success we had late last year in completing those activities.
As you know we did have that unusual item that you referenced in the fourth quarter as well but the expectation is that it will kind of continue to take – particularly this quarter and next quarter.
I would add to that Schon some of the activities that you are talking about we have mentioned some of the things that get to the $80 million that are whether they are lean initiatives or organizational initiatives those are going to benefit mostly the back half of this year.
They do not impact much the first half of this year and those remain on track.
The other thing I think you know whether in our comments or in the release we talked about really the growth at food service been in new products for the margin improvement from new products and the manufacturing initiatives we stay away from the mix because when you look at the overall mix some of the positives were offset by some of the negatives.
So mix really didn’t benefit us much in the first quarter.
Going forward that can have a better opportunity but we didn’t see much in the products mix standpoint in the first quarter.
Thanks that’s helpful and then maybe question for Carl interest expense a bit lower than what I expected in the quarter and then the run rate that we are at in the first quarter seems to be below where you guys are guiding for the full of the $100 million.
Just can you help me understand you know what’s going on there? I would say the refinanced cadence of that because of GAAP treatment of the swap that we had in place that goes to the interest expenses line.
So probably similar level to what you modeled in the balance of the year.
We would expect an uptick just on that basis near about those roughly $8 million that benefited the interest expenses line in the first quarter a little more than that.
That won’t recur and I would say also the 100 million probably is a bit conservative I would expect that end the year with level starting with the ninth.
All right thank you guys.
Jim – I am sorry Jamie Cook Crédit Suisse.
Hi guys this is actually Andrew Buscaglia on behalf of Jamie.
So just going back to Crane I mean at this point if you exclude the portion that’s coming in ‘15 it would seem that your visibility is a little bit or actually the question is I guess would say your visibility is a little more limited than you would expect at this point of the year after ConExpo? No I am not sure I am not sure I would draw conclusion.
But to understand your question you are saying that visibility on the remaining product lines other than crawlers that’s the way I took your question.
Is that right it? Yeah visibility I guess and specifically for ‘14? No I think when you look at it the rest of the backlog isn’t that’s why you have 70 some percent which doesn’t extend past there.
So I mean I think that if you go as I said earlier if you go back to post three session that’s what it’s been ever since.
So I think it’s pretty consistent with what you have seen in the last four or five years.
Okay.
And then just a little more color on in terms of your profitability that’s in your backlog.
I mean margins were maybe a bit lower then you are thinking this quarter but what are you seeing in terms of those ramping over the few quarters and then when do you really expect the improvement to flow through that backlog? Well I think the incremental margins will be very much a second half of the year story in Crane that’s where we are really going to be able to get our guidance level that we talked about.
It going to be more skewed given the nature of the orders we have received and some of the efficiency improvements that we are putting in on an ongoing basis.
It’s going a really second-half of the year margin improvement story to a much greater in Crane.
Okay okay.
So Q2 you probably think will be more in line with what we saw in Q1? Tough comp in Q2 given we did have a pretty strong benefit from the material cost in Q2 of 2013 that we wouldn’t expect to recur.
Okay all right thanks guys.
Ted Grace of Susquehanna.
Hi guys.
How are you doing? Good Ted.
Great.
The first thing I was hoping to ask is the incremental color on the orders in the backlog is helpful.
I know that you said that 26% of the backlog is delivered in ‘15 or beyond and if we are playing some number and try to estimate what the next 12 months deliveries in backlog are would it be fair to say those orders in the quarter were something on the order like $540 million.
I would say if you just want the number for the 12 months it’s not much different than any picture of this.
Obviously the first quarter tends to be a lower top line quarter just by you know the seasonality of the business and if we are going to put a message out there for 12 months it would be 24%.
Okay something in the $540 range for forward 12 months.
I guess the leverage.
And so I know that you said that 1Q largely in line with plan is that also true of kind of is called the legacy order rates that you have got or legacy orders you got in Crane? I can take this.
The order intake that has been a little shy of expectations but business [are in the] crane product line.
I mean business we won that that probably struggles right now and again I mean it’s I think I am hopeful that the situation will improve in North America but the utilization is pretty high on this product line in the U.S.
However the rental rates still struggles to get some traction.
So one of the issue and as we move to the Middle East and Asia obviously the Japanese competition is very aggressive benefiting from the yen.
So that’s one of the product line that we are little bit nervous but again it’s mitigated by what we see on the other product lines.
Okay.
And then Eric maybe you can just elaborate I think Glen mentioned he had the dealer meeting recently.
Maybe can you just share with us kind of the highlights which you are hearing from your U.S.
dealer base? Yeah the highlight is they see a lot of work coming.
It’s as Glen said it’s more a matter of when this is going happen but we see a lot of work coming in the U.S.
Again they – I mentioned RPO but a good indication when you RPO your cranes and you see that you have a 70% or 80% turns into sales that’s really a very good one.
When you see that kind of commitment on the order of large crawlers that obviously is a sign of confidence and what they see also is before the rent houses are trying to more purchase on specific need projects and the owners now seems to be looking ahead and planning purchasing based on probably on anticipated future needs.
So in the win there expectation that we see a short uptick also on [inaudible].
Overall I mean that’s why we have this positive feeling here in the U.S.
I think another comment that was made to me from someone that attended was the dealers – it’s just it’s lumpy you know they’ll go to two or three weeks and the activity is a bit slow and all of the sudden the next thing you know you have anywhere from five to 11 orders on different product lines.
So I mean that’s the key for us is how do we maintain the flexibility to keep – because that’s what happened ever since 2009.
The people don’t want to commit long-term but when these projects break it’s all about availability in certain instances.
So it’s business as usual but to Eric’s point the outlook is pretty darn good.
That’s really helpful.
So the second thing I was hoping to ask is a good question of Bob.
Bob great job on the sales number they are up 9%.
Is there any way you can help us understand what was the contribution from the new products to grill the new site machines and the blended comp either it’s rose that 9% was it four points attributable to new product just really get a sense for how those products are doing? It has been a major contribution Ted.
I think if you look at the spread across with four major roll-outs in process at the moment all contributed by new products.
You know as mentioned in the remarks a good portion of the savings coming from the operational enhancements with the new product that have a major contribution.
And if you also look at it too you look the industry in total the estimates are 3.5% to 4% up we went up 9% but a big part of that was roll-out a big part of EME with those products as well.
General market was down but because of the cold weather in the States.
So you can factor that in the new products were a major contributor for it.
Mostly in the areas of service cooking and grills we have – is another a little bit on the roll-on soft drink area and hot holding.
Okay that’s really helpful.
And just so we can appreciate it from a modeling standpoint when did you start seeing those benefits of the new products and are we close to lapping that are we are going to get a couple of more quarters and have "easy comps" on that basis.
Those particular roll-outs are going to be phasing out on those particular ones but then if you look at the new products and we get to NRA you will see some of that too.
We have the [inaudible] we have got Koolaire.
We saw action in grills because of the cold weather we had at the end in the year we are starting to see that pick-up a bit some new fire technology and then the – is still growing and then we have got later in the year some refrigeration stuff.
So we have got a pipeline that’s coming as well so as those phase out new things will come on.
Okay great.
Thank you very much guys.
Best of luck for this quarter.
Thanks.
Thank you Ted.
Next we will hear from Mircea Dobre of Robert W.
Baird.
Good morning guys.
Hi Mircea.
I think I’m going to stick with Foodservice because we sort of be beat the Crane segment to death here.
Bob I saw some work force adjustment announcements for your U.S.
based workforce throughout the quarter.
And I’m wondering if maybe you can sort of remind us kind of where you are as far as what inning maybe you might be as far as consolidating some of your manufacturing footprint in that business and maybe give us a flavor as to how you’re thinking about this going forward.
Let me touch on that first Bob and then I will pass it on to you.
I would say Mircea when you look at what the announcement that was made in the first part of this year was here in Manitowoc we made that announcement that we intend to or give us the ability to move some of the ice machine production to the facility in Monterrey.
And of about the 425 jobs we have in Manitowoc at the ice plant that would affect about 150 of those jobs.
So that’s really what the announcement was and that would take place over between maybe starting late this year fourth quarter of this year and into the fourth quarter of 2015.
So really that’s what that announcement was about.
When you look at the manufacturing initiatives that we have throughout Foodservice and we talk again a lot about the operational excellence piece when we acquired a notice I think Carl will help me if I’m wrong here I mean we were upwards of almost 40 manufacturing locations down to about 25 right now and I think I would say long term we believe that could be maybe the high teens.
So that gives you a little bit of indication where we’re at in that process.
And so we’re knocking them one at a time.
Everything doesn’t happen overnight but it gives us – that’s all part of that reasoning that Carl mentioned long term the margins in Foodservice being in the high teens.
So Bob if you want add anything to that feel free.
Yes I guess in terms of the innings if you look at as Glen mentioned our overall manufacturing strategy I’d say we’re probably in the early to mid-innings.
We have things to go for instance we’ve announced we are consolidating two of our fire factories together down in the Louisiana later this year.
That will eliminate one factory broken to two.
And then the ice in Monterrey was part of our ability that we mentioned to get closer to our customers in Latin America that area.
There is a few more that will happen.
We’ve got some other growth areas in the same time.
So I would say we’re probably in the early to mid-innings in terms of an overall global manufacturing strategy.
That’s great.
Thanks for that.
And I guess sticking with food here I’m wondering if you can give us an update as to what you’re seeing in terms of demand from China I know that’s been a headwind for you for a while.
Go ahead Bob.
Yes I guess I would just start and say for the quarter our biggest growth area for us was actually in Europe.
And Americas was okay offset by the weather.
China and Asia were down a bit mostly due to a little bit of a slowdown and some of the chain growth that’s there in Asia.
It still provides for us in terms of strategically there is a lot of promise there just because the projected increase of food sales in that area and restaurants people going out is still relatively high.
So I think across the board in Asia we haven’t retreated from our more bullish stance on where we stand on Asia.
It’s just in the first quarter the chains there haven’t growth as fast as we thought they would.
Great thanks.
And next we’ll hear from Jerry Revich of Goldman Sachs.
Hi good morning.
Hey Jerry.
I’m wondering if you can talk about the cost optimization efforts in a bit more detail in Cranes now that you’re further into the programs.
How much savings have you achieved in the first quarter and just give us an update for overall the shift that you’re making that you can talk about publicly at this point.
Yes Jerry I think you’re referencing into the comments that I’ve made about the $80 million in those type savings.
Again it’s the organizational piece it’s the lean piece.
I mean that’s the reliability in them.
It’s a little bit similar to what we said for Foodservice with respect to the organizational changes.
You’re going to see the majority of those happening over the back half of the year.
We have not given the detail of what they are between the segments and I’m not sure that that’s just because I think competitively we don’t want to.
And I think when you look at the reliability in the manufacturing measures as I mentioned during the call what we did in Europe is those initiatives were taking place early next year.
We hit the full run rate of those this year.
The new initiatives with respect to the PVC the reliability those are all taking hold it was late last year and some of this year.
But I would say as the one thing we mentioned is and I said it first right in my comments we’re basically where we thought we would be at this point in time in the year based on our expectations other than as Carl said maybe a little bit lower on the crane sales.
But when you look at the margins you can tell that the margins are holding in there even little better than we thought.
So all of those things that we’re talking about are giving us the benefits to hit the earnings numbers have the margins a little bit better than we thought despite the lower sales volume.
So I think that gives you an indication that those initiatives we have in place are in full force.
Okay and on the then crane order outlook I’m wondering if you gentlemen can just talk about in broader turns what you’re seeing in Latin America.
Glen you’ve touched on it around the elections but I’m wondering if you could just talk about what enquiry levels are like in that market broadly and talk about your expectations in bookings over the next year in that business.
So given the fact I was there last week I am an expert on it now but I’ll let Eric answer the question.
Yes I think I would say that we have seen Brazil really struggling right now.
And I don’t think that we will see a major improvement this year but we know that we will see improvement and again our market share in Brazil is very strong in all of the products in our roster now [inaudible] finance which give us a tremendous company advantage there.
But Chile is low as well much lower than last year but this is offset by more activity in Peru Columbia and definitely Mexico is fairly is strong for us.
So that’s pretty much what we can see.
Overall we might be somewhat down in Latin America in 2014 but with the footprint we have and the product line and investment we made in this regions I think our market share will hold pretty well.
And again you have some projects base where it can change overall but again this is an important piece of our footprint.
Okay thank you.
Eli Lustgarten LongBow.
Good morning everyone.
Hi Eli.
Quick question can we talk about that pricing of course around the world? I mean it sounds like some business is up.
Pricing is holding and your improvements come from initiatives is that a fair statement around the world? And the second part of that is as you price the new [inaudible].
Is that the introductory price and the combination of getting deposits that will give you decent profitability or do you expect your profitability to probably maybe 2016 to be much better than the existing product line.
Well I think when you look at any new product introduction first off with respect to the margins on those I mean I can assure you that when will only put our plans together there is the understanding that we should be improving our margins on any new product introductions that we have.
Now you’re exactly right.
I mean the initial ones that go out whether it’s or prototype or anything else obviously you have those start-up type things that as they get through the factory there is always those costs that are upfront but that’s more of – that’s a variance to the standard costs and those are the initial phase and we’ll get past those.
But when you look at something at the 300 ton and 650 ton the bigger you get I mean typically the margins are better on those.
So the mix is better.
Now your comment on the pricing around the world on current products I think it is holding steady.
I would say the one we see very aggressive though is on some of the Japanese product lines on the RT’s they are being very aggressive because of the exchange rate.
So I think that’s probably little more unusual than we’ve seen in the past but that’s really the only thing we’ve seen with respect to competitive pricing that’s unusual for many of the other products.
I guess what I am getting at is I think you gave us some guidance for crane operating margins in the high single digits this year and I can understand the volume is better and mix is better that will happen.
If I take it out to 2015 where we start getting the new products being a more important part of the mix it sounds like that you really can expect a next step up in margins in crane to take place until sort of the second half of ‘15 and through ‘16 because of the – the big impact of the products.
Is that fair? No I don’t know that that’s necessarily true.
Obviously we are not giving any guidance yet on ‘15.
But I would say when I talked about – and let’s use the VTC technology for instance as a product rollout because it’s very near to us.
You got to remember that we’ve talked about the shipments going out in the starting in the first quarter of 2015.
All the manufacturing variances are already going to be impacted into our variances in 2014.
So I mean then you have the mix if you have the crawler picking up you have the tower picking up that’s arguably those are typically the better margin products for us.
So I wouldn’t say that you can have that expectation that it’s still the back of 2015 but you can see how it can play out and it can vary depending on volumes and mix.
All right thank you very much.
And next we’ll hear from Nicole DeBlase from Morgan Stanley.
Yeah good morning guys.
And so may be a question on just EPS seasonality and I know you guys don’t give quarterly guidance but 2Q is normally your strongest quarter of the year and I think though that given that the crane backlog suggests a stronger second half as well as crane margins is it fair to say that the second half of the year is probably going to see stronger EPS than 2Q? I think that that’s a reasonable read through.
Okay great.
And then may be just taking the Foodservice question a step further.
I mean Bob pointed out a number of new products that you guys have entering the market and I don’t see a reason why the market Foodservice growth was far from here.
So do you think that there is scope for potential upsides to your mid-single Foodservice guidance throughout the year? We are maintaining our guidance on the top line of Foodservice.
Okay.
Thank you.
And that will conclude the question-and-answer session for today.
Mr.
Khail I will turn the call back over to you for any additional or closing comments.
Before we conclude today’s call I’d like to remind everyone that a replay of our first quarter conference call will be available later this morning.
You can access the replay by visiting the Investor Relation Section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in the Manitowoc Company.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our second quarter conference call in August.
Have a good day And once again that does conclude today’s conference.
Thank you all for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to this Manitowoc Company Inc.
Second Quarter 2014 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Khail.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Manitowoc's second quarter earnings conference call.
Participating in today's call will be Glen Tellock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Carl Laurino Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; and Bob Hund President of Manitowoc Foodservice.
Glen will open today's call by providing some introductory remarks about our quarterly results and business outlook.
Following that Bob will comment on our Foodservice segment results for the second quarter as well as sharing his longer-term goals and strategies.
Then Carl will discuss our financial results for the second quarter from an enterprise and segment perspective.
Following these prepared remarks we will be joined by Eric Etchart President of Manitowoc Cranes for our question-and-answer session.
For anyone who is not able to listen to today's entire call an archived version of this call will be available later this morning.
Please visit the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com to access the replay.
Before Glen begins his commentary I would like to review our Safe Harbor statement.
This call is taking place on July 31 2014.
During the course of today's call forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 will be made during each speaker's remarks and during our question-and-answer session.
Such statements are based on the company's current assessment of its markets and other factors that affect its business.
However actual results could differ materially from any implied projections due to one or more of the factors explained in Manitowoc's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are also available on our website.
The Manitowoc Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or other circumstances.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Glen.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
Our second quarter results fell short of our expectations in both segments.
Our disappointing performance was driven by softer Crane revenue as a result of the uncertainty spanning our end markets and a limited margin expansion in Foodservice.
That said we continue to manage the business in challenging times by focusing on those areas within our control which will undoubtedly position us well as our end markets improve.
Within the segments Foodservice generated sales growth for the third consecutive quarter with sales up 4% year-over-year.
This increase was driven by growth in the Americas and EME that included the successful rollout of blended beverage equipment in EME and hot holding ice and beverage equipment in America -- North America.
In addition KitchenCare our aftermarket services and support solutions for Foodservice continue to positively contribute to the segment's performance during the quarter.
While our operating margins did not expand as we had anticipated it is important to note that we've made significant strides in realigning the business in such a way that will deliver superior performance over the long term.
Bob will discuss our Foodservice segment in more detail momentarily.
Moving on to our Crane segment.
Our second quarter sales declined 6% year-over-year and consistent with last quarter global demand pressures and widespread customer caution continue to weigh on our results.
In the second quarter orders were impacted by sluggish market conditions in the North American rough-terrain and boom truck product categories.
Softness in Brazil and the Latin America markets coupled with yen weakness and ongoing delays in Russia also contributed to the decline.
And lastly while the European economy is improving modestly end market demand for cranes still remains choppy in this region.
That said we will continue to see positive dynamics from recent quarters in the Middle East where performance and growth in tower cranes indicate that activity in that region is strong.
While our sales in North America were softer than we anticipated we are experiencing solid traction with our crawler crane product line in this region.
In addition utilization rates have also seen further growth with some product categories at full utilizations while rental rates are experiencing only modest improvement.
Although we're disappointed by our order intake in the second quarter there continues to be strong levels of inquiries.
We are encouraged by the prospects and pipeline of projects for our Crane segment.
Additionally our North American dealer inventory for rough-terrain cranes is trending in the right direction.
After peaking this past February rough-terrain inventory during the quarter decreased to its lowest level since October of 2012 and continues to trend lower.
Additionally the ABI a leading indicator of construction activity is at its highest level in the past 12 months.
As a result we expect overall growth to resume in the coming quarters with stronger demand in North America where we believe customers will begin to increase their level of activity after delaying projects for varying reasons.
Overall our market-leading product portfolio and diverse geographic footprint give us confidence in both our strategy and long-term opportunities to drive market share.
Moving on let me now provide a quick update on our implementation of several strategic priorities that should drive long-term value for the enterprise.
First the ongoing implementation of operational excellence and quality initiatives remain key priorities.
These initiatives include sourcing LEAN reliability and organization efficiency gains.
Examples include construction of our multi-purpose Foodservice plant in Monterrey; development of a shared-services platform in France to streamline our tower crane operations; expansion of our product verification center processes worldwide; organizational realignment from a regional-to-product approach; and lastly hiring of a Senior Vice President of Global Sourcing Excellence to accelerate our global sourcing initiatives.
Going forward these investments will continue as they not only improve the cost structure of the business but also accelerate our product development processes.
During the first half of the year we have already realized more than half of our full year $80 million gross savings targeted for 2014 further underscoring the success of our efforts to identify and execute on discrete areas where we see opportunities for savings.
Second we continue to further differentiate our aftermarket support business through increased revenue and customer loyalty.
Our KitchenCare and Crane Care support programs provide customers with total life cycle support for all Manitowoc products.
Third we continue to emphasize our innovation imperatives across the enterprise.
For example in Foodservice we showcased some of our new and innovative products in both our hot and cold categories at the recent National Restaurant Association trade show including our Blend-In-Cup beverage units Convotherm 4 Combi Oven technology and the U.S.
launch of KitchenCare.
In Cranes our new products and technology enhancement continue to be well received as reflected by the continuing strong demand for our new VPC crawler crane technology introduced at ConExpo.
Testing for this product is going well and we anticipate initial shipments to begin the second quarter of next year.
In addition this patented technology was recently validated by a preliminary ruling in the U.S.
International Trade Commission proceedings.
To conclude while the first half of the year tracks lower than we had anticipated our market position remains strong and we are committed to leveraging our core competencies and strengths to drive performance including new product introductions and investing in the business to drive enterprise-wide growth.
Our ability to readily and efficiently adapt to dynamic market conditions will play an important role in our performance for the remainder of 2014 and beyond.
With that I'll turn the call to Bob for a discussion on our Foodservice segment.
Bob? Thank you Glen and good morning everyone.
Foodservice experienced another period of growth during the second quarter which also outpaced overall industry growth projections.
This was driven by increased activity in select product categories along with certain end markets.
As Glen noted this included a successful rollout of blended beverage equipment in Europe as well as momentum with our KitchenCare aftermarket services offering.
Geographically we saw good growth in the Americas and the EME regions.
And with solid order activity especially on the hot side of our business we are encouraged by the opportunities ahead of us.
Looking at our product categories.
The cold side business in Americas performed well as we had strong Indigo ice machine orders during the quarter.
In addition our Koolaire ice machines showed positive momentum towards the end of the quarter.
On the hot side we continue to experience early customer adoption of our new Convotherm 4 oven with the formal rollout of this innovative product line slated for September.
And while the performance of our Americas ovens consolidation lagged during the quarter we are confident in the Cleveland facility's long-term contributions once this consolidation is complete and we begin to realize operational benefits from this important initiative.
During the National Restaurant Association trade show in Chicago we experienced strong booth traffic and our interaction with customers centered on innovation in the new standards of technology that our products are creating across the Foodservice industry.
This was best exemplified by the Kitchen Innovation Awards that we received for Garland's Induction FlexiHob Technology and the Multiplex Manual Fill Blend-In-Cup System.
Manitowoc Foodservice also received a Sustainable Supply Award from McDonald's in recognition of our ability to identify opportunities and apply sustainable solutions globally.
Looking forward our customer-centered strategies coupled with the realignment of the organization should provide solutions-based synergies while leveraging economies of scale.
As a result we are able to combine leading products and services with unique solutions that improve customer profitability.
More specifically we are diligently focused on the following initiatives which are all consistent with our strategic priorities: first through our customer-focused approach we are implementing regional growth strategies across key markets expanding our KitchenCare offering and continuing our sought-after high-performance kitchen innovation workshops directly inside customers' kitchens or in one of our demo kitchens located throughout the world.
For example in just the last few weeks we've conducted workshops at a growing fast-casual chain in India another fast-casual chain in Canada a U.S.
convenience store chain interested in growing their food service offering as well as growing an international pizza chain and casual-dining breakfast chain.
Our ability to provide meaningful solutions for our customers' challenges and opportunities creates incremental value that not only differentiates us from our competitors but also allows us to grow alongside our customers.
Second we are realizing LEAN improvements and product cost takeouts.
This is being done in conjunction with our manufacturing and business consolidation strategies as well as continuous improvements initiatives in other locations.
Third we are pursuing improvements in our market coverage processes.
With guidance from our loyal channel partners organized into councils [ph] we're implementing an automated and aligned order fulfillment process while ensuring broad account coverage and deep channel penetration in a variety of Foodservice end markets.
Fourth we are committed to product and service excellence through our alignment of product strategies with market segment goals.
This is exemplified by our recent work with an ingredient supplier so that individual restaurants beach bars hotels or small chains can have wholesale access to pre-bagged ingredients to take full advantage of our highly productive blended ice machines with the complete selection of beverages.
Another example is the substantial power savings and reduced water consumption in our new Convotherm 4 oven and our KitchenConnect equipment monitoring solution both of which are welcomed by chains focused on protecting the environment and achieving cost reductions.
Lastly our industry-leading reliability and product quality continues to resonate well with our customer base as highlighted by the extensive testing of our new Koolaire line of mid-tier ice machines which have had an essentially problem-free introduction.
Looking forward we remain on track with our strategies in the Foodservice business.
The investments that we have made and will continue to make are critical to driving our growth while further capitalizing on our product development and world-class innovation.
When combined with our diverse product offerings across the globe as well as our ability to leverage existing customer relationships we are strongly positioned to capture the opportunities to accelerate long-term growth in this segment.
I will now turn the call over to Carl to discuss our detailed second quarter financial results.
Carl? Thanks Bob and good morning everyone.
We reported net sales for the second quarter of $1 billion which is a decrease of 2% from a year ago.
This top line performance resulted from a 4% increase in Foodservice revenue and a 6% decrease in Cranes.
GAAP net earnings for the second quarter were $46.6 million or $0.34 per diluted share versus earnings of $57.6 million or $0.43 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2013.
Contributing to the year-over-year decline in net earnings is the provision for income taxes of $19.2 million that is more than double the $9.3 million tax expense incurred in the second quarter of 2013 which significantly benefited from certain discrete items.
Excluding special items second quarter 2014 adjusted earnings from continuing operations was $47.8 million $0.35 per diluted share versus adjusted earnings of $63 million $0.47 per diluted share last year.
During the second quarter cash provided by continuing operations was $73 million versus $48 million in the prior year quarter driven by cash from profitability and partially offset by seasonal working capital requirements in both segments.
For the remainder of 2014 we expect continued cash flow generation which we will allocate to fund various growth and process improvement initiatives as well as debt repayment.
We expect the pace of our debt reduction to be similar to the seasonal pattern in prior years meaning that the bulk of our debt reduction will occur in the fourth quarter.
And as previously communicated we expect to reach total leverage of less than 3x debt-to-EBITDA by the end of the year.
In terms of capital allocation we remain dedicated to maintaining a strong balance sheet while making prudent capital investments.
As we continue to pay down debt our lower leverage will enable us to evaluate our capital deployment that generates the highest risk-adjusted returns.
These include strategic acquisitions to grow our industry-leading positions share repurchases and/or dividend strategies.
Turning to our segment results.
Foodservice sales in the second quarter of 2014 totaled $407 million up 4% from a year ago.
Second quarter 2014 operating earnings in Foodservice were $65.9 million.
Operating margins of 16.2% were flat compared to the prior year quarter.
Second quarter Foodservice margin performance resulted from operating efficiencies driven by key manufacturing strategies that were largely offset by poor absorption in certain factories and unfavorable product mix.
Moving to the Crane segment.
Second quarter sales totaled $606 million a year-over-year decrease of 6%.
Same-segment operating earnings in the second quarter were $54.4 million versus $70 million last year.
This resulted in a second quarter Crane segment operating margin of 9% down 180 basis points.
This year-over-year decline was a function of lower sales volume that was only partially offset by ongoing operational efficiencies.
Contributing to the margin decline were year-over-year increases in engineering trade show and legal expenses.
Crane backlog at quarter end was $728 million essentially equal to the prior year quarter.
For the second quarter new orders totaled $491 million which represent a book-to-bill ratio of 0.8x.
While new orders during the quarter decreased 19% year-over-year for the first 6 months of 2014 Crane orders increased 4% compared to the same period in 2013.
Before concluding my remarks let me now discuss our 2014 outlook.
As noted in yesterday's press release we are updating our guidance for 2014 for Crane segment revenues and Foodservice operating margins as well as our full year effective tax rate.
For the full year the company now anticipates Crane segment revenues to be flat to slightly down as compared to revenues for the prior year period.
This revised outlook is due primarily to weakness in select markets such as greater Asia-Pacific region Russia and South America as well as continuing softness in the rough-terrain product category.
In addition Manitowoc now expects Foodservice operating margins for the full year 2014 to be in the mid-teens or roughly flat to 2013 while the effective tax rate is expected to be in the mid-teens percentage range.
The company is reaffirming the remainder of its full year outlook including Crane segment operating margins and Foodservice revenue.
Inherent in our guidance is the expectation for improved demand in Cranes as well as progress with our new product and KitchenCare Foodservice offerings.
For the full year we continue to expect mid-single-digit revenue gains in Foodservice and high single-digit operating margins in Cranes.
Capital expenditures and interest expense in 2014 will approximate $90 million and less than $100 million respectively.
We also anticipate total leverage will decline to below 3x debt-to-EBITDA well below half the peak level experienced in 2010.
With that I'll return the call to Glen for his closing comments.
Thanks Carl.
To conclude we continue to be faced with a challenging and uncertain global economy.
While we can't control the broader markets we will continue to make important investments where we see the largest opportunities for growth and focus on the aspects of the business that will drive incremental profitability improvements.
Collectively these efforts give us confidence that we can achieve our full year profitability objectives.
The strength of our product offerings as well as our commitment to innovation product quality and reliability as well as our sourcing and growth initiatives will enable us to drive long-term profitable growth as the markets improve.
This concludes our prepared remarks for today.
Shannon we will now begin our question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And we will take our first question from Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Research Division</strong> Bob or Carl can you give us more color into the Foodservice margin performance? You said you achieved about half of your $80 million in cost-cutting for the company but now we're talking about a decline in margin year-over-year in the back half of the year.
So maybe give us a little more color on what's going wrong.
Maybe can you talk about the negative mix and the lag of the Americas ovens consolidation.
If you can quantify any of these pieces for us that will be helpful.
Yes Andy this is Glen.
Good morning.
In simple terms with respect to that I want to touch on the $80 million.
We haven't broken it down but it includes 2 things.
It's the organizational savings from both Cranes and Foodservice which are both on track and it includes the sourcing initiatives from both Cranes and Foodservice.
And I would say in Foodservice and Cranes those are both -- both sides of that are on track and that's why it's coming from both sides.
Where the Foodservice margins in -- declined not to our expectation is first of all there was the mix issue which you already talked about and Bob can talk a little bit about that.
I would say the other one as we mentioned what's going on in the ovens consolidation.
We expected some things to be done there earlier this year because remember we talked about it late last year.
And so we had forecasted a decent quarter of opportunity there and it hasn't come to fruition to the point where a good portion of the management at that facility is no longer there.
We brought in a consultant that we've worked with in the past and he has worked for us in the past.
And at the same time we have a new general manager there.
So as one of our people says a lot we have the boots on the ground there.
And I would say within 90 days we would be back to where we anticipated us to be.
Unfortunately we've lost I would say anywhere from 4 to 6 months of that expectation and it won't be made up by the end of the year thus the reduction of the Foodservice forecast in margins.
Bob I don't know if you want to add on the mix...
Yes I could just a little bit on the mix.
I mean it's just within some product categories.
For instance we sold some more lower-end fryers than higher-end fryers due to the customer base that's ordering.
On the beverage side we sold more of the carbonated soft drink product than we did the blended ice products.
On the walk-ins a few larger deals in lower-margin categories were fulfilled in the second quarter than some of the traditional stuff those types of things.
On ice the ramp-up of Koolaire which is ramping up now pretty well.
Those 4 product categories in particular kind of changed the mix a bit.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
That's helpful guys.
And maybe this question is for Eric.
If you can step back and talk about the Crane cycle in general.
We always seem to have a summer swoon in orders.
It's not that surprising.
But how does the environment this summer compare to past summer swoons? Did North America actually get worse in the quarter? I know you mentioned inventories got a little better but did North America actually get worse in the quarter than last quarter? And -- or was this more pull-forward from ConExpo this year and maybe a little bit of an overhang from that in 2Q? Good morning Andy.
No I really think that the lag is really coming from North America.
It was very disappointing for us.
I mean as you know we track the market in and this market was down about above 30% which was very significant for the rough-terrains and a little less for the boom trucks.
But I think this is where we were caught by surprise.
And we have of course some good signs now and the inventory of [indiscernible] very good sign because we were fairly unhealthy after a very strong fourth quarter.
So the -- after the tough Q1 and due to the winter then the second quarter was definitely slower than we anticipated.
Now in terms of the order that we received and that was really again driven by the inventory now if we look at the order activity of our distributors in North America and the amount of projects and tracking their view the business we are fairly confident that we should see a much stronger second part of the year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And towers and crawlers were they down in the quarter too or just rough-terrains? No it's primarily rough-terrains and towers because the crawlers continue to be -- sorry.
Sorry sorry.
It's primarily rough-terrains and boom trucks.
Crawlers continue to show a lot of strength.
And towers of course in America is improving.
But where we see really upside in the tower cranes is a very strong Middle East activity.
And the Middle East activity is on 4 legs.
It's not anymore in Saudi Arabia as it used to be before.
We have seen a very strong demand now in countries like U.A.E.
Qatar Oman and so we have a much more broader view of what's happening in the Middle East.
And next we move to Charles Brady with BMO Capital Markets.
This is Patrick Wu [ph] standing in for Charlie.
Just a quick question on the Crane orders.
Obviously with the decline how much of the orders in the second quarter are expected to be recognized in the next 12 months? And how much of that will be -- is expected to be recognized beyond the next 12 months? There weren't any -- beyond what was taken at ConExpo last year that we did report there were some orders that did extend beyond 12 months.
Everything that was added in the order book was within 12 months.
Was there any order slippage that drove the orders number down? Patrick what was your question? Was there any order slippage that drove the Crane order number down during the quarter? Well I think just -- I think it's the normal market dynamics that are talked about.
I think at the same time in my comments I made the reference to the I would say more in the North America dealer inventory when we said it peaked in February and I think what they're doing is they're selling out of their fleets right now.
And so until -- we watch that.
It's certainly more normalized now.
So I don't think there's anything specifically that made the slippage other than the market being down as Eric just said 30% with the inventories they had.
And I think when we talk to our dealer base now towards the middle and the end of the quarter and we spent -- have spent a lot of time with them.
To Eric's point there's a lot of activity out there and we have watched the retail activity of the inventory from the dealers come down substantially.
Okay.
Got it.
And just one quick on -- one quick one on the Foodservice side.
The product rollouts for EME and also in North America how much did it boost sales for the second quarter? And do you guys think that is realistically sustainable or the sustainability of these rollouts moving forward in 2H? Well go ahead Carl.
I just was going to clarify the question for Bob just the roll-on roll-off effect of new rollouts anticipated versus what rolls off going forward in the last -- back half of the year.
Is that the question? Yes yes.
We've had I guess continuous rollouts.
I don't think we really have any that were extraordinary outside of what we usually do.
That one in EME finished.
We may have another one in EME starting up again.
Right now we're in the middle of a hot-holding rollout in North America.
So the rollouts continue.
What we're looking forward to in the back half of the year is the introduction of the Convotherm 4 a lot of buildup and anticipation for that particular product.
And we continue to ramp up on Koolaire and a few other products.
That answer your question or not? Well I think in the press release you mentioned that there is a rollout -- a new product rollout in the EME region sort of boosted sales for hot holding.
I'm trying to I guess quantify that amount a little bit.
So maybe just add any flavor if you can on...
Yes I think Patrick from a quantification of it I mean we try to stay away from that just because it can be if it's a product rollout for a specific customer we -- I mean I don't want to give that out other than to say what -- we're trying to give you some color that some of it is in fact the rollout and not the normal.
But I can assure you that to Bob's point when you look at the funnel of opportunities we have on different products in different regions of the world it's hard -- we have the product we have the resources ready but you have to have the other side of the equation which the customer has to say "Okay I'm going to roll this out to my franchisees." And so that's where the challenge comes in.
And we can be here and be told it's going to be in the third quarter or the fourth quarter.
And it may get pushed out because other people have market dynamics that they're dealing with within their business.
So we're just giving you a little bit of color that those things do impact and that's the -- sometimes the nature of the beast as we have never had in the past until [ph] we acquired [ph] notice because of these major rollouts.
So we don't want to specifically star out any number or customer but we -- if it spans a couple of quarters or if we know one for sure we can talk about it.
But I'd rather not give out what the specific numbers are in any individual rollout.
And we do have some more rollouts that are in the hopper that we feel good about that will occur in the end of the year.
And we move next to Jamie Cook with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Sorry.
I just need to push a little again on your implied guidance for the back half of the year for cranes because your commentary obviously is more cautious with regards to North America.
You're talking about I think more constructively on the Middle East whereas most other companies are concerned given political turmoil with the Middle East what that means for their business longer term.
But I mean you really haven't taken down the back half of your guide that much.
I mean to get to the low end of your range on sales you still need like 5% top line growth to get to your numbers.
So -- and you need orders in probably the $700 million range each quarter again to get to your numbers which is up dramatically from the $500 million or so we had a quarter in the first half.
So how much visibility do you have? I mean have you seen July -- have you gotten any orders yet for July? I mean I'm just trying to understand your confidence level there because I guess I'm concerned we're going to have the same issue that we had in the first -- in the second quarter -- or the first half the year.
Like where are you actually seeing the order activity happening? And then my second question I guess is were there any market share opportunity -- any market share losses in the second quarter? Jamie this is Carl.
So the -- obviously much of what you're asking about is in -- for Eric to give you some feedback on -- it's driven by what we see in the end markets the touch points that we have.
Now obviously we don't disclose monthly order activity but when we look at things like the utilization rates the project flow the customer inquiries those would be all taken into consideration as we try to figure out what the outlook is for the intermediate term.
But Eric...
Research Division</strong> But we had those positive in -- we had those positive I mean the same sort of positive indicators last quarter.
You know what I mean? So again is there some -- is there more hard evidence that you can give us to suggest that your orders in the back half of the year should be $700 million or so a quarter? Well again I have confidence that we'll see more order activity in North America and again the distributors are very I would say upbeat with the projects coming online.
To your questions about market share yes we've lost a bit market shares in North America.
But this is really driven by the fact that probably at the end of Q4 our inventory level was probably a little bit borderline unhealthy versus the activity and especially because the activity did not obviously increase in Q2 after Q1 to a certain level so this was really driven by the dealer inventory.
Again the market share how we track it is is basically shipment to distributions not necessarily to the retail.
So to your question there was a big swing in the market share between Q4 and Q1 and Q2 but we will -- but things will normalize to back to our normal market share I would expect as we move into the year.
Now we -- for the Middle East we are seeing a lot of activities and not only on towers but also on the all-terrain cranes.
We suffer from the yen in that part of the world additionally impacting our rough-terrain crane product lines.
I believe also in Asia we have seen some softness.
I don't think that we'll see a major rebound in Australia but we'll see increased demand in some countries like Korea and Hong Kong and Singapore for the mobile cranes.
So overall I mean this is where we expect to see more activities in the second quarter.
And Jamie I want to point something out.
We obviously anticipated these questions many of the same questions we have internally.
And I think when you look at some of the data that we've looked at over the past 3 years when you look at the first half versus the second half and you go back the last 3 years now now [ph] that I have the number specifically exact but the -- in the last 3 years every second half year has been better than the first half of the year.
And so like last year I want to say Eric 19%.
Yes it was 19%...
19% or 20%.
The back half of this year has to be a little bit better than that.
So you're exactly right.
There's some [ph] but I can tell you that just given the dynamics of the way the markets are working where people are not ordering ahead and this is one thing we talked about 24 months ago is is they're a new norm in the crane markets because people are not comfortable ordering anything long term.
What you have to have is you have to -- people once they get a project it's really -- price isn't so much the issue anymore.
It's the availability and so it's hard to sell out of that empty cupboard.
But I think if you go back and look at the trends in the last few years we see that and we're a little more comfortable on the back half of the year than we would have been say 5 years ago.
But I just give you that little bit of color to help you out also.
Research Division</strong> Can I ask you another question just historically in the third quarter? What's the most important month? I assume it's not August? No.
Well it is for some people in Europe but not for the same reason.
September is probably...
Research Division</strong> I'm just trying to get a feel for how you're feeling given we have July behind us.
Yes.
No no it's typically September.
Yes September.
July there was Ramadan in the Middle East that gets really slow and August is Europe being quite slow.
So September is the strong month.
And we'll take our next question from Seth Weber with RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So I guess if I could just get a clarification first before my question.
The market share loss is that in the rough -- that's the rough-terrain market that you're talking -- that you're referencing in North America? Yes.
Yes.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
So not to -- sorry not to beat this to death but just to go back to Jamie's question.
I mean I'm just trying to understand the messaging.
The growth that you're anticipating for the second half of the year in the Crane business is that based on just macro and sort of historical trends? Or do you really feel like you have a line of sight to those orders? I mean do you -- was July good enough that it's given you that confidence? Because what I'm trying to understand is it seems like first quarter -- your commentary on the first quarter call was things were pretty good and it sounds like things -- something deteriorated between May and June.
And so now I'm just trying to frame how that's getting better all of the sudden whether you're actually yes...
Seth it's Carl.
Yes I would say that the single biggest item is what we're talking about in the RT category with the inventories.
We expected that to swing through the year at a much faster pace.
Obviously weather was a contributor to that not happening in the first quarter but we'd certainly expect that to normalize.
The balance of -- where we have the confidence is really the types of things that Eric was talking about.
But the biggest thing that I think has been a detriment that we expect to swing the other way in the second half is in the rough-terrain category in particular in North America.
We expect it to continue -- keep going Seth.
LLC Research Division</strong> Well but didn't you take a headcount reduction at Grove on the RT production? So are you -- I assume that you were anticipating that RT production would be lower this year.
That -- we took that very early in the year.
And that was basically to cut the build schedule from where we were at.
There's always -- there's the difference between what we think the market needs and then you see the actual going forward.
I think that was an early sign that some of our initial forecasts that we had back in November December were not going to come to fruition.
So I think you're making those changes in December and January even before we had the call with you Seth.
So yes we made those changes but that was before we talked about anything.
And then the fact that -- we'll stick with the RTs you have -- what we had in the fourth -- third and fourth quarter of last year which were good RT deliveries you add that with the dealer inventory to what Carl just mentioned with the weather.
Projects were delayed.
You didn't see that stuff go out in the first quarter and the replenishing of the inventories to the North American dealer fleet.
As I mentioned in my remarks that tops out in February and has gone down considerably since that time.
Conversations with our dealers they know maybe that it's not to the same levels they had last year in this year in February but as I say you can't sell out of an empty cupboard.
So that's why you have the distributors and I think when you look at some of the -- or talk about some of the distributors and where they think things are going it's a pretty good story.
And we spend a lot of time with them.
So I recognize the fact that there do have to be some orders that are taken and shipped within the quarter.
But that's pretty normal for us and that's where the risk is.
But again I would say the unfortunate disconnect and I think you would hear this out of any of our competitors is when you talk to the end users there's a lot of business out there and people are having great years whether it's the crane rental companies or the dealers.
There's a big disconnect to what the order pattern is though and it's because of that uncertainty people have of what's going forward.
For instance the highway bill.
Okay so they approved [indiscernible] year.
That doesn't give anybody any confidence that there's a 5-year bill and they'll spend money for bridges on the small crawlers or even the bigger RTs.
So it's that kind of thing that people are doing it when they have the cash when they have the project.
And so you got to go a little bit on some of the -- what we've talked with on the dealer and the customer base.
And just on the rough-terrain if you look at the utilization of the rental houses of our dealers in their rental fleet this is fairly high I mean in the high-70s and sometimes over 80%.
And they have seen a little bit of traction also on the rental rates.
So these are signs that gives us confidence that again we should see more activity coming from that product line.
So now on top of the -- of that we have a very strong activity in the small crawlers and normally you don't have this disconnect between the strong activity on the crawlers and then especially the small and medium size and then the rough-terrains.
LLC Research Division</strong> So if we were looking at the second half of the year where you're projecting some growth on a relative basis should we assume that the RTs will outgrow the other categories? Or you think crawlers and towers have greater growth relative to the RTs in the second half year-over-year? I think the RT should catch up but I do not see any slowdown in the orders activity for the crawlers.
LLC Research Division</strong> But from a revenue perspective do you think that the revenue would be tilted one way or the other? Versus this quarter? LLC Research Division</strong> Versus the last -- second half last year.
Versus second half last year.
LLC Research Division</strong> I'm just trying to understand which category you think will be growing on the revenue line year-over-year.
Our year-over-year in the second half? In the second half.
LLC Research Division</strong> Right.
So your guidance sort of implies year-over-year growth in the second half and I'm just trying to understand which product category that might be coming from.
Small crawlers I mean the small crawlers in North America and rough-terrains but overall definitely towers.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
If I could just slide in one other clarification.
The VPC is now shipping you think 2Q '15? Is that the target? Well I -- that's what I said and I think we're trying to -- when Eric said in the first quarter and again we've discussed this internally Eric said late first quarter.
And I still believe there are pieces of the VPC that are going to go in the first quarter.
But I think there's some of the larger 650s that will be early second quarter and so it's not a big change.
It doesn't mean it's later in the second quarter.
But I think what we're trying to do internally is not fire up that expectation that everything comes out in the first quarter and blend it between the -- if we get the benefit in the first quarter second quarter -- it's early second quarter so it's not that big of a deal.
But I think some of the expectations to customers we want to make sure we temper that because there's still a lot of testing to go on.
Even though we like what's happening you get into the fall and the winter months.
But we're still good.
And we will take our next question from Steve Volkmann with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Just a quick follow-up on Cranes as well.
I think it was Glen maybe you were mentioning that the yen was a bit of a headwind for you.
And I'm wondering sort of on the other side of the ledger some of your yen-based competitors that we spoke with at ConExpo sort of said that they were willing to use some of the yen benefits they had to try to gain some share.
And I'm wondering if that might be part of the situation on the share side.
And maybe directly what are you seeing in pricing? Yes there's -- you're touching on a big part of it Steve to the point where yes using it to their advantage.
And I would say when we talk about the market shares and Eric touched on this a bit to look at market shares for a quarter that's -- it's kind of retail activity.
So with us you look over 12 months and our market shares are still very solid.
But if you look at it quarter-over-quarter ours were very good in the third and fourth quarter last year.
And that's where we say yes we have lost some share this first half of the year just because ours were in the dealer inventory.
So -- but it is to some of the Japanese competitors who are using that exchange rate to their advantage and there's nothing else you can say.
Yes it is in pricing.
But I think this is more acute in the Middle East where definitely they are extremely aggressive in using the yen obviously to discount their pricing.
Again the market share loss in North America could a little bit be due to the Japanese but overall I think the dealer inventory is really part of -- the greatest part of the Middle East.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
That's helpful color.
And then Glen just a quick follow-up as well.
Have you had any conversations with your newest large shareholder? Or is there anything kind of going on there that we should be aware of? Well I think as you saw in our news release after their filing we did say that we've had conversations with them.
And it's consistent with our policy of what we always do.
I mean they're a shareholder.
We talk to them we talk to other people.
We just don't necessarily disclose what we talked about or when we talk to them.
So that's about all I can say on that.
But we will have conversations with them.
We did in the past.
We will with other shareholders.
And so we keep an open dialogue with them.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Great.
And can you just remind us of from your perspective kind of the industrial logic or financial or whatever management kind of synergies you sort of feel like speak to the current business model in terms of the 2 different businesses? Well look it's not like this is new to us and are surprised by people asking about the business is better together or apart.
I mean we get these questions on a regular basis in one-on-one conversations with shareholders or prospective shareholders.
I think when you look at it there's 3 areas that make a lot of sense to us.
And one of them is the 2 businesses are complementary and the fact that you can see the cycles and you can see the -- how well we can do as an enterprise back and forth between them and gives us the opportunity to invest throughout a cycle whether it's in Cranes or Foodservice.
And a perfect example of that is whether it's the facility in Monterrey the facility in Brazil or the new product introductions we have from an enterprise standpoint a much stronger pipeline of activity.
And the other area there are synergies such as our sourcing initiatives.
As a group when you look at the synergies we get from logistics from the indirects there's areas of purchasing with respect to different commodities that we buy.
And you get the benefits of those.
And lastly you get the benefits of some of the corporate-wide processes the enterprise-wide processes of safety of EVA of the ability to move people from one side of the business to the other.
It's a reduction in those HR -- the HR costs of trying to recruit talent.
We have a very good pipeline of people.
It's those types of processes.
So at the end of the day you put all that together and you ask yourself -- I see what other people say of the sum of the parts.
I mean we have our internal calculations as to what the sum of the parts are.
And it's just like the analyst projections out there they get to a consensus.
Somebody has to buy somebody has to sell somebody has a whole.
It's all based on the assumptions that you use and we try to look at what someone's assumptions are versus ours and try to ask why does it or doesn't it make sense.
And as we sit here today in perfect honesty our board and management are still committed to the fact that this is better together than it is in a different combination.
And we'll take our next question from Schon Williams with BB&amp;T.
Research Division</strong> Maybe I'll switch gears a little bit and give Bob a chance to talk.
I wonder if you could just comment on the progression of the growth rates and food equipment over the last couple of quarters.
I mean a bit of a deceleration from kind of the high single-digits that you did in Q4 and Q1 in terms of the growth.
Seasonally I would have actually expected a little bit more of a pickup in Q2 volumes versus Q1.
Can you just talk about I don't know was there anything -- were the rollouts helping Q4 and Q1 and now that's fading a little bit? I just want to get a sense of kind of what the overall demand environment feels like.
The rollouts like I said before the rollouts continue.
I don't want to say they extraordinarily helped us in Q4 and Q1.
If you look at the restaurant -- there's a restaurant performance index that's out there and it's actually trending a little bit up right now which is positive for us.
The FER Foodservice Equipment Reports is projecting about a 4.1% industry growth.
At the moment we're like Carl said earlier around 4.5%.
So I feel good about that.
In terms of where we see -- the weaknesses in the beginning of the year a lot of it had to do with weather that occurred.
We did see a little bit weaker-than-planned April and May but we did get more orders coming in.
I mentioned in my remarks especially on the hot side coming in in the last couple of weeks of June.
It wasn't enough we couldn't produce it before the end of the quarter.
But our order intake near the end of June was at a fairly substantial level and we actually finished the second quarter with a backlog which is usually a little bit rare for us to do that and I can't explain 100% why but we have that.
And there were some -- a few of the larger chains had less order projections.
We tend to put more orders in in the earlier spring and some of those came later.
Nothing more unusual that I can really remark on than that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then could you comment specifically on what you're seeing in Asia? I guess I'm a bit concerned about at least Yum! has made some announcements around kind of significant deterioration in their same-store sales in Asia related to kind of a new food supply scare.
Is that something that is affecting you at this point or that you anticipate kind of affecting you in the back half of the year? Yes.
The food -- you can read in the press about what's happening with this one company who produce food for McDonald's and Yum! It has affected some orders we've come through and some things have been delayed.
But on the same token there are other chains in Asia that are starting up.
Now in the top 3 chains is a non-U.S.
chain in Asia which is a good customer of ours.
They're expected to grow to expand their numbers up in the 20 000 range in the next 20 years.
So we're getting closer to some of those more local chains.
And one of the I guess strategies around that to be able to do that is to produce more in Asia.
We have our factories in Foshan on the hot side and Hanshou on the cold side which are well-suited and we can produce more.
But the more products we can put into Asia to serve the local Asian markets the more opportunities we're going to get with those newer local chains.
So we can satisfy our traditional customers there and some of the newer ones as well.
And we'll take our next question from Nicole DeBlase with Morgan Stanley.
Research Division</strong> So I mean maybe going back to Foodservice a little bit.
I mean I think that you've talked before about being able to get to kind of high-teens margins over time and then maybe upside from there even further into the future.
So I'm just curious if the margin result today gives you any hesitance about that longer-term goal? No.
It doesn't Nicole.
This is Carl.
The issue really that we're experiencing is I think not necessarily believing that we're going to turn around some of the mix headwind that we talked about.
And when you look at the opportunity that we believe that we had relative to the consolidation activity it was definitely compromised with what you saw from us in the second quarter.
And unfortunately we think that that is going to linger.
And this quarter -- second quarter and third quarter were really the 2 that we expected to make some hay in that front to get closer to the high-teen level.
So that's where we came out with essentially revising the margin guidance for Foodservice.
Bob did you...
Yes I'll just maybe Nicole add to that too to what Carl is saying.
Glen had mentioned earlier and I mentioned in my remarks about it's the -- the progress we're making in Cleveland was slower than expected on the ovens okay? And we've made some management changes.
Things are coming back.
Glen had mentioned 90 days.
So that -- I think we're getting that back on track.
But at the same time we are continuing our cost-reduction and consolidation efforts.
Right at the moment we're doing 2 -- our 2 factories in Shreveport are consolidating down to one.
We closed our warehouse in Salem and merged it into Sellersburg.
We're ramping up our ice.
We're putting more products with our global refrigeration line to Monterrey to get its utilization up and going.
So I think that even though it slowed down a little bit it is -- we all have all the other initiatives that are in line to continue on that margin growth curve.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
Got it.
That's really helpful.
And then maybe we could just tick the box on the Crane side on the used crane market what you guys are seeing there with respect to volumes and pricing anything to be concerned about.
When you said the huge crane you mean the larger crawlers? Research Division</strong> No the -- no no no not huge the used crane market.
Used crane.
I thought you said huge.
Sorry.
I would say when you look at and I think Eric would confirm when you look at the used crane market it's relatively stable and I think it's okay.
I mean there's not a lot of people running to it.
I think the prices are holding steady.
I think it's obviously a good outlet for people right now if they want to trade out and buy new.
Eric do you...
No nothing to add.
It's correct.
And we'll take next question from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> Can you gentlemen talk about the additional planned consolidation opportunities in Foodservices heading into next year without obviously talking about specific plans? But is there more room to go? And also Bob perhaps you could touch on on the new product side cadence.
How do those portfolios stack up in '15 compared to what you're delivering this year? Jerry that's -- Bob somewhat alluded to a couple of the things that we're looking at already on the consolidation side.
We talked about the distribution warehouse in Salem the Shreveport going from 2 facilities down to 1.
You have an expansion of more product into the Monterrey facility.
So I mean I think it's -- again it's some other things that are going into the China facility for the Asia market.
There's some opportunities within Asia itself that we're pursuing to build more product there again for the Asia market not to move around the world but more for India and Asia -- I'm sorry India and China.
So those things continue to work out as we see fit.
And I think the more you do and with Bob's new organization and along with Eric's the more the manufacturer the heads of manufacturing continue to do these things and find the LEAN initiatives the sourcing initiatives and everything going together every time you do it you find more and more opportunities.
So stay tuned and I'm sure there'll be more to come.
But again it goes to the comment on Foodservice on how we get to the high-teen margins.
Now Bob I'll let you explain some of the new products...
Yes and maybe I can also just add to Glen's comment too.
With the expansion into Asia we do have opportunities Foshan Hanshou.
We also have a small JV in Thailand that we can utilize.
And when the reduction of import duties particularly into India are happening we can leverage some of those facilities that we have today and bring some products in it.
We do have new product introductions coming near the end of the year the beginning of next year: refrigeration; there's one in frying; we have one surface cooking that we have; and some variants in the beverage category particularly in the blended ice to make it more attractive to different segments.
So we do have a pretty strong pipeline of NPIs that are happening in the second half of this year and the beginning of next year too as we always do.
We're not stagnant.
The biggest one as I mentioned earlier is the Convotherm 4 which will be out in September.
That's our big launch for the year for that particular product.
Research Division</strong> And Bob just to clarify your sense on new product contribution opportunities in '15 versus '14 are we talking about a similar level of contribution? And I appreciate it might be a bit early to tell but I would love your initial impressions there.
Yes well we do measure the incremental new product contribution over current and we're exceeding that right now through the midyear and our plan is to grow that.
We will have a greater contribution of new products through the rest of this year and the beginning of next year.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then on the Crane side can you gentlemen just talk about what you're seeing in the European market and also in North America crawler crane and tower crane markets just update us on how far those markets are off of the '07 highs at this point.
And for some of the longer-lead-time items are you seeing any increase in inquiries at all outside of the new product launch you had at ConExpo? Yes in Europe obviously the Western Europe is bumping along the bottom I would say kind of struggling France Italy Spain or Portugal.
We see a much increased activity in the U.K.
and Northern Europe Denmark Norway Switzerland Germany.
So that's really contrasting [ph] but that's what we see in Europe.
So it's obviously since we see how things are turning around in Western Europe it will be a contrasting picture.
As far as the crawlers questions as I said earlier we continue to see very strong demand for the small crawlers and we continue of course to be seeing good demands for the larger crawlers that we anticipate of course will have a bigger impact next year when we start shipping the VPC technology.
But I want to say that since ConExpo where we picked up many many orders we have seen the orders -- we confirmed that by the major [indiscernible] coming to the plant [ph].
But the positive sign also has been that the orders from our distributors has now been retailed for most of them.
So that's a very encouraging sign that we have seen in the latter part of the quarter.
And Jerry to your comment to the supply side I don't think there's any change that -- in any of that we've seen in an extension of lead times or anything like that.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And I apologize just a clarification on what you're seeing in Europe Eric.
So the activity you're seeing U.K.
Switzerland Germany is that enough to have year-over-year growth out of Europe as a whole? Or is it still flattish? It will be a small growth overall.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's question-and-answer session.
I would like to turn the conference over to Mr.
Khail for any closing or additional remarks.
Before we conclude today's call I'd like to remind everyone that a replay of our second quarter conference call will be available later this morning.
You can access the replay by visiting the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in The Manitowoc Company.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our third quarter conference call in October.
Have a good day.
And ladies and gentlemen that does conclude today's conference.
We do thank you for your participation.
You may now disconnect.
Have a great rest of your day.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Manitowoc Company Incorporated Third Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Khail.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Manitowoc's Third Quarter Earnings Conference Call.
Participating in today's call will be Glen Tellock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carl Laurino Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Glen will open today's call by providing an overview of our quarterly results and business outlook.
Carl will then discuss our financial results for the third quarter in greater detail.
Following our prepared remarks we will be joined by Eric Etchart President of Manitowoc Cranes; and Bob Hund President of Manitowoc Foodservice for our question-and-answer session.
For anyone who is not able to listen to today's entire call an archived version of this call will be available later this morning.
Please visit the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com to access the replay.
Before Glen begins his commentary I would like to review our Safe Harbor statement.
This call is taking place on October 28 2014.
During the course of today's call forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 will be made during each speaker's remarks and during our question-and-answer session.
Such statements are based on the company's current assessment of its markets and other factors that affect its business.
However actual results could differ materially from any implied projections due to one or more of the factors explained in Manitowoc's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are also available on our website.
The Manitowoc Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or other circumstances.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Glen.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
Yesterday we reported our third quarter results and we were clearly disappointed with our performance.
We continue to be faced with a challenging demand environment globally driven by uncertainty across our end markets and a general lack of customer confidence particularly in cranes.
During the quarter our Crane revenue was impacted by soft rough terrain and boom truck markets in North America as well as ongoing weakness in Latin America.
Additionally our Foodservice segment experienced tepid demand in certain geographic regions namely Asia-Pacific coupled with macroeconomic factors that impacted the buying patterns of some key U.S.
chains.
Despite these headwinds and consistent with what we have communicated historically we are concentrating on the areas of the business that are within our control.
As I look back at the difficult times we have faced as a company throughout various cycles our team has proven its ability to manage the business without compromising our competitive position in the marketplace.
Our response to these circumstances was to concentrate our attention on becoming a more agile organization through cost optimization while maintaining our leadership position through innovation and quality enabling us to maximize our performance in the near term.
This commitment also positions us well to capture growth when the end markets improve.
Last quarter we updated you on our full $80 million gross savings target more than half of which we had already realized.
In the third quarter we leveraged additional opportunities for savings.
We remain on track with this initiative which underscores our ability to execute on key areas that will improve our financial and operational performance.
Most importantly these savings will enable the team to identify other opportunistic investments to better position the enterprise for long-term profitability.
Now let me spend a few minutes discussing our segment results.
During the quarter our Foodservice segment posted its fourth consecutive of top-line growth with sales up 4% year-over-year.
This improvement was driven by a combination of strength in our garbage business as well as solid performance by our recently introduced Koolaire ice machines in North America.
We also saw strength late in the quarter from the hot side of the business as most brands generated year-over-year sales increases.
While 4% growth year-over-year is respectable this is below our initial expectation when we guided the market in Q2.
We had expected higher growth in APAC but the food supplier issues faced by several chains in China stunted that growth expectation.
The continuing headwinds in EME particularly on the hot side have likewise challenged our initial expectation as these changing dynamics led to the change in our top line outlook for the balance of the year.
On a more specific challenge we discussed in Q2 our 90-day plan to resolve our oven consolidation in Cleveland has progressed according to expectation.
We are essentially complete with the core elements of the remediation program and we were pleased with the performance of that business as we moved into the fourth quarter.
Indeed Cleveland had its strongest month to date in September in terms of shipping reduced inventories and improved profitability.
Despite some pockets of strength multiple factors continue to weigh on Foodservice margins.
This is a result of a combination of efforts to improve efficiencies in lower-margin operations unfavorable product and channel mix as well as weak demand related to U.S.
chains operating in the Asia-Pacific region.
I am confident in the team we have in place to enhance our operational performance bring the best product portfolio to our customers and ultimately drive improved performance for this segment.
Moving to our Crane segment.
Our third quarter results were disappointing with sales declining 7% year-over-year.
Consistent with previous quarters ongoing global demand pressures slower-than-anticipated recovery in the non-residential construction markets and lack of confidence in macroeconomic improvement continue to negatively impact revenue.
In the third quarter weak North American rough terrain sales a significant decline in both the North American and Latin American boom truck markets and ongoing softness in Europe all contributed to the quarter's decline.
There are however a few bright spots from a geographical and product standpoint including the continued strength in mobile and tower cranes in the Middle East and ongoing testing progress with our new VPC crawler crane technology.
In addition new orders during the quarter increased 24% year-over-year.
Crane utilization rates have also remained strong and rental rates showed further improvement in most product categories all of which are positive signs for this segment's outlook.
While our 2014 results have not demonstrated the improvement we had anticipated at the start of the year the long-term prospects for the enterprise as we launch new products intensify operational excellence and emphasize quality initials -- initiatives remain intact.
Improving all aspects of the business that we can control during unstable times includes sourcing LEAN quality and reliability as well as organizational efficiency remains our #1 priority.
Before turning the call over to Carl I want to spend a few minutes discussing our initiatives to further enhance the business.
We continue to realize LEAN improvements and product cost takeouts which is being done in conjunction with our overall manufacturing consolidation strategy.
An example of these efforts is the recently announced closure of our La Mirada beverage operation which will be consolidated into our Tijuana facility.
We expect this to be completed in the first half of 2015.
From a product development and quality perspective we remain encouraged by the early customer adoption of our new Convotherm 4 oven in Foodservice.
We ramped up production of our electric models of this innovative oven and began shipping products earlier this month while our gas models are slated to begin shipping in December.
Testing of these products is ongoing and the field trial results continue to be extremely positive.
Improved customer satisfaction also remains at the forefront of our efforts and in Cranes we have added resources concentrated on reliability and quality in order to deliver the most efficient and cost-effective products for our customers.
To this end our efforts are paying off as our cost of poor quality metrics continue to decrease and remain significantly below last year's levels.
Our aftermarket services Crane Care and KitchenCare are providing a key competitive advantage in contributing positively to our performance.
For the third quarter KitchenCare which was modeled off our success with Crane Care has reached the anticipated levels of year-to-date revenue.
Our investments made to accelerate response times broaden global capabilities and strengthen technical support including a KitchenCare parts warehouse are beginning to bear fruit.
As we move forward we expect to implement additional programs expand our overall offering and realize incremental benefits to our top and bottom lines.
To conclude our third quarter results and 2014 outlook are disappointing.
However we remain committed to improving performance through areas within our control.
We continue to strategically invest in the business while improving our overall cost structure.
These actions will improve our ability to execute on our initiatives and further enhance our operational agility fostering development of new products to satisfy our customers' evolving needs.
I'll now turn the call over to Carl to discuss our detailed third quarter financial results.
Carl? Thanks Glen and good morning everyone.
We reported net sales for the third quarter of $986.3 million which is a decrease of 3% from a year ago.
This top line performance resulted from a 4% increase in Foodservice revenue and a 7% decrease in Cranes.
GAAP net earnings for the third quarter were $73.1 million or $0.53 per diluted share versus earnings of $52.9 million or $0.39 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2013.
Contributing to the year-over-year increase in net earnings is the benefit for income taxes of $18.1 million due to discrete items in the quarter versus income tax expense of $17 million in the third quarter of 2013.
Excluding special items third quarter 2014 adjusted earnings from continuing operations was $50.1 million or $0.36 per diluted share versus adjusted earnings of $54.5 million or $0.40 per diluted share last year.
During the third quarter cash provided by continuing operations was $59.9 million versus $116.1 million in the prior year quarter driven by cash from profitability and partially offset by seasonal working capital requirements in both segments.
More importantly we generated excellent results in terms of our cost savings initiatives which resulted in over $12 million of product cost benefits nearly $7 million of lower interest expense and approximately $26 million of tax savings.
For the remainder of 2014 anticipated cash flow generation will be allocated to fund various growth and process improvement initiatives as well as debt repayment.
As previously communicated we expect to reach a total debt-to-EBITDA ratio of approximately 3.5x by the end of the year.
In terms of capital allocation we remain dedicated to maintaining a strong balance sheet while making prudent capital investments.
As we continue to pay down debt our lower leverage will enable us to evaluate our capital deployment and prioritize investments that generate the highest risk-adjusted returns.
These might include investments in organic cost savings or growth initiatives acquisitions to grow our industry leading positions share repurchases and/or dividend strategies.
Turning to our segment results.
Foodservice sales in the third quarter of 2014 totaled $417 million up 4% from a year ago.
Third quarter 2014 operating earnings in Foodservice were $61.9 million.
Operating margins of 14.8% were down 250 basis points compared to the prior year quarter.
Third quarter Foodservice margin performance resulted from savings from manufacturing cost reduction initiatives that were more than offset by an unfavorable product mix higher commodity prices and lack of any new major -- new product rollouts.
Moving to the Crane segment.
Third quarter sales totaled $569 million a year-over-year decrease of 7%.
Crane segment operating earnings in the third quarter were $41.6 million versus $59.1 million last year.
This resulted in a third quarter Crane segment operating margin of 7.3% down 240 basis points.
This year-over-year decline was a function of lower sales volume which drove lower absorption and was only partially offset by savings from purchasing cost reduction initiatives and ongoing operational efficiencies.
Big backlog at quarter end was $716 million.
For the third quarter new orders totaled $557 million which represents an approximate onetime book-to-bill.
As Glen mentioned new orders during the quarter increased 24% year-over-year primarily driven by the success of our new products including the patented VPC crawler crane technology.
Most of our favorable order intake in the third quarter was driven by products that will be delivered this year which underscores our optimism to achieve our Q4 expectations.
Before concluding my remarks let me now discuss our 2014 outlook.
For the full year the company anticipates Crane segment revenues to decline mid to high single-digit percentages as compared to revenues for the prior year period while Crane operating margins will be in the 7% range.
In addition Manitowoc expects Foodservice segment revenues to be up by low to mid-single-digit percentages as compared to revenues for the prior year period and operating margins for full year 2014 to be in the 15% range.
For the full year we continue to expect capital expenditures and depreciation and amortization will approximate $90 million $120 million and $120 million respectively.
We also anticipate total leverage of approximately 3.5x debt-to-EBITDA roughly half the peak level experienced in 2010 and interest expense to be in the low to mid $90 million range.
With that I'll return the call to Glen for his closing comments.
Thanks Carl.
To conclude we are operating in an unpredictable and stagnant global economy.
While we can't control the broader markets we will make opportunistic investments where we see the best areas for growth.
Additionally our focus will remain on becoming a more agile business that is able to succeed in the face of a turbulent market environment.
The ongoing implementation of our cost initiatives which will help us achieve our goals will enable the company to take full advantage of improving demand through increased efficiencies on the manufacturing side as well as on the sourcing side.
This concludes our prepared remarks for today.
Randy we will now begin our question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll now take our first question from Andrew Kaplowitz from Barclays.
Research Division</strong> It's Vlad Bystricky on for Andy.
Can you guys talk about -- how would you characterize channel inventory in North America today? And maybe more specifically did you see any incremental weakening in mobile hydraulic and boom truck end markets during the quarter and since? Or did demand just not pick up as you expected it to? Andy I'll take the first shot at that and if Eric has anything -- to say anything.
That's -- you're touching on what's the frustrating part of the whole dynamic here.
You talk to end users you talk about the years they're having you talk to the Crane rental companies with -- and we mentioned it the utilization rates and rental rates the utilization and then we look at the inventory in the channel.
And that's where -- our expectation when we came out of the second quarter we figured there was opportunity because it was on the low end.
And I would say it's -- we have a range where we look at.
It's anywhere from the middle end to the low end of that range still.
And that's the frustrating part is some of our forecasts are based on what we see the people we talk to and the expectations we have.
And I think a lot of the people you talk to I mean -- and Eric and I and our people have had a lot of conversations with just different customers over the quarter as it hasn't come to fruition asking why? And a lot of it is -- some of it as we say they're just not confident.
The only thing they can see out is 4 6 months and that's not enough for a lot of them to turn our POs into purchases.
So you see in some of our rental fleets that it's pretty much the same.
It hasn't gone down.
So that's why we -- I'll be honest with you we sit and shake our heads sometimes and you talk to the customers they're having great years.
And even had one customer say to me out of the Midwest he said "man we're just -- we're doing great.
You guys must be having a great year " and all you can do is smile and laugh.
I mean that's -- because it is a different dynamic than what we've seen in previous cycles.
And Eric I don't know if you have anything to add? No.
I mean you hit all the key points on the head.
I think on an inventory standpoint it's -- we're still pretty low in the channel but we haven't seen the traction that we had expected before Andy.
On the boom truck side though we were -- the total industry was down in North America by 11% at the end of Q2.
And if you look at the end of Q3 it's -- year-over-year it's down 15%.
So we have seen on the boom truck side some kind of deteriorations.
And our key business total industry in North America is down 27%.
So we haven't seen the end of the tractions.
And as Glen mentioned I mean there is clearly a disconnect because we see the utilizations in the 80% for the rough terrains and still the rental rates are not getting the traction that you should see in that kind of environment with that kind of utilization.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's very helpful.
Maybe stepping back more broadly and focusing in on the cost initiatives and operational improvement efforts that you have going on do you think that over time as these take hold that decrementals can be better than sort of the 30%-plus range and then on the upside when you see growth could we see incremental margins be better than sort of the mid 20%-plus range on the upside as these initiatives take hold? Yes Vlad.
That's absolutely what we're trying to get to is to make sure that we're sizing the business at a reasonable level.
Obviously this is an industry in our Crane business that is quite cyclical and the trick is to make sure that our capabilities don't necessarily get to the anticipated peak of the cycle but that they're very efficient at the lower levels of the cycles.
But then you still have the agility to get and the byproduct of that from a margin standpoint should be that our decrementals will decrease and our incrementals will increase from where they have been And we'll now take our next question from Charley Brady from BMO Capital Markets.
Just back on the comment that Eric made a moment ago on the industrywide for RTs down 27% in Q3.
What was that in Q2? Charlie this was -- this is for the full year year-to-date end of August in actual fact; we didn't get September yet.
So it's 27% down but it's been -- this trend has been consistent quarter-over-quarter I would say.
Okay great.
And just can we focus on the new order number for a minute.
Obviously a better number than we were looking for.
But I wonder can you comment on the duration of those orders? You commented a lot of it is going to get shipped in Q4.
Does anything go beyond 12 months? And can you talk maybe about the makeup of that and what you're seeing on the crawlers and the towers? Is that continuing to kind of go up? Or is it flatlining out or going down? There really isn't anything that we received in terms of orders that extends very far at this point.
Obviously when you look at the backlog that's a different question because we have the VPC in there that's really weighed to the second half of the -- of 2015 but the orders we received in the quarter were more along the lines of within -- delivery within 6 months.
Yes and maybe I can chime in Charlie in terms of trains.
Towers are exactly where we thought they were going to be.
That means that the activity is keyed on the low side but exactly as we are forecasting now.
You see more demands coming.
Definitely North America if you talk to the rental channel their rental utilization is extremely high.
It's at 90% 95% for towers and they are going to invest next year.
Their rental rates are really gone up and they are not very far from previous peak.
Now the -- in the rest of the world we have seen very good order intake and activity in the Middle East.
And not only coming from Saudi Arabia but coming from the whole core Middle East.
And I would say in Europe it's where we anticipated.
It's flat on the very low level due to the situation in Europe.
Can you just make similar comments on the crawler market? Yes sorry.
I forgot that piece of the question.
Yes crawlers continues to be a fairly good story.
The large crawlers this is definitely a positive for us.
While we are not taking more orders right now most of the orders we have are for the rental channels with end users or whatever our users have ordered now they have retailed those cranes.
So I mean it's a pretty good picture and we're very -- again very excited to the valuable positioning counterweight and the receptions.
Now everyone is expecting to kick the tires out in the field and we have to start shipping as you know end of Q1 or starting Q2.
The small crawlers have been very strong overall through North America and we continue to see good order intake and including also in APAC regions.
So overall I would say the crawlers is a decent story.
And we'll now take our next question from Seth Weber from RBC Capital Markets.
LLC Research Division</strong> So just -- on the near term the crane revenue outlook I just want to circle back I guess to Vlad's question.
Are you -- does the fourth -- the implied fourth quarter outlook does that assume that some of the RT dealer restock that we kind of missed in the third quarter happens in the fourth quarter? And can you talk about your expectations for book and ship in the fourth quarter? And then my other Crane question is have you seen any back-off or cancellations related to the volatility in the energy markets? I'll let Carl do a little on -- a little more on the -- what's translating from the quarter 3 to quarter 4.
But I would say to answer your second question we've had a lot of conversations with customers about that also on the price of oil as it was dropping.
And quite honestly we're not hearing anything back on those types of comments that projects have been delayed.
I think to almost -- almost to the contrary everybody's got their number that they're looking at as to what the price of oil has to be.
And at that $80 price it seems like a very doable number.
There's a lot of projections that are coming out of the southwest part of the United States right now and watching a lot of different studies and a lot of people are talking about maybe not a lot of change in 2015 but the expectation is for 2016.
But who knows again on that? I mean I think we've proven pretty well that it's tough to forecast.
So I'm not going to jump on that bandwagon.
But what we see in Q3 to Q4 I don't know that you -- again a lot of the dealer inventory but I would -- just because of what we see I mean -- as I said in my first comments that this is the frustrating thing.
You would see if people believed that 2015 was going to pick up they would be ordering for that part of the cycle but -- which was the anticipation last year.
I mean -- and so I think the dealer stocking we'll watch very closely.
I think some other things that may change the dynamic in the fourth quarter that we've talked to some customers about is what's the confidence after next week's elections? I mean do -- does anything change in the tax ramifications of the bonus depreciation? Is there a little more confidence in the direction of things? Don't know that I'm going to hang my hat on any of that.
But again it's conversations that take place.
So Carl if you want to add to that.
LLC Research Division</strong> But just -- but Glen just so -- so you're not assuming any kind of a big pickup in the restocking relative to kind of what we've seen here so far in the third -- in the second half kind of -- so I think that was a big part of your adjustment to the guidance for the year right was this restock didn't happen.
So I just want to make sure that that's not something that's embedded in the -- in your fourth quarter outlook.
You're spot on.
I mean that's -- and that's what I said.
When you looked at the second quarter you believed people had to.
Didn't have to but we expected them to make some of their adjustments to their inventory levels and they basically said "I am comfortable where it's at." And at the low end of the spectrum.
So yes they haven't made that adjustment.
And so that expectation is not there to your point.
And Seth I chime in for the cancellations.
There we haven't seen any cancellations.
And I would say to the contrary in the Gulf area some projects I've studied when we discussed about so many projects being in the pipe some projects are studied okay maybe they are more gas-related but they -- we have not seen any cancellation.
LLC Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then if I could ask a question on the Foodservice margin is it possible to put a number around -- so you're looking for 15% or so this year.
The number I think -- we started the year at a higher level I think upper -- mid to upper teens.
Is it possible to quantify how much of a headwind the Cleveland issue was to margin for this year so we can get an idea what next year's ramp could look like? Seth it was over 100 basis points for us this year when you look at the costs that went in as well as some inefficiencies as the factory was operating.
And we'll now take our next question from Mig Dobre from Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> I just want to clarify a little bit from Seth's question that in Foodservice if we assume product mix to remain the same and revenue to remain flat going forward based on your cost stock -- actions and all the headwinds that you have with Cleveland that supposedly go away how should we be thinking about margin here? The -- obviously we haven't provided any kind of specific guidance yet as we're completing the business plan and typically do that as we announce our fourth quarter results but I think the description that you gave of how we're looking at '15 is appropriate given the earlier comment I made about managing a cyclical business to make sure that our expectations about what the markets are going to be are conservative and that we are taking the cost action such that we can make the business operate efficiently.
The elements that we saw is some headwinds for us.
You mentioned Cleveland but also product mix was pretty significant for us in Foodservice.
And then obviously you know about the big absorption hit that we took in Cranes that perhaps is going to be a little bit of a wild card on those 2 fronts.
But the other kind of one-time elements are going to help us in that margin progression coupled with some of the things we're focused on on the cost side that will continue.
Yes Mig I would -- I want Bob to say a few things here because I think we have a pretty decent story on some of the items that we're working on that will be positive and then I also talked about some of the headwinds.
I think what -- we also didn't talk about on the headwinds right now just in the quarter I mean you had -- there's a little bit on some new product costs which we have some -- and I don't want to call them rollouts.
We'll call them new products that are coming out next year to the general market.
And so the cost of that will be behind us.
You have -- some of the benefits you have and the initiatives we've already talked about.
And I'll say in Foodservice because that's who you asked about but in would be Cranes also the savings that we've had from an organization standpoint that we've talked about this year you get the full year benefit next year which we only had in certain respects 50% of those because they were done over time.
So there are some things that turn into positives next year throughout the enterprise on some of the initiatives we've already taken.
Bob do you want talk about some of the...
Yes I would like to maybe make a few comments.
One is in the release we talked about absence of any new product rollouts and I just wanted to clear up confusion.
That doesn't mean absence of new product introductions.
When we refer to a rollout we mean a chain rollout.
It could be an existing product.
It's an absence.
Right now there isn't any major chains that have a major rollout.
Well actually we have one starting right now but we had quite a few in the beginning of year that have slowed down.
There are more tailwinds behind us right now than headwinds in front of us.
Glen mentioned earlier the Convotherm 4.
That we've just started releasing this month.
It was supposed to be out earlier this year but now it's out and the factory's at full production.
Majority of our SKUs transferring down to the Monterrey plant on ice are down there now well over 90%.
It will be 100% very soon.
We announced the closure of our La Mirada foundry in California and moving it to Tijuana which will be done in the early part of next year.
KitchenCare Glen mentioned in his remarks is now -- all of the inbound parts are coming into the warehouse and all the outbound parts will start flowing out within the next 60 days.
That will be done by the end of the year.
In terms of products we do have some exciting new products that are coming out.
We have about a dozen big product programs right now.
About half of those will be released and then we'll bring about another 6 or 7 more in next year.
We've got some fryer technologies that are coming out particularly in some overseas markets.
We do have one major rollout with a chain coming out.
C stores are up.
We -- and we do have -- and our ice market share is healthy right now.
We're not seeing cannibalization from Koolaire on our Manitowoc indigo line.
There's actually a growth in share.
Cleveland looks like it's behind us in terms of what we've done there thanks to this 90-day plan we announced in the last call.
That's offset a little bit by -- there's a few headwinds.
Material costs are a little bit higher forecasted than previous.
And we have -- we don't really know what's going to go on with some of the bigger QSRs.
We are reliant on some of them.
As Glen mentioned at the beginning of the call we had some delays particularly in Asia due to some food scares and things or building fewer stores and that's affected us.
Will that continue into next year? I don't think so unless they have some more of that happening but it doesn't look like it.
And another one is on the big box stores.
Our panel systems business was a bit of headwind for us.
Big box retailers who buy the large panel systems.
That was disappointing this year.
And we don't know if it'll continue into next year.
It doesn't look like it.
They're not telling us it will but the -- all my point is that the tailwinds seem to be stronger than our headwinds at the moment.
So...
Research Division</strong> All right.
Well I appreciate the comment.
Then switching back to Crane.
My understanding from everything that's been said is that we're actually seeing positive mix in terms of the types of cranes that are -- that you're getting orders for and are being demanded crawlers and towers versus the RTs.
Is my interpretation correct? And how should we think about the impact that this alone is going to have on margin going forward? Well I mean you're right Mig.
I think as you look at it historically that's true and it still holds true.
But again I think what you have from the mobile hydraulic side is while those have that it's the offset of what some of the absorption is on the mobile hydraulic side.
And that's where -- we're looking at the actions in those areas to impact pricing that we're seeing on the RTs very aggressive pricing on the RTs and then also on the ATs in certain areas.
So yes I think when you put it all together we'll still expect those new cranes that are coming out I think in 2015 should have a positive effect on margin as any increase in towers do.
And we're trying to fight off and make adjustments to the mobile side of the business with respect to some of the other -- as we just got done talking headwinds that you're seeing I think mostly from a pricing perspective.
And we'll now take our next question from Ted Grace from Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So I wanted to actually dovetail right into what you said Glen which is pricing has been challenging particularly in the RT and AT markets.
But could you maybe you and Eric talk about what are really kind of the broader competitive dynamics in the crane market? And maybe isolate it to RTs versus boom trucks competitively you talk about the market share numbers.
Is Manitowoc outperforming those or underperforming those? Are you losing share? Are the -- you look at some of the currency dynamics could benefit whether it's the Japanese or potentially Liber do you see that as a challenge right now that could be impacting your numbers? Yes I think the -- for the most part our market shares are holding okay in this market.
The one that we have seen a little bit of falloff is exactly in the RTs and I think it is a product probably due to the exchange rate is what we believe and that gets down to a pricing.
But that's the conversation we've had is we're not going to sit back and just let it happen.
I think we are going to take advantage of the areas that we think we need to and at the same time our entire organization knows that I tell everybody you can't feed your family on market share.
I mean you can see what some of the results are from our competitors who have okay increases in sales and very slim or less increases in operating earnings.
And so that's -- there are certain areas where you've got to protect and there are certain areas you're going to let go.
Sometimes the best deal you get is the one you don't take.
And we need to be cognizant of that and our people are doing it on a regular basis.
But I think with respect to the other market shares we're doing very well.
And I think -- what happens in -- thinking about this just this morning when you look at some of the dynamics competitively in the crane side of the business.
This is like the third year in a row Ted where things were okay in the first half of the year and we had a little bit of expectation in the back half and like the third year in a row the third quarter for us and every one of our competitors has fallen off in the third quarter.
And I think when that happens people that have a lot more inventory than we do get very aggressive and that's what you see.
So I think some of that is -- some of that's happening again.
But I mean we anticipate it.
We watch for it and we certainly can combat it.
But Eric I mean do you want to add to that? Yes maybe I want to qualify a little bit more.
In the Middle East and in Asia we've lost market share on the rough terrains because of the yen and the presence of the Japanese competition is very strong and they are well-established.
We've lost a little bit in North America but that's not really significant.
In the boom trucks though while the market has been declining as well almost 15% year-to-date as I've said we have gained market share and this is thanks to some of the new products like the NBT 40 and 50 that were launched.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay and then just as a follow on could you just walk through what the impact of currency was both on revenue and profits for each of the 2 segments so we understand that? Sure.
From a currency standpoint in Foodservice about $6.3 million on the sales line.
And in cranes not significant.
LLLP Research Division</strong> And on profits? Total about $1.5 million.
LLLP Research Division</strong> So total of $1.5 million.
Okay great.
Listen I'll get back in queue.
We'll now take our next question from Jerry Revich from Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> This is Brandon Jaffe on behalf of Jerry.
How should we think about the magnitude of the pricing and mix headwinds in the Foodservice business in the coming quarters? I think as you look at what our track record is we have I think done a pretty good job of getting the requisite pricing to cover at least the material costs and then try to get that further margin enhancement by operational efficiencies.
In the short term yes as with some of those steep ramp that we saw in particularly in stainless in the quarter that was a pretty significant headwind.
But over the long term I would say that we've done a pretty good job of making adjustments.
I think that there are some things from an end market demand standpoint that are going to probably be some challenges for us to work through as we look forward.
But from a pure price cost standpoint market-driven issues we hold our own.
Yes I think in terms of -- I can also add to that.
The Foodservice markets in general are continuing to rise and with our results this quarter we exceeded that market demand.
It's just in terms of that product mix selling more fryers and less hot holding selling more blended ice and less carbonated soft drink equipment is -- was really dependent.
And I don't really see any reason why that mix wouldn't continue to shift a little bit upward.
We had a bit of a decline particularly because some of the rollouts that we had earlier in the year were more skewed towards a higher weighting of those higher-margin products.
We're starting to see other areas of the world that are interested in those same products.
And we're also taking some measures to stimulate demand for the higher margin products too.
Research Division</strong> Yes and could you talk about the progress made on the Foodservice plant integration strategy and the extent to which there's some duplicative overhead costs in the quarter? I'm sorry.
I couldn't quite understand.
Could you repeat? Research Division</strong> Yes the progress made on the Foodservice plant integration and the extent to which there are any duplicative costs in the quarter? Well the initiatives we have going on I think -- we've talked about pretty extensively about Cleveland.
And then we have announced the La Mirada closure into Tijuana.
Those costs were minimal.
Right now I think you'll see most of it in the fourth quarter.
And then the other one is really what's happening with respect to our facility in Monterrey.
And you still have -- while it has gotten significantly better as we continue to put more product there we'll get that benefit.
So you still have some of the absorption I would call it as we keep using the word headwinds but the more product that we put down there will reduce itself as you head into 2015 and beyond.
But I wouldn't say there's a lot of duplicate of costs.
There's a little bit on the ice side.
But Cleveland that's just what I would call an execution issue and not duplicative costs.
Maybe I can also chime in.
Go ahead.
Research Division</strong> Yes sorry.
Please continue.
I was just going to say there yes there's another one where we are still continuing on our plant consolidation in Shreveport.
We have 2 factories there that we're working on right now.
And one other area in terms of that particular topic is our ability to have additional production in some of our low-cost country factories particularly in Asia.
We are asked to take more of the North American product and build it in Asia.
And we have the ability to do that in existing factories over there and those are continued initiatives.
It's not moving the product over there.
It's making the product over there so we save on shipping and other costs that could take cost out of the product that's sold in that market.
Research Division</strong> Great.
And I just -- one final question.
What regions do you see as the key geographies expected to drive crane order growth over the next year or so? Well I think it's probably the same as it is this year in all honesty.
It's probably going to be North America.
I think there could be some in Latin America but I think the Middle East is still okay.
I mean -- but I think it's really -- you look at the rest of the geographies around the world whether it's Europe I think is flattish.
I think China stays flattish.
I think there may be some other parts of Asia and the rest of Asia.
You talk about Korea or even Philippines Singapore some of those the outlying countries of Asia.
I think there's opportunity there.
But again it's not going to be a big hope in Russia.
I mean that's been a tough area for us this year.
It has been for everybody and I just don't know politically what happens there.
So I think it's really kind of where we're seeing the bright spots today.
And we'll now take our next question from Vishal Shah from Deutsche Bank.
Research Division</strong> This is Jerimiah Booream on the line for Vishal.
I was just hoping you could touch on the Crane segment and order visibility? And also what kind of quotes or order activities you're seeing in the different categories? Well in terms of the order activity again we continue to see a lot of tractions on the crawlers solely [ph].
And I would say small crawlers.
I mean our large crawlers are doing great.
We expect the same trends in terms of towers.
And we continue to be of course worried with the rough terrains and the boom trucks being -- given the trend that we've seen.
TMKs [ph] is pretty steady overall.
Research Division</strong> And do you think that you'll be able to see visibility into 2015? Or how much of your backlog do you think could ship in 2015 at this point? Well obviously the strong backlog that we have as you know is the large crawlers that we start shipping in Q2.
That's really the big backlogs that we currently have for '15.
Yes and the rest then kind of flows into the fourth and first -- first or second quarters of next year and that's what we were saying earlier.
It doesn't go out much past 6 7 months.
But to your point in 2015 I'll say it again that look when you look at where our head is at and Carl mentioned we're not fully vetted around where we think some of the bottom line stuff is coming out but I'm not -- when you read a lot of things that are happening whether it's people in other companies in the construction industry or you read what else is happening I don't know that we're going to forecast a lot of improvements in the markets.
But what I can assure you of is the things that we've talked about in the cost initiatives and that we've put out there for our long-term targets I'm very confident in our ability to look at those.
So our big focus is -- we've certainly had a track record in the last few years of struggling to try to forecast where these markets are and we're not the only one.
So I'm not -- I mean I'm not apologizing for it.
I'm just telling you.
We recognize that hey instead of being really good at forecasting we just have to be more agile to be able to focus on getting the incrementals on the upside and minimizing the decrementals on the downside.
And historically we've done a good job of that.
I think we've -- haven't anticipated this flat a market.
If somebody would have told me that our key market was going to be down 30% this year at the same time last year I would've challenged that assumption very heavily.
But what I will tell you the focus on the gross margin that we have and a lot of the sourcing initiatives the LEAN initiatives our people are laser-focused on that and that's where we got everybody's heads around in 2015.
And that's why to Carl's point we're still trying to find what the right target is for 2015 but we'll get there by the time we have another call.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll now take our next question from Steven Fisher from UBS.
Research Division</strong> This is Cleve Rueckert on for Steve.
Just turning back to the Gulf coast projects and looking specifically at the big LNG and ethylene plants when do those projects need cranes? And when do you think they're likely to get ordered? And just wondering how much of those orders were part of ConExpo or earlier in 2014? Yes I don't think a lot of it was probably at the ConExpo phase.
I think -- here are the comments that we get out of the Gulf Coast it's not a matter of if it's when.
And that doesn't help us much in planning.
So what -- we're trying to figure out the same thing as -- you want to be -- you want to make sure that our dealers and our customers are being taken care of.
And they tell us a lot of times when there are activities that are coming up for instance I think Eric had a call yesterday with somebody that said "Hey this is what's happening.
We're seeing some of the dirt business pick up on a bunch of projects down there." And the cranes will follow in I would say 6 to 9 months." What's that? Yes that's good.
Yes I would say 6 to 9 months.
And so at the same time where people used to plan ahead and buy ahead they listen to what we say and they know that they don't have to put in an order 6 to 9 months.
They'll wait 3 to 6 months and then it becomes what's the availability? And so again we talk to a lot of people that have focus on the energy markets in the Gulf Coast and where they believe the peaks and valleys are going to be.
And as I said earlier a lot of people are talking about '16 and '17 but as we're told very often unfortunately the short-term comes before the long-term.
And that's what we're -- that's what we have to focus on right now.
Keeping in mind that we need to position our business to make sure that we take advantage of those things long-term we also know that we need to deliver on the short-term.
Research Division</strong> Okay that's helpful.
And then just turning back to non-res construction.
The U.S.
office construction category has been a pocket of strength this year and I'm just wondering how much crane demand has been for that particular market? And is that driving new crane demand? Or is that construction still relying on existing fleet? Yes and that's a good question because I mean you pick up magazines like ENR Engineering News-Record and they put out their it's almost weekly or monthly report on the different markets.
And yes you'll see the non-res picking up a bit but really it's to Carl's point and I think Eric's point earlier today the utilizations are very strong in the tower crane and a lot of that is using existing tower cranes.
Eric do you have anything to add on that? Yes I mean the rental channels of -- are happy with the residential -- non-residential because they have seen a lot of their cranes going there and that's why they can display utilization levels which have been good.
And again as I said they see rental rates getting a little bit -- picking up in way of tractions.
And overall they will see the revenue growing.
Now as an OEM we feel a little bit frustrated because this has not translated into new crane sales so far.
So that's really a frustration for us.
But utilization if you talk to the rental channel they're very happy.
They -- and they have improved from last year and their forecast is it's going to be better in 2015.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
You mentioned strong utilization earlier.
What do you think is a peak utilization for the rental channel? Well typically -- and again typically we'll -- we've seen in the past is anytime you start getting above 80% on the rental side people are going to be buying for their fleets in the crane rental side of the business which again is about 80% of our sales in North America to that channel.
So if you see them at those levels you'll have that.
But I think where the disconnect is a little bit in this channel even though utilizations are good the rates started out pretty low and from the bottom of the market.
And to get those rates back I think that's where people are a little uncomfortable buying and having the confidence that they get the returns that they're looking for on new equipment.
So we're watching it.
And I think that it just hasn't kept up with the utilization.
And you would say to yourself well heck if utilization's high people should raise their rates.
And that's a very legitimate question and that's a lot of what they're asking in that channel themselves.
So I think if you get that combination of higher rental rates the utilizations continue to climb and the non-res market picks up that's a -- that bodes pretty well for us to sell new equipment.
And this concludes the question-and-answer portion.
I would now like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Steve Khail for closing comments.
Before we conclude today's call I'd like to remind everyone that a replay of our third quarter conference call will be available later this morning.
You can access the replay by visiting the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in the Manitowoc Company.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our fourth quarter conference call in January.
Have a good day.
This does conclude today's conference.
Thank you for your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to today’s Manitowoc Company Incorporated Fourth Quarter 2014 Earnings Call.
Today’s call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Khail.
Please go ahead sir.
Good afternoon everyone and thank you for joining Manitowoc’s fourth quarter and full year earnings conference call.
Participating in today’s call will be Glen Tellock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carl Laurino Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Glen will open today’s call by providing comments related to the plans separation of our Cranes and Foodservice businesses our quarterly results and business outlook.
Carl will then discuss our financial results for the fourth quarter in greater detail.
Please note a supplemental presentation for today's remarks is available on our website and viewable via webcast.
Following our prepared remarks we will be joined by Eric Etchart Senior Vice President Business Development; Larry Weyers President of Manitowoc Cranes; and Bob Hund President of Manitowoc Foodservice for a question-and-answer session.
For anyone who is not able to listen to today’s entire call an archived version of this call will be available later this evening.
Please visit the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com to access the replay.
Before Glen begins his commentary I would like to review our Safe Harbor statement.
This call is taking place on January 29 2015.
During the course of today’s call forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 will be made during each speaker’s remarks and during our question-and-answer session.
Such statements are based on the company’s current assessment of its markets and other factors that affect its business.
However actual results could differ materially from any implied projections due to one or more of the factors explained in Manitowoc’s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are also available on our website.
The Manitowoc Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or other circumstances.
With that I’ll now turn the call over to Glen.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
This afternoon we announced our intent separate our industry-leading businesses into two publicly traded companies as well as our fourth quarter and full year results for 2014.
I will begin by providing some context concerning the expected separation as well as the strategic rationale for our decision before we review our financial results.
Turning to slide 3 Manitowoc has a rich history and over the last 14 years we have transformed the company into a global industrial manufacturing with two market-leading businesses Cranes and Foodservice.
To understand how we arrived at today's announcement it is important to note how the business has developed since the last trough and the legacy of leadership we have built over the years.
Our recent history was marked by several transformational transactions from 2001 to 2008 setting the stage for Manitowoc today.
The acquisitions of Potain Grove and Enodis expanded our product portfolio while the divestiture of other businesses that no longer fit with our long-term goals such as our legacy marine business tightened our focus around two platforms.
Having the businesses together at this time gave us the scale and cash flow to make these transformative moves while allowing us to grow them into industry-leading companies they are today.
On Slide 4 you can see us as we move through the last few cycles and that the most recent recovery has yet started to materialize we focused on integration and operational efficiencies.
In addition we implemented strategic investments that further strengthened our competitive position and laid the foundation for sustainable growth as we will discuss in a moment.
2014 was negatively impacted by growing uncertainty among our customers due to macroeconomic conditions.
However as you can see on the slide we had seen significant improvements over the last several years.
Following a comprehensive evaluation of our company which was completed with the assistance of financial and legal advisors and many months of thoughtful deliberation by our Board we are undertaking a plan that separates the Cranes and Foodservice businesses to enable each to realize its full potential on a standalone basis.
Let me quickly provide an overview of the expected transaction on Slide 5.
We currently anticipate the transaction will be executed via tax free spin-off of the Foodservice business.
All shares will be distributed to them current Manitowoc shareholders.
While the capital structure and credit rating for each company is expected to be consistent with that of Manitowoc today.
From a timing perspective we expect the completion of the separation in the first quarter of 2016 and we will keep investors updated on our progress.
As we work towards executing the separation we expect to continue to execute our stated strategy in capital allocation plans which will result in further deleveraging from now until completion of the transaction.
The plan separation is the next logical step in Manitowoc’s evolution and we anticipate it will generate values for shareholders by creating two strong industry-leading companies with distinct enterprise strategies.
As you look at Slide 6 there are four main points that underpin the rationale for the separation.
First the businesses have different strengths and strategies and the separation will allow each entity to pursue them.
Second two companies will have the ability to track long-term shareholders that are appropriate for their business profile.
Third a separation will also enable investors to value the company separately.
And lastly each business has different financial characteristics and a separation will allow each to optimize its capital structure and capital allocation.
Turning to slide seven Manitowoc plans to leverage the established global footprint and a strong culture of innovation in both Cranes and Foodservice to position each company independently to take advantage of an anticipated long-term improvement in demand.
By creating two industry-leading companies our enhanced strategic focus is expected to unlock value for shareholders.
Foodservice has established a strong global presence serving hundreds of well-known restaurant chains and we believe it has robust growth opportunities such as those presented by the long-term chain growth in emerging market regions.
From a product line perspective Foodservice has among the industry’s broadest product offering that features both hot side and cool side commercial Foodservice equipment spanning 24 leading brands.
This has positioned the business well globally and has enabled to support all of our customers initiatives with comprehensive international manufacturing capabilities.
In food service innovative new products include customer-specific models and new categories across many of our product offerings.
While at the same time operational excellence has played a vital role in strengthening this business driving manufacturing efficiencies and positioning Foodservice for significant long-term growth and margin expansion.
And lastly we’ve pursued growth initiatives and after-market services and solutions for Foodservice including our recently launched KitchenCare offering again differentiating our business in the market.
With respect to Cranes our global footprint and strong brands have been key to its success.
The ongoing emphasis on the development of its diverse product portfolio has been critical.
We have focused on product innovation within Cranes and relied on voice of the customer as a key element and source of input into our R&amp;D efforts.
The implementation of our lean initiatives has contributed to our financial resilience in Cranes as these initiatives not only improve quality in product reliability but through a greater operational efficiencies to help reduce waste improve lead times and help it become more efficient and profitable business.
The Crane Care Manitowoc offers a total lifecycle product support solution for our customers.
With 24/7/365 support Crane Care complements our overall goal of customer focus.
With this global aftermarket initiative we are able to maximize the uptime for our equipment.
All of these factors Cranes’ global reach strong presence in emerging markets expansive product portfolio and unmatched product support provide this business with exposure to attractive end markets placed for a cyclical upturn.
As you can see on Slide 8 we have that substantial growth in both sales and operating margins over the last six years with the food service business.
In fact the margin expansion we have achieved in Foodservice including the single-digit Enodis margins which we boosted to legacy Manitowoc mid-teen levels demonstrate the potential of this business.
In addition our initiatives to grow the business globally as well as by end market has significantly improved our competitive position.
These efforts have enabled us to establish leading market positions across multiple Foodservice categories.
As shown on Slide 9 which is underscored by the innovation that has been a hallmark of a business.
Today Foodservice maintains the broadest product portfolio serving the largest global customers.
In addition the ability to bring products to customers they improved their overall efficiency and create new revenue streams such as our Multiplex Blend-in Cup workstation Convotherm 4 combi oven and Garland Dual Platen Grill further extends the leadership profile of this business.
As you look at Slide 10 we have established the strong organization for Cranes as well.
We have successfully navigated the business trough through challenging times and have always emerged stronger as a result of our ability to remain agile while investing in areas to strengthen our leadership profile.
This is reflected in the diversification of our business as well as the improvement in operating margins we have experienced in peak demand periods and trough years.
Currently we believe this business is now right sized for current demand levels and we have a very strong foundation to build upon as market conditions improved.
With 37 facilities in 18 countries serving customers across dynamic end-markets we are ready to capture the upside for significant cyclical growth.
As shown on Slide 11 our ongoing focus on innovation has resulted in award winning technology market leading positions across major Crane categories they robust global customer base.
Before I review our financial results for 2014 we’d like to touch on the corporate governance enhancements that we also announced today.
As you saw in our press release we announce that the Board has improved amendments to the Company’s bylaws to eliminate its classified Broad structure on a phased-in basis starting with the elections occurring at the company’s 2015 Annual Meeting of shareholders.
We believe that strong governance supports value creation and as a result the board regularly reviews its corporate governance practices to ensure it is operating efficiently effectively in the best interest of shareholders.
These announcements will ensure that our investors have a regular opportunity to express their confidence in the performance of the board and management.
With that let me move to our results for the fourth quarter and full year.
As you can see on slide 12 we’re reporting results that were essentially in line with our guidance or [ph] clearly disappointing.
During the majority of 2014 macroeconomic headwinds put downward pressure on demand for our products and solutions.
As a result we took quick actions to maintain our financial strength during this period.
These actions included accelerated cost optimization programs and the initiation of headcount rationalizations.
For the full year revenues decline 4% to $3.9 billion.
On a GAAP basis we reported net earnings of $144.5 million or $1.05 per diluted share.
Excluding special items adjusted earnings from continuing operations in 2014 were $159.2 million or $1.16 per share.
Looking at the two businesses in more detail Foodservice revenue is increased to 2.6% to $1.6 billion and operating earnings of $234 million produced operating margins of 14.8%.
Despite some pockets of strength multiple factors continue to weigh on our performance in Foodservice including customer timing affecting new product rollouts product mix issues warranty costs and challenges associated with the start up of kitchen care.
In light of these headwinds we took actions in the second half of the year including consolidating our manufacturing footprint and rationalizing our product portfolio which we believe will benefit our growth in margins in 2015.
We’re also essentially complete with the core elements of the remediation program in Cleveland.
And we are pleased with the performance of that operation as 2014 drew to a close.
Well our fourth quarter performance is now reflective of the growth we can achieve in this business.
We are confident and committed to enhancing our operational performance by bringing the best product portfolio to our customers and ultimately driving improved performance for this business.
For Cranes we reported revenues of $2.3 billion for 2014 and operating earnings of a $163.9 million represented decline of 8% and 25% respectively.
And certainly across our customer base and ongoing global softness continue to impact purchasing decisions meeting our results for the quarter and full year.
More specifically North American and Latin America weakness in rough-terrain and boom truck markets translated into a significant decline in segment sales in the Americas region where our brands have leading market share positions.
In addition limited demand in Europe also contributed to the quarters decline.
Despite these pressures we continue to focus on the areas within our control.
We achieve safety quality and cost reduction goals while concurrently executing our lean initiatives.
We also captured through our savings to sourcing and purchasing opportunities.
On a positive note however we did see improved order in-take a strengthening backlog and a strong market acceptance of our VPC crawler crane technology.
As we look at 2015 the reality is we are now likely to see improved market conditions in the near term.
As a result we continue to make prudent investments we are able to achieve the most significant returns over the long term.
For example we are improving the agility of our production processes from procurement through manufacturing making further improvements through our cost structure through fixed cost reductions and improving our global market shares with new and existing products that drive demand by boosting the profitability of our customers.
Lastly I wanted to comment briefly on the leadership changes we announced earlier this month.
As you saw in our release we announced several management team transitions in line with the company’s long term succession planning which included the appointment of Eric Etchart to Senior Vice President Business Development; and Larry Weyers as President of Manitowoc Cranes.
In summary 2014 was challenging on a number of fronts.
Despite our fourth quarter and full year results we remain optimistic about the long term prospect for both of our businesses.
While there is little we can do effect change in the global macroeconomic environment there are a number of things we are doing to improve the overall financial strength and stability including optimizing our cost structure to meet the demand levels we are currently experiencing continuing our investments in innovation and aftermarket product support leveraging the extremely favorable market response for our VPC crawler cranes and further paying down debt.
With that let me turn the call over to Carl for a review of the quarter and full-year.
Carl? Thanks Glen and good morning everyone.
We reported net sales for the fourth quarter of $1 billion which is a decrease of 6.1% from a year ago.
GAAP net earnings for the fourth quarter were $33.6 million or $0.25 per diluted share versus earnings of $20.9 million or $0.15 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2013.
Unfavorable currency exchange rate had a $0.04 negative on EPS in the quarter.
Excluding special items fourth quarter 2014 adjusted earnings from continuing operations was $37.5 million $0.27 per diluted share versus adjusted earnings of $63.9 million or $0.47 per diluted share last year.
During the fourth quarter of 2014 adjustments included $3.9 million of costs associated with restructuring activities.
During the fourth quarter of 2013 the company incurred $35.6 million in losses related to the Dong Yue disposal $3.2 million in losses related to discontinued operations.
$2.5 million of cost associated with the restructuring activities and cost associated with early extinguishment of debt totaling $1.7 million.
During the fourth quarter of 2014 cash provided by continuing operations was $237.6 million driven by cash from profitability and improvements in working capital particularly inventory levels within Cranes.
More importantly we continue to progress in terms of our cost saving initiatives which resulted in over $20 million of reorganization and product cost benefits as well as a combined $8.5 million of lower corporate and interest expense.
Turning to the results for our two businesses Foodservice sales in the fourth quarter of 2014 totaled $374.2 million from $399.5 million in the prior year period.
Fourth quarter 2014 operating earnings in Foodservice were $48.3 million producing operating margins of 12.9% compared to 17.2% for the quarter of 2013.
As mentioned by Glen the fourth quarter Foodservice decline in operating margin was driven by customer timing effecting new product roll-outs and unfavorable product mix increased warranty costs higher start-up costs for KitchenCare plus cost and efficiency issues for certain hot-side products.
Moving to Cranes fourth quarter sales totaled $663.2 million a year-over-year decrease of 5.9%.
Cranes operating earnings in the fourth quarter were $45.3 million versus $54.8 million last year.
This resulted in a fourth quarter Cranes operating margin of 6.8% compared with 7.8% last year.
This year-over-year decline was due to the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates higher price discounting coupled with volume decreases in rough-terrain Cranes and boom trucks which were only partially offset by ongoing operational efficiencies and cost reductions.
Declining oil prices also contributed to the climate of caution and lack of confidence among certain customers during the quarter and second half of the year.
That said from our perspective many of the projects currently underway are not linked to oil.
To provide some context approximately 30% of Crane revenue has some level of exposure to oil prices with 30% of that being upstream 20% midstream and the balance downstream.
The guidance we have provided does take this exposure into account with our assumption that prices will increase in the second half of the year.
Paying backlog at quarter-end was $738 million an increase of $22 million or 3.1% from the third quarter of 2014 and an increase of 28.6% from the prior year period.
For the fourth quarter new orders increased 23.2% to $686 million compared to the third quarter of 2014 but declined 3% from the fourth quarter of 2013 representing a book-to-bill ratio of one times.
Before concluding my remarks let me now discuss our 2015 outlook which you can find on Slide 13.
Noted in today’s press release we expect the Crane revenue declines in the mid single digit percentages Crane operating margins to be high-single digit percentages.
Foodservice revenue to experience mid single digit percentage growth.
Improving Foodservice operating margins in the mid-teens percentage range.
Capital expenditures of approximately $85 million depreciation and amortization of approximately $110 million interest expense of approximately $80 million.
Amortization of deferred financing fees of approximately $4 million.
Total leverage to be below three times debt debt-to-EBITDA.
And an effective tax rate in mid-to-high 20% range.
Restructuring charges of approximately $4 million in the fourth quarter resulted from internally-announced global workforce reductions primarily affecting salaried office and indirect employees in the Crane business.
The estimated cost savings from these actions in 2015 are expected to be approximately $90 million.
Opportunity for margin improvement in Foodservice in 2015 is expected to be driven by full-year benefits from factory consolidations lean manufacturing initiatives as well as cost price benefits.
I will now turn the call back to Glen for some closing remarks.
Glen? Thanks Carl.
To conclude the macro challenges that we are seeing are likely to persist throughout 2015.
We do have a strong record of navigating uncertain market conditions while maintaining an eye on the opportunities ahead.
We believe that the plan and timing we’ve laid out for the separation of the two businesses to prepare each for ongoing success enables us to allow each business to pursue individual strategies equip each business with the appropriate resources to achieve continued growth and profitability.
Enable each business to attract a long-term investor base appropriate for the particular operational and financial characteristics of each business and enhance the flexibility of each business to pursue distinct capital structures and capital allocation strategies.
As we execute the separation of Cranes and Foodservice we will remain steadfast in the execution of our key initiatives over the next 12 months.
This concludes our prepared remarks for today.
Vicky we will now open the call up to our question and answer session.
[Operator Instructions] We will go first to Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Hi good evening.
Hi Jamie.
Thanks for keeping it interesting.
I guess two obvious questions.
One separating – splitting up Manitowoc has been out there forever and a day and your view it always had been it didn't make sense.
Food and Crane there were diversification benefits et cetera.
What changed your tune all of a sudden to make you comfortable that Food and Crane should be separate? And I guess it's also interesting in just given the recent reduction in crude prices and what that means for the Crane business obviously it means the Crane business is pushed out.
Why would it be a good time for Cranes to be a standalone company? Hey Jamie.
It’s Glen I mean obviously a logical question.
When you look at what change – I mean it’s really the – I think as I said in my remark for logical evolution of the businesses.
I mean we – if you look at this over a long period of time and we have – ever since the acquisition of a notice and a divestiture of Marine and our strategic planning process.
So as you walk through those and we look at some of the initiatives that we laid out last year in the cost optimization structure that we talked about.
We believe that many of those initiatives that we started at the enterprise level are in place or will be fully in place by the middle of this year.
And it gives us the opportunity then as you move forward at the time that the separation occurs.
They can pursue their own strategies.
They will take advantage of the markets that they're in and they may have different market dynamics.
So that's why we look at where we were where we're going to be in this year based on our guidance and that have made sense at the first quarter of next year.
Okay.
I guess just -- can -- obviously the Crane -- I'll let someone else ask let them ask a question on the splitter.
Just on the Crane side on the orders the orders were a little stronger than probably most had anticipated.
I would probably order -- argue that the orders were probably backwards-looking because things really started to collapse the end of December.
Can you talk about what you've seen sort of in the month of January? If things deteriorated? Conversations with customer have you seen cancellations just any update there? Well we typically wouldn't give a lot of inter quarter comments.
Except you are splitting up the company and so it's probably more relevant.
Well I think -- but I when you look at it Jamie the conversations are still pretty good I mean despite what you see throughout the world.
But I will say that from a product line perspective the conversations around the Crawler Cranes are very solid because of the new products.
Conversations around Tower Cranes are pretty good.
I think the two product lines that are -- we already talked about them are the RTs and some of the mobile hydraulics but the RTs and the boom trucks.
Those are the two that give us that kind of guidance that takes us down that we have for 2015.
But the conversations in January are still pretty good.
I don't think people -- while there are actions being taken by a lot of the energy companies to slow things down I don't think it is like 2009 and 2010 when they stopped things completely.
We’ll go next to Andrew Kaplowitz with Barclays.
Hi good evening guys.
Hi Andy Hey Andy So Glen the noise level in Foodservice has ratcheted up a bit over the last year.
Foodservice looked like it was well on track as you know in the second half of 2013; has been pretty off-track in 2014.
So can you talk a low bit more about why these issues have cropped up this year versus last year and what kind of confidence can we get that you really got your arms around the execution here in 2015? Well I think when you look at 2014 we had some initiatives whether it was on operational issues that we talked about at Cleveland.
We had some new product introduction things that were differed and delayed.
And again we are accountable for that so I think when you get pass some of those –the backlogs that we have in certain product lines and coming late in the year and not be able to get some things out as you were optimizing some of the other areas Monterrey comes to mind.
I think we had probably a slower start at Monterrey than we anticipated.
Those things as we mentioned in my remarks Cleveland is behind us towards the end of the year performing well and I think so the once that get behind you in the Monterrey and the one that we see currently that we still have some work to do but I think it’s well on its way is the KitchenCare.
And I think once we get that I think it’s an normal process for us and you saw Carl’s guidance for the margins to get that back.
Got it okay.
The confidence is there only because we’ve done it before.
These are things we’ve done it before.
You’ve had good performance and 2014 was a setback but you have had good performance.
Let me shift gears actually and ask you one other Crane question.
You're talking about high single digit margin for Cranes in 2015 but there too there does seem to be quite a few moving variables.
You've got the VPC Cranes that you're going to deliver.
You've got cost take-out initiative and you also mentioned price competition.
So can you update us on the progress of your cost-cutting initiative in Cranes in 2015 and if I'm thinking in terms of how much it could be worth to margin is it sort of a 100 basis points or something like that and – or should we be concerned that it could be absorbed by price discounting or under absorption during the year? I’m going to touch that last one a little bit and then I’ll let Larry maybe talk about some of the manufacturing initiatives and his confidence in those.
But what I would say is in the latter half of the year in 2014 the benefits of our manufacturing and sourcing initiatives were eaten up by pricing and I think there is a less of that impact built into the 2015 than you would have seen in 2014.
So I would agree it was probably up in the back half but I think was – absorptions is the other one that Carl’s mentioned and I think we with the rightsizings and the way the plan is laid out this year I think that’s inherent in the guidance.
So you really get some confidence on what you’re doing.
Yeah.
Andy this is Larry Weyers.
I think over that the biggest thing we’ve been working on over the last eight to nine months is clearly with our SDI and our supplier development initiatives which is – it’s driven a lot of the purchasing savings in the material cost going forward.
But I think the other one is we spend a lot time with what we refer to as establishing a balanced attack in the factories.
And by doing so it’s really allowed us to save on our material costs and our handling and it really enabled us to leverage our direct indirect ratio in the factories and control our inventory and I think in Glen's early comments we saw a lot of the benefits of that really come to light in the fourth quarter with our raw and [Indiscernible] in inventory control.
I think the key there Andy it’s really becoming more agile in that business where you don't –are not bringing different levels of direct support every time there is an increase or a decrease in the product build.
We will go next to Rob Wertheimer with Vertical Research Partners.
Hi good evening guys.
Hey Rob.
If I may ask you a question on the transaction.
Is it – could you just discuss the timing and year-long process? Does it need to be that long legalistically or did you think it was better just from a – coming out of market standpoint to see what happens with oil and so forth? And have you authorize your advisors to offer division for sale in the meantime? Well on your first question Rob the length of the process I mean when we looked at it we looked at some of the things I think to Jamie's point earlier there are things that we've done since the acquisition of Enodis that our enterprise led and there is a lot of the synergy that you have between the two businesses.
It is going to unwind those and it's almost turning the ball backwards and going the other way.
So those are going to take time and we didn't want to commit to something we don't know how long it’s going to take.
We certainly had our advisors give us precedent transactions and we can see all of those.
We just felt from some of the things that we are going into 2015 that the first quarter was about timing from a shareholder perspective to get the best value.
With respect to your other question we're not going to speculate as to what happened during this process but I can assure you the board and everybody else looked at a lot of different alternatives and decided that the separation of business was the best alternative.
Thank you.
One quick question just to clean up on Cranes.
Is the order number clean or was it impaired by any currency that adjusted the backlog and/or flowed through the orders? It's clean.
It may have been better if we wouldn't have seen some of the currency pressure.
We will go next to Mig Dobre with Robert Baird.
Good evening guys.
Glen I remember you arguing in the past that the Crane business cannot really be a standalone entity and really belongs within a larger organization.
And you put out a slide deck call it six months ago that was looking at some of your peers and making that point.
What changed? Can this business be a standalone business? Yeah absolutely.
And I think you’re referencing the investor deck that was – that we put out in mid-year.
And I don’t know that it was in reference to Cranes not being able to standalone.
But I think when you look at where they are today and that’s the thing is – as we’ve evolved down this process with the initiatives we have in place.
And I’ll tell you that it’s a constant evaluation of both Foodservice and Cranes.
When you look out and say to yourself what are the things you are doing in the business that are going to impact this business in two and three years.
And we’re talking about the rightsizing of the organization.
We’re talking about the operational improvements.
We’re talking about taking fixed costs out of business.
We’re talking about the balance that affects that Larry just gave you.
The change to a product line organization in both Foodservice and Cranes.
As you sit here today you focus forward you say to yourself are these businesses able to stand by themselves and make that happen and throughout the year the determination looking at it and say yeah they can do that based on the initiatives we have in place.
And I think when you fast forward and look at what we’ve given for guidance in 2015 and where you think maybe the markets can go for Foodservice and Cranes in 2016 and 2017 it gives us that comfort that they could pursue those strategies on their own.
Okay.
If I may ask a question on Foodservice here and you talked a little bit about margin but I recall you saying that the Cleveland execution issues have hampered margin by at least 100 basis points in 2014.
And that price cost was also if I recall about 50 basis points worth of headwind.
Is it fair to say that we should be expecting at least 150 basis points if these things are no longer an issue in 2015 in terms of market potential margin expansion or is that too optimistic? Yeah Mig I think the number you threw out from – concerning Cleveland certainly is a fully loaded number from a perspective of the absorption that went along with that.
We stand by those numbers.
I would say that there were some other things relative to the business that we talked about a little bit on this call that also are relevant when you look at the 2014 performance.
Some of those things have a little bit of uncertainty that surround them like your mix of the business which was headwind for us.
But as we look at despite the fact that we're not making any significant pie in this guidance assumptions about the market when we look at the things that we can control relative to the cost and fixing some of the headwinds that plagued us in 2014.
We feel good about the guidance that we can improve margins pretty significantly.
We’ll go next to Nicole DeBlase with Morgan Stanley.
Yeah thanks guys good evening.
Hi Nicole.
Hi Nicole.
Okay so just a question on debt and I don't know how much you guys have thought about this yet but you said that you kind of expect the same amount of debt on the Crane and Foodservice business those advantage you have for overall manufacturing but I'm curious why you wouldn't think about levering up the Crane business less given it’s extreme cyclicality and then putting more debt on the Foodservice business.
So is that something you've given thought to? Well I'll let Carl answer that specifically but we did say on the call is is that we would probably look at similar credit statistics for each one of them.
And I think it's probably a little pre-mature to say how much of debt we would put on each one but we certainly would have the same credit statistics and profile.
Carl if you can add.
I think that's spot on.
It's recognized that obviously the Foodservice business does have more stability through the cycle than the Cranes does very obvious statement there.
And by virtue with that I think the objective – the logical objective would be to try to make the credit profile consistent.
Obviously we are going to delever as an enterprise between now and then as well.
So the overall debt should be lower when we get to the first quarter of 2016.
But the objective would be to keep the two separate credit profiles at or better than the current Manitowoc credit profile and that I think it's logical to assume that there would be more debt placed on Foodservice and Cranes in that instance.
Okay got it understood.
That's helpful.
And then I don't want to be the dead horse because this question has come up in a couple of different ways on the call but I mean let's say that the barricades does play out within the Crane business and you have more of like a double digit I think if it can decline in Crane sales in 2015 would you still go ahead with those transaction or would that be a risk to completing the split? Well our intentions are certainly to complete the split.
So that's really where it is.
I mean you are going to look at the macroeconomic environment but I would go back Nicole to look at the history of the Crane segment.
You go back to 2002 is the first time we were ever profitable in a downturn.
I forget may be 2010 the margins were even better in a more significant downturn.
And that’s what we’ve been trying to do is make this situated that every downturn we’d be more profitable.
And I think the other beauty is in both Foodservice and Cranes we have good people.
They’ve been through it before it’s a lot of the same people so the organization is well managed with those types of business.
So I feel pretty comfortable with the timing and the way they could handle the pluses the minuses in any cycle.
We’ll go next to Ted Grace with Susquehanna.
Hey guys I wanted to start following up on Andy's line of questioning on Foodservices and I think we all understand the industrial logic of breaking the Company in half and I don't think anybody would dispute that.
I guess what I'm hoping to understand a little better either from Glen or maybe Bob is on a standalone basis where do you see Foodservices in 2016? I know there's 12 months or so we start really knowing what 2016 looks like but if we were to look at the public appears and obviously whatever it points to the Company has put up meaningfully different growth trajectory.
It's been structurally more profitably narrowed the gap but just as we think about kind of the standalone business could you maybe just frame out where you see that business going in the future and how does it benefit on a standalone basis? How does that improve your organic growth your new product introduction and maybe we can just start there? Well Ted I think what you have to do is you have to go back to the rationale of why we did this.
I mean they are going to have that opportunity to pursue their own yield their plans their strategies I mean they will have probably a capital allocation policy that will be determined.
But I think one thing you have to do is you have to look at and it’s too early for us to determine.
There are costs of this separation as we go between now and the first quarter of next year.
And there are just synergies of things that we have that are done at a corporate office.
We haven’t determined what that number might be.
So again we will keep you informed as we go on with that but we certainly recognized the opportunities that are ahead of us and that’s why we feel the timing of the separation is good right now.
Okay but just – I mean I think this is obvious and intuitive but I'd rather just ask it point blank.
You do expect that you'd see an acceleration and underlying growth rates on a standalone basis as Foodservices pursues its own strategy and presumably margin expansion trajectory after you get through these synergies? Well I certainly – I certainly feel comfortable with the guidance that we’ve given for 2015 and I don’t want to comment on where I think the 2016 markets are but I think there – it’s safe to say that they have a very healthy pipeline of new product introductions and so you have the macroeconomics that fit into it and you also have within the new product development pipeline.
So again go back to the rationale of why we’ve done this is because we see it as an opportune time to make this separation in 2016.
We’ll go next to Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Hi good evening.
Hi Jerry.
I'm wondering if you could just talk about what public company corporate cost would look like or what's your best assessment as you break up the businesses versus consolidated basis? Glen you mentioned it would be a headwind.
Can you just help us understand the magnitude of it? Well I think it’s a little bit too early to tell exactly what those are I mean obviously we’ve look at the corporate cost and we look at the office here and what needs to go on to a single entity from a corporate side.
It really is too early to tell on that but that’s probably couple of quarters away before we really know that.
And then for the Crane business I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit more about the guidance what it assumes by region presumably North America up significantly Latin American and Asia down and currency a drag.
But I'm wondering if you could flush that out and maybe comment on any changes in manufacturing footprint that you might consider longer term if the recent currency moves continues so-called towards parity in the Euro? Well.
I’ll address the capacity footprint on first and then I’ll let Larry just give kind of an overall general view of where he sees the markets the pluses and the minuses but there's always the opportunity Jerry.
When you look at your footprint from a manufacturing side the – for instance we moved the assembly in manufacturing of our 999 Crawler Crane to Shady Grove because there is an opportunity there with a downswing in our key market to and the upswing in the Crawlers we have in Manitowoc to make those and utilize the assets and the resources that you have.
Looking out what we’re going to be in three or four years yeah I think when you do or don't meet some of the expectations that you have and you implement many of the lean initiatives we have it does create excess capacity.
And so really that's I mean we're looking at that on a regular basis.
So people – if the markets don't spike substantially we should see additional areas where we can take advantage of capacity footprints.
Larry do you want to mention some of the markets resume? The market’s overall? Yeah just… Yeah I think generally the markets for 2015 when think of our dollar projection in revenues it's driven primarily by our caution to the price of oil.
Obviously whether it's the drilling work that slowed down what's going to happen with the shale oil projects but we have not seen any of the refinery maintenance work or turnaround work slow down or any indication of it which is good.
LNG plants still look like they're going to be positive.
And then I think when you look around the globe it's obviously a mixed bag [ph] but we've seen good activity and projections for Saudi Arabia UAE Qatar Kuwait some of the activity in the UK.
Germany is stable with its rental activity.
We haven't seen it developed into a lot of Crane sales yet but it's positive.
So obviously on the flip side France is flat but little activity as far as new Cranes.
Russia is negative clearly but we've got some other areas.
Vietnam has been strong it looks like it will be strong next year.
And then – it's probably a little bit too early to tell on what's going on in India.
I think I'll be there next week.
But I think that one – all the signs are positive but it's probably still a little bit too early to tell.
We will go next to Seth Weber with RBC Capital Markets.
Hey thanks.
Good evening everybody.
Hi Seth.
So I wanted to – on the transaction so you have this $140 million to $195 million program cost benefit program that you've talked about previously.
So my question is how much of that leaks out in this transaction would you not be able to get if the Company split? And then kind of a related question I think you had previously talked about that number being predicated on a stable end markets which it sounds like maybe we're not seeing in the Crane business at this point.
So can you talk about how we should think about that $140 million to $195 million over the next couple of years? Is that number now become haircut by some level? It’s probably – Seth it's probably not to the higher end of the range but I don't know why it wouldn’t – you certainly wouldn't see it at the lower end of the range.
And the reason I say that is because lot of it is process-driven.
And we as I mentioned earlier today this week a big event here in Manitowoc to kick off a lot of this from the purchasing and the sourcing initiatives from a process standpoint.
And so I think when you look at it there are some synergies when it comes to the MROs when it comes to the indirects but that's not the majority of where you're going to see it.
I think if you go back to the sheet that we had in our investor presentation it was broke out specifically by Cranes and Foodservice.
So I think you can certainly expect us to be at that lower end of the range at least.
And then it's a matter of what's the high end of that and that's to be determined.
Okay thanks.
And then I guess on the Crane business how much of the weakness that you're seeing in the RT business specifically is end market driven? And how much do you think is just competitive some of your competitors taking advantage of currency to be more aggressive or – and take your losing share to some of your foreign competitors? Yeah this is Larry again.
I think when we started 2014 we ran into what everybody was calling the polar vortex.
One of the markets in North America we have really high market share.
And I think we all kind of assumed that as we got through that the market would pick up.
But clearly that the market overall forget about share the market was down significantly in just the number of units that were purchased by customers.
And I think we saw a lot of things that didn't materialize that we thought we would whether it's the lack of the highway bill nonresidential construction was lackluster and clearly we didn't see anything in the residential construction.
So I think when you roll all of those together the other factor that we saw as the lot of end users where looking more towards rental than purchase with a lack of quality that they were seeing in the markets.
Their decision was more or less why don't I rent a RPO Crane rather than actually pull the trigger and buy one.
So I think as part of that we saw a use of capital from our dealers to expand some of their rental fleets and RPO offerings.
And I think as they consume that capital it limits maybe how many more cranes they want to stock.
So our real focus going forward is to Glen’s mention we will improve our agility reduce our frozen windows increase our efforts on balanced attack.
So our key to success there is going to be our agility to handle these markets as they go up and down depending on where they are in the world.
We will go next to Charley Brady with BMO Capital Markets.
Hi Charley.
Yeah Sorry about that.
On the Crane margin outlook in 2015 the guidance implies margins going up we’ve got revenues dropping again around kind of 5% to 6% of where that was going to be.
You talked about some pricing pressures that you still are going to have maybe not as much as you’re having them.
And then I would imagine you did solve some absorption issues particularly since revenues in Crane are declining in ’15.
So I’m trying to square that off with how do margins go higher given all of those factors in ’15? Charley it’s really some of the things that we were talking about on some of these initiatives that probably were further along in Cranes purchasing cost savings manufacturing cost savings that are substantial that will enable us to earn through some of the lost absorption that will come from the decline of the top line if we experience it.
Were you not recognizing a majority of that in Q4 or is there still more or are you going to pick it up more in ’15? And there’s more restructuring going to do that offsets all of that absorption and pricing? Yes that’s where you saw Charley some of the restructuring cost in the fourth quarter so you can get the benefit of that pretty much and the reason we did it so we had the benefit for the full year.
The other thing I would say is I mentioned earlier I think the pricing on some things in the back half of 2014 more so than what we had anticipated.
And I think that’s because of it was probably more of a surprise in the end markets by all competitors and all Crane manufactures.
And then lastly I think you have a better for the margin standpoint.
You have a better mix of products this year than what you had in 2014.
As you look towards the Crawler Cranes and the Tower Cranes as opposed to the mobile hydraulics.
So I think mixed as an issue also.
We’ll go next to Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Hi guys.
Hi Ann.
Hi Ann.
My question two questions.
One quick one.
Can you talk about the debt covenants? I believe that the word debt covenants that did not allow a breakup.
Have those been renegotiated or will they need to be renegotiated or have we already gotten through that problem? Well I don’t think it’s really a problem Ann.
Obviously the debt package is to the Manitowoc company and there will an negotiation that’s kind of a market driven that we expect to be able to reflect as we go through this transaction in next year and you’ll essentially have two new credit packages for the two new companies so it’s not as though have to transfer the debt that exist today.
Right.
Okay that's helpful.
And then on cranes can you talk about what you've embedded in your guidance for the potential for a slowdown in oil rich nations like the Middle East? I know you said that activity is still pretty strong today but surely a year from now if oil prices stay that where they are at wouldn't you expect a slowdown at some point late 2015 or into 2016 in construction activity in places like the Middle East? That begs the question of why now like others had asked? Yeah I’ll answer your first question.
I think the inherent price of oil where it is today is baked into the price.
And as Larry said okay and the Middle East is probably one of the – as you see it today is a bright spot.
But that’s if you can look at and see that the guidance we gave is actually down until we set down mid-single digits.
So I mean maybe we’re confusing the terms of bright spots it’s only down 3% that will be a bright spot compared to 5%.
So I mean.
I think that’s where we’re looking at it Ann because we – these are put together with inherent price of oil very low.
And then the answer to your other question you ask again why now.
I think when you again –we go through on a strategic planning process that is good as any companies that there is and this didn’t just start on last year.
I mean this has been done every since we started acquiring companies back in the late 90s.
That's how we got the global footprint in Cranes; that's how we got to the global footprint in Foodservice.
And in talking with management these are management recommendations and where we believe we can take these businesses and the Board looking at our assumptions the advisors giving the Board direction and helping them with their decisions.
Putting it all together and saying where we think the markets are going to go long-term.
Right now is the best time to do it for them to proceed with their own strategies.
And now I turn the call back over to Mr.
Khail for closing remarks.
Before we conclude today's call I would like to remind everyone that a replay of our fourth quarter conference call will be available later this evening.
You can access the replay by visiting the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in the Manitowoc Company.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our first quarter conference call in April.
Have a good evening.
That does conclude today’s conference.
We thank you for your participation.
Good day and welcome to this Manitowoc Company First Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Khail.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Manitowoc's first quarter earnings conference call.
Participating in today's call will be Glen Tellock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; and Carl Laurino Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Glen will open today's call by providing comments related to our quarterly results and business outlook.
Carl will then discuss our financial results for the first quarter in greater detail.
Following our prepared remarks we will be joined by Larry Weyers President of Manitowoc Cranes; and Bob Hund President of Manitowoc Foodservice for our question-and-answer session.
For anyone who is not able to listen to today's entire call an archived version of this call will be available later this morning.
Please visit the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com to access the replay.
Before Glen begins his commentary I would like to review our Safe Harbor statement.
This call is taking place on April 30 2015.
During the course of today's call forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 will be made during each speaker's remarks and during our question-and-answer session.
Such statements are based on the company's current assessment of its markets and other factors that affect its business.
However actual results could differ materially from any implied projections due to one or more of the factors explained in Manitowoc's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are also available on our website.
The Manitowoc Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or other circumstances.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Glen.
Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
As you can see by our results we remain concerned with the challenging operating environment that has stifled global growth despite positive indicators in certain areas of the business.
While our results for Cranes were largely in line with our expectations and historical seasonality Foodservice was negatively impacted by our underperformance in the KitchenCare business amplified by reduced CapEx spending by large chains.
We are taking decisive corrective actions to improve performance within Foodservice while we continue to focus on those areas within our control to drive growth.
As we discussed last quarter the startup of our KitchenCare business has been met with challenges including leadership changes missteps in our call center operations and parts stocking issues.
All this has translated into higher start-up costs and subsequently a negative impact on operating earnings for the business.
While we had some encouraging developments during the quarter in Foodservice we also experienced some execution issues and soft demand from certain customers.
We have implemented a focused and disciplined approach to improve performance which has already started to yield results.
We are seeing improvements in KitchenCare fill rates speed and accuracy.
We have increased communications with stakeholders and have prioritized improvements with the highest customer impact.
We believe we are on the right path but realize there is more work to do.
Nevertheless we expect to have KitchenCare operating consistently with our expectations by the second half of the year.
During the quarter we also saw reduced CapEx spending by large chains particularly in Asia as these chains are redefining their expansion priorities.
As a result we continue to focus our efforts on developing our general market opportunities to ensure a more diverse customer mix that longer term should reduce the recent volatility we have seen in our results.
When comparing year-over-year results first quarter 2014 clearly benefited from 2 strong rollouts.
On the positive front we continue to experience strong demand for our Convotherm 4 oven and we are aligning production accordingly.
We also received several other solid orders during the quarter which included broad-based demand for our Merrychef e2 oven coupled with seasonally improving strength in our Manitowoc and Koolaire brand ice machines.
Lastly as innovation does remain a top priority we are pleased by the market's response to our new global refrigeration line which created significant interest at the NAFEM trade show in February.
As we look forward we are extremely cognizant of the need to improve performance across the Foodservice business.
We have taken the necessary actions to correct areas within our control and have maintained our commitment to positioning the business as a leading Foodservice equipment manufacturer.
While we did reduce our full year 2015 outlook for sales with the process improvements we have in place coupled with an improving second half we feel strongly about achieving our margin targets for the year.
For Cranes our results for the quarter were in line with our expectations.
Historically our first quarter tends to be seasonally weak and improving results as we move through the year and 2015 has started in a similar manner.
As expected global weakness continue to negatively impact our rough-terrain and boom-truck markets primarily in North America and Latin America.
U.S.
permits rig count and well starts all important drivers for the North American crane market have been declining since October 2014 to levels lower than any time since the third quarter of 2009.
However we are seeing pockets of strength in certain product categories including all-terrain market share growth complemented by growth in the Middle East driven by rail and infrastructure projects along with improvement in the Asia Pacific region.
We are also seeing an uptick in nonresidential construction in North America which is helping crane utilization in non-oil related markets.
We have not wavered on our commitment to improving the agility of our business with the competitive differentiation of our products.
Our disciplined operation strategy has resulted in working capital and free cash flow improvements.
In addition we are on track to achieve our purchasing and manufacturing cost savings for the year.
We are also pleased to see our technological leadership in the marketplace validated by the ITC's recent final determination which underscores the clear differentiation of our patented Variable Position Counterweight technology.
In fact we shipped our first new 300-ton VPC crane in the first quarter and are on target to deliver increasing VPC orders in the coming quarters.
Before I turn the call over to Carl I want to briefly update you on our progress in advancing the planned separation of our Cranes and Foodservice businesses.
To date we have established the foundation for executing the separation including the formation of functional and cross-functional teams and drafting of initial charters for day 1 readiness.
In addition we have announced that I will become the CEO of Manitowoc Cranes and we are conducting internal and external searches for the leadership of Foodservice.
Simply put we remain on track to complete our business separation activity in the first quarter of 2016.
In conclusion there is no doubt that the operating environment during the first quarter remained challenging.
However we are optimistic about the long-term prospects for both of our businesses.
As I noted on our last call our priority is to improve our overall financial strength and stability remain unchanged including: optimizing our cost structure to meet the demand levels we are currently experiencing continuing our investments in innovation in the aftermarket product support leveraging favorable market responses for new products and further paying down debt.
With that let me turn the call over to Carl for a review of the quarter.
Carl? Thanks Glen and good morning everyone.
We reported net sales for the first quarter of $752.1 million which is a decrease of 11.5% from a year ago.
GAAP net loss for the first quarter was $8.4 million or $0.06 per diluted share versus a net loss of $8.8 million or $0.06 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2014.
First quarter 2014 earnings were net of $25.3 million of costs associated with refinancing the company's credit agreement.
Unfavorable currency exchange rates had a $54.3 million negative impact on sales in the first quarter of '15 but no impact on EPS in the quarter.
Excluding special items first quarter 2015 adjusted loss from continuing operations was $6.3 million or $0.05 per diluted share versus adjusted earnings of $23.7 million or $0.17 per diluted share last year.
We have also made significant progress in implementing the cost-savings initiatives that we announced last year which has generated savings totaling $67 million since mid-year 2014.
By its completion in 2017 we expect to achieve total savings of $125 million to $170 million.
During the first quarter cash used for continuing operations was $135.6 million compared to cash flows used for continuing operations of $254.6 million for the first 3 months of 2014.
The decrease in cash flow used for continuing operations was primarily due to improvements in working capital particularly inventory as well as reductions in income taxes and bonuses paid.
Turning to the results for our 2 businesses.
Foodservice sales in the first quarter of 2015 totaled 355 -- $345.4 million from $383.3 million in the prior year period.
The decrease in sales for Foodservice was driven by a combination of fewer train -- chain-driven rollouts during the first quarter compared to the prior year lower CapEx spending by a few large chains and unfavorable foreign exchange impacts.
First quarter 2014 (sic) operating earnings in Foodservice were $33 million producing operating margins of 9.6% compared to 15.1% for the first quarter of 2014.
Again this decline was driven by lower volumes as well as higher start-up costs for KitchenCare which was only partially offset by savings from purchasing and manufacturing cost-reduction initiatives.
We have undertaken certain restructuring activities in Foodservice during the first quarter that we expect to benefit from as we move through the year.
The year-over-year decline in first quarter earnings was led by $13 million in differentiated rollout activity followed by $7.9 million in KitchenCare impact.
Moving to Cranes.
First quarter sales totaled $406.7 million decreasing from $466.7 million from a year ago.
Crane operating earnings in the first quarter were $9.7 million versus $22.6 million last year.
This resulted in a first quarter Cranes operating margin of 2.4% compared with 4.8% last year.
This year-over-year decline was due to absorption levels on lower volumes of rough-terrain cranes and boom-trucks along with pricing pressure amplified by the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates which were only partially offset by ongoing operational efficiencies and cost reductions.
As a reminder lower oil prices continue to contribute to the climate of caution and lack of confidence among certain customers during the first quarter.
From our perspective many of the projects currently underway are not linked to oil.
To provide some context approximately 30% of our Crane segment revenue has some level of exposure to oil prices with 30% of that being upstream 20% midstream and the balance downstream.
Crane backlog at quarter end was $770 million an increase of $32 million or 4.3% from the fourth quarter of 2014 and a decrease of 8.6% from the prior year period.
For the first quarter new orders totaled $439 million compared to $686 million in the fourth quarter of 2014 and $733 million in the first quarter of 2014.
First quarter 2014 orders included approximately $200 million of orders booked on the VPC crawler cranes that will largely be delivered in the second half of this year.
As we noted in our press release we are reiterating our 2015 full year outlook that we provided on April 16 2015 including Crane revenue to decline mid-single-digit percentage; Crane operating margins to be in the high single-digit percentage range; Foodservice revenue approximately flat; Foodservice operating margins to be improved from the 2014 mid-teens percentage range; capital expenditures approximately $85 million; depreciation and amortization approximately $110 million; interest expense approximately $80 million; amortization of deferred financing fees approximately $4 million; total leverage below 3x debt to EBITDA; and effective tax rate in the mid- to high 20% range.
Estimated cost savings in the Crane business from restructuring activities taken in the fourth quarter of 2014 are expected to be approximately $19 million in 2015.
Opportunities for margin improvement in Foodservice in 2015 are expected to be driven by full year benefits from factory consolidations LEAN manufacturing initiatives cost/price benefits improvement in KitchenCare and workforce staffing reductions.
Starting this quarter we have added a line item to our income statement which tracks costs related to our business separation activities.
Through the first quarter of 2015 we have incurred costs of $1.5 million.
We anticipate that our total pretax separation costs could aggregate $130 million to $140 million including consulting and other professional fees debt breakage costs as well as financing fees.
I will now turn the call back to Glen for some closing remarks.
Glen? Thanks Carl.
We expect the global growth profile to remain muted throughout 2015 as lower oil prices currency headwinds and the general tone of uncertainty among our customers persists.
We have however implemented a number of corrective actions to improve performance within Foodservice and position each business for long-term success although we do not expect a material improvement in either business until the second half of the year.
As we execute the separation of Cranes and Foodservice we will remain steadfast in the execution of our key initiatives over the remainder of 2015.
This concludes our prepared remarks for today.
Kim we will now begin our question-and-answer session.
[Operator Instructions] And we'll take our first question from Rob Wertheimer with Vertical Research Partners.
LLC</strong> So really just 2 questions on Cranes and margin.
Pricing impacts from currency dislocations at Japan and Europe is that fully seen right now in the quarter? Do you see competitors taking advantage or thinking about taking advantage or not taking advantage of the currency swings? And second one assumes that the VPC margin is better.
It's a differentiated product.
It's unique.
Assuming that you're capturing pricing power and so does that bode well for the back half of the year? Rob Glen.
I think the answer to your first question on the pricing I think -- I don't think it's a big significant headwind for us anymore.
I think what you saw last year still holds true and so I think that's kind of baked into our mode of operation.
With respect to the margins on the VPCs obviously when you come out with new products you would -- you expect that especially on the higher-capacity cranes which is definitely the case.
I think when you look at the 300-ton I think the margins are probably equal or a little bit better than the crane it replaced.
And the reason for that I think for us is when you looked at that competitive pressures in that category the 300-ton our decision was to get this product out in the field and punch some people in the nose with that product get the technology and I think over time you'll see those margins improve.
And we'll take our next question from Jamie Cook with Crédit Suisse.
Research Division</strong> Sorry I'm switching between earnings calls so I hope I didn't miss anything.
But one I think the concern -- from looking at the first quarter earnings and just looking at what you need to do for sort of the implied remaining 9 months of the year to make your guidance I think people are concerned both on the Foodservice side or on -- and sort of on the Crane side.
So can you talk to me about your confidence level? How do we think about the cadence of earnings first half versus second half? Outside of end market stuff is there anything in terms of operational initiatives that you feel like can help make your numbers this year? Because we don't want to get into a situation where we're hoping for the back half sort of recovery or we have to cut in the back half.
And then I guess my second question just relates to -- and I'm sorry if this has been asked.
How do you think about the cadence of orders for cranes as we progress throughout the year? Well let me -- Jamie I want to touch-base on your comment on the operational type things and I'll let Carl talk to you about the guidance and how that plays out.
But the one thing I would say on the operational issues it's few.
The problem is they had a -- have a big impact and KitchenCare is that one.
And not only did it impact the top line of the parts that we're shipping and can book the revenues on thus you have a little bit of a backlog there.
The other thing you have is obviously the customer is irritated and that takes a lot of management time.
It takes a lot of extra time.
It's additional cost to get the business up and running.
And so what I feel good about is you are seeing improvements.
We -- in the last 30 days we've made some decisions to change out some of the parts that we were keeping in Jeffersonville to minimize some of the disruption.
So I feel good about the plans that we have in place and now it's simply on our lap that in the next 60 days that all has to change.
And as I said in my remarks we expect it to change.
So I don't know what else I could say from the operational side on Foodservice.
When it comes to then -- just the OpEx piece the things that we have going in Cranes and the things we have going in Foodservice when it comes to product cost takeouts the sourcing initiatives LEAN initiatives we're well on track to get to the things that we have in place for the year and actually through the first quarter are exceeding plans.
So again those things that we are controlling I feel very good about.
The one that has the biggest impact obviously has been on KitchenCare.
So that's the one where it's all hands on deck and including myself and people from my staff.
And so I think when you look at that I believe you'll see with respect to just the normal things you'll see in Cranes that they have going in their business with the improvements that need to be made in Foodservice obviously the margins will improve.
Carl I'll let you talk about how the guidance comes out.
Sure.
Jamie as you know the first half of -- the first quarter of the year is seasonally soft for both businesses and obviously we see that impact this year.
The other elements that I would mention in terms of how we expect the year to play out would be the KitchenCare issue of course is something that we are still working on and that will have some impact in Foodservice.
I think that the rollout headwind that we had in the first quarter in Foodservice is definitely behind us.
We didn't really see that same type of strong rollout activity in the balance of the year in 2014 in Foodservice and that certainly would be helpful as you look at it from a year-over-year perspective.
The product cost takeout and the manufacturing initiatives ongoing in both businesses that will help the balance of the year for us.
And in Cranes the VPC is something that we've talked about.
You've heard the -- you probably didn't hear the first question but it's a question about that and the margin impact there.
That should be helpful in the second half of the year as we get into the serial production of those products and see the impact of those on the P&amp;L.
So as you listen to some of the commentary that we had in the press release and in our prepared remarks I think the way to think about the margin cadence is certainly improvement in Q2 given the seasonal aspect and other things I mentioned and then much stronger results in the second half of the year.
Research Division</strong> And then sorry just -- sorry go ahead Glen.
The other item you asked about were the crane orders and I just want to touch on that.
And I can let Larry add some color if he wants.
But I think when you look at the way we look at the business and some of the things that Larry has implemented over the past 18 months in that business we track it by product line we track it by the orders that we have in hand sold to the business plan sold to availability and look at the percentage that we have along the different product lines.
And as we've talked about the RTs and the boom-trucks are the ones that we're seeing the biggest softness.
And -- but I think when you look at the crawlers you look at the ATs we talked about the pickup there and you look at the towers we feel pretty good about where we're at in all those product lines.
So I think as we sit here in -- at the end of April knowing our discussions with distributors our discussions with customers knowing what's going throughout the rest of the year I think we feel comfortable with the guidance that we've provided.
Larry I don't know if you have anything to add.
No.
Jamie I think what Glen has talked about -- I think what we see is everybody is talking about the oil and the oil patch impact.
And we know our dealer inventories this year versus last year is only about 20 units higher year-over-year and that's specifically to dealers that are dealing in the oil area.
But what we are tracking is the engine utilization on a lot of these cranes in the oil patch area and it's surprisingly pretty steady which is a strong indication that these fleets are working on either turnaround projects for refineries or they're doing work in nonresidential construction and other areas.
So we've got to push a little bit of that inventory out from the retail side.
But on the flip side our tower crane business in North America has picked up quite a bit which is a good leading indicator on the nonresidential construction drive.
And as well our business just across the board in the Middle East in Saudi Arabia Oman Kuwait Qatar it's been much stronger in the first quarter than we expected as well as Korea Malaysia Vietnam Hong Kong that's helping to offset some of the lag we're seeing in the cranes doing work in the oil patch.
And we'll take our next question from Steve Volkmann with Jefferies.
Research Division</strong> Actually I just wanted to sort of drill down in a similar way on these questions.
Because I guess specifically I mean $439 million of crane orders in the first quarter it looks like you're going to have to average the last 3 quarters like $100 million higher than that in order to kind of get where you want to be for the year.
And so I guess the real question is -- it's good to see some areas of strength and so forth but what gives you the confidence that orders will actually be up that meaningfully sequentially in this type of environment? Well I think it's a matter of the -- I think our outlook would probably be different if we didn't see the suites being utilized.
But clearly when we look at the utilization data the engine use on the cranes we're seeing that the cranes in the -- that are destined to the oil patch today are finding other work and I think that's a strong indicator followed by the pretty strong strength in the tower crane market here.
But I will also say aside from the oil patch work the work in places like Algeria the nonresidential -- or the residential construction in Germany the market in the U.K.
has picked up fairly well for us.
So there's a lot of offsets to the current state of the cranes affected in the oil work.
And I think the fact that we are seeing the strong indications in the nonresidential construction whether it's education or medical or what we call green space hotels resorts et cetera so yes we're going to see that some of the stuff have to push a little bit but I think the indications are not that we aren't going to see an uptick.
I think one other thing I would throw in there Steve is I don't -- I'm not going to say one auction is a trend.
But I think when you look at the used prices right now they're very strong and they're holding their values very well.
If you were seeing people nervous and dumping equipment I think you would see a difference in the used crane prices.
And when you look at what happened in -- there was a large auction in Wyoming the values that held especially on the Manitowoc equipment which obviously we track very closely from very good buyers of -- typical buyers of Manitowoc equipment.
So I mean those customers saw the deal saw the need to have that sooner than later and I think that holds up well too.
And when you look across the globe the used crane prices are pretty good.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
All right.
And then just quickly on the Foodservice margin.
Carl you gave us a couple of numbers and I just want make sure I understood that right.
You said something about 13 -- sorry $30-ish million of kind of year-over-year comps on the channel fill I believe it was and then $21 million or something.
Maybe I have my number's wrong.
Maybe I should just ask you to repeat that.
You talked about the rollout impact and the KitchenCare impact I think on margins.
Correct yes.
Steve the operating earnings impact from the rollout --the year-over-year decline in rollout activity in the first quarter was roughly $13 million.
And the impact from KitchenCare both from a sales perspective but the margin impact more on the cost side than on the remediation is $7.9 million.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then order of magnitude does half of that go away in the second quarter? Or how should we think about that? Well again in terms of the rollout I think that the comparative is behind us.
I don't believe that we saw real strong rollout activity in the second quarter or really for the balance of the year last year.
To the magnitude it's -- and this is something we called out in the first quarter announcement last year that we did see some strong rollout activity in a couple of different product lines.
So as far as the KitchenCare to my earlier comment about the margins there will be some continuing headwinds for -- from KitchenCare this quarter but it will be at a significantly lower level than it was in the first quarter.
And we'll take our next question from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Research Division</strong> I'm wondering if you could just flesh out in a little bit more detail in terms of the quoting activity that you're seeing in Middle East and Asia I guess within the context of declining commodity revenues in those regions.
It's nice to hear that the business is picking up steam.
Maybe some more color there if you don't mind.
Yes.
Jerry this is Larry.
I think the strength in the Middle East is coming from what I would call non-oil-related projects.
There's a lot of metro rail projects.
There's 12 stadiums being built in the region but we're also seeing some fleet replenishment in some areas that have been kind of quiet for a while Kuwait specifically.
And surprisingly Algeria has been strong for us for large AT cranes with some share growth and -- so across the board.
And I think in Asia it's -- good tower crane business that we're seeing in Korea Malaysia Vietnam Hong Kong and I think it's a strengthening of our AT business in Singapore and surprisingly Australia for probably non-mineral-related or commodity-related work.
And also the small crawler business has been fairly strong for us in Singapore even tower cranes in Venezuela to a certain extent.
So there's different pockets and different areas that are helping us kind of offset some of the other not-so-good stuff that's going on in the market going forward.
Hope that helps.
Research Division</strong> No I appreciate it.
And then at Foodservice once we get past the KitchenCare issues can you just talk about the opportunities to get that business to -- I think at some point you were looking for high-teens margins in the 18%-plus range.
Any sort of visibility on the path to get there once we get past the current issues that we should be thinking about? Yes.
Jerry I think it goes back to the things that we've talked about for a while.
It's the operational pieces that you have.
The Monterrey facility I don't want to bring up.
It's having the -- some of the issues we talked about last year.
Cleveland comes to mind.
That's behind us those start-up issues we had.
So you're going to see the improving margins there.
But it's continued -- it's further operational-type improvements that we have.
And whether it's at Frymaster whether it's at the pickup of the Convotherm ovens we talked about in Germany you'd see the benefits in the U.K.
so it's really kind of across the spectrum on margin improvements at most of the locations.
I think the other thing that we have is in fact the new products.
When you look at many of the new product rollouts that we have -- I wouldn't call them rollouts because then you tend to say "Oh those are the big ones." But I think just the new products we have and the opportunities with replacements of other new products we had several years ago with many of the chains that gives us a lot of confidence that we can get to those margins once we get some of the markets stabilized behind us and certainly we get the KitchenCare back in order.
Bob I don't know what you want to add to that.
Yes.
Just to I guess underscore that.
We do have opportunities.
The fast casual casual dining segments are continuing to grow quickly.
We also have convenience store growth that's out there.
As Carl mentioned some of our -- the largest chains may be suffering right now but even some of the replacement business in that particularly in blended ice in the U.S.
is a big opportunity for us.
And we've gotten good acceptance from a lot of owner operators in terms of that.
The Convotherm 4 product which is a major product line for us made in Germany we didn't ship hardly at all last year.
Now we're running into as many orders as we can fill.
It's been an extremely well-accepted oven all around the world and we're producing as many electrics as we can right now.
We're ramping up on the gas models which is for the U.S.
There are certain things.
Another one that was mentioned in the remarks were the global refrigeration line which is our second line that we're producing in Monterrey.
That's had really good interest that came out of the NAFEM show.
We start on the shipment of that tomorrow that line.
All the training over the last quarter to all of our buying groups -- the buying groups and also our manufacturer's reps has been very positive on what it can do.
So we've got a combination of new products.
The markets are there.
We just have to -- once we get through some of these KitchenCare issues which have been significant -- and if you can imagine personally shipping stuff over next-day air versus shipping it ground freight the cost involved with trying to keep the customers happy in those times that will happen sooner.
And once we get through that we'll start to see some improvement.
Research Division</strong> Okay.
And then lastly Carl I don't know if you have any update for us on how to think about corporate costs for the 2 businesses once you spin off.
There's quite a range of -- in terms of estimates on the increase in corporate cost.
Any sort of framework for how we should think about it? Well obviously we're going to start calling out the specific cost items that you would attribute to the split activity try to give you some sense of what the pretax magnitude of that would be in aggregate.
And the majority of those relate to the -- simply the break fees and the financing associated with doing the split but the balance on the professional fee side.
As far as the increase that we saw year-over-year it was things like pension true-up and some employee and stock-based compensation that drove the increase in the first quarter.
So I think that from a run rate standpoint that's probably a reasonable expectation.
And we'll take our next question from Eli Lustgarten with Longbow Securities.
Can we talk a little bit about the split of revenues in the Crane business from around the world? How much was North America Middle East Latin America Asia Pacific Europe? Just give an idea what happened in the first quarter and how that differed and what you might expect for the year.
Eli the total Americas is roughly 50%.
That's probably 40% U.S.
The EME percentage European portion of that a little under 30% and then the balance of the EME region may be another 10% or so maybe a little more than that.
And then the balance of kind of low double-digit percentage in the Asia Pacific region.
Okay.
And we look at it -- I mean can you talk -- Latin America has become a basket case.
You've got issues down there in product production what have you.
Is there any -- are we looking at any restructuring or any issues given the basket case it's taking on in Latin America and particularly Brazil? I'll take that and I'd hand it to you.
Eli this is -- while it is in in your terms a basket case I mean we didn't think it was great last year and I think many of the initiatives that we took last year addressed what we saw as a slowing market.
So I think most of that is behind us.
We actually -- when you look at what we've tried to size for our facilities and our people in Latin America I think our people have done a good job to say "Hey we can breakeven with the facility we have down there " and that was really the target for 2015.
Larry do you want to talk about the market? Yes.
The one comment I would make is that what we are finding is with the exchange rate of the real we are now shipping more RT cranes from the plant in Brazil to the Middle East which has kind of been an advantage for us in that we have the right shipping lanes coming out of Passo Fundo to kind of the key markets there.
So that's been a positive note for us.
But I think clearly the copper and oil prices for Colombia Chile and Peru are at that market kind of collapsed a little bit right now.
But there's some spots in Mexico that continue to be okay.
I think Pemex which is a big oil company in Mexico is kind of holding on their CapEx but we're seeing our dealer inventories actually decline in our region there.
So there's activity.
Clearly it's not where anybody would want it to be but I think we are sized right for the markets there right now.
All right.
And one follow-up question on the Foodservice business.
It was struggling at mid-teens.
We talked about a goal of upper teens 17.5% 18%.
You have an industry in Foodservice that's it's a very steady spender runs about 4% a year year in year out plus or minus a little bit.
And you've got competitive companies that are all showing much higher profitability in the low 20s at this point I mean led by probably the great numbers coming out of ITW at the moment.
Can you give us some idea of what's causing the lag that you're so far behind and whether the steps you're taking now should get you towards not only -- we talked about high teens but is there a runway to get you to a much stronger profitability compared to your peers? Yes.
There's -- Eli this is Carl.
There's certainly some differences if you would look at our business versus some competitors' business.
But as we look at the opportunity for us to get to the targeted level of high teens full year margins in our Foodservice business there's a few things that are obvious that come to mind.
'14 was certainly a setback from the -- 2014 from the direction we had been moving in Foodservice and the margin progression we've been able to accomplish since we did the Enodis acquisition.
And part of that is what we would call as kind of some self-inflicted wounds that we've talked about as we posted the results.
And I think we've got a lot of those at hand or at least visibility as to when we'll get those issues solved.
I think that the other thing is that there's certainly been -- with some organizations that we have a very strong customer position with there's been some challenges that they've had in their business that have affected their buying habits with us.
And that over the short term has been painful; over the long term we think probably correct.
And then the opportunity for us from a cost improvement we've mentioned the opportunities that we have on the procurement side on the LEAN manufacturing side and on the consolidation side that are bearing fruit for us that really can't be seen because of some of the other issues that we've had.
The other area that I think is a prospect that maybe Bob could expand on is I think we're really starting to get a lot more serious about some product standardization initiatives that we think will really help with our efficiencies as we focus on that.
Yes I think so.
If you look at the strength of our brands and look at the strength of our customer base it is fairly strong.
We're taking a -- we've always had a close look on LEAN taking a closer look at our cost of quality.
And then of course our purchasing initiative we're doing this year will help.
One further area we're looking at is really taking a very close focus on what we sell and who we sell to and getting into more the granular data on where our profitability is lack of profitability on certain models of certain customers and I think that will also help.
It's helped some of the others in the industry.
And realizing that to improve operating margins we can't be everything to everybody.
And that takes a lot of data analysis and we're getting into that detail right now.
And we'll take our next question from Mig Dobre with Robert Baird.
Research Division</strong> Yes.
Glen there's something that I find pretty puzzling when I'm looking at the Crane margins.
If I look in 1Q '14 so last year your organic growth in Crane was down something like north of 16% and you had decremental margins in that business of 11%.
This year organic growth is only down 3% decrementals are north of 20% and you've gone through a number of initiatives that have generated cost savings.
So I have a hard time equating how such a small swing in organic can result in such high decrementals after all your efforts.
Yes.
I think it's a good question.
But it's -- from where we sit it's a pretty simple dynamic and it really is the mix that you have between 2015 and '14.
If you go back to the beginning of 2014 Mig could go back and think of what you ended 2013 we got into 2014 people believing -- with the oil prices where they were you started to see a lot of optimism in the market.
And when you look at what we had you had the RT business going you had ConExpo coming up you had a lot of the positives in the industry.
And so it was -- almost across the board the product lines that we had pretty solid in the RTs pretty solid in the boom-trucks and it was a lot of the higher-capacity machines you had coming out of the AT business.
And so when you put all that together and you get the absorption out of factories you can drive the margins.
And that's where -- we talked about the initiatives being implemented.
What we had in 2013 as we talked to a lot of people a lot of the manufacturing initiatives are going into what we had in Europe.
And then in 2014 while you have those pickups we also have a lot of the things that we're doing at Manitowoc and Shady Grove.
So you see the combination of those and we went through some of the reorganization of the businesses at the beginning of 2014.
So I appreciate you look at it that way but I think when you look at the positives that we've had in the business especially throughout 2014 on the sourcing side and the manufacturing side in cranes particularly once we get back to Shady Grove and Manitowoc and Wilhelmshaven and the tower Cranes business picking back up you can see what the impact that that volumes have on our absorption.
And that's why we continue to try to take costs -- fixed costs out of that business and you heard Larry talking about agility.
That's what it's all about and that's why we continue to make those moves.
And it's a little bit easier to do now when the markets are a little bit less robust than when they go up.
So I think your comments are valid but I think when you look at where we're at in the business I think you see a different story.
Research Division</strong> Well I can appreciate it.
But it's just that I was under the understanding that mix has actually gotten better as you've seen some demand for crawlers for towers and such.
Maybe I understand it wrong and maybe there's also more that you need to be doing perhaps in RTs in order to manage capacity there.
Is that a fair point? Yes.
Mig this is Carl.
I just wanted make sure I understood some of the metrics that you threw out there.
What were you saying the decline was at the top line? Research Division</strong> Well this is all my numbers basically.
But in 1Q '14 you've had a pretty significant organic decline in Crane.
It was double digits.
It was north of 15% and your decremental margins were pretty modest.
It was about 14%.
Research Division</strong> Right.
And in '15 we're talking a much smaller organic decline with some pretty significant north of 20% decrementals.
And you've had cost savings and my understanding was that mix has gotten better.
So I was a little bit puzzled that we're seeing this kind of decrementals at this point.
But I think some of what you're talking about Mig is the fact that it's a 14% decline last year in the first quarter.
As you remember last year was a -- it's a seasonally slow quarter for us and probably even more harmful from a weather standpoint last year.
And then you take a leg down from there that takes off what -- even going off of that number down another 13%.
I think that's where you get some of the absorption impact that -- as you think about the infrastructure that you need for the business overall.
I think that that plays a part in the fact that the decrementals are pretty bad when we're at this level of business.
Research Division</strong> All right.
Well I'll follow up offline.
My follow-up is a clarification to a question asked earlier.
Can you help us understand when it comes to your corporate unallocated costs how we should be thinking about allocating at Crane versus Foodservice? And is there a view as to what the uptick in costs will be post-split at this point or even a guess of some kind? Yes.
We hesitate to provide that last one Mig because we're in the midst of the work that's really going to be necessary to determine what the appropriate cost structures will be for the businesses.
And until we get through that work I think it would be premature for us to give a number or even a range at this point because it would circumvent I think some of the work that is being done and I think that that same constraint makes it difficult to determine what the split of corporate cost will be because that really plays into that question as well.
And we'll take our next question from Charlie Brady with BMO Capital Markets.
Just one on the Crane side for a minute.
I hear what you're saying on auction prices and used crane prices and that the amount of equipment coming out of the energy patch is being redeployed.
It strikes me that the redeployment of equipment would translate into a lower demand to have to buy a new piece of equipment.
Good for rental companies maybe not so good for OEM like yourselves.
And so I'm just trying to understand while the underlying metrics for the crane rental companies may be improving or certainly stable particularly in the non-oil patch what gets that to translate this year -- because we didn't see it last year what gets that to translate -- to get these guys going out and making a purchase decision to buy a crane now particularly when yourselves and the other 2 players in the industry certainly have ample capacity this is not 2008 where if I don't get a slot now it's 18 months until I get a Crane that pushes these guys over the edge to pull trigger and order a crane.
Well Charlie the difference is from what you've seen in the past when the oil prices went down in 2010 -- 2009 and 2010 projects were shut off.
They just stopped them.
And okay we can talk about the oil patch.
That's North America.
That's in the Gulf region of North America.
What about Canada? What about other places that are around the U.S.
and the infrastructure they're putting in place there? I'll give you an example.
Just recently last week I talked to somebody in one of the areas a customer hadn't bought anything in the first quarter of 2015 because of watching a lot of the projects be delayed deferred.
But they didn't stop.
They basically cut back and now they said -- and April is the first time they purchased a crane this year which is arguably one of the top 5 crane rental companies in the U.S.
So you have that.
Now the -- and I think a lot of the people have the expectation that oil prices will stabilize somewhere in the high 50s low 60s.
If you get that and it stabilizes there Charlie people are more confident then to continue the projects and I think that's where we're getting a lot of feedback from a lot of customers.
Whether it's here whether it's in Europe whether it's around the Middle East that's where people are seeing it and I think it's purely a matter of confidence.
The other thing that we talked -- we haven't talked a lot about is just the infrastructure play with a Highway Bill.
You got people talking about a highway bill for 5 and 6 years.
I don't know when it's going to come.
I don't think that you're going to see it before the -- obviously the end of summer but I think if there's talk about it and people get confidence that's what they're buying on.
They're buying on confidence.
And when you look at the conversations that we have whether our salespeople are having them whether Larry is having them with customers whether I am or anybody else that -- those are the conversations that are taking place and it's not "Hey I'm stopping my purchases at all cost." So to Larry's point the good news is the utilizations are still good whereas typically they have gone down dramatically in -- when these projects are being shut off.
So if they do start bringing people back into the oil rigs -- and where they're going to get this product they're going to -- they have to change their fleets.
And so it's really -- and to Carl's point and when he talked about it in his remarks he talked about the non-oil-related parts of it upstream downstream middle stream whatever.
So you have that -- all of that in play.
And so when you look at where we're at and where we need to be from a guidance standpoint we feel pretty comfortable at where we sit today.
Larry I don't know if you want to add to that.
No I think you kind of touched on all of it.
But I think the biggest point is I think our concern and we were -- even in the first part we were pretty much where we thought things would be.
But I think if those cranes in the oil patch basically those engine utilizations were down next to nothing that would be a whole different picture.
And by the 700 to 800 cranes that we've pinged we see that the engine utilization is at a normal rate.
So in talking with dealers and customers they're saying "Yes those Cranes were -- have gone to other work that were doing oil work " and that work is still growing.
So -- and if you talk with customers or dealers that are not in areas affected by oil they're saying that their businesses and backlog of work is fairly robust.
So when does that trigger the purchasing decision? I think one of the questions people are looking at is 2008 was the big year that we shipped so many cranes and we're now sitting in 2014.
So they're looking at the depreciation schedule on those assets -- '15 sorry.
They're looking at the depreciation on those assets and when do they start to turn some of that fleet.
So it's going to be a watch and see and I think as Glen mentioned we've improved our agility to be able to size the plants right so we aren't consuming a ton of cash and inventory and -- in Raw/WIP.
And we've seen that kind of come to fruition in the first quarter.
So...
And we'll take our next question from Ted Grace with Susquehanna.
LLLP Research Division</strong> I was hoping to come back to a question we asked you guys a few months ago in the fourth quarter call.
And that was when you think about the specific financial benefits to the shareholders of effecting a split can you talk about how you expect Foodservices to be better positioned from an organic growth perspective? You've talked about the structural cost actions you're taking.
But I guess is it -- it will be helpful just to hear you walk through what you expect the tangible benefits to be to the business when you separate it how will it improve the operations beyond what it would do if you'd just kept the companies together.
And I'm assuming you had to do this analysis because it had to be core to the determination to spin the business off to begin with.
So I was hoping with 3 months of time to kind of go through that you could kind of update us on your thoughts there.
Okay.
Well I think when you look at it Ted -- I think operationally it doesn't matter whether they're together or apart.
So you're going to embark on the same initiatives you have.
I'll go back to the numbers that we put out last year or mid-year on the cost takeouts and Carl mentioned where we're at on those initiatives.
We've said a long time ago that when you look at our direct materials there's not a lot of overlap in the direct materials and you could see that as we go through our global sourcing initiative.
That's a fact.
But at the same time as we continue to embark on our global sourcing initiative we can utilize the spend that we have and use that same savings now as we go make the split.
Now when you look at what are our strategies going forward if -- once you make that separation I think what you have to look at is what are the opportunities.
And I think the deciding factor for us as you look at the markets that we're in when you look at Foodservice and you believe that those markets have a little bit better growth opportunity than Cranes and you look at where they're at the products they have it's a much more fragmented market for them to set up their own capital structure for them to embark on their own strategies with their own capital structure -- it's just Foodservice and that's what you see for many of our competitors.
Then you turn around look at Cranes.
When you look at Cranes as I said back in the fourth quarter many of the decisions that we make are based -- they're not based on a quarter.
They're not based on a half year.
We're confident looking 3 and 4 years out.
And if you look at Crane strategy 3 4 years out it's a little bit less growth but what we have there is a lot of it's the -- to what Larry talked about a lot of it's the internal changes that we can make to improve our margins improve our agility.
Yet at the same time if you want to do things within that industry it is a little more consolidated industry but there's some pretty good opportunities to focus and look at it from a -- whether it's acquisitions mergers or anything else you have the opportunity to use that capital structure in and of itself to make those decisions.
So basically when you looked at where you had to go when you got through the path of what do I want to do they have 2 different growth strategies they have 2 different operational strategies.
And to do that -- if I invest in Foodservice Crane people are going to say "Hey what about me?" If I invest in Cranes the shareholders of the current business are going to say "I thought you had Foodservice just to remain as an in-between." So really that's what it is.
It's looking at the capital structure looking at the strategy and looking at the shareholder base you have on all 3.
It's really the same things we said back in January.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
So before I move to the other question we shouldn't look for any kind of real difference in organic growth? I mean the strategy is the strategy and it's now just kind of the ability to execute as stand-alone companies? Exactly.
I mean we need to execute.
It's that simple.
LLLP Research Division</strong> Okay.
So on that note I think you made comments about changing your strategy within Foodservices.
I know you talked about trying to shift some of the client focus trying to bifurcate the clients and really kind of segment to your more profitable guys.
But when you think about the inherent execution risks of doing that can you just give us -- I know it's a work in progress to kind of come up with a strategy and implement it but could you just walk through kind of the key factors that are -- we need to be kind of focused on or asking you about over the next 6 to 12 months to understand how you're progressing? Yes.
Ted that's a good question because -- and glad you brought it up because it's really not a shift in strategy.
It's a shift -- it's a focus.
And for instance I guess what I would say to Bob is when you look at our distribution channels sometimes it's easier to hunt where the ducks are you hunt -- if you want to hunt elephants.
And sometimes with some of our distributors and sometimes the rep groups they're hunting elephants and they're hunting bigger flocks.
And what we're trying to do is get them to say -- if we break down our customer base to here's the top 25 customers and then I take it to the next 75 and I say "Look this is an opportunity where I walk out -- if i go through a restaurant in Manitowoc and I see holy cow they don't have our equipment and the question is why.
Some of them may say "I didn't know you have a new chain that comes out with 5 stores." Bob's asking the question.
Why don't we know that this chain -- new chain came out with 5 stores? And when you start talking from our salespeople all the way down through the rest of the distribution channel we're making them a little more cognizant of some of these areas that they're -- I wouldn't say walking away from but they haven't taken the relationship that they have with all these other customers where they have great relationships and gone and hunted in new territories.
And that's -- it's more of a focus on a new sales strategy than it is anything else.
And somewhat it's incentivizing them to go do that.
So it's really an additional focus than it is a strategy change.
Does that makes sense? LLLP Research Division</strong> Yes yes.
No that makes sense.
What I was asking is how hard is it to actually get your direct and indirect sales force to kind of change the way they operate? Because that to me seems like -- not insignificant.
Well as I said I think when -- it's our job as the OEM and our marketing people to -- we should know all these opportunities.
We have to know what's going on there.
And it's the job of our AVPs and the other people that are managing these other accounts to say "Here's some opportunities.
Let's go talk to them." I don't think it's new for these people and I actually think -- our reps our dealers I think they're looking forward to it because they realize that they can't just do business the way they used to do.
So I think they're actually looking for encouragement from us to go out and do some of these things.
I'll let Bob -- he's in the middle of it.
Yes.
That's exactly right.
I've gone out and met with several of these different types of channel partners we've had.
And you can see it that they may have a specific territory of a state or a couple of states.
But when you ask them "Can we bring you together and target certain small say the top 100 chains and do it more together with us?" leading in our innovation workshops and all the advantages that Ted you've seen in Tampa and all that that there is a lot of opportunity.
They even admit there's a significant gap between the way we treat our top 25 strategic accounts that we handle and the remaining 75 of the top 100 that they handle leading that change.
And leading with them to get them with ourselves to team up and penetrate that is an opportunity that not only we see but they see too.
And we have come to the end of our Q&amp;A session.
I'll turn it back over to Mr.
Khail for any closing remarks.
Before we conclude today's call I'd like to remind everyone that a replay of our first quarter conference call will be available later this morning.
You can access the replay by visiting the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in The Manitowoc Company.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our second quarter conference call in July.
Have a good day.
And that does conclude today's conference call.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to the Manitowoc Company Second Quarter 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Steve Khail.
Please go ahead.
Good morning everyone.
And thank you for joining Manitowoc's second quarter earnings conference call.
Participating in today's call will be Glen Tellock our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and Carl Laurino Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer.
Glen will open today's call by providing comments related to our quarterly results and business outlook.
Carl will then discuss our financial results for the second quarter in greater detail.
Following our prepared remarks we will be joined by Larry Weyers President of Manitowoc Cranes and Bob Hund President of Manitowoc Foodservice for our question-and-answer session.
For anyone who is not able to listen to today's entire call an archived version of this call will be available later this morning.
Please visit the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com to access the replay.
Before Glen begins his commentary I would like to review our Safe Harbor statement.
This call is taking place on July 30 2015.
During the course of today's call forward-looking statements as defined by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 will be made during each speaker's remarks and during our question-and-answer session.
Such statements are based on the company's current assessment of its markets and other factors that affect its business.
However actual results could differ materially from any implied projections due to one or more of the factors explained in Manitowoc's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are also available on our website.
The Manitowoc Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or other circumstances.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Glen.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
The results we reported yesterday reflected another challenging quarter for our businesses.
While we saw stability in certain product categories within cranes macroeconomic headwinds and weak oil prices continue to create a level of uncertainty in the rough terrain and boom truck markets that weighed heavily in our cranes results.
That said we have taken decisive actions over recent quarters to respond to those areas that are within our control.
For example over the past 12 months we have eliminated $30 million of direct and indirect costs and continue to pursue more opportunities to streamline our manufacturing processes.
The good news is that the balance of our crane business performed in line with our expectations and we are seeing demand improvement in the residential and commercial construction markets in North America.
Turning to Foodservice we saw improvement as we progressed through the quarter which underscores the corrective actions we have put in place throughout the business.
While certain areas are still experiencing softness particularly reduced CapEx spending by large chains other expects of our business are doing well particularly cold-side products as well as ovens and grills in the United States.
The notable improvement we experienced in June has continued into the third quarter and we are cautiously optimistic that Foodservice is turning the corner.
We're now seeing the benefits of the actions we have taken within our KitchenCare business and the execution issues reported in previous quarters are largely behind us.
Our parts flow and order fill rates have dramatically improved our backlog has diminished capacity has now aligned and our monthly operating cost are down nearly 40% from the peak.
As a result KitchenCare sales are up modestly on a year-over-year basis and up sharply on a sequential basis.
Besides KitchenCare we continue to make progress on our 80/20 Business Simplification initiative which is expected to drive substantial improvement in our operating profit over the next several years.
In essence this initiative is driving transformational change in our culture.
This will allow us to focus on sales customer support and product development efforts in the most efficient way to grow our business and drive profitability.
We are expecting to generate as much as 150 basis points of margin by simply employing our time and resources more judicially through 2017.
Once again our technology leadership in the Foodservice market was validated as we won two Kitchen Innovation Awards at the recent National Restaurant Association Trade Show.
In addition McDonald's named us Innovator of the Year for our superior frying technology and we received the ENERGY STAR Partner of the Year Award for the sixth year in a row.
In addition we received the Supplier of the Year Award from Subway last night in Las Vegas.
We also continue to receive favorable results for our Convotherm 4 ovens.
Customer feedback has been extremely positive with some stating that its performance and reliability is the best they've ever experienced.
Lastly our fitKitchen solution is also generating considerable interest as this integrated approach to accelerated cooking not only enhances speed of service but improves food quality and the customer experience particularly for QSRs and kiosk operators.
Turning to cranes global weakness and depressed oil prices continued to negatively impact our rough terrain and boom truck markets primarily in North America while unfavorable foreign exchange rates have pressured pricing in other regions.
As we said on the last call U.S.
permits rig count and well starts all important drivers for the North American crane market have been declining since the second half of 2014 to levels lower than any time since the third quarter of 2009 as crude oil prices hover near six-year lows.
In addition the euro is at one of the weakest levels in nearly a decade which negatively affects the currency translation of U.S.-denominated carne sales from our European operations.
Additionally our internal forecast had assumed some macro improvement in the second half of 2015 including oil rising to higher levels than we now anticipate.
As a result we now expect any meaningful demand in market improvement of the crane industry to be further delayed.
Carl will discuss this in greater detail in a few minutes.
Excluding weak demand in the rough terrain and boom truck markets in foreign exchange we continue to see pockets of strength in certain product categories including tower cranes and all-terrain cranes driven by solid performance in the Middle East Europe and certain areas within the Asia Pacific region.
In fact we recently launched four new tower crane models that received an enthusiastic response.
We were also recently awarded a $192 million mobile crane contract by the U.S.
Department of Defense that should impact our revenue beginning in 2017.
The amount of this award is not included in our reported backlog.
Finally we are seeing an uptick in non-residential construction in North America which is helping crane utilization in non-oil related markets but has not yet achieved the magnitude that we had expected.
While we are encouraged by these positive indicators our progress continues to be overshadowed by the oil and gas markets and we don't expect a reversal until oil prices begin to rebound.
Overall our disciplined operating strategy in both segments has resulted in year-to-date improvements in working capital and solid free cash flow generation.
Before I turn the call over to Carl I want to update you on our progress towards the planned separation of Cranes and the Foodservice business.
As mentioned on previous calls we have established the foundation for the execution of the spin including functional and cross functional teams who are making solid progress and we have created the initial charges for day one readiness.
Carl will provide more detail on the related separation costs in his remarks.
In addition we recently announced the hiring of Hubertus Muehlhaeuser who brings over 20 years of global business leadership with an industrial focus to his new post as CEO of Manitowoc Foodservice.
Most recently Hubertus served as Senior Vice President and General Manager EMEA (08:58) for AGCO Corporation.
With this key leadership now in place we will be making other management appointments over the next 30 to 45 days and we remain on track to complete our business separation in the first quarter of 2016.
In conclusion there is no doubt that the operating environment during the second quarter remained challenging we continue to focus on the agility of both businesses.
Manitowoc has weathered many economic cycles and our team has proven its ability to manage the business without compromising our competitive position in the marketplace.
Combined with our cost reduction efforts we believe the initiatives we have taken in the areas of quality reliability and performance position us well to succeed even with limited end market improvement.
With that let me turn the call over to Carl for a review of the quarter.
Carl? Thanks Glen and good morning everyone.
We reported net sales for the second quarter of $885.4 million which is a decrease of 12.6% from a year ago.
GAAP net income for the second quarter was $23.3 million or $0.17 per diluted share versus net income of $46.6 million or $0.34 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2014.
Unfavorable currency exchange rates had a $59.7 million negative top line impact plus an unfavorable EPS impact of $0.03 for the quarter.
Excluding special items second quarter 2015 adjusted earnings from continuing operations were $30.6 million or $0.22 per diluted share versus adjusted earnings of $47.8 million or $0.35 per diluted share last year.
We have also made significant progress in implementing the cost savings initiatives that we announced last year we have generated total savings of $100 million since mid-year 2014.
Unfortunately to-date these savings have been outstripped by under-absorption by both businesses as well as costs associated with factory consolidation and the KitchenCare launch in Foodservice.
By its completion in 2017 we expect to achieve total savings of $125 million to $170 million.
During the second quarter cash generated from continuing operations was $55.4 million compared to cash generated from continuing operations of $72.2 million for the second quarter of 2014.
The decline was primarily due to lower cash from profitability.
Turning to the results of our two businesses second quarter crane sales totaled $477.7 million decreasing from $606.1 million a year ago.
The impact from foreign currency exchange on sales totaled $44.3 million.
Crane operating earnings in the second quarter were $26.2 million versus $54.4 million last year.
This resulted in the second quarter operating margin of 5.5% compared to 9% last year.
This year-over-year decline was due to continued volume decreases in rough terrain cranes and boom trucks which drove lower absorption that was only partially offset by ongoing operational efficiencies and cost reductions.
Crane backlog at quarter end was $731 million up slightly from the second quarter 2014 backlog of $728 million but down modestly from the first quarter 2015 backlog of $770 million.
This generated a book-to-bill ratio of 0.92 times.
For the second quarter new orders totaled $438 million virtually equal to the first quarter of 2015 but down from $491 million in the second quarter of 2014.
As Glen mentioned the recently awarded U.S.
government order totaling $192 million is not yet included in backlog due to the multiyear delivery schedule.
Foodservice sales in the second quarter of 2015 totaled $407.7 million roughly flat with the prior year period's $406.7 million.
Sales were fueled by strength in North America cold-side products ovens and grills which were partially offset by continued weakness in large chain rollouts particularly in Asia and unfavorable exchange rates.
As Glen mentioned we saw significant improvement towards the end of the quarter and these trends have continued into the third quarter.
Second quarter 2014 operating earnings in Foodservice were $63.6 million producing operating margins of 15.6% compared to 16.2% for the second quarter of 2014 but reflected a 600 basis point sequential improvement.
The year-over-year decline was driven by lingering costs associated with KitchenCare issues and price discounting that were not fully offset by savings from purchasing and manufacturing cost reduction initiatives.
As a result of our improvement initiatives KitchenCare expenses have consistently trended down over the past few months and are reaching a more consistent run rate.
In addition we have taken $11.6 million in manufacturing costs out of the system year-to-date which is nearly half of our full year 2015 goal of $25 million.
As we noted in our press release we are revising our 2015 full year outlook to reflect our current outlook for the Crane segment which assumes a limited recovery in oil prices.
This also affects our outlook for total leverage while our Foodservice outlook remains essentially unchanged.
More specifically Crane revenue should decline by approximately double-digit percentages Crane operating margins to be in the mid-single-digit percentage range Foodservice revenue approximately flat Foodservice operating margins in the mid-teens percentage range capital expenditures approximately $70 million depreciation and amortization approximately $110 million interest expense approximately $80 million amortization of deferred financing fees approximately $4 million total leverage approximately 3.5 times debt-to-EBITDA and effective tax rate of approximately 30%.
We continue to anticipate that our total pre-tax separation costs will aggregate a total expense of $130 million to $140 million on a pre-tax basis.
The majority of these expenses most notably debt breakage cost and financing fees will be realized at closing during the first quarter of 2016.
In addition run rate costs associated with separating into publicly-traded companies are expected to be in a range of $20 million to $30 million on an annual basis.
I will now turn the call back to Glen for some closing remarks.
Glen? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Carl.
We expect the global macro economic backdrop to remain difficult throughout the remainder of 2015 as lower oil prices currency headwinds and a general tone of uncertainty among our customers persists.
We are encouraged by recent trends in our Foodservice business and the resilience of our Crane business.
However we continue to focus on those aspects of the business that we can control namely enhancing our operational performance optimizing our cost structure maintaining our leadership position through innovation and quality and improving our organizational efficiency.
Although we no longer expect a material improvement in the Crane segment until 2016 at best we are cautiously optimistic that the recent trends within Foodservice will continue.
As we execute the separation of Cranes and Foodservice we will remain focused on our key initiatives over the remainder of 2015.
This concludes our prepared remarks for today.
Katy we will now begin our question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
We'll take our first question from Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Hi good morning this is actually Ben Xiao on for Jamie.
So on crane orders the orders in the quarter were actually a little better than at least what we were expecting.
For the back half I know that's a little usually seasonally stronger but maybe you can calibrate us on what we should expect in the back half? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Are you saying Ben from an order perspective? Yeah an order perspective.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think the general tone and I can let Larry go through it.
I think the general tone for us is somewhat kind of more of the same.
I think what we have is when you look at the new products I think that's going to generate some interest but you're right as you get past the third quarter as you get into the fourth quarter you get a little bit of – especially in North America and somewhat in Europe on the tower crane side you get the dealers that are starting to look at what they want to forecast for 2016.
So I think you're right seasonally it gets a little better towards the end of the year but I think again just I think with some of our guidance I think you can see that it's probably more of the same.
Larry? I think that's pretty accurate Glen.
I think for the second half we don't expect to see a pull-through of the RT or boom truck orders as the market tries to consume those products that were in dealer inventory based on the oil prices.
But I think there's some markets that – specifically AT and towers that continue to produce for us.
We saw that in the second quarter.
So I think some of those markets will continue from what we've seen not at a great extent but I think at a balanced incoming rate so...
Okay.
Thank you.
And then switching to Foodservice the margins I think were pretty solid.
It does sound like for the full year if I interpreted it correctly you moderated a little bit from improving mid-teens to mid-teens.
So I guess how should we think about margins in the back half relative to what you put up in Q2? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Go ahead Carl.
Yeah I think the way to think about it is obviously we had well below our standard type of margin performance in the first quarter.
You know certainly made some nice progress on that this past quarter as we look at the exit rate at the end of the quarter I think it's probably going to be sustainable as we look at the back half of the year.
Incrementally for us given the fact that the first quarter and the second quarter were as bad as they turned out I think that put us in a situation where we felt like you know putting the commentary about improved margins was probably a bit of a stretch and that's the reason for the change just to simply state mid-teen margins.
All right.
Thank you.
We will take our next question from Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Hi good morning.
Hey Jerry.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
I wonder if you could talk about within Cranes just flesh out for us the relative pockets of strength from an order standpoint in the quarter or inquiry levels just if you could just expand on the prepared remarks? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Go ahead Larry.
Yeah sure.
I think what we've seen is that for our tower cranes and our all terrain cranes they are pretty much in line with our expectations.
We just introduced four new models of tower cranes as Glen mentioned plus a new GMK model.
But the pockets of strength still remain I would say the pluses are the UK the UAE Korea Saudi Arabia is still fairly strong on the non-res construction.
We will see how that plays out with their spending on that versus defense.
But I think Germany France still Italy is a little bit stronger and Spain believe it or not.
Belgium Netherlands are flat India is flat and I think it really comes down to the boom truck and the RT that are the challenging based on the oil.
I would say the one positive sign we've seen there is a reduction in our dealer inventory of about 38% since the first quarter but most of those cranes are going out on a rental purchase option which means they're not converted to a sale but they're actually moving somewhat out of the channel.
So I think from that order's perspective we're going to see – try to see that inventory flush out through the end of the year to position ourselves more positively for 2016.
Okay.
And then in Foodservice can you just clarify your comments of 150 basis points margin expansion by 2017 I'm assuming that's on top of reversing the startup expenses on KitchenCare – is that right can you flesh that out for us? That's correct Jerry.
That's incremental to the expectations that we had prior to introducing the business simplification that 80/20 represents.
Okay.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Nicole DeBlase with Morgan Stanley.
Yeah thanks.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Nicole.
Good morning.
Hi there.
So my first question is around the Crane guidance so down double-digits just it's kind of broad.
I'm just curious if by down double-digits we can clarify that does it mean down low double-digit mid-teens high-teens like what are you guys thinking for the full year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> It's still lower end of that Nicole.
Okay got it that makes sense.
And then my second question is I am not sure if you guys are willing to elaborate on this a little bit we were talking about the food margin exit rate a little bit earlier does that give you confidence that you can get to back to that range that you were operating at before KitchenCare and some of these other headwinds around 16% to 17% in the second half is that where you guys are targeting? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I think that's a fair assumption you know and again I think the things that you've seen I mean if you go back six quarters or eight quarters I mean the run rate was right around that same amount.
So we are – I mean we've had a few hiccups we've talked about them.
We've address them and I think this is where we should expect to be and I think Bob and his team have a lot of that behind them and a lot of the new initiatives as they gain some momentum going to the end of this year and into 2016 I mean it's certainly a more positive story.
Okay thanks.
I'll pass it on.
We'll take our next question from Seth Weber with RBC Capital Markets.
Hey good morning guys.
Good morning Seth.
Good morning.
So I thought it might be helpful so for Crane revenues for this year we're looking at something which is roughly half of where we peaked out at in 2008.
Can you frame for us by product category maybe I know you don't break out revenues by category but how far off the peak we are in each of the kind of the four major Crane segments is that something you'd be willing to do? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think no not really willing to answer your question but I would give you some clarity on that.
I think you heard me say in my remarks on the Crane side whether it's oil and gas or the boom truck and RT market we are at the levels we were at 2010 when you get to some of that so it's well off the peak.
As you get to the crawler the RT I am sorry the – as you get to the crawler the towers and the ATs the ATs are probably the one that has gone up closest towards that peak and then the towers – still that was such a great market in 2008.
It's certainly not – that dropped 80% from 2009 to 2010.
But I think it's climbed steadily over the last four or five years and we expect that with some of the – just with the improvements in the economies and then with new products.
I don't know the crawler market has gone up more than towers or ATs but I think those are improving where what happened is the RTs came out of 2010 a little faster than the rest of the market peaked in 2012 and now you are seeing the decline over the last three years.
So hopefully that gives you a little bit better indication of where it's at but there is still room to go I mean especially in towers ATs and crawlers there is still room to go to get to the 2008 levels but we don't expect that to happen soon.
Well sure sure sure.
Okay just going back to the guidance the revenue guidance for the Crane business I mean if you are talking revenues down 10% to 15% that still implies you know something like $1.1 billion or $1.2 billion of revenue for the back half of the year versus the $900 million you did in the first half but it sounds like you're talking about orders being kind of constant.
So I'm trying to reconcile those two comments if you could? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah no and it's – that one Seth you're spot on and the one that you wouldn't get from that it's more on the – it's mostly in the crawlers and that's going to give you the – a lot of the – where we have the new products the MLC300 and the MLC650.
The run rate in the back half of this year is almost that difference you talked about in the back half of the year versus the first half for crawlers.
That's the VPC you're talking? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Exactly exactly Okay.
And then – thank you that's helpful.
And Carl maybe if I can just get a clarification on the $20 million to $30 million of additional run rate costs does that – will that run through corporate expense or will you call that out when you report as an items? Those are represented by the separate public companies in the costs associated with obviously the leveraging that takes place as a single public company that is not possible under two independent public companies and just the run rate costs associated with that.
So it's really nothing that you're going to see prior to affecting the separation.
I got it.
Okay.
Thank you very much.
We'll take our next question from Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Yeah hi.
Thanks for taking my question.
Can you maybe talk a little bit about the 30% of the cranes that are sold to the oil patch what percentage change you're expecting for this end market in the second half versus the first half? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Go ahead Larry.
Yeah.
I think your question was around the volume of cranes to the oil patch the 30%.
I think the 30% is the normal run rate for us of cranes going into that work.
I think what's different or what's changed now is when the oil prices drop so severely that you have a fleet of cranes that are not working.
So you have to have a period of time here where those cranes are pulled through the system.
So in a normal year we would have 30% effect of that but I think with a lot of these customers renting and not purchasing and waiting to see what's going to happen and some of the projects being delayed we're going to see an effect here where the cranes have to get pulled through and retailed and that's going to take a bit of time here.
And I think what we don't want to do is get in a position where we're either heavily discounting or trying to pump cranes into the market again without the proper demand.
So I think we're in the position to balance our production and focus on our costs both direct indirect production material.
But we don't want to overstock the market as we go into 2016.
Inc.</span></strong> That's helpful.
And just clarification on given the lower cash flow expectations for the second half have you – have you guys started rethinking about your debt repayment expectations and you know how should we be thinking about the capital structure for both the Foodservice as well as the Crane businesses as separate entities in 2016? Thank you.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Go ahead Carl.
Yeah I would say that the really the change in the view on the leverage side is driven by the EBITDA erosion that's taken place primarily in the crane side of the business given the back half for the year outlook and results to-date.
As far as what the expectations are about the capital structure what we stated is that we expect the credit rating for the separated companies to be as equivalent or better than Manitowoc's current and that expectation has not changed.
And we will take a scenario-based approach to the agencies so we'll have that visibility on the front end as to which scenario to choose in order to ensure that that happens.
Inc.</span></strong> Thank you.
We will take our next question from Ted Grace with Susquehanna.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Ted.
First thing I was wondering maybe just to Larry's last comments frequently you talk about time utilization statistics in the field and to your prior comments about the need to absorb kind of stock out of the energy patch more broadly can you just update us on kind of where you think you are in North America and then other key geographies that are affected whether that's parts of Asia Pacific or elsewhere? I'll let Larry elaborate a little bit more from his conversations with different customers but Ted the thing that's interesting to us and we talk about it quite a bit internally is when you look at many of the customers that are out there they are very busy the utilizations are high.
One of the things that everybody is trying to get now it's purely on the rental rates and the rental rates probably not improving as fast as what you would see with utilizations as high as they are.
And I think to Larry's point where you are seeing people on the RPOs and things while they are busy you wonder about the confidence because they are not buying they are kind of going on a lot of these purchases on the RPOs.
So I think when you look at what's happening primarily in North America I think a lot of it's a lack of confidence and more specifically we've talked about the non-res and the commercial construction improving but not offset by what Larry talked about you see some of these other cranes moving out of different parts of work and go into others.
That's really what's interesting and when you talk to a lot of the rental companies if you see them for the first time and you haven't talked them for a while it's like wow you guys must be busy.
Well there is that dichotomy there and the other thing we talk about quite a bit is you see some of the rental companies aging their fleets just a little bit longer.
And again that's just a – it's more of a cautious move than it is a defensive move I think.
But I think it just there has to be some confidence and some optimism in the markets and I think that's what's driving a lot of the decisions.
But I can assure you that a lot of the rental companies out there are very busy right now and that's both North America and in Europe on the towers and the ATs.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Larry? Yeah I think the utilization we're watching the closest obviously is the RT and boom trucks and we use our CraneSTAR to check utilization and we've seen some drops in specific models that we know are specific to the oil patch or oil-related work.
But I think a lot of the dealers or customers specifically our dealers that are offering cranes on a rental purchase option that still ties up their capital.
So I think we're really trying to watch when some of those get converted.
People that have been running a crane for two to three years and I think when that conversion rate happens in combination with the reduction of the dealer inventory that's when we're going to see some positive light.
I would say the other thing we're watching from a global perspective is cranes coming from other parts of the world where the markets are down and they're coming back into North America.
Australia for one we've seen some cranes coming from there back into the U.S.
but places like Algeria it's still been a good year for us but we're watching that closely because of the amount of cranes going to oil.
Vietnam there's a lot of steel (36:10) projects going on there.
So but I think because of the size of the share we have in RTs and in North America we're really trying to plan effectively to work with our dealers to help them manage their inventory.
So we again aren't plugging the channel with cranes at lower or discounted prices.
Okay that's helpful.
The second thing I was hoping to ask is just on new leadership at Foodservices we've gotten the question a lot so I figure it best to hear from you guys directly I think a lot of investors were kind of hopping that you'd have somebody out of industry thinking that that would be important to kind of more effectively managing the Foodservice business.
Obviously you made a decision to go with somebody that came out of more of a conventional industrial background.
Can you just walk through kind of like the pros and cons of that selection process and why – and I apologize I won't try to pronounce his name because I know I won't get it right but could you just walk through why you think he is the right person to lead this business with the lack of foodservice experience on his resume? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I can try.
I think when you look at the industry and you look at – I think that was a – we had utilized Korn Ferry on an extensive search for this and so they came forward with names like any other search goes through I don't need to tell anybody on the call how these searches work.
But I think you go back and you find people that are interested and you vet the selection process and so to make it look like someone from within the industry we had very good candidates.
But you've got to remember that this is a very fragmented industry and there aren't a lot of people that that have leading positions that all of sudden what makes them – if they are a competitor whatever what makes them want to jump ship to Manitowoc? I mean there's a lot of reasons why I could see it but I think there's a lot of uncertainty.
It was a difficult search just because of I think the separation so you have a lot of things that while it's a very positive position it's a very difficult decision and so when you go through the candidates you look for somebody that is going to keep the team together you look for somebody that's been an operator before.
You look for somebody with international experience.
You look at all the qualities that we need and this isn't a turnaround situation by any means.
It's purely a situation where somebody needs to come in and pull a few levers and look at it maybe a little differently than we've looked at it in the past and grow the business.
So I mean I get the fact that people wanted somebody from the industry but at the same time it is almost like draft day.
You take the best candidate available and you take the most talented person and that was the person chosen.
Bob I don't know if you have any comment.
Yeah maybe I can make Ted I can make a comment too and that is the experience of the existing Foodservice leadership team is still there.
I think one of the talents that Hubertus has for us is the ability to convert us from being a segment of one company to being a corporation unto itself with his industry experience in developing companies.
I think that's where we're going to see him shine being able to continue doing what we're doing and lead the segment and grow the business.
We have strategies in place to move forward with it and we're looking to him to help us become an independent company that's – I think from within the company that's where we're looking his leadership to help us the most.
Okay.
That's really helpful and I know everybody looks forward to meeting him once he is on board.
So good luck this quarter guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah thank you.
Thank you.
We'll take our next question from Mig Dobre with R.W.
Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Good morning everyone this is Joe Grabowski on for Mig.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Joe.
Hi Joe.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Most of my questions have been answered – hi good morning.
Most of my questions have been answered.
Just wanted to drill a little deeper on the VPC shipments it sounds like they're really going to move the needle in the back half of the year.
Can you tell me has VPC started shipping when will it start shipping and sort of what are the status of new orders that have been coming in this year for the VPC product? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I mean if you recall we said the first – the MLC300 and the MLC650 the first ones we'd ship we said a long time ago would be early in the second quarter.
We actually I think got it out by the end of March at the end of the first quarter.
So we've been shipping these since the end of the first quarter.
So I think that's why when you look at the run rate you basically have a slower start up basically none in the first quarter I mean yeah okay we got them out a couple.
But you have what you have is gaining traction in the second quarter.
Now you have it in full run rate for the third and fourth quarters so that's not an issue there.
So I mean and with respect to the orders I mean it's being well received.
I mean that's about all I can say is that the ones that are out the people that are using them like the crane.
We are getting very positive feedback and we're excited about it.
We know the technology works and it's as we've said previously some people have called it a game-changer and time will tell but we certainly like our chances.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay great thanks.
And then on the Foodservice side maybe more of a big picture question.
The consumer has been taking advantage of lower gas prices to eat out more restaurant sales are up pretty strongly year-to-date.
Could you maybe just talk about your initiatives of broadening your customer base and maybe getting beyond sort of the top 10 QSR players into some of the more faster growing fast casual players to take advantage of the strong restaurant trends we've had this year? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I am going to turn over to Bob quickly but to that point I think when you look at some of the markets that we are very strong in and continue to be and I will let Bob talk about some of the markets our businesses that are up in different areas.
But you look at the one that's that's a big one right now is on the convenience stores.
That's where you're seeing a lot of traction and we have some great initiatives going on with a lot of different people.
And Bob can talk to it more but to your point the general market if you get away from some of the chains and you look at more of the "general" market those trends right now for our business are very positive and I think that's why we see that's why we're more confident in the back half of the year than what you saw in the first quarter.
Bob go ahead.
Yeah thanks Glen.
I think we have gained some considerable traction.
If you look at our general market growth rate and particularly North America it's well well outpacing industry growth.
So it is an area we're growing in.
We are also taking advantage of our third party rep force across North America and we've had them all in recently to continue to grow that fast casual casual dining segment.
Glen mentioned C stores is an important area.
He also mentioned in his prepared remarks on fitKitchens it's doing a kind of a tiny kitchen food inspiring technology where you mix the culinary in and try to do it in a much smaller footprint with lower cost.
Even the chains and the start-ups are interested in this type of concept because they can go into a smaller footprint area in a bigger city or in a second tier city in China or India as an example and kick off the business in the right way.
All these things are going in I believe in the right direction to be able to grow that area to grow just outside of the large QSRs.
In fact the large QSRs are interested in that type of concept as well too.
We continue to grow products in that area and do further developments like in our Merrychef line the Accelerated ovens is an important area our smaller combi ovens smaller fryers and these types of things will help develop that type of market.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay great.
Thanks everyone.
Good luck in the back half.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Thanks.
We will take our next question from Joe O'Dea with Vertical Research Partners.
Hi good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Joe.
On Crane margins – hi.
When I mean you've actually dialed in across both segments the $100 million of savings out of that $125 million to $170 million target quickly and so when you think about some of the pressure maybe in Crane margin and then as you exit this year and into next year just trying to get a sense of whether in next year there's a little bit of a mix benefit with some of the development or demand trends in Europe? Whether or not there's been just given the pace of declines it's been a harder impact on production and so that eases both – just trying to get a sense really of the opportunity for year-over-year margin improvement in Cranes next year barring any kind of real shift in current demand environment? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Well I think if you look at – if it's apples-to-apples and you didn't have the separation or some of the associated separation costs in the SG&amp;A there would be margin improvement and a lot of it is because in my prepared remarks I said over the last 12 months we've taken $30 million out of direct or indirect cost.
And so what you look at there is a few things that I would say – I wouldn't expect to happen again next year and you kind of pointed to it as how fast do you get in front of that decline in some of these markets where you didn't see it in maybe the RTs and the boom trucks.
So you annualize the costs you've taken out.
There's areas where we can impact the utilization of a factory like Shady Grove by doing other things there whether it's North American GMKs it can be some of the things as we have a lot of the cranes coming out of Manitowoc.
There can be shifts in capacity that can help basically those unabsorbed variances that you have in your factories and the key – and the other startups that we had are the SAP that we had in Manitowoc as we went live there and the startup experiences you have with the new products such as the MLC300 and the MLC650.
So you have all those behind you and just you would expect that once those are behind you you would have margin improvement.
So there's no reason why we wouldn't expect at these levels for the margins to improve.
That's helpful thank you and then on KitchenCare in terms of measures that still need to be taken is that fixed in 3Q? Are the issues outstanding at this point more customer relationship and so that slowly comes back but just kind of the timeline and outlook on that – kind of like the big remaining piece I think in marching food service margins back up? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah I think you've kind of touched on both of them I think we still have some things to do.
I mean we're not out of the woods but I can tell you that Bob and his team have done a yeoman's job to get it where it is today back on track but there is – the issues are smaller and smaller every time we have a steering committee meeting to talk about them.
And I think we talked about the run rates of the costs that are in there down 40% from the peak.
We believe that and we said this at the end of I think our last call by August we will be back at our normalized run rate for the KitchenCare parts activities.
The one thing that is the wild card and you said it what are some those relationships where it still is going to be the hey show me first.
I got impacted quite a bit but I still – show me before I really jump back on board.
The other area that we could improve a lot quicker is some of the international shipments.
We still have a little bit of some things to do there.
We recognize it.
We are getting better at it but it's just some of the documentation and those kinds of things that go with international shipments but we're certainly in a much better place as we sit here today than we were three months ago.
Bob? Yeah maybe I can also mention too it wasn't until closer to the end of the quarter that we started taking more significant cost out.
We wanted to make sure we got our order fill rate up and we took care of our customers before we started pulling significant cost out of that business and that really didn't happen until about the June timeframe and we have a little bit more to go but we think we can get there with KitchenCare.
Order fill rates are closer to 90% now and those types of things so it's coming around.
As Glen said the only thing left is we've got little more work to do in international shipments and I think we will be there in terms of cost and then customers as well too customer satisfaction.
Got it.
And then maybe one last one Carl just circling back to your comment on thinking around leverage and the target to keep the rating.
I don't know if you are able to add on to that at all high level at least what you think that means in terms of separated company leverage levels? Not specifically but I think obviously fair to say given the margin profile and the stability in the Foodservice business that there'd be greater level of debt in Foodservice than the more cyclical lower margin Cranes at least currently so that's the general expectation and we will get more specific about that as we continue to go forward through the split process.
Okay all right thank very much.
We'll take our next question from Tim Thein with Citi Research.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Hi great.
Thanks.
Good morning.
I guess two for Larry first just on Europe specifically.
A lot of kind of mixed messages in recent weeks just in terms of the pace of underlying macro and the outlook there but as you get closer to kind of the quoting and order season for towers for 2016 I am just curious what you see across Europe in general from the standpoint of rental rates? Yeah I think the rental rates depends on which market you are in especially for towers.
I think the UK has been fairly robust over the past 8 to 10 months and it looks like it's going to continue.
I think Europe specifically I think Germany France I don't think the rates are overwhelmingly great but we see some recent activity with the new models that we've come out with.
We just launched those two weeks ago and then I think Italy as well there's some activity that is starting to show.
So for core Europe and then you have other areas Algeria has been a very good market for us not core Europe but there has been a lot of equipment going into that which was oil related.
So I think we have to keep an eye on how that trend takes place.
And then I think you have clearly the Iranian activity that's going on and how those sanctions are handled going forward.
So clearly that's a market that could be a strong potential but on the flipside that could have repercussions depending on how that's viewed by countries like Saudi Arabia and other countries that could affect our business our current business there.
So but I think it's – there's not an overwhelming huge jump that anybody would expect for our tower crane business in that area but we do have some specific new products that are hitting the market that are going to affect our position in Europe definitely in 2016 in a positive manner.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Got it and then just coming back to North America and your comment earlier around some of the rental operators in North America not having quite the ability to push rates up enough to make that ROI math work in terms of purchasing new cranes but do you think it's – this weakness in oil and gas do you think it's sharp enough or I don't know deep enough to trigger more consolidation in a channel that hasn't seen that same level of consolidation like the general construction equipment rental market has? I'm just curious your thoughts there's been some recent news there in terms of some of the private equity firms getting a bit more aggressive but I – just curious as to your thoughts around that.
Yeah.
I'm not so sure those activities and I know which ones you're talking about that were related so much to the decline in oil.
I think most of the companies in the market today have rebalanced and reset based on the assumption that the oil price probably isn't going to get much better through next year.
So I think what consolidation activity takes place will be because of other business-related issues.
I think more the companies that will be affected are maybe not so much are crane rental companies but the companies that are specifically are in the shale oil business we've seen them affected quite heavily with layoffs and some closures of specific companies that are doing work in the shale business.
And we've seen other companies step in and buy a lot of that equipment right now based on the price being very attractive as you can imagine.
So I think the consolidation will take its normal course and we don't see any huge pressure to say hey I need to sell my business because I'm that affected by the oil prices but that's just my view.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Understood thanks for the time Larry.
Yep.
We'll take our next question from Brett Stone with Cantor Fitzgerald (56:09).
Hi thanks for taking my questions.
Regarding the Foodservices spin off could you give us some color on the other roles you're looking to fill and when you would expect the new board to be assembled and then I think you've already touched on this a little bit but could you just walk through the first three months and quarters for the new CEO and where his focus would be would you expect him to do a strategic review or is he really just going to be focused on the execution of the breakup? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No well I'll touch on some of the earlier questions.
We mentioned in the next 30 45 days you'll have probably the first level of management communicated both internally and externally.
I think as you go to the next level down most of that will happen at – by I think our target date is in September for the L2s.
Okay.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> And then with respect to the board that discussion we have our board meeting next week and obviously we've been working on it that's part of the spin plan and the goal we have is basically not to have any overlap be – on the boards between the two companies.
We're going to have to try to decide how to split up the participants on the board to either Foodservice or Cranes but we have initiated a search with Spencer Stuart to get additional board members for Foodservice and Cranes because we will need them.
So that's going to take as we file Form 10s as we have the names of those people that are already on and we know which one they're going to we'll fill those in and as we get them we'll go along but those are all effective obviously on the day of the split.
With respect to Hubertus and what he is going to do in the first 90 100 days he obviously – the majority of his time is going to be looking at okay understanding where are we what are the strengths what are the weaknesses? He's got to get to know the people he has got to put his team in place.
He's going to be working with me on the separation it's going be his decisions as we go through we've been working on a lot of Foodservice things in kind of a quasi team and now he can be part of the spin process also on the steering committee that will be making decisions for Foodservice.
So yeah he is basically jumping in feet first and he will be putting his mark on the Foodservice business day one and so it's really kind of – he is got to be working on it all because on day one he has got in charge.
So we actually look forward to it.
I mean it's nice to have Hubertus on board and named.
I mean it's taken a lot of uncertainty out of a lot of the things that have been questioned by employees for the last few months and so now to your point get the next level on and that will take a lot of more uncertainty out and we can focus on the spin.
So it's really we're in the execution phase now and you will see more and more as we go through the quarter.
So would you expect him to sort of come back to the market after 100 days with a sort of his findings or will that be quite formal or would it be more...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No I don't think so I don't expect that.
I know my conversations with Hubertus I mean he has been a very quick study and he has spent lot of time looking at what Foodservice is doing and I know he has had a lot of conversations with Bob.
And I think to the point that we made earlier as he looks at it the comment that he made to me is he said – and we are putting him with the board meeting next week.
He has looked at where Bob has turned in the Foodservice strategy through 2016 to 2018 and I think generally agrees with it and is on board.
I mean but of course for us to sit here and think there aren't going to be changes made we'd be crazy.
I mean that's silly to think he is not going to put his own stamp on some things but I think the best thing that I believe and again what he said to me is hey look I agree with where you're headed.
I like what I hear.
There is probably just a few levers that he may put a different little spin on and I think he needs to pull those levers and do it but again it's not a turnaround and it's not something that you've to upset the entire apple cart for.
So I think there's some things he has got in mind and when he gets to those I'm sure when we get on one of these calls he'll be happy to talk about it.
So I mean we'll certainly let you know.
Great.
Thanks for the color.
With no further questions in queue I'll turn it back to Mr.
Khail for any additional or closing remarks.
Before we conclude today's call I would like to remind everyone that a replay of our second quarter conference call will be available later this morning.
You can access the replay by visiting the Investor Relation section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in the Manitowoc Company.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our third quarter conference call in October.
Have a good day.
That concludes today's conference.
We appreciate your participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to this Manitowoc Company Q3 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
As a reminder today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I'd like to turn the call over to Mr.
Khail.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Manitowoc's third quarter earnings conference call.
Participating in today's call will be Ken Krueger our Interim Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Carl Laurino Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and Hubertus Mühlhäuser President and Chief Executive Officer of Manitowoc Foodservice.
Ken will open today's call by providing comments related to our quarterly results and business outlook.
Hubertus will then provide a more detailed overview of our Foodservice segments performance and outlook and Carl will discuss our financial results for the third quarter in greater detail.
Following our prepared remarks we will be joined by Larry Weyers President of Manitowoc Cranes for our question-and-answer session.
For anyone who is not able to listen to today's entire call an archived version of this call will be available later this morning.
Please visit the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com to access the replay.
Before Ken begins his commentary I would like to review our Safe Harbor statement.
This call is taking place on October 29 2015.
During the course of today's call forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 will be made during each speaker's remarks and during our question-and-answer session.
Such statements are based on the company's current assessment of its markets and other factors that affect its business.
However actual results could differ materially from any implied projections due to one or more of the factors explained in Manitowoc's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are also available on our website.
The Manitowoc Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or other circumstances.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Ken.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
Right now you've had a chance to review the press releases we issued last night discussing our third quarter earnings results as well as my appointment to Interim Chairman President and CEO of Manitowoc.
Before I jump into the results for the quarter I'd like to take a moment to discuss the leadership transition.
Let me start by saying Manitowoc is at a unique juncture in its evolution.
The company has established two leading businesses in both Cranes and Foodservice which as previously announced will be split with the execution of a spin-off of the Foodservice business in the first quarter of 2016.
We also have a strong management team along with our many talented employees around the world providing a strong foundation for the company.
However the board determined that it is time for new leadership in order to improve the trajectory of the business and to fully maximize our potential going forward.
We very much appreciate Glen's efforts and his contributions to Manitowoc over the last 24 years and wish him well in his future endeavors.
The board has initiated a search for a CEO for Manitowoc Cranes and will provide an update as soon as possible.
Having served as a member of Manitowoc's board of directors since 2004 including four years as Audit Committee Chair I know the company well and have tremendous confidence in our ability to revitalize the business.
We remain committed to innovation product quality and superior after market support to maintain our leading positions.
At the same time we're implementing aggressive actions in both segments including rightsizing the business plant rationalizations and other cost improvement activities while driving growth in Foodservice to improve overall profitability.
I'm honored that the board selected me for this important role and I assure you that I'm committed to delivering improved performance.
Now let me shift gears and turn to our third quarter results.
Our third quarter results were mixed.
In Foodservice the business appears to be turning the corner.
Many of the issues that negatively impacted its performance over the last 12 months have been remedied which contributed to our solid margin improvement this quarter.
Hubertus will provide you with more in-depth comments in a few minutes.
Turning to Cranes our third quarter results were disappointing as deteriorating demand for tower cranes in the Middle East and Asia coupled with lower than anticipated all-terrain and crawler crane shipments all contributed to the shortfall in revenues.
The current global economic environment affecting customer demand is unlike any cycle we've seen in the recent past.
Uncertainty among our customers is mounting due to emerging market peers ongoing question over Chinese growth outlook persistent depressed oil prices and slowing domestic growth.
More specifically rough terrain and boom truck demand in North America continued to be hardest hit given its exposures to oil gas and the infrastructure projects.
However we experienced other softness across the business including pricing pressure created from unfavorable exchange rates.
In September we experienced delayed crawler shipments totaling $55 million.
At the same time the devaluation of the won in August caused the slowdown in tower crane sales in Asia.
In addition we experienced broad-based global softness in all-terrain cranes.
Whereas we had seen relative strength in tower crane sales in the Middle East over the last few quarters we're now seeing a spending shift away from energy and the infrastructure to defense impacting our business in that region.
As a result we have taken aggressive actions to respond to those areas that are within our control.
Over the past 12 plus months we have eliminated $29 million in direct and indirect costs.
In addition we announced last night the implementation of additional restructuring activities to expand upon our efforts to-date.
These new efforts aim to eliminate another $35 million to $45 million in costs over the next three years though actions including plant rationalizations and reduce the deferred expenditures.
The majority of these savings will be realized in 2017 and 2018.
We firmly believe that these actions will result in stronger more agile and a more successful company for the long-term benefit of our shareholders.
We anticipate a charge of $10 million to $15 million in the fourth quarter most of which is non-cash.
While we're implementing these actions we continue to analyze additional areas to further streamline our manufacturing processes and rightsize our footprint.
The third quarter proved to be one of the most volatile and difficult operating environments in recent memory.
Manitowoc has weathered many economic cycles and our team has proven its ability to manage the business without compromising our competitive position in the marketplace.
This cycle should be no different.
We remain highly confident in the long-term underlying fundamentals of both businesses.
Before I turn the call over to Hubertus I want to briefly update you on our progress toward the planned separation of our Crane and Foodservice business.
We have made significant progress towards implementing the spin and we remain on track to complete our business separation in the first quarter of 2016 notwithstanding the recent performance within Cranes.
We've also announced the majority of our senior management team for Cranes and Hubertus will provide an update on our Foodservice leadership.
Carl will provide detail on the related separation costs in his remarks.
With that let me turn the call over to Hubertus to discuss Foodservice in more detail.
Thank you Ken and good morning everyone.
It's a true pleasure to participate in my first earnings call as CEO of Manitowoc Foodservice.
As Ken mentioned the momentum that we saw in June continued into the third quarter.
The initiatives that had been started months ago coupled with more recent activities that have a direct margin impact have led to a 100 basis-point improvement compared to the last quarter.
From a sales perspective during the quarter we saw strength in cold-side in North America on beverage which was somehow offset by reduced CapEx spending by large chains particularly in Asia.
Our KitchenCare business also demonstrated improvement with fill rates nearing our targeted range and increased efficiency running through the operation.
We have realigned the team all of whom are committed to further improving customer satisfaction profitability and growth.
As a result we saw year-over-year revenue growth and margin improvement in the quarter.
While we are pleased with this improvement we recognized there is more work to be done.
As we look ahead while our strategy remains unchanged we have a stronger focus on optimizing the business.
Our number one priority is margin improvement as we work towards the spin of the Foodservice business in early 2016.
There are really two themes driving our efforts to close the gap from a margin perspective simplification and rightsizing.
From the perspective of simplification as we have discussed before we have stepped up our efforts in our 80/20 initiative.
This is for Manitowoc really a transformational shift for our business in terms of reducing our product complexity.
We have made great strides thus far and are seeing positive trends that we expect to continue.
In conjunction with this initiative we are undergoing a number of activities aimed at improving our margin including pricing optimization taking a very critical look to delay or stop non-value added projects reinvigorating new product introductions and simplifying the organizational structure to increase speed and decision making.
We believe these efforts will be imperative in further enhancing our margin profile as we move forward.
In addition to these simplification efforts we also announced restructuring initiatives in our press release last night aimed at rightsizing the business and addressing our overcapacity.
These activities are accelerating the rationalization efforts that have been underway since mid-2014 and include reducing overcapacity by consolidating various production facilities and implementing head count reductions.
In line with these objectives earlier this week we announced the closure of our Cleveland manufacturing facility and our Irwindale distribution center.
These recently announced restructuring is expected to result in $30 million of cost savings in 2016 and $40 million of annual run rate savings starting in 2017.
In the aggregate all of these actions will set the stage for a more streamlined company going forward providing better quality and customer satisfaction.
We do anticipate a charge of $15 million to $20 million in the fourth quarter of 2015 of which approximately $8 million to $10 million is expected to be cash paid out over the next four quarters.
While we're implementing these actions we continue to work on additional areas where there is opportunity to drive further margin improvement in the business.
Our second priority in the Foodservice business is preparing for the spin.
We have filled many of our key leadership roles including our Chief Operating Officer Josef Matosevic who has already had a very strong impact on last quarter's results.
Josef will also lead our rightsizing efforts.
In addition we anticipate announcing our Chief Financial Officer as well as our Senior Vice President of Strategy HR and Marketing in November.
The next levels of leadership have also been defined identified and we're already working with a full focus on Foodservice.
I have a deep level of confidence in the team we have in place today and believe that we are very well positioned to capture the tremendous opportunities that lie before us.
So in summary after spending the last several months taking a deep look at the business I'm pleased to say that my initial view of the business and opportunities hasn't changed at all.
In fact my belief that Foodservice is a great business with very very strong fundamentals and outstanding growth potential has only strengthened.
I have spent a significant amount of time with the teams in all parts of the world to understand our long-term vision and strategy for the business and to develop an understanding on how to get back to a more profitable growth path.
It's very clear to me that Foodservice has best-in-class brands and products and that we offer a unique value proposition.
In addition my conversations with customers have been extremely positive.
As we move towards separating the business there is an opportunity for accelerated investment in the business consistent with our enhanced focus.
With that I'll hand it over to Carl.
Thanks Hubertus and good morning everyone.
We reported net sales for the third quarter of $863.5 million which is a decrease of 13% from a year ago.
GAAP net income for the third quarter was $4.8 million or $0.03 per diluted share versus net income of $73.1 million or $0.53 per diluted share in the third quarter of 2014.
Unfavorable currency exchange rates had a $48.4 million negative top-line impact during the quarter but a slightly positive EPS impact of just under $1 million for the same period.
Excluding special items third quarter 2015 adjusted earnings from continuing operations was $12.8 million or $0.09 per diluted share versus adjusted earnings of $50.1 million or $0.36 per diluted share last year.
Since mid-year 2014 we have generated savings totaling approximately $115 million at the enterprise level resulting from manufacturing improvements procurement savings and reductions in our workforce.
That said many of these savings have been offset by our manufacturing underabsorption various costs associated with the factory consolidation and the KitchenCare launch.
By its completion in 2017 we continue to expect to achieve total savings of $125 million to $170 million which is before the savings associated with the new restructuring activities we announced yesterday which are expected to generate an additional approximate $135 million to $145 million in total savings by the end of 2018.
During the third quarter cash generated from continuing operations was $6.2 million compared to cash generated from continuing operations of $60 million for the third quarter of 2014.
The decline was primarily due to weaker revenue product mix and resulting lower profitability.
As is traditionally the case we expect to achieve strong cash flow in the fourth quarter.
Turning to the results for the two businesses third quarter Crane sales totaled $438.2 million down 23% from $569.2 million a year ago.
The decline was broad based but was most pronounced from lower demand for all-terrains rough terrains and boom trucks as well as lower tower volumes in Asia and the Middle East.
Crane operating earnings in the third quarter were $4.3 million versus $41.6 million last year.
This resulted in the third quarter operating margin of 1% compared to 7.3% last year.
The margin decline was fueled by significant under-absorption as well as pricing pressure exacerbated by currency headwinds.
These factors were only partially offset by ongoing operational efficiencies and cost reductions.
Crane backlog at quarter end was $631 million down from the third quarter 2014 backlog of $716 million reflecting a book-to-bill ratio of 0.77 times.
Third quarter new orders of $337 million decreased from $557 million in the year-ago period.
Foodservice sales in the third quarter of 2015 totaled $425.3 million up 2% from the prior-year period's $417.1 million.
Sales were driven by an increase in KitchenCare revenue and strength in North America cold-side products including beverage which were partially offset by continued weakness in large chain rollouts particularly in Asia and unfavorable exchange rates.
Third quarter 2015 operating earnings in Foodservice were $70.4 million producing an operating margin in the 16.6% compared to 14.8% for the third quarter of 2014 reflecting a 180 basis point year-over-year improvement and a 100 basis point sequential improvement.
The improvement was driven largely by operational efficiencies cost savings initiatives and a favorable product mix partially offset by currency and lower absorption rates.
We have taken $20 million in manufacturing cost out of the system year-to-date which is nearly 70% of our full year 2015 goal of $30 million.
Again this is before the impact of the restructuring activities announced today.
As we've previously noted in our press release our full year outlook is as follows: Crane revenue approximately 15% to 20% decline; Crane operating margins low-single digit percentage; Foodservice revenue approximately flat; Foodservice operating margins mid-teen percentage range; capital expenditures approximately $70 million; depreciation and amortization approximately $110 million; interest expense approximately $90 million; amortization of deferred financing fees approximately $4 million; total leverage approximately 4 times debt-to-EBITDA and the effective tax rate excluding one-time costs caused by the spin-off approximately 30%.
We continue to anticipate that our total pre-tax separation expense will total $130 million to $140 million.
The majority of these expenses most notably debt breakage cost and financing fees will be realized at closing during the first quarter of 2016.
In addition run rate costs associated with separating into publicly traded companies are expected to be in the range of $20 million to $30 million on an annual basis.
I will now turn the call back to Ken for some closing remarks.
Ken? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Carl.
We expect the global macroeconomic backdrop to remain difficult through most of 2016.
While we are encouraged by the momentum in our Foodservice business and the resilience of certain portions of our Crane business we remain highly committed to rationalizing our cost structure to fit the near-term demand environment.
The restructuring activities we discussed today will undoubtedly make us stronger and more agile while at the same time allowing us to maintain our leadership positions and set the stage to deliver better results.
That concludes our prepared remarks for today.
Alan will you now begin our question-and-answer session? Thank you sir.
We will take our first question from Jamie Cook of Credit Suisse.
Hi good morning.
I guess two questions.
One as I think about just given the split in the deterioration we've seen in the Crane business Ken or Carl if you could just help me walk through when I think about the next 12 months or when I think about 2016 how much benefit do we get from the restructuring actions you announced previously versus today and versus the new ones you've announced today because as I look to 2016 based on the orders it seems like sales are down again which would imply EBIT is down again and I mean next year.
So again I'm just trying to understand how to think what could be incremental because again it just questions why we would do the split where the profitability of Cranes would be negligible? And then Ken as a board member I would like to just hear your -- why you're comfortable with splitting Cranes today just given the leverage? I mean the prior management team would say profitability of Cranes would never get below prior trough we're going to be here this year and could go again below that next year.
So just given the leverage Crane deterioration profitability below prior trough why you're comfortable with splitting the company in the first quarter? Thanks.
Thanks Jamie.
As far as the flow through benefit in calendarization there is probably going to – as we alluded there is going to be some additional actions that we'll be looking at.
But in terms of the identified actions the greater part because of the timing of some of the things that will benefit us in that three year period that we talked about the total benefit is going to be skewed to the 2017 and 2018 period in Cranes.
I think we are much more granular on the Foodservice side as you look at those benefits but that wasn't your question.
As far as the comfort level with the split obviously we've seen high leverage levels historically.
I think that there is a view in the markets that there is not a whole lot of debt that's possible to put on the Crane business and that's not our view or expectation.
We are not quite at the point where we can get real specific about the capital structure but I would -- I think it's fair to say that a lot of the assumptions that people make about the amount of debt that Cranes can handle is understating the case and obviously structure plays into the sustainability of the debt load as well.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yeah.
I think the underlying case for the split which is that the value to our shareholders of two separate companies remains in place.
Clearly the third quarter made the leverage a little more difficult but I am confident we'll still be in a range where we can separate the two companies and they can both survive and in fact thrive with their capital base.
So maybe a little tougher but I think we are still in the range that we can be have successful spin.
But I guess Carl as I just look at it if we just look at the orders you've seen over the past sort of three quarters in Cranes and then you listen to what H&amp;E Equipment said this morning about don't expect the normal seasonal pickup in Cranes in the fourth quarter.
It would imply your Crane sales are going to be down again next year could be down another 10% 15%.
So based on – I guess based on what you're saying because we don't expect a lot of the restructuring benefit until 2017 or 2018 we assume and the way to think about it is the normalized decremental on that sales decline and again under that environment you're comfortable with splitting Cranes or are you assuming a more – or am I being too negative with regards – or do we have a difference in terms of how we're thinking about 2016? Yeah.
I think there's certainly a difference especially if you take Q3 as the context because some of things that we put in place are really going to get to some of the things that we suffered to some extent.
Even on a full year-to-date basis that will be less impactful in 2016.
And really I'm alluding to the factory variances that we see in the absorption issues given some of the adjustments that will be make (24:32).
So the...
But on a top-line basis given what you're seeing in orders I don't understand how Cranes are down again another – you know what I mean 15% or so.
Or I'm just trying to think about how you're thinking about the Crane outlook for 2016 given the fact that you want to split the company in the first quarter? Yeah.
And the other thing that I was going to say that also that excuse things a little bit is the deliveries of the VPC that also affected us in the third quarter that were pushed off to the right.
And some of those shipments will go into 2016.
I don't know if Larry you wanted to elaborate on anything.
No Carl.
Hi Jamie.
Yeah I think obviously the third quarter was disappointing.
But I think one of the big parts as far as the shipments go is the delayed in the shipments of the 300 and the 650.
And clearly had those been on where we wanted them to be it would be a much different picture.
So I know we're not giving a lot of outlook for 2016 right now.
So I don't want to elaborate on that.
But I think there is a number of new products we're bringing into the market as well that when we do that we experience an uptick in certain specific products.
But – so I think that's the big note for the third quarter.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> I also would just want to talk a little bit about the other side of the equation and Carl alluded to it a little bit.
I think our restructuring plan in activities in the Foodservice side are well seasoned they're granular they're detailed and there is very good timing to them.
I think we have a little bit of work to do in the near-term here to make the restructuring activities a little more granular a little more detailed and most importantly a little more near-term impactful I'll call it in 2016 so that's one of the first priorities that I have and we collectively have.
And I think we'll also be able to make some headwind or make some headway rather on the cost structure earlier than the 2017 and 2018 that we've talked about in the prepared remarks.
And next we'll go to Stephen Volkmann with Jefferies.
Hi.
Good morning.
I'm just going to follow on Jamie's question and ask you just sort of the opposite way.
Why not wait and do the spin after you have demonstrated a little bit more of your cost saves and maybe when the market has kind of shown some signs of bottoming and people can make more intelligent decisions about what they think the Crane piece is going to be worth.
Is there any cost to you to push this thing out six months or something? I guess I'm just curious why you'd want to do it into the storm here? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The spin prices itself as you can imagine is quite an undertaking and the guys have made great progress in a lot of fronts.
The tax and the legal work is done and largely in place and the entity restructuring makes it possible to do it.
The underlying systems and processes – guys just recently we're able to prepare financial statements for both of the individual businesses separately which is a bigger deal I guess than it sounds like.
And we're also able to segment the underlying infrastructure systems.
And lastly the people have been aligned and put into the positions to serve in these businesses.
So while the question can be put on timing I think right now we are staged to do it.
I think it's the right thing to do for the company and we're able to do it.
Could things change over time? I don't think so I hope not.
But I think right now given the momentum we have given the underlying efforts that are in place and given the projected success of the spin I think we're sort of on the path to complete it as we had targeted and as we had announced previously.
Yeah.
Okay.
Great.
I'll leave that one then.
And maybe for Carl then.
I'm curious I'm having a little bit of trouble kind of getting to your full year interest expense.
I guess you're assuming a fair amount of debt paydown in the fourth quarter.
But even I think you said something about four times leverage and I was skimming through some of your covenants I thought they're actually a little lower than that.
So I guess I'm curious about one your degree of confidence and kind of meeting that cash goal in the fourth quarter? And two where we stand relative to covenants? Absolutely no issue with covenants as it relates to the interest expense question.
One of the expectations as you probably are aware we get through the non-call period on one of the bonds in actually next month and there is an expectation that as we devote some of the debt pay down to that instrument that there's a benefit that hits the interest expense line not just from the debt reduction but also from just the accounting of where you carry the expense.
That would benefit as we do the pay downs.
So that's the reconciliation.
And next we'll go to Mig Dobre with Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yeah thanks.
Good morning.
Can you maybe remind us of really all the one-time cash and I'm talking cash cost that you will be incurring in the fourth quarter whether they'd be related to restructuring or separation or whatever else? Well I think kind of the run rate that we've been seeing from a separation cost we've got a line item on the balance sheet in the third quarter it was about $10 million most of that cash and there wouldn't be a lot more of that that we would expect to see.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
As I mentioned in the prepared remarks a lot of the one-time costs are essentially at closing cost we expect to see in 2016 first quarter.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> I see.
And then maybe I don't know you can kind of bridge the gap for me in terms of how you're thinking about cash flow specifically in the fourth quarter because obviously year-to-date we've seen quite a bit of cash consumption which I know is seasonally normal but obviously the business is also behaving quite differently than normal.
How should we think about cash generation in the fourth quarter? Right.
As I mentioned the normal seasonal pattern is extremely consistent very strong cash generation in the fourth quarter and we would expect that to continue.
One of the things that did constrain the results in the third quarter specifically was some of the shipment issues that we had in our Crane business that will normalize this quarter.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Can you be more specific? Sure.
But Larry can maybe expand on it but the VPC deferral of some of those shipments on the delivery dates that we had there was the key item there.
Yeah that's correct.
We had a large number of cranes we anticipated shipping in Q3 and those cranes are rolling into Q4 based on the fact that we found one reliability issue on the MLC300 that we were not happy with.
And we've cleared that issue.
Along with some hurdle rates experienced from our SAP implementation on material flow we also have those headed in the right direction.
So we expect this to ramp up in the fourth quarter.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Thank you.
Next we'll go to Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Wow this earnings season my name seems to be getting more creative every time.
Morning.
Good to hear your voice Ken.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Ann.
Good morning.
How are you? Just on the VPC delivery deferrals those -- I think you just answered the question --those were the result of internal issues not customers requesting deferrals? Yes Ann; that's correct.
The two issues were internal for us and so the backlog remains intact and our team is focused 100% on delivering to those customer orders.
And are you seeing any cancellations on the claim side in terms of orders? No we have not seen any substantial movement in the order rate from a backlog standpoint.
Okay.
And just to beat a dead horse on the spin of Foodservice and Cranes are you exploring any other options for Cranes other than being a standalone business? Is that business potentially on the blocks for a strategic buyer? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Ann I think on the blocks for strategic buyers are strong words.
Obviously the board remains positioned and is always open to listening to anything that might add value to the shareholders.
But at this time our intention is to proceed with the spin in February of 2016.
Okay.
I appreciate it.
I'll get back in line.
Thanks.
Next we'll go to Joe O'Dea with Vertical Research Partners.
Hi.
Good morning.
Just in terms of where you are right now in conversations with rating agencies could you give us any update there? And then how you anticipate communicating the planned leverage whether that's going to be through filings or whether you plan a separate announcement and how we should think about timing? As far as the rating agencies we expect to be in front of them within a couple weeks.
So obviously there's been some changes in the business and that we were incorporating all of that as we prepare to do that.
And so that's the schedule there.
And your second question I'm sorry? Just when we should think about some more visibility into the planned leverage split between the segment...
Got you.
Sorry.
...and so whether we see that in filings? Yeah.
So that's obviously a gating issue for us.
We want to make sure – I think we mentioned in an earlier conference call that we're going to take a scenario-based approach and want to make sure we don't get in front of that with some of our communication to get that clarity prior to giving any granular split of what the cap structures are specifically going to look like.
So that's the sequence.
And obviously within a reasonable timeframe after meeting with the agencies we'll be able to provide that.
Okay.
And then on the various cost savings initiatives could you just give a high level view across the company considering the 80/20s on the operating improvements to now (36:29) restructuring? Just at a high level what the kind of annual run rate savings are anticipated to be in kind of 2017-2018 timeframe? I think for Foodservice we said that 2016 impact is going to be $30 million roundabout and the run rate then as of 2017 is going to be $40 million.
And actually in Foodservice as Ken had stated we are in implementation.
I mean we started the facility move in Cleveland; this was announced on Monday.
We have also started to address head-count reduction so we are in implementation.
The other thing that I would mention about those numbers is that they are specifically toward the project that we talked about the Cleveland project and some other restructuring activities exclusively.
The 80/20 simplification process we mentioned in an earlier call we indicated over the next three years would add about 150 basis points to the margin.
Yeah.
So that would be additive to that $30 million to $40 million on essentially the restructuring activities that Hubertus just articulated.
And what we have done on the 80/20 is we have pulled forward.
A lot of the actions that were initially planned for 2016 we pulled into 2015.
So we're going to see already this year some benefits from that.
Okay.
And next we'll go to Nicole DeBlase with Morgan Stanley.
Yeah thanks.
Good morning guys.
Good morning.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Hi.
So my first question is around the leverage again post split I know you guys can't say a whole lot.
But I guess my question is if you're still committed to both post spin entities being investment-grade credits rated? No no that's not a core objective.
Obviously over the long term that that could be a sensible target for us to look towards.
But I think what we've been saying pretty consistently is that we would seek to have the ratings to be as close as possible to the existing enterprise rating for Manitowoc and try to adopt a structure for both businesses that would enable us to do that.
Okay.
Okay.
Got it.
Understood.
And I would also clarify that we're not investment-grade today.
Yeah.
Nor we actually have or been.
Okay.
Fair enough.
And then on the Crane business this question has been asked in a few ways but how much was the business impacted by VPC execution issues during the third quarter? And I guess what I'm trying to get to is if we assume that you guys have another step down in volumes can you still grow EBIT margins year-on-year or do you expect EBIT margin deterioration in Crane? Like what's the run rate EBIT margin potential of the business at the current and maybe lower levels of volume? Yeah.
I'll take the first part of that I'll let Carl take the second part.
But the first part the impact was approximately $55 million to $60 million in the third quarter due to the delayed shipment of the two cranes.
So I think some of that miss will push into 2016 but the majority of that we will focus on shipping to meet those customers' orders in the fourth quarter.
Okay.
But what was the impact on profitability rather than revenue? Could we just kind of drop that through at like a 25% incremental or something to get to the profitability impact? Rough numbers that – ballpark correct.
Okay.
The other thing obviously we're not in a position at this point to provide specific guidance for 2016 but one of the things that I think is important is what I mentioned before that some of the factory variance issues that we've been struggling with this year will turn around in 2016 and that will enable us even under an expectation that we do see continued decline in the top line that we will be able to generate better EBIT in our Crane business.
Okay thanks.
I'll pass it on.
And now we'll go to Steven Fisher with UBS.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
How should we think about the rightsizing and plant rationalizing you've planned for the Crane business? Is this a permanent capacity reduction because you mentioned those things in addition to the head count reductions or are you just somehow making the business more flexible while keeping the same capacity? It's a great question and you're correct.
The rightsizing of the footprint will be what I would consider permanent because what we're finding with a lot of the Lean activities that we have put in place we're utilizing the floor space that we have more efficiently.
And I think our focus on improving our agility – the two go hand in hand.
So this is strategic as well as how we set the footprint for Cranes going forward from a manufacturing standpoint.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Just to supplement what Larry said as he said the majority of this is permanent reduction in the capacity.
But I think we will also use this opportunity to introduce the concept of mothballing some of our facilities in order to preserve our opportunities on the upside.
We need to look at the cost of that.
But I think the perception is is that we can at a relatively low cost sort of park some facilities and park some capacity for the future.
Right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> The majority of it will be permanent reduction but some of it will be set aside and mothballed.
Well when you say a permanent reduction I mean is this sort of an acknowledgement that just the crane market overall and/or your market share is not going to back to what it was in the past? No I don't think that's it at all.
I think it's more of looking at how we've been utilizing the space we have in our plans to begin with.
We've gone through a transition of Lean implementation over the last four years.
And as we do that one of the things you get from Lean is you free up floor space.
So I think this is the point now where we can take a solid look at what do you with that excess floor space.
You can either in-source stuff into it or you can take and look at how you rightsize your facilities.
So our approach would be the latter.
Okay.
That's helpful.
And with highway bill discussions underway have you guys thought about what a flattish three-year bill would mean to your crane sales? Would it help materially? What kind of cranes would you see the most benefit in if you would at all and are customers already talking to you about a potential pick-up in orders at all? Well I think the highway bill would be great because it would definitely affect our RT sales and small crawler sales.
I don't think customers right now are looking much out the window at all.
I think when it becomes a reality I think that's when it'll start but that would definitely be an uptick for the sales of those two specific product lines.
Okay.
Thank you.
Next we'll go to Charley Brady with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Hey thanks.
Good morning.
Just on the Foodservice side I wondered if you can give us a little more comfort on you closing the plant in Cleveland.
Obviously some of the restructuring activities and the plant moves in the relatively recent past there's been some good disruption there.
It's been a pretty big negative on margins.
I guess what did you kind of learn from that and what's going on differently now with this large plant move? And give us some comfort maybe that we're not going to have a hiccup that's going to hit the margins on Foodservice again? Yeah I'm happy to answer that.
Obviously we have done some learnings over the past and I think a lot of the execution issues that we had was down to bad planning.
And I think this move is very very carefully planned out with people that really have shown in the business that they can do these plant moves.
And secondly we will only shut down once we know that the receiving facilities can produce so we're going to have a time of parallel manufacturing.
The intention is also to bring the customers to the receiving sites to see the quality that comes out there.
And thirdly I think the receiving sites have a history of producing similar products.
So it's not that they're going to get something that it says brand new to them.
So therefore we feel very very comfortable.
And in reality we have also had a couple of successful moves but you haven't heard of them and we've taken those good examples and we're going to apply them here.
But we are very very comfortable that we can do this very very smoothly.
Thanks.
And I guess just switching over on the Crane side again.
Carl we've got three consecutive quarters of Crane declines.
The outlook looks pretty bleak from anyone ordering cranes.
You have to go back to 2009 to see a margin level even adjusting for the VPC push-out you have to go back to 2009 to get a margin level this low and a Crane order this low.
And as we go into Q4 here are you hearing any signs that you think as we get into 2016 that we're going to have any kind of lift in 2016 at all and that this Crane business isn't going to have at least one quarter where they lose money? Thanks.
Yeah.
Charley I would say that there certainly is not any pie-in-the-sky expectations about a turnaround at this point in time in the Crane business.
We're expecting 2016 to be a challenging year given the trends that are out there in a lot of the – the overall environment that we've talked a lot about during the call.
And we're adjusting to that and do not – as I mentioned before we'll get into some more specific guidance at a later date but we expect to be able to perform better from a margin standpoint even with the top line decline? Yeah Charley one other thing I would say is I think the biggest impact to that margin so far has been the plant absorption issues.
So we have a clear plan of how to address the loss through that absorption loss which will have an impact.
But you're not going to see that impact really in 2016 right? From what I understood it's (47:34) 2017 2018 is when you see the restructuring on Crane.
So the impact to 2016 is there any benefit at all to that? Yeah because the things we're talking about here are additional steps.
We've already taken a number of steps this year with what we've done in specific plants that are going to affect the variance for next year clearly.
Moving on we'll next go to Robert Wertheimer with Barclays.
Inc.</span></strong> Thanks good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning.
Inc.</span></strong> My first question for Hubertus.
Do you see structural opportunity if you had a chance to look at your customer concentration your customer base where you have share where you don't have share? Maybe there's a chance to really sort of broaden out and pick up share.
I wonder if you think that's accurate and the timeline which you might think that's attackable if so? Well definitely.
And I think we have a very very strong position with the large chains.
We're very happy on that and we know that we have room for improvement and growth in the larger markets and that's what we're addressing.
We have an active dialogue with all the buying groups.
We like what they're doing and we have already a share with them and we would expect and hope that we can grow that with the general markets.
We are also very comfortable with our reps.
So I think what you're going to see is that we continue to grow with our large customers.
And as you know some of these large customers are actually in a turnaround situation successful turnarounds as well talking about McDonald's I think you've seen the last quarter results.
I think they are turning definitely the corner.
This is going to benefit us.
And on the back of that we would like to grow with them and also in the general market through our distribution.
That's the plan that's the plan for the U.S.
but also in Europe and in Asia.
Inc.</span></strong> Would you say you're focusing more of your time on cost opportunities than trying to reignite something in the revenue side or is that unfair? No I would say we have a very good balance.
Obviously prior to the spin we do everything to close the margin gap to our competitors as much as we can.
But we are actively working of course also on the time after the spin.
And in fact I just came from a four-day show in Milan the HOST show it's the biggest foodservice show.
And the feedback that we got from the customers of our newly introduced product was fantastic.
And I've never seen that but we kind of turned $2 million of sales every day which is very unusual for these shows.
And specifically our new product introduction this year is the Convotherm ovens which is – will be the best product on the market if you compare it by the functions.
Our new Merrychef e2s and also the Quick Filter fries from Frymaster they are really hostellers that we introduced this year and we're going to see the benefits of that.
And then for next year we have 25 new product introductions planned.
So I think we're doing a lot in order to make sure that once we're an independent company that we cannot only show profitability but also growth.
Inc.</span></strong> That was great thank you.
Carl if I can just ask one quick process question I don't if it's answerable or not.
But at what point would you have locked in commitments on financing rate and commitment? Does that just add close or is there some point before them where you've got the financing all dialed in? It's not really answerable.
What we would seek to do is to make sure that we've got the largest window.
As you know some of these debt capital markets can be lumpy in terms of the receptivity in the markets and so we would want to have the luxury to make as wide a window as possible so we could hit the market at a more favorable time.
Practically speaking the expectation it would be – the ability to do it would be sometime in the December January timeframe all the way up to the anticipated close whenever it might be in February.
Next we go to Ted Grace with Susquehanna.
Good morning gentlemen.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Good morning Ted.
Hey Ted.
Ken I was just wondering if you could touch on – I know you talked about kind of the priorities as Interim CEO but just kind of what your immediate focus is whether it's helping with the operation helping with the leadership changes that are probably similar in importance? But just kind of what your immediate focus is on in the next 30 days 60 days 90 days? And then also kind of what your priorities are on looking for a new leadership within Cranes whether it's industry expertise turnaround expertise.
They may or may not be both achievable but can you just walk through kind of those two questions to start? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Sure.
Thanks Ted.
First of all the near-term priorities are one is the financial performance and I mentioned it a little earlier is we have a detailed granularity timing on the restructuring activities and Foodservice is very good and they're in the execution phase.
Cranes has been doing a lot of things throughout the course of the year.
Another good hard look at the capacity and at really the levels of the Crane business is needed.
We've got a good first pass at it.
We do need to get that more granular more detailed and understand the timing better and try to make sure that we're bringing as much of the impact up as we can.
So sort of near-term financial performance is obviously front of mind.
The other priority is to keep the spin on track.
As I mentioned earlier in detail the guys are doing a great job at it but we got to – we got to keep that moving and keep that momentum going.
And then as you said the third priority is to work with some other – some of my other board members in the recruiting of a CEO for the Cranes business.
I think we will be looking for somebody who has good operational approaching turnaround or turnaround kind of capabilities.
Somebody who's been through a situation where there was a need to substantially improve the profitability both from a primarily from a cost reduction leading into it but also setting the stage and understanding how to bring growth into the equation.
Somebody who is able to evaluate the portfolio of products and geography and determine where do you invest where do you cut back and what's the path forward for improved profitability and profitable growth.
So those are going to be really the two primary things.
I expect it will be somebody quite seasoned and sort of a been-there done-that kind of guy.
Okay.
And maybe this is a question for you and Larry but when you think about Cranes specifically and I'm not asking to throw anybody under the bus.
But you look at the leadership changes that you guys have already put in place and you look at the company's performance versus even kind of the public peers and some of the privates where you can get visibility.
When you look at kind of the challenges the business has faced how much do you think was self-inflicted versus market dynamics? And market dynamics could be – obviously the market is very difficult.
You could have FX challenges and competition.
But when you think about maybe the 80/20 rule 50-50 splits I mean how much of the underperformance in Cranes do you think was more kind of execution versus just a really tough environment? Well I think the environment we're facing is not unsimilar than a lot of the environment that Cat and JCB and a lot of the other industrials are in the market.
I think specifically for Cranes because of the level of impact from the oil price has driven the market to a level that we have not seen and probably reiterated by H&amp;E that we have not seen a cycle like this as long as I've been with the company.
So it's clearly a very very tough market right now for the Crane side of the business.
I think the organization we put in place for March last year -- we have the roadmap in place to execute.
It's a question of we're trying to do things in a market that is so depressed that we're trying to make sure that we have the right products at the right time.
So it's a tough market clearly.
And Larry gave – and I think your question was internal versus external I think that's impossible to allay (56:13) any percentages to.
Larry did a good job at describing the external factors.
Obviously internally there are things we could have done better and will do better.
And I think really to me it boils down to timing to be able to react.
We need to be a little more agile flexible and be able to react to these quicker and that's what we're working on right now is to be able to get to this so that anticipating in that if there is a decline what's – what are we going to do and get it done.
And so I think I would boil it down to timing and being able to get ahead of the curve.
It's like trying to catch a falling knife for the last period of time but we do need to get ahead of the curve.
Next we'll go to Seth Weber with RBC Capital Markets.
Hey thanks.
Good morning guys.
Hey Seth.
So – good morning.
Good morning.
I just wanted to go back to the reliability and testing issues on the VPC.
I mean I guess I was under the impression that you had started shipping them earlier in the year.
And so I'm just trying to – I'm trying to understand: are these issues that were highlighted by a customer that ended up getting put back to you or did you ship any of the VPC of these cranes in the second quarter? I'm just trying to understand how this kind of came about.
Yeah.
Sure Seth.
When you look at the crane there is two parts of the crane.
There is the base crane and then there is the attachment that goes on the back.
The reliability issue that we were not satisfied with was found in one of the hoist drums with one of the attachments that goes on the crane.
So the crane itself we have – yeah we have shipped cranes they're are working fine.
But I think the forward cranes coming have more of the attachments with the orders than just the base crane.
So we were not satisfied with the reliability of this component.
So we did further testing and it did delay the shipments.
So we have the issue resolved and we're satisfied with it but we have been shipping cranes.
It was discovered by us during our testing process for those attachments.
I mean is this the function of the company using a new supplier or is there – I'm just trying to understand how...
I'm not going to throw a supplier onto the bus.
But I think anytime you have a crane of this size you have a number of suppliers involved.
But I think the key thing is our testing protocol and our reliability testing caught the issue.
And clearly our decision was not to push a questionable issue into the marketplace.
So we fixed it resolved it and ensure our customers are going to get the highest quality product that we promised them.
Sure okay.
And then on the order number the 337 is it possible to characterize what areas of strength that you're seeing in that number? I mean I know you got a military order at some point.
But can you – what are the areas that are still generating still a source of order activity for the company at this point? Well I would characterize the third quarter and what we saw with the change in the market first.
I think one of the markets that has been strong for us has been the Middle East specifically Saudi Arabia.
And I think what we saw there in the month of August and September is the government delayed payments to a lot of the contractors.
And so that caused kind of what I would call a back-up in that market.
Similar effect in China when the currency play was in place by the Chinese we saw a push out of tower cranes from our customers and we are seeing some of that come back now.
But I think in general the tower crane business has been stable with the exception of this push out in Asia for the third quarter.
I think the all-terrain crane business had been running fairly good.
But I think it's an overall global impact that we're seeing on the overall markets that's got the product lines the demand being slowing down.
So I think overall the towers and the ATs and obviously the large crawlers we still have a lot of excitement and interest in the new VPC technology.
And at this time I'd like to turn the call back over to Mr.
Carl for any additional or closing remarks.
Before we conclude today's call I would like to remind everyone that a replay of our third quarter conference call will be available later this morning.
You can access the replay by visiting the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in the Manitowoc Company.
We look forward to speaking with you again during our fourth quarter conference call in January.
Have a good day.
That does conclude today's conference.
We thank everyone again for their participation.
Good day everyone and welcome to this Manitowoc Company Q4 2015 Earnings Conference Call.
Today's call is being recorded.
At this time for opening remarks and introductions I would like to turn the call over to Mr.
Khail.
Please go ahead sir.
Good morning everyone and thank you for joining Manitowoc's Fourth Quarter and Full Year Earnings Conference Call.
Participating in today's call will be Ken Krueger our Chairman and Interim Chief Executive Officer; Carl Laurino Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Hubertus Mühlhäuser President and Chief Executive Officer of Manitowoc Foodservice; and Barry Pennypacker President and Chief Executive Officer of Manitowoc Cranes.
Ken will open today's call by providing comments related to our quarterly results and business outlook.
Hubertus and Barry will then provide detailed overviews on their respective segments' performance and outlook.
Finally Carl will discuss our financial results for the fourth quarter in greater detail as well as providing initial 2016 guidance.
Following our prepared remarks we will be joined by Larry Weyers Executive Vice President of Manitowoc Cranes for our question-and-answer session.
For anyone who is not able to listen to today's entire call an archived version of this call will be available later this morning.
Please visit the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com to access the replay.
Before Ken begins his commentary I would like to review our Safe Harbor statement.
This call is taking place on January 29 2016.
During the course of today's call forward-looking statements as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 will be made during each speaker's remarks and during our question-and-answer session.
Such statements are based on the company's current assessment of its markets and other factors that affect its business.
However actual results could differ materially from any implied projections due to one or more of the factors explained in Manitowoc's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission which are also available on our website.
The Manitowoc Company does not undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement whether as a result of new information future events or other circumstances.
With that I'll now turn the call over to Ken.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Steve and good morning everyone.
Before I discuss the results for the quarter I'd like to update you on our progress toward the planned separation of our Crane and Foodservice businesses.
We continue to make significant progress toward implementing the spin and remain on track to complete the separation during the quarter.
Operationally we are ready for the separation with the sole remaining challenge being continued weakness in the credit markets.
Carl will update you in a few minutes on our activities in those markets.
I would also like to highlight the recent appointment of Barry Pennypacker as CEO of Manitowoc Cranes.
Barry brings three decades of global industrial leadership to his new post at Manitowoc.
His results-focused leadership style has transformed several complex businesses through continuous process improvements to deliver significant operational and financial performance improvement and increase shareholder value.
Now let me shift gears and turn to our fourth quarter and full year results.
For the full year revenues declined 11.6% to $3.4 billion.
On a GAAP basis we reported net earnings of $63.5 million or $0.47 per diluted share.
Excluding special items adjusted earnings from continuing operations in 2015 were $96.8 million or $0.70 per share.
Performance within Foodservice during the fourth quarter significantly improved.
Fourth quarter operating margins were the highest since the mid-1990s when we were an approximately $100 million sales company.
The business has decidedly turned the corner and we have a much stronger foundation on which to build as we move into 2016.
Hubertus will provide more color in a few minutes.
In Cranes tough macroeconomic conditions particularly in oil and gas continue to put downward pressure on demand for our products.
While we are seeing some stabilization in certain markets and product lines our 2016 outlook assumes a relatively static environment given the uncertainty that exists globally.
That said as we stated last quarter we believe operating margins have bottomed and the corrective actions we've taken over the past 12 months position us well to generate improved profitability even with a flat top-line expectation.
These actions should also position the company for improved operating margins as sales rebound.
In summary we are very pleased with the progress we are making in Foodservice.
In addition we expect the aggressive actions we've taken in Cranes as well as the execution of Barry's strategy that you'll hear about shortly will drive significant improvement in profitability.
With that I'll turn it over to Hubertus and Barry to discuss their respective businesses in more detail.
Hubertus? Manitowoc Foodservice Inc.</strong> Thank you Ken and good morning everyone.
As Ken mentioned our fourth quarter results were pretty encouraging.
The strong operating momentum we saw in the third quarter continued well into the fourth quarter and the announced simplification actions right-size initiatives and improvements in KitchenCare have begun to finally generate meaningful results.
In the aggregate these initiatives fueled the impressive 570 basis points year-over-year and 200 basis points sequential improvement in our operating margins.
From a sales perspective we exceeded our internal expectations during the fourth quarter driven by improvement in our KitchenCare business but also continued strength in cold-side sales particularly in North America and Asia resulting from strong ice machine and blended beverage results.
The softness on the hot side of our business that we experienced early in 2015 seems to be largely behind us as we generated significant traction with our key new products: the award-winning Frymaster low-oil volume fryer which made very strong inroads in North America and Europe; The Merrychef eikon e2s which is geared towards convenience stores and quick-service restaurants or QSRs with smaller footprints; and the Convotherm 4 which is the best-performing combi oven on the market.
As a side note we're also very pleased that our Frymaster low oil volume fryer was recently chosen as the exclusive fryer to serve the Japanese market for a major QSR chain.
This success demonstrates our ability to provide customers with truly innovative and differentiated products which help them lower cost reduce weight and deliver a better meal to their customers.
A last word on the top line.
We are very encouraged by the recent trends within large chain restaurants in Asia which are finally showing signs of stabilizing as their capital expenditures are beginning to return to more normal levels.
Now let's switch over to the operational perspective.
We are on target with our announced right-sizing initiatives.
The shutdown of our Ohio facility and the relocation of all products currently manufactured there is very well underway.
At the end of December we also completed the consolidation of our Irwindale distribution center into our facility in Covington and we finalized the sale of our non-core Kysor Panel system business.
Also the announced head count reductions are mostly implemented and adds to the improved operating margin profile.
Further our 80-20 product simplification initiative is well underway and we're also seeing progress in our strategic source initiative.
The totality of savings from all our initiatives is reflected in our improved operating margin guidance that Carl is going to discuss in a second.
As we move forward with these and other initiatives we will continue to spend in important areas supporting top-line growth and bottom-line growth such as product and system innovations.
Last but not least we have also now completed our senior leadership team with industry-leading talent.
John Stewart has been hired as our Chief Financial Officer and John brings a wealth of knowledge to the Foodservice business with more than 20 years of experience in the food and beverage industries.
John also led the Dr.
Pepper Group IPO as Chief Financial Officer.
His expertise will be invaluable in driving improved financial performance for the business.
We're also very pleased that Rich Sheffer has joined John's team as Vice President of Investor Relations and Treasury.
Rich brings deep experience to board's function having previously served in the same role at Donaldson Company for 14 years and many of you will know him.
In addition to John and Rich we have also hired Andreas Weishaar as Senior Vice President to lead our Strategy Marketing and HR functions.
I've personally worked with Andreas around the globe for more than 15 years and I'm truly excited about him joining Manitowoc Foodservice.
So in summary we have made significant progress executing on our strategy to drive margin improvement and to gain market share.
We continued to work on additional areas to improve efficiency and reduce cost as we proceed with our business simplification and right-sizing initiatives all of which will position us to grow profitably.
As we move towards separating the two businesses we are pretty optimistic about our future.
With that I hand it over to Barry.
Manitowoc Cranes LLC</strong> Thank you Hubertus and good morning everyone.
I'm excited to participate in my first earnings call as CEO of Manitowoc Cranes.
Although I've been with the company less than a month it is already clear to me that the Cranes business has a great potential and there is significant opportunity to improve its performance.
There is no question in my mind that while we continue to face some tough market conditions there are still opportunities for growth and earnings.
I've already begun to communicate what I refer to as the Manitowoc way.
This strategy focuses on our three key stakeholders those being customers shareholders and employees.
The goal is to create a culture that is driven by innovation and velocity at the core of every aspect of our business.
Our lean initiatives are in their infancy stage but rest assured in the coming months it will become obvious what we are doing and we will communicate the impact of this program on our results for all to see.
While improving the margin profile of the business we need to ensure that our industry-leading position with regards to innovation remains in place and in a number of cases accelerated to stay ahead of the competition.
We will be introducing multiple new products and technologies at the bauma show in Munich in April that will underscore Manitowoc's technical leadership.
Going forward we will sharpen our focus on developing new products that deliver fundamentally more value to our customers and enhance our brand.
This culture of innovation will result in a strengthened competitive position and more compelling growth opportunities for our Crane business both from an end-market and customer standpoint.
In fact let me tell you about an effort that we began this week.
We have formed a team of 10 full-time people to develop a next-generation crane in three months and bring it to market three months later so a total of six months to develop and deliver this game-changing product.
We have listened to our customers and we will incorporate all their feedback into this new design.
In fact a number of them will be asked to participate throughout the six months to make sure that we are on the right track but more importantly allowing them a sense of ownership upon the introduction.
This is product development the Manitowoc way.
There's a significant opportunity for us to further apply lean principles and in doing so become a more agile organization that's able to react more quickly to our customers' changing needs and operate profitably in any demand environment.
To that end we will pursue key initiatives to enhance operational efficiency rationalize our capacity and leverage our procurement.
As a result of these efforts we expect to generate double-digit margins in the future regardless of top-line performance.
I know you're wondering when this will occur.
Give me a few more months to develop the plan in which time I will provide a roadmap for our future earnings expectations.
Over the last few weeks I've had the opportunity to visit with a number of our customers to personally listen to their needs and to get their feedback on how we're doing.
I have a great deal of optimism and enthusiasm and firmly believe in the long-term growth opportunities that lie ahead.
I'm confident that we're on the right track and look forward to executing on the necessary changes to bring about long-term sustainable earnings growth and shareholder value.
Now let me turn the call over to Carl for a review of Manitowoc's financial performance.
Carl? Thanks Barry and good morning everyone.
We've reported net sales for the fourth quarter of $935 million which is a decrease of 9.9% from a year ago.
GAAP net income for the fourth quarter was $43.8 million or $0.32 per diluted share versus net income of $33.6 million or $0.25 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2014.
Our fourth quarter results included restructuring and asset impairment charges associated with our efforts to improve performance totaling $12.4 million and $24.4 million respectively.
These charges have resulted from consolidation and rationalization efforts in both segments as well as corporate encompassing our global operations.
Excluding special items fourth quarter 2015 adjusted earnings from continuing operations were $59.7 million or $0.43 per diluted share versus adjusted earnings of $37.5 million or $0.27 per diluted share last year.
During the fourth quarter cash generated from continuing operations was $171.8 million compared to cash generated from continuing operations of $237.6 million for the fourth quarter of 2014.
The decline was primarily due to lower sales product mix and resulting lower profitability.
Total debt reduction of $223.6 million was enhanced by $78.2 million in cash from the sale of Kysor Panel systems.
Turning to the results of our two businesses fourth quarter Crane sales totaled $543.1 million down 18.1% from $663.2 million a year ago.
The decline was most pronounced within several mobile crane categories most notably our rough-terrain cranes and boom truck product lines.
Conversely we saw tower crane demand improve in Europe fueled by improving residential and commercial construction trends.
Crane operating earnings in the fourth quarter were $24.1 million versus $45.3 million last year.
This resulted in a fourth quarter operating margin of 4.4% compared to 6.8% last year.
The margin decline was fueled by continued under-absorption as well as ongoing pricing pressure driven largely by currency headwinds.
These factors were only partially offset by ongoing operational efficiencies and cost reductions.
As Ken mentioned operating margins improved from third quarter levels as a result of the cost cutting initiatives we have undertaken and will continue to implement.
We expect further improvement in our operating margins even in the face of flat sales.
Crane backlog at quarter end was $513 million down from the fourth quarter 2014 backlog of $738 million reflecting a book-to-bill of 0.8 times.
Fourth quarter new orders of $424 million decreased from $686 million in the year-ago period but improved sequentially by 26% over the third quarter.
Foodservice sales in the fourth quarter of 2015 totaled $391.7 million up 4.7% from the prior-year period's $374.2 million.
Sales were driven primarily by continued strength in cold-side products particularly ice as well as in KitchenCare.
We also saw a modest uptick in hot-side sales and large chain sales firming.
Fourth quarter 2015 operating earnings in Foodservice grew an impressive 51% from the prior year to $72.7 million which resulted in an operating margin of 18.6% compared to 12.9% for the fourth quarter of 2014.
The improvement was largely driven by the impact of right-sizing initiatives product line simplification and improved KitchenCare efforts previously discussed.
As we noted in our press release our full-year outlook is as follows beginning with Cranes: revenue approximately flat operating margin approximately 4% depreciation between $45 million and $50 million amortization expense between $3 million and $4 million capital expenditures approximately $55 million to $65 million.
For Foodservice: revenue up 2% to 4% on an organic basis operating margin 16% to 17% on an organic basis depreciation $21 million to $24 million amortization expense $30 million to $33 million capital expenditures $23 million to $27 million.
The guidance figures included incremental costs associated with separating into publicly-traded companies of approximately $30 million for each company on an annual run rate basis.
For Foodservice this outlook also nets out 2015 sales of $122.1 million and operating income of $12.8 million from the divestiture of Kysor Panel.
Thus the 2015 pro forma operating margin for Foodservice would be approximately 13.6% factoring in the KPS removal and corporate dyssynergies addition.
Similarly within Cranes adjusting for the incremental cost the operating margin in 2016 would show more than 200 basis points of expansion over 2015.
We continue to anticipate that our total pre-tax separation expense will aggregate at $130 million to $140 million.
The majority of these expenses most notably debt breakage cost and financing fees will be realized at closing.
I will now turn the call back to Ken for some closing remarks.
Ken? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</strong> Thanks Carl.
We've made great strides to realign and rationalize both of our businesses.
That said we are continuing to work hard to position them for future success as we march toward the planned separation that will create two industry-leading publicly-held companies.
This concludes our prepared remarks for today.
Kim we will now begin our question-and-answer session.
Thank you.
We'll go first to Jamie Cook with Credit Suisse.
Good morning.
Can you hear me? Yes we can.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Yes.
Manitowoc Cranes LLC</span></strong> Hi Jamie.
Oh hi.
Good morning.
I guess my first question I guess would go to Barry just because you're new and you will become the CEO of the Crane business.
I guess just a bigger picture question in terms of what attracted you to the Crane business.
Why you think the Crane business should be a standalone business or perhaps you don't longer-term? And then I guess the other question is I think in your prepared remarks you mentioned the Crane business being able to generate double-digit margins in a less robust cycle versus previous.
What gives you that conviction level? And what are your assumptions around the competitive market in particular with the Zoomlion-Terex recent announcement? Thanks.
Manitowoc Cranes LLC</span></strong> Wow that's a lot.
Let me try to peel that onion a little bit at a time Jamie.
What attracted me to the position was I've been an operationally-focused CEO in my prior life and my prior jobs.
And when I look at the Crane business here at Manitowoc along with the discussions with the Board I think this is an operational turnaround business that requires some leadership with regards to how you implement lean principles and drive margin expansion at the same time.
And this is a great opportunity.
The global footprint is too large as I think everyone knows.
When Carl did his prepared remarks he talked about under-absorption.
A way to look at under-absorption simply is that we have overcapacity.
And we will be addressing that very quickly here in the next few months.
And as we do we will be very forthcoming with what those costs will be and what the returns will be so that you can track our progress with regards to our overall implementation of The Manitowoc Way.
The company is a – it is a great company.
It's a great business that needs some improvement in a number of areas which we will continue to recognize and deal with.
The brands that we have in the portfolio are very well recognized globally as leaders which is always a good thing to attract a new CEO with regards to trying to turn the business around.
Our dealer network that we have in the U.S.
and globally is the envy of all of our competition.
And so they are very dedicated to Manitowoc.
Most of them are exclusive to Manitowoc so they are very important to our long-term future.
And I'm absolutely convinced that after my first four weeks here that lean implementation will in fact drive substantial results for the future.
Which leads to I think your final point of my commitment to double-digit earnings growth here regardless of what happens with the top line.
I am absolutely convinced that we will have the ability to do that.
And with regards to the Terex issue I really don't have any comment on that because quite frankly I have a business here that needs to be turned around.
I have a business that has a substantial opportunity for new product introduction this year that we have to ensure that we focus on and deliver on time in order to get some of the growth that we're counting on in the latter part of the year.
So quite frankly we're concentrating on the things that are within our control which are the things that I just mentioned.
All righty.
Thanks.
I'll get back in queue.
We'll go next to Jerry Revich with Goldman Sachs.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Morning.
Manitowoc Cranes LLC</span></strong> Morning.
I'm wondering if you could talk about in Foodservice obviously nice progress there and we see your targets for 2016.
Can you update us on your longer-term cost reduction opportunities beyond this year? Where do you stand on the key initiatives that you've spoken about on prior calls that are longer-term focused? Manitowoc Foodservice Inc.</span></strong> Well we've given guidance now for 2016 and we don't want to give guidance beyond 2016.
And we stated also that our long-term aspiration is to go to industry margins industry average margins.
And we believe that the initiatives under the header of simplification and right-sizing will bring us there.
Plus the innovation that we have brought to our business will drive the top line.
So we are confident that aspirationally we can achieve what we want to do.
And Hubertus manufacturing consolidation as well? I didn't hear you list that.
Manitowoc Foodservice Inc.</span></strong> Yeah rightsizing is for me manufacturing consolidation.
And as we have said we have overcapacity.
We feel that with the announced measures we have addressed a very good portion of that.
If we conclude those rationalizations successfully we might want to announce more consolidation going on but for the time being this is what we have announced.
Okay.
And then to switch gears to the Crane business I'm wondering if you could just flesh out your regional outlook a little bit more so to get sales flat for 2016.
Can you talk about which regions do you expect to drive growth for your business? Which regions do you see as challenged for 2016? Manitowoc Cranes LLC</span></strong> Yeah I'll start that and then I'll turn it over to Larry to give you a little bit more color.
But from my perspective what I'm currently seeing is that in the Middle East and Africa and some of Asia we're seeing a substantial increase in tower cranes which is a good sign for us and consistent with some of the macroeconomic conditions that have already been communicated.
In the U.S.
it's a mixed bag.
We are still challenged but I'm also encouraged by some of the new products that we're going to be introducing at bauma in April that should help drive some growth for us in the second half of the year.
Larry you want to add anything to that? Yeah.
Just to reiterate what Barry said I think that the biggest change we've seen from Q3 is the significant order activity on both self-erecting and top slewing tower cranes probably to a level that we haven't quite seen since 2008.
And it's clearly not oil-related.
It's high-rise apartment residential construction.
And the positive sign there too is it's within some of the core markets in Europe: France Germany that we haven't seen as well as the U.S.
Korea Vietnam Australia.
So while we have obviously headwinds with some of the mobile crane RT and boom truck the impetus on this tower crane order trend is positive.
So some of the ins and the outs you kind of end up back at flat revenue.
...take your next question from Nicole Deblase with Morgan Stanley.
Yeah.
Thanks guys.
Good morning.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hi Nicole.
Good morning.
Manitowoc Cranes LLC</span></strong> Hi.
Hi.
So my first question is around the Foodservice margin guidance.
And Carl can you first confirm to me that you said that the 13.6% was that Foodservice margin in 2015 if you were to include the company cost like on a pro forma basis? And then if that's the case what's giving you guys conviction in expansion to 16% to 17% next year? How much of that is kind of underwritten by cost-cutting action? Yeah.
You're exactly right in terms of what the 13.6% represents it's a back-out of the Kysor business as well as the corporate dyssynergies I guess they call it.
And in terms of what drives the margin expansion yeah I think Hubertus can talk to that.
Manitowoc Foodservice Inc.</span></strong> Yeah.
What drives it is the rightsizing and the simplification actions that we have announced already in the last call and we're basically delivering against those promises that we have made.
We started to deliver in the fourth quarter and we continue to deliver into next year and these initiatives will drive $50 million of bottom-line improvement roundabout that's what we're guiding to.
There is one other thing to mention there Nicole and that is obviously we did have some execution issues in 2015 that we have addressed and that will contribute to the margin expansion that we're able to generate year-over-year.
Manitowoc Foodservice Inc.</span></strong> Plus we have established now I think a very very strong team under the leadership of our COO Josef Matosevic.
The sales and the operations team are working perfectly well hand-in-hand.
It's really a nice team effort and we feel comfortable about our guidance.
Okay.
Got it.
Thanks.
That's really helpful.
And then my second question is around the Crane business.
So the debt was announced today it seems to me that you're putting about two times leverage on the Crane business based on what I'm backing into for EBITDA for 2016 and I guess I'm just curious.
What gives you comfort with putting that much leverage on such a cyclical business? Manitowoc Cranes LLC</span></strong> Well yeah.
Obviously we've been at higher levels.
We would kind of view the EBITDA levels as certainly at low levels through the cycle no question about that and that's been demonstrated if you look back over time.
And it's a business that does generate significant cash even when the markets are difficult.
So we feel good about where we stand.
And without commenting on the EBITDA conclusion because obviously that's going to be subject to a little bit of interpretation as you think about the differences between segment EBITDA and public company's EBITDA.
I think if I had one thing to add what brings me a certain level of comfort is that as we continue to progress with The Manitowoc Way we'll see substantial improvement in working capital.
We'll take our next question from Charley Brady with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey.
Hey thanks.
Good morning guys.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Charley.
Can we just talk about Cranes for a second? I just really want to understand a little bit better the Crane guidance for flat Crane.
And I know you're saying towers are great now and that's really up a lot.
But look at the end of the day orders of $513 million or $424 million in a quarter were down 38% year-over-year.
We know fourth quarter is always sequentially a very strong uptick from Q3.
How do you get to a flat number? Are you expecting can you give some commentary around what you're seeing on crawlers? And maybe what's your expectation on RTs? Are you expecting them to flat line out and maybe tick up in 2016? I'm just trying to understand the math to get flat numbers even if we have a strong tower market which I would argue is probably partially reflected in the orders we saw in Q4.
Manitowoc Cranes LLC</span></strong> That's a very good question.
And let me try to give you some of our current assumptions and thoughts around that order rate.
Thus far in January our number of units are up substantially year-over-year which provides us some level of comfort that in some of the markets that we expect the turn for the order rate that we put forward in order to make our guidance is in fact trending the way it should.
We are expecting a substantial increase as a result of the products that we will introduce at the bauma show.
If you look at our historical order rate and you look at the effect of CONEXPO as well as bauma you can see the following quarter where we've had a substantial uptick in orders.
And I think this year based on the product portfolio that I've reviewed so far should be no exception to that.
Also we have a substantial military order that we are not allowed to put in our backlog as of yet simply because we have to deliver three prototypes to – in order to satisfy the letter of intent before that actually hits our backlog.
So we're relatively optimistic about flat orders.
But what I said in my prepared remarks I am absolutely resolute to that if we don't have flat orders we certainly will meet our guidance with regards to earnings.
Okay.
Thanks.
And just as a follow-up just on the – sorry go ahead.
This is Larry.
I think the one thing Charley when you talked about our expectations the RT market globally was down 22% year-over-year and North America was down 32%.
And our assumption does not assume that we're going to see an improvement in that market as we look at our plan for 2016.
Boom truck market was down 43% and in our expectations we perceive that to be flat especially for the large population of what I would call short-boom oil field cranes in the market.
I think the offsets to that is the crawler activity is good with the VPC cranes.
The AT market continues to – we see a little bit of order improvement.
And obviously the tower cranes are running way ahead of what we would have expected.
And we're also seeing some different larger deals in markets like Kuwait and Egypt Turkey Panama and Thailand.
So there's different pockets of the pluses and minuses that get us back to neutral.
Okay just as a follow up.
On the Crane margin in your assumption how much of that improvement or flattishness is due to the suspension of operations in Brazil? And has a write-off been taken for that facility at all? The answer to the latter part of your question is yes it has.
That is part of the asset impairment that we took in the fourth quarter.
And the expectation for margin expansion is certainly heavily contributed by the consolidation activity that we've embarked upon including Brazil but also other locations.
We'll take our next question from Vishal Shah with Deutsche Bank.
Inc.</span></strong> Hi.
This is Chad Dillard on the line for Vishal.
Thanks for taking my question.
So can you give an update on where you are with sorting out the VPC manufacturing issues? Is it already taken care of in the fourth quarter? Or should we think about some margin drag into 2016? Yeah.
I think we're over the hump with VPC manufacturing issues.
And the level of revenue that we expected to ship in the fourth quarter we were able to do.
And that's one of the reasons why our backlog has substantially reduced.
Inc.</span></strong> Okay.
And then also can you give an update on where you are with the cost saving initiatives? What percentage are you complete? And then how much are you baking into your 2016 expectations for both businesses? Yeah.
Look certainly part of the margin expansion that we were able to generate in the – or the decremental margin and the sequential increase in margin was driven by realizing the savings that we expected to see in 2015.
And the margin expansion is part and parcel; I think it's fair to say with a month on the job that Barry has got some things that he's looking at that will probably change the picture a little bit.
That I think will be essentially a forward look as to what the opportunities are.
And as he stated in his prepared remarks we'll get a little bit more granular about those in the intermediate terms as we lay those plans down.
But in terms of the historical aspects of the cost savings that drove the 2015 margin performance as well as our guidance for 2016 well in hand.
And we'll go next to Steven Fisher with UBS.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Barry you mentioned the six months to bring a brand-new product from idea to market.
How are you balancing the preference for bringing these products to market quickly versus getting the product into launch exactly correct? Because I think historically execution on these things has not always been perfectly smooth.
And I'm sure you are absolutely trying to build long-term customer confidence.
So how do you balance that? Manitowoc Cranes LLC</span></strong> That's an excellent question.
If you recall I said that I spent a good portion of my time over the course of the last four weeks meeting with and talking to our customers.
And it's very obvious to me that one of the issues we have is within the ability for us to be on time with a new product that allows our dealer network to fully enjoy the ability to sell those features prior to some of our competition knocking them off.
This product that we're developing is in fact an immediate market need that we have recognized as a result of meeting with our customers.
It is in fact a breakthrough for us to do this in six months.
We have elected a team in our Shady Grove facility of 10 of our elite people with regards to multi-functional team.
They are in place.
They started meeting on Wednesday of this week.
I have already gotten reports from this group after two days of meetings that indicate that we are in fact on the right track.
And I'm absolutely convinced that when you take great people and give them a process which we have done on how to develop and build a product in an expedited way you take good people and you give them good processes you're going to get great results.
And to do this in six months is a great result.
Okay that's helpful.
And then what targets do you have for Crane Care in 2016 and maybe what's the next steps for it beyond as you think about medium and long term? How do you view what the right mix of parts and services versus original equipment is in your view? Manitowoc Cranes LLC</span></strong> Yeah Crane Care is an opportunity for us the way I look at it.
I think Crane Care finished below 20% of our total revenue in 2015.
I'd like to see that north of 30% not only because it carries a very good anti-cyclicality for us but as you know the aftermarket generally has much higher operating margins and we would like to see that become part of our product portfolio.
And I think you'll see as time goes on here that we will organize around that.
We will source that appropriately and we will change the margin profile of the business as a result of helping us grow the aftermarket.
We'll take our next question from Ann Duignan with JPMorgan.
Hi.
Good morning.
This is Mike Conlon on for Ann.
Manitowoc Cranes LLC</span></strong> Hi Mike.
I just wanted to follow up on one of the other questions.
You closed a facility in Brazil during Q4.
Is there any risk that their product that there's products from that region that flow into other regions putting additional downward pressure on demand? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> No.
We're not concerned about that at all.
No the – no.
Because of the import duties and the taxes that are between the countries it's not an issue.
Okay.
Thank you.
Go next to Mike Shlisky with Seaport Global.
Good morning guys.
And Barry good to hear your voice again.
Manitowoc Cranes LLC</span></strong> Yes hi Mike.
How are you? Good.
What you said sounds (43:10) awfully awfully familiar.
I guess I wanted to touch briefly Barry I know it's only been a month or so but do you sense in your kind of travels around the company's facilities there's any kind of like major cultural overhaul that has to be done here at the company? Or is it really more about getting people simply to focus on their tasks in the facility to kind of get things done faster or with a lot less movement or parts or things like that? Can you give us just kind of a sense of the scale of what you're trying to kind of do here? Manitowoc Cranes LLC</span></strong> Yeah I think it's an excellent question.
And what I would say is that yes the culture here is going to change because quite frankly the operating margin profile of the business over the course of the last five years is just not acceptable when you're trying to create a world-class crane company.
So the margin profile in and of itself indicates that there's going to be a cultural change.
And that cultural change is going to be that we're going to do things according to what our customers want and not what we want.
And I will say that that culture isn't for everyone.
And there will be some people who just cannot adapt to the new way of operating and they will unfortunately have to leave the business and find another way to make a living.
But we will in fact make sure that the people who are here; we're going to invest in them in training.
We're going to give them every opportunity that we possibly can to try and make sure that they do things the way we need them done in order to satisfy not only our customers but satisfy our shareholders and ultimately our employees also.
And that change will in fact happen.
Great.
And my follow-up is on the fast-track product development cycle you've got planned here.
Is there any kind of risk here about things that are kind of maybe out of your control like getting safety certified trying to certify the wear and tear on exposure to the elements et cetera over a six-month period? Or is what you know about how those processes work still within the six-month period? And then I also want to ask how fast were you guys in the past developing your products in cranes? Manitowoc Cranes LLC</span></strong> Yes.
The product that we're currently developing would've typically taken two years to develop and introduce to the market.
When you use Lean product development techniques and say that you're going to cut the time down by 75% as we're doing in this case of course you cannot have a substantial amount of bottleneck technology that needs to be developed in order to do so.
But there is a lot of technology that has been developed across our entire product line from crawlers to RTs to ATs to tower cranes that can be brought into this new product as non-bottleneck technology that can be applied very quickly and become a product much quicker than what we've done in the past.
So I'm absolutely convinced that with the team that we've formed and the follow up that I'm doing every week with them we will in fact make this happen.
Your next question comes from Mig Dobre with Robert Baird.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Yes thank you.
Good morning everyone.
Good morning.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Carl this for you is – just one question some clarification for my benefit if you would.
At the midpoint of guidance for both Foodservice and Cranes what exactly is the guided EBITDA number? Can you help me with that? Well yes the guidance we gave are essentially based upon the standalone company on a 12-month perspective.
So with the dissynergies associated with making that separation we're under again 12-month not necessarily exactly what will happen in 2016 given the calendar would be a little less than $100 million in our Crane business from an EBITDA standpoint.
In Foodservice because it's kind of laid out there with you under the guidance that we gave on an organic basis you're talking about...
Manitowoc Foodservice Inc.</span></strong> Just adding $21 million to $24 million depreciation you add that to your operating margin and you're there.
Right.
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Mig I just want to make an observation.
While all that math works giving the guidance in terms of an operating margin percentage was purposeful.
And that means that we're committed to hitting those operating margins irrespective of where we find ourselves with the sales volumes.
So not sure if you were asking that question but I just wanted to comment that the margin percentage was a purposeful effort so is our commitment to hitting those margins despite sales levels.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Sure.
I appreciate that.
It's just I'm trying to get to clear my mind as to whether or not your operating margin includes or excludes amortization and whether or not Crane is going to experience $30 million worth of public company costs which to my understanding that was not the case previously.
You're correct.
It's inclusive of all the costs in both businesses.
And the operating earnings does include amortization.
It's before amortization essentially.
Manitowoc Foodservice Inc.</span></strong> It's before amortization it's EBITA.
It's basically EBITA.
Manitowoc Foodservice Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
And what about the second portion the $30 million worth of cost in Crane? Yes that's in.
Manitowoc Foodservice Inc.</span></strong> That's in.
Inc.
(Broker)</span></strong> Okay.
Thank you guys.
Manitowoc Foodservice Inc.</span></strong> It's all within the Foodservice guidance.
We'll take our next question from Seth Weber with RBC Capital Markets.
Hey.
Good morning everybody.
Good morning Seth.
Manitowoc Foodservice Inc.</span></strong> Good morning.
Wanted to go back to the footprint rationalization discussion again if we could.
This is a business that at one point did about $4 billion of revenue the Crane business.
So how are you thinking about what's the right size for this business going forward? Maybe can you tell us what your capacity utilization is today? And what do you think is really the right size for the business? Are there opportunities? I'm sure there's opportunities with Lean and what not but are there opportunities for maybe outsourcing to go more asset-light or can you give us more color there? President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Hey Seth you're absolutely right.
We find ourselves in a position where the volumes where we're at not having really reflected what's happened in the marketplace through the cycle but it gives you an opportunity to step back and say as a general model we ought to be at about 80% one-shift capacity when we're in the trough of the market.
We weren't there.
We aren't there and that's part of the effort that you saw in the last couple of announcements on the restructurings.
That allows you the opportunity to put on a second shift as you move up the cycle and ultimately as you get to the peak you start going into the outsourcing and the contracting arena.
So yes we're essentially trying to size this thing so that when we're at the trough we're operating our plants at or above 80% on one shift then adding a second shift then adding some outsourcing and contracting as we get to the peak and that's the model we're pursuing.
Manitowoc Cranes LLC</span></strong> And just as a follow up as a Lean practitioner the word underabsorption is taboo because quite frankly I don't even know what that is.
However we will in fact make sure that the business is sized according to the revenue levels that we have and remember we're in the infancy stages of Lean introduction here.
And as we continue to proliferate Lean throughout all of our organization we're going to find just like we found in many instances in the past that we can do a heck of a lot more with a lot less.
Sure.
So I guess what I'm trying to get at is do you envision that this business can get back to almost a $4 billion revenue run rate at some point or is that just an extraordinary occurrence and you're working towards a lower number than that? Manitowoc Cranes LLC</span></strong> Well I'm going to size the business according to what customers' needs are.
And we'll make sure and I think what Ken said is right on the money.
We're not going to size and take the infrastructure and the business down to the current levels of revenue.
However we are going to size the overhead and make what typically has been fixed overhead variable.
We'll take our next question...
President &amp; Chief Executive Officer</span></strong> Seth Kenneth.
To your point one of the I'll call it an innovation but one of the things we're doing is in our Passo Fundo plant we're actually mothballing it.
So we are suspending operations there.
To your point if we ever get into a situation where the South American demand picks up to the point that we need it that will be available to us in the future.
But we made the decision that in the interim we need to just keep the fixed cost down to a minimum and shutter that plant for a period of time.
We'll take our next question from Ted Grace with Susquehanna.
Thanks guys.
Let me begin by saying congratulations to Barry.
Manitowoc Cranes LLC</span></strong> Thank you.
I appreciate that.
Sure.
Shifting gears couple questions on Foodservices.
Hubertus could you perhaps maybe decompose your 2016 growth expectations? I know you're talking about 2% to 4% organic.
Can you help us appreciate how you're thinking about cold? It seems like the momentum's been there more recently but it sounds like maybe you think hot could be coming back.
How to think about new product introduction the contributions from NPI in 2016? And how you're thinking about pricing and FX headwinds just as we think about that forecast? Manitowoc Foodservice Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
I'm happy to do that.
Well regionally I think it is across the board growth.
It's growing with the market in all America and outgrowing Europe and APAC.
I think we have the potential to gain market share there.
If we look at the size you mentioned it.
We've been a bit shy on the hot side this year.
So I would see a bit more growth on the hot side and continued growth on cold side.
But relatively hot will be growing a little bit more.
And then you mentioned innovation.
I see us as the most innovative company in our industry space.
So the new product introductions that we've planned for this year which are north of 20% will add around 20% to 30% to our sales mix for this year.
That's kind of what we're seeing.
Sorry could you just clarify that the 20% to 30% of the growth will be new products? Just want to make sure I understand that.
Manitowoc Foodservice Inc.</span></strong> Yes.
That's what we think.
And we've been traditionally around a bit shy of 20%.
But what we have in the pipeline right now we feel very comfortable that we're going to have a very very fresh and updated product line.
And we see a lot of growth coming also in the whole area of our fitKitchens initiative which is the outfitting of the entire kitchen for convenience stores mainly.
And the KitchenConnect.
The whole concept of industry 4.0 that you have in Europe is going to come from the kitchen.
Kitchen 4.0 is at our doorstep and we are at the forefront of that development.
That's going to drive sales.
We'll take our next question from Larry De Maria with William Blair.
Hi.
Thanks.
Good morning.
Just couple questions.
First what are your assumptions on pricing for the businesses? And what kind of competition are you seeing on pricing given the currency dynamics? And then secondly on Cranes what's the organic growth we're looking for for Cranes? And how do we think about the first half versus second half split in sales because it sounds like it's obviously mostly geared towards the second half after bauma.
Thank you.
Manitowoc Foodservice Inc.</span></strong> Let me take on the pricing because I didn't answer that in the other question as well.
We see that our competition is not on price.
It's total cost of ownership and innovation.
And that is rewarded by our customers.
And so this is basically also what we then see in our margins.
And our consumer value that we reinvest a lot of the margin that we make into innovations for them that benefit them.
So therefore we don't see a lot of pricing pressure right now.
Manitowoc Cranes LLC</span></strong> No.
We see pricing pressure particularly in the rental market.
And we don't see any dynamic that would indicate that that's not going to continue with the current utilization rates through 2016.
We do believe however that in order to grow in this environment we have to have a better mousetrap and we're going to prove through our product development that we're doing that we will have a better mousetrap.
One of the things to consider and one of the things that's driving our product development and innovation activities here is that these cranes as you know are very heavy and they require a substantial amount of effort to transport across the roads in U.S.
and Europe.
And anything you can do to take tens of thousands of pounds away from a crane and still be able to lift according to the profiles that are necessary is really something that our customers are willing to pay for.
And our development activities and our innovation activities that we have going for this year are aimed strictly at that.
Ladies and gentlemen that concludes today's question-and-answer session.
Mr.
Khail at this time I will turn the conference back to you for any additional or closing remarks.
Before we conclude today's call I would like to remind everyone that a replay of our fourth quarter conference call will be available later this morning.
You can access the replay by visiting the Investor Relations section of our corporate website at www.manitowoc.com.
Thank you everyone for joining us today and for your continuing interest in the Manitowoc Company.
This concludes today's call.
Have a good day.
That concludes our conference.
Thank you for your participation.